First Chronicles chapter twenty-nine, last chapter of the book of First Chronicles. And we're studying, of course, the life of David. We have for been for a long time, several years now. And um it's coming down to uh it's coming down to the end of David's life, and um he has made his final speeches, he's had his final prayer And now tonight we're going to look at the event, the point in time in David's life where he hands the throne over to his son Solomon. And David's reign comes to an end tonight. And so we want to look at this. Verse number 20 is where I want to begin reading. And I'm going to read down through verse 25. 1 Chronicles 29 and verse 20. The Bible says this. And David said to all the congregation, now he had just prayed, led in prayer, but the whole nation of Israel, everybody gathered there in Jerusalem. And he said to all the congregation, Now bless the Lord your God. And all the congregation blessed the Lord God of their fathers and bowed down their heads and worshiped the Lord and the King. And they sacrificed sacrifices unto the Lord, and offered burnt offerings unto the Lord on the morrow after that day Even a thousand bullocks, a thousand rams, and a thousand lambs, with their drink offerings and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel. And did eat and drink before the Lord on that day with great gladness. And they made Solomon, the son of David, king the second time, and anointed him unto the Lord to be the chief governor, and Zadok to be priest. Then Solomon sat on the throne of the Lord as king instead of David his father, and prospered And all Israel obeyed him. And all the princes and the mighty men and all the sons likewise of King David submitted themselves unto Solomon the king. And the Lord magnified Solomon exceedingly in the sight of all Israel, and bestowed upon him such royal majesty as had not been on any king before him in Israel. For the first time in 40 years, someone else is sitting on the throne of Israel other than David. And a new chapter in the history of Israel. So I want to speak tonight on Solomon made king. Let's pray together. Father, bless now our study of this portion of Scripture. We know and are convinced that you've preserved this event. In your word for us to learn from it, be an example for us. We can learn principles from this. So I pray, dear Holy Spirit, that you would speak to us tonight and be our teacher. Lord, I yield my will to you as every time we teach and preach, I ask that you fill me with your Spirit Present my body anew, Lord, for you to take me and use me as a tool to speak to our hearts. Help us, Lord, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. This is a change in leadership in Israel. For 40 years, actually anybody under 40 years old would have known no other king but King David. Of course, those 40, 50 years old would have been very, very young when David became king. They would not have remembered much about King Saul, if at all. So now there's a transition taking place. There's new leadership taking place. There's a change in leadership And anytime there's a change in leadership, things can get difficult. I put it this way, things can get messy. Whenever there's a change in leadership. Does anybody anybody here can you think of any maybe a church or an organization Or uh that there was a change in leadership and the organization or the church or whatever it may be, the business, never was the same as it was before with the new leadership. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I can name churches. I can name scores of churches that changed leadership and it got messy. A lot of times when there's a change of leadership and it's not it's not necessary and We don't want this to happen, but a lot of times disunity comes in under new leadership. For whatever reason, people will pack up and pull out and There'll be division within the uh the organization or the body. Uh um and so uh uh sometimes a change in leadership can be messy. And we're going to see this, by the way, in future kings, if you would keep studying through the book of Kings and the future hi and uh the other the later history of Israel You find when they change a king, sometimes it gets really missed. When Solomon's son became king, the whole nation divided permanently. And so change in leadership, I put down, can be difficult or messy. A change in leadership can be dangerous, can be damaging. In other words, depending on the leadership, depending on it, that whole organization, that whole body, that nation, or that church, or that business, whatever it means, can go in a completely different direction. And can get completely off track and uh no longer be, as I mentioned a moment ago, no longer be what they were. There's fundamental changes. We had a fella ran for office in our country a number of years ago and his and he won. And uh one of his promises was, one of his positions was, we need to fundamentally change America And that happens often under leadership. The organization will fundamentally change. Again, I can name churches. that after the new leadership came in, they were fundamentally different than what they were before. I mentioned this recently, but I get in the mail occasionally I get all kinds of stuff in the mail to the church here and everything in the world. And there for a while was getting these brochures about how to rethink your church and rethink the direction of your church. Now I'll be honest with you, my first thought when I got that was, I have no intention of rethinking the direction of our church. We want to be true to the Word of God. We want to keep going the direction we've been going But sometimes new leadership will bring damage to an organization and take it off in another direction than what it should be. But sometimes. New leadership is not difficult and it's not damaging, but it's delightful. Sometimes that new leadership can come in and Keep the course, stay the course. Keep that church going in the direction it's going. Keep that nation going in the direction it should be going. Sometimes new leadership comes in, it's delightful, and the church and the body or whatever it is remains unified. And the people rally behind the new leader. Now people support them and they're one body, they're one voice with the new leadership. And sometimes new leadership comes in, it's delightful because they bring great advancements. And rather than dividing and crumbling and getting off course, that organization or that nation or that church actually improves and builds upon what was done and becomes greater. I think there's two key factors in a successful transition of leadership. I'm going somewhere with this, so bear with me, because we're at a key point in the history of Israel. There's a transition taking place here. And um and there's tremendous examples for us. But I think there's two key Factors in a successful transition of leadership. Number one is the leadership itself. Dr. Lee Robertson, I sat under for years down at Highland Park, Tennessee Temple. And he had a famous saying, he would always say, everything rises and falls on leadership. And there's tremendous truth in that And the future of an organization, the success or the failure of the future, that organization sometimes, not always, but often Is the result of the leadership of the previous head of that group. Follow what I'm trying to say The leadership leading up to the transition, what they did and didn't do, and things they put in place, sometimes are a factor as to whether they're successful on the other side of the transition. So leadership is a key factor. I believe also followship is a key factor. Now I wasn't sure that that was actually a word, so I looked it up, and lo and behold, followship is actually a word. And so I didn't get to make a new one up there. Followship, by that we mean this, those who accept and follow the guidance and leadership in order to achieve an objective So what followship is: somebody, a group of people, the folks that accept and follow the guidance of those in charge, accepting their uh, and follow their leadership in order to achieve an objective. I want to suggest to you that David provided tremendous leadership leading up to the transition from his reign to the reign of his son Solomon. He provided tremendous leadership leading up to it. I want to see USCU the success of this transition, and it was incredibly successful Is very much due to the character of David and the leadership of David leading up to it. And I want to suggest to you that the transition in Israel from David's reign to Solomon's reign was a tremendously successful also because of the quality of lead of followship that was there. And what the nation of Israel themselves did as Solomon took position of king. And so we're at a key place. We're at a key chapter in the history of Israel. David's final years leading up to this event that we just read here were pretty chaotic. If you remember, we had the insurrection of Absalom. How many people remember us studying that? Would you agree with me? Pretty chaotic. I mean David's fleeing the city of of Jerusalem and and just the chaos that took place there and Even after the death of Absalom and uh David coming back in, the people approaching him and just so unsettled. Do you remember it took quite a while until all the tribes of Israel rallied back around David, and there was a fuss in there about that. And David overcame this, and then that horrendous mistake of numbering the people and the tragic consequences of that. And David was able to rally around and get back up and regroup after that. Then you had Adonijah. When David's nearly dead, and he steps in and tries to bring about the coup d'etat, to take David's throne away from him. And David handles that and they rally around again. I tell you, sometimes leadership is not displayed in the great, easy, peaceful times, but the character of leadership is displayed often in the difficult, chaotic times. And here we are at David's transition, handing the throne over to Solomon, and it could not go smoother. It could not be a better testimony to the grace of God and the unity of God's people and the integrity of David. And providing leadership. As I studied this, I just stood back and thought, man, all that these last few years have been and the failures and the chaos and the dishonesty on the part of people trying to overthrow David. Yet he was able to keep that nation. He was able to keep the nation focused on the Lord. Now let me bring a little application here for us. And I don't know what the future holds and it's all in the Lord's hands, but I it looks to me like we're heading for some chaotic days in our country, right or wrong. In our society. And we have to be very, very careful, and David was able to do this, we have to be very, very careful that all the nonsense that's going on around us in society and all the ridiculous stuff and wicked, perverse stuff taking place in society, we must, as a church, we must never lose our focus on the Lord. And I've seen it happen. I can name you a church in another state where I was at that got caught up in all the corruption in Washington and all the nonsense going on in the state house and they got all caught up in fighting the Lord, uh fighting that, and they got their eyes off the Lord to the point where the pastor and an independent fundamental Baptist church The pastor would get up, and we had folks in our church, and they said, Preacher, we sat there a whole service. He talked about politics, he talked about politicians, and never opened the Bible one time You know what happened? They got their focus off the Lord. In all this chaos, David was able to keep the nation of Israel focused on the Lord. And on all this chaos, he was able to keep the nation of Israel submissive to the Lord. And when it was presented that Solomon is God's choice to be king, Israel got behind him and submitted to the decision, God's choice. That's a tremendous thing. So they kept their focus on the Lord. They were submissive to the Lord. And I like this one as I got reading this passage here, and I think you'll see what I mean by this, but they were enthusiastic about their future. David had them looking ahead. How many folks here, you're older now than you were last year this time? Anybody at all? How about that? How many people, the older you get, the more nostalgic you get? Oh, I remember those good old days. When they didn't have Novacaine, they just pulled your teeth out. We get nostalgic and we start talking about how things used to be. And by the way, in many ways, things used to be a lot better than they are now. in some ways. But I tell you what, we can't go back to the good old days. And we can't live in the good old days. I like to um Brother Bill Barons put it this way in one of his messages, he said this, quit looking in the rear view mirror And David very successfully was able to lead the nation, not looking back at all the great days we're killing Goliath, all the great years of peace and prosperity. He didn't get them looking back. He had them excited about the future. And I'm afraid in our independent Baptist churches, we have dwelt on the past so much, and maybe I'm guilty of this that we're having a hard time getting young people excited about the future. And we complain uh how many people have heard me complain we don't hardly have any preacher boys anymore Now I got thinking about as I was studying this, I wonder if we've got them so discouraged and so defeated that, oh, it's so terrible, oh what kind of world are our kids going to live in? And we got them so worried about that that they're just retreating. And David's got Israel excited about what tomorrow held. And they're stirred up I attribute this smooth transition here to David's leadership and to Israel's followship. Now, let's look at our text here a little bit, and let's just notice a few things. The first thing I notice, now Solomon's being crowned. He's going to be the new king. He's going to provide leadership for the next 40 years. And I notice, first of all, in verse 20, 21, and the first part of verse 22, I notice the festivities. At Solomon's crowning. Look at verse 20. And David said to all the congregation, Now bless the Lord your God. And all the congregation blessed the Lord God of their fathers. And it goes down and they worshiped and they sacrificed. And they ate, look at verse 22. They did eat and drink before the Lord on that day with great gladness. I don't know about you. There's no doom and gloom here I don't see. I don't see anywhere the nation of Israel going, oh, poor David's gonna die. This is awful. Oh, what's the tomorrow gonna hold Man, they're wound up. They're having a party. They're excited about what the future held. They enthusiastically worship the Lord. Again, in verse 20, notice it says All the congregation blessed the Lord God. And they're blessing God. Oh, the Lord's been good. Man, God's been wonderful to us. They're speaking highly of what God was doing. And they bow down their heads and worship the Lord and the King. Now they're not worshiping the King as the Lord. But they're just showing respect to the king. They're just showing submission to the king. But they're worshiping the Lord. I put it this way: they enthusiastically worship the Lord. Now, here's my question: What is worship? Now I have my own definition I came up with about 20 years ago a study on the Bible teaching of worship, and I come up with my own definition, and I think it's correct You say, what about someone who has a different definition? I think mine's correct. Here's what I understand, what the Bible teaches that worship is. Uh I'll tell you what it isn't. It isn't sitting cup walking down the aisle of a church and coming to a statue and cross your heart, hope to die. That's not worship. Worship is not going through some rituals or do and I've always and I've said this often, but over the years I've always tried to uh refrain from referring to our church services as worship services. Now, I'm not against that, and I'm trust worship takes place. But if you're going, you say, well, we're going to church to worship the Lord, well, what do you do when you leave church? Do you stop worshiping him? And then here's my definition of worship: it says they worship the Lord. They bless the Lord. They worship the Lord. Here's my definition. Worship is recognizing God's supreme authority over my life. By humbly submitting to that authority, by trusting him and obeying him. Now that's a mouthful. But it simply means this: when I'm worshiping the Lord, I'm recognizing He's God. He has the ultimate authority. He calls the shots. And I submit, here's the worship part, I submit to that authority. I recognize it. And then I submit to that authority by trusting him and obeying him. God, you said this. For instance, in Genesis chapter 22, That's where God told Abraham to take his son, his only son Isaac, whom he loved, take him up on the Mount Moriah, and offer him up as a sacrifice. How many people agree with me? That's a hard thing. Man And we find no hesitation on Abraham's part, we find no argument on Abraham's part, we find no negotiating with God on Abraham's part. Basically, he just does what God says. And there's a little statement in there, and I don't have the verse on hand in Genesis 22, and it makes this. He told his son, we are going up to the mount to worship. You know what Abraham was doing? He's saying, God, you're God, you can demand this of me if you see fit. And God, I submit to your authority. And I'm going to trust you. I'm going to do what you say. I'm going to trust you. That is worship. God, I'm going to, you are God. I am not. And I'm going to submit to you, and I'm going to trust you, God. I'm going to do exactly what you tell me. That's worship. Would you agree with me? Worship can take place on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. It's not just a Sunday morning thing. In many ways, it's a lifestyle. I read in Job chapter 1, I think it's verse 22, actually, somewhere around there. Job had lost all his possession. He lost all his children. He lost everything material-wise. He's about to lose his health. And in a conversation with his wife, the Bible says he worshiped God. You know what Job was doing? Job was saying, God, you are God, I am not. You are the ultimate authority. I'm going to submit to what you're allowing in my life by trusting you. I'm going to obey you. Though he slay me, Job said, yet will I what? Trust him. That, my friends, is worship. And the Bible says that Israel, when David is handing the throne over to Solomon, and Solomon has been chosen by God to be king, the Bible says that Israel worshiped the Lord. You know what they were doing? They were saying, Lord, you are God. David is not. Solomon is not God. You are God And we're going to submit to your choice of this man to be our king by trusting you and obeying you. And that's exactly what they did. That's worship. That's worship. I tell you, God wants us to worship him. God wants us to recognize his authority as God. He wants us to submit to him and trust him and do what he says. He wants us to worship him. And so I look at the nation of Israel as David says. He's given his prayer, he's given his final speech, he's made appeal to support uh Solomon, whom God has chosen, he's made an appeal, hey, let's give towards this temple, it's a great work Solomon's just young. He makes this, he prays this powerful prayer. All the nation of Israel gathers around and they worship the Lord. The next thing I notice, they enthusiastically worship the Lord, but then I noticed that they generously sacrificed to the Lord. Look with me there at verse 21. And they sacrifice sacrifices unto the Lord. I think that's what you do with sacrifices, you sacrifice them I thought the wording there was humorous. They sacrificed sacrifices unto the Lord and offered burnt offerings unto the Lord. And he goes down, he gives these lists of these things they offered to the Lord. They sacrificed to the Lord, these burnt offerings. And they are being very, very generous. It says there they sacrifice sacrifices, then it goes on, they offered burnt offerings. Now we have reason to believe what these sacrifices and burnt offerings are. If you go back to Leviticus, it tells us that what they were doing, they were offering what was called a thanksgiving sacrifice. A thanksgiving offering. They were thanking God. They were expressing gratitude to God for his leadership during this transition time, for his wisdom and the man he picked out and how he brought this all about. They were extremely grateful for what God was doing for their nation. And they give sacrifices. I think giving is the natural expression of gratitude. If somebody does something wonderful for you, what's your first reaction? You want to. Give thanks. And a lot of times you'll send a card. Thank you so much for what you did for me. Or you might want to get a gift card, right? And a little something here, a little something. I just want you to know how grateful I am Did you ever hear somebody make this statement? This is a small token of our appreciation. We feel obligated. I want to do something for you. I want to give something. You've been so kind to me. You've helped me so much. Maybe it's somebody, uh EMT or something, and saved your life. And man, you say, I owe you my life. That's what Israel is doing to God. They say, Lord, you've been so good to us. And you've blessed us with a wonderful nation and godly leadership. And now through this transition, Lord, we just want you to know how grateful we are. How much we love you. I'm telling you, gratitude is the natural giving is the natural expression of gratitude and nation And the nation of Israel was very, very grateful for what God had done for them. Can I ask you a question? Has God been good to us? Man. Would you agree with me? That's probably the understatement of the year. God has been good to you. Yeah, but preacher this, yeah, but I'm here to tell you, God's been good to us. We go through some trials and we have ups and downs, but when it's all said and done, God's being good. Brother Mark and I were talking, they sang a song down at the conference last week, and I'm telling you, lady got up, and I don't remember all the words, but there's one part she just sings, God's being good to me. I'm telling you, I just broke down and wept. God's been so good. And Israel is saying, Lord, we want you to know how grateful we are. Anybody here catch yourself griping about stuff? Anyone here ever? Yeah. I gripe about people that don't raise their hand when I say anybody here griping about stuff. And if you stop and think about it, some of the stuff we gape about is so trivial. And a thousand years from now, we've been with the Lord in glory. We'll look back and say, what was I thinking? How stupid was that? God's been good. So Israel They are generously sacrificed to the Lord. They recognize that God's will is being done in their nation, and they're very, very grateful. God's will is being done in their lives. And they're very, very grateful. And then I noticed they celebrated with great gladness. Look down there at verse 22. And I underlined this. And did eat and drink before the Lord on that day with great gladness. This is the festivities going on around the crowning of Solomon. Now I got looking at that phrase. They did eat and drink before the Lord, and I asked myself this question. I wonder if they were Baptists. They're having this big knee and they say, Oh, we've got to have some food. And so they're eating and drinking. We eat and drink when we assemble scriptures. I mean, no matter what we do, we've got food involved somehow. I wonder if they were Baptists. This is a celebration of God's blessings. And I got thinking, I wonder what they would be doing if Solomon had been successful in his attempted overthrow of David. What would be the atmosphere of this nation? What did I say? Solomon Absalom. Let me back up. I wonder what the atmosphere would be. The attitude would be if Absalom had been successful in overthrowing David. I do not imagine the same mentality Absalom was a failure on so many levels, a bitter, angry man. Not the kind of person you want leading the people of God. But he didn't succeed. And the nation is very happy. I wonder what would happen if Adonijah, in his attempt to take the throne and undercut David when he was el elderly and feeble. I wonder what the nation of Israel, what their attitude and atmosphere would have been under the leadership of Adonijah. A selfish, spoiled brat. I tell you what, the worst thing for the people of God is to be led by selfish, spoiled brats. But God didn't let that happen. And they have every reason in the world to rejoice, and they are very, very glad So there's this tremendous transition. So the first thing I noticed, and this is the longest one, but was the festivities around the crowning of Solomon as king. The second thing I noticed very quickly is the formality Of the crowning of Solomon as king. Look at verse 22, the last part. It says, and they made Solomon the son of David king the second time And anointed him unto the Lord to be chief governor. Now, when it says they made him king the second time, it doesn't mean he was king once before and got re-elected as king again. What they're referencing there is back in 1 Kings chapter 1. Remember when Adonijah tried to get the throne and David uh Nathan saw what was going on, he went to Bathsheba, said, Hey, we need to address this, David. Uh said, no, no, no, no, no, Solomon's God's choice. So they quickly and kind of in a impromptu, uh, unceremonious way uh hurriedly they anointed Solomon as king just to keep this thing from getting out of hand. Now here's a very formal setting. Everybody's gathered. There's a spirit of victory There's anticipation, and now as a nation, we're anointing Solomon officially as the king. We are formally anointing him as king. And so they're just anointing him. And notice how he says it here. I think this was interesting. There's a couple statements. Everybody still with me? Everybody hanging in there? Alright, good Notice it says, and they made Solomon, the son of David, king the second time. Notice, and anointed him unto the Lord. It doesn't say they anointed him unto the nation of Israel. They anointed him unto the Lord. Look down there, uh the next statement: to be the chief governor. That's an interesting term. And then you come down there into the next verse, and it's Solomon sat on the throne. Notice what it doesn't say. It doesn't say Solomon sat on the throne of David. It says he sat on the throne of what? The Lord, L-O-R-D, all capital, Jehovah. There is a new man on Israel's throne, but it's the same God on heaven's throne. And I think that's worded this way, at least this is the way I took it, is to clarify the fact: listen, this man on this throne is just a man. God, Jehovah, is still king. And he's just a governor under the authority of God. Did you know that all authority is delegated authority ultimately by God in the home and in the government and in the church? No, uh someone every now and then someone will say that we'll be out visiting or inviting folks and uh someone will say, Oh, that's Leatherman's church. Mountain Lake is not Leatherman's church It's not other any other man's church, it's the Lord's church. And that's, I think, is what's taken place here. They are formally anointing Solomon as the king. Now they did it hurriedly before Now, in ceremony and formality, they're anointing him as king. It's official. And they do it in a way that says, wait a minute, this is just a man on the throne Jehovah is still the ultimate king. And it's good for us to remember that, whether it's behind a pulpit of a church, or whether it's in a White House, or in some throne of some nation. God is still King of kings and Lord of Lords. Regardless how great the person is, regardless how failure they may be, Jesus Christ is still King. They were able to look beyond the man and see the Lord. There's a real danger in exalting man too high. And there's a danger of rejecting the Lord because the actions of a man. Anybody ever here ever have someone say this to you? Well, I've been out, I've been to church and it's full of hypocrites. I'm not interested in Christianity. Anybody ever hear anything like that? And I got some answers for that. I had a fellow in Colorado one time at a grocery store, King's Super. Anybody ever been to a King's Super grocery store? They got them out west. And I gave the guy a gospel track and he says, uh, he goes, now I know too many hypocrites. I'm not interested in your religion. Mahatma Gandhi said, If it were I would be a Christian were it not for Christians In other words, I like what it teaches, I like the doctrines, but it's the people who turned me off. I don't want nothing to do with it. You know that there's a serious mistake with that thinking. You're rejecting the Lord because of the actions of man. And whenever we exalt people, whenever we have our eyes on people, we are inevitably going to find faults, we're going to find failures, we're going to find flaws. And so we have to look past the person and see the Lord in the position. We need to see the Lord. That's what Israel's doing. This is the throne, not of David, this is the throne of the Lord he's sitting on. And so they are the formality. Then I notice in verse 23 and 24, last part of 23, their faithfulness. at Solomon's crowning. Look at the last part. It says, and prosper, and all Israel obeyed him, Solomon. And all the princes, mighty men, all uh And all the sons likewise of King David submitted themselves unto Solomon the king. Verse 23, it says they obeyed him. That word obey, I looked it up. It means to diligently follow his leadership. They said, Solomon, we're behind you. We'll follow your leadership. The word submitted in verse 24 means to yield their will to Solomon's will. Now why in the world, what would prompt somebody to right off the bat say I'm going to follow your leadership. We're submitting our will to your will. What would prompt that? I think there were two things, and David was a factor in this. They respected Solomon They respected him. And I think that was b uh from David. It's David's son. They saw how David had honored him. They saw all this and they respected Solomon. You know, it's hard to follow someone you don't respect, amen or not? I think leadership demands respect. They respected him, and this goes right along with it, they trusted him. You don't submit to someone you don't trust, right? Oh, I'm gonna do I'm gonna we're gonna we're gonna obey whatever you say. We'll yield up diligently, do exactly what you say. You're not gonna say that to someone that you don't trust, amen or not. So he had right from the get-go, he had their respect and he had their trust. And I think that's vital in leadership. Leadership in the home If we don't do anything else with our kids, we need to earn their respect and their trust. And by the way, respect is not a right, it must be earned. Nobody owes you respect. Nobody owes me their respect. I have young people and I was youth pastor, they would say sometimes, well, people just don't respect me. I said, why don't you start acting respectable? Maybe they will. You earn respect. When I came past her here, we were just here a short time. We had to make a decision. I don't remember what it was. But I said, listen, I know I've not been here long enough to have earned your respect, if you would lend me your respect until I can earn it. And that was my approach. And these people, they respect Solomon. They respected his daddy, and how they respect him. They trust him. And they said, Man, we'll be faithful to you. We'll be faithful to you. I believe David's preparation and Solomon's integrity produce this respect and this trust. And then last of all, I end with this. I notice God's favor on Solomon. Look at verse 25 And the Lord magnified Solomon exceedingly in the sight of all Israel, and bestowed upon him such royal majesty. I love that phrase. Such royal majesty as had not been on any king before him in Israel. There's only two kings before him, David and Solomon and Saul. But God honors Solomon in a tremendous way. No other king had the wisdom that God gave Solomon. He was supernaturally wise. How many people here would like God to give you a little bit of wisdom? That's one thing I pray for. A couple things I pray. One of them every day. God, give me wisdom. God give me wisdom. By the way, James 1. 5 says, if any of you lack wisdom, let him what? Ask of the Lord. Give it to all men liberally, or brave it if not, but let them ask in faith. God will give us wisdom if we trust him and ask him. No other king in Israel had such wealth as King Solomon. And no other king in Israel had such wonder. And people came from vast distances to come and hear the wisdom of Solomon and see the glory of God on Israel. Remember Queen Yesheba? And she says, your servants are happy. She goes, the half has not been told how glorious your kingdom is. God gave Solomon his favor. God gave Israel his favor. And yet, in spite of all of that Solomon was just a man. And if we would study his life, and I don't know that we are, I don't have enough life left to study all these guys. But if we would study his life, you know what we find out? He was just a man, just like David was a man, just like Saul was a man. And here's what I want to end with, and this is what I got from this. There's a new king on the throne of Israel, but it's the same God on the throne of heaven. And things change down here, but our God is the same yesterday, today, and forever. And thank God for that. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you would bless us. Help us, Lord, to trust you. Help us, Lord, to follow your leadership and your direction in our lives. And we do ask for wisdom. I wonder how many this morning would say, Preacher, I need to get my eyes off a man and on the Lord I'm grateful for the good men and don't gonna get distracted by the ones that fail. I want to keep my eyes on the Lord. Any like that by the uplifted hand. That's what I took away from this. Men change, nations change, churches change, but the Lord never does. Keep our eyes on Him. Father, bless our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.