Bring the message tonight. Amen. Thank you, Brother Leatherman. Praise the Lord. I know he could say a whole lot more than he did. I'm glad he didn't. And I I will say I I understand they won't let you uh help out on the building project. out there. I I heard I I recall a story of Brother Leatherman. He was building helping with a building project. And there was a fellow who was um on one side of the building, just hammering away, but every other nail the guy would throw over his shoulder. And so Brother Leatherman couldn't handle it any longer. He went over there and fine. He said, what are you doing? He said, well these nails must be defective. Every other one, the nail the head is on the wrong end. And so I just throw it away. He said, You nut. He said, You're crazy. You're throwing away good nails. Those nails are for the other side of the building. So I can understand why He is not uh so involved in a building project. Well Amen. I will say this. I did see a definite true uh Christian spirit And your pastor, uh the things that we did to him, and that he still had a good spirit is amazing. And um we uh did it all in love and He didn't think that at the time, but it was. And I do appreciate his ministry. What a uh you you know, maybe you don't understand, maybe you do, uh what it is to have a pastor who loves the Lord and sticks to it You know, it's it's discouraging, isn't it, to look at those pat uh pictures of the past and being in Bible college and a lot of them aren't in the ministry anymore at all. And so and then not only that, staying with the Word of God, the old King James Bible, sticking with the stuff And so many of them uh you you know, you see them compromise. I I know a fellow who graduated not too far from when we did, and who will kind of adapt to whatever denomination even And that's sad. How can you fit in when you are are right in line with the Word of God with doctrine that isn't even near the the truth of God's Word. Well, if you have your Bible, I trust you do, and if you don't, bring your Bibles to God's house. Exodus chapter seventeen tonight While you're turning there, I want to share a little story with you. During the Civil War days, an officer approached General Stonewall Jackson. And he uh come to complain about some of the soldiers who were making a noise in the tent. And General Jackson said, Well, what are they doing He said, well, they were singing, but now they are praying. And General Jackson says, well, is that a crime? And the officer said, Well, sir, the articles of war say that if there's an unusual noise in the camp, that's punishable. And General Jackson looked at the officer and said, Son, By the grace of God, may prayer never become an unusual noise in this camp. And I would say, may prayer never become an unusual sound. in the church. Isn't it sad to see so many and I'm talking about Baptist churches who no longer have a Wednesday night service Or maybe they do, but they don't have prayer. You know, sometimes I think it's almost if you announce you're going to have a prayer meeting, it's almost like announcing you're there's a fire in the building. And some people are quick to the uh exit doors. It ought not be. Uh uh prayer. And that's what I want to uh talk about, the privilege that we have of prayer To be able to go to God before his presence, to seek his face, to seek his help to all the needs of life And know that he hears and is able to answer. That, my friend, is beyond value. The blessings are beyond value, the privilege of prayer. to have an open door to his throne of grace that you read about in Hebrews chapter 4 verse 16, to be invited to enter into that presence And to call upon him to have those wonderful promises in the Word of God, that when we call upon Him, He'll hear And he'll answer. Oh, what a joy. What a thrill to know that uh this is true. Jeremiah thirty-three, three. I call that God's phone number. Call unto me and I will answer thee. Don't you like that? And he will show unto us great and mighty things that we know not. And then in Matthew chapter 7, where it talks about ask, it shall be given, you seek it, and you shall find, knock, and it shall be opened unto you. The wonderful promises of prayer. In fact, later on in that passage, God our Heavenly Father gives us good gifts, good things. And so what a wonderful thing, this thing of prayer. God forbid that pray. You know, they can outlaw prayer in school, but they haven't outlawed prayer in their home. And they haven't outlawed it in the church. But too few Christians, or too many, I should say, are opting out of praying. But now how much greater is the blessing though, think about this, to be able to enter God's presence on behalf of another individual. To go before God in prayer for them. The privilege of being able to intercede for others before the presence of the Lord. Now, I think that's a great honor that you and I have To be able to go to God and lift up the needs, to lift up the souls of people before God. God forbid that praying for others should be an unusual sound in your life and in my life. There's a greater need though tonight, and that is to get a hold of God in prayer. We don't pray just for the sake of making some noise or for others to hear or see us, or we should not. You know, so many of the Pharisees did with blowing their trumpets and announcing their prayers and saying them out loud, God, I'm so thankful that I'm not like that publican. But it was that publican's prayer who thought himself not even worthy to look into the uh up towards the heavens to God that God heard that prayer. I realize that I'm here tonight because someone prayed for me. I realize that all the events of my life did not just happen by Circumstances falling together and and just by chance, there were people praying for me. You know, I will never forget I think I shared last time I was here shared a little bit of my testimony, but I'll never forget, as an 18-year-old boy, I was involved in an explosion, lying in the hospital bed for two months, burned, 23% of my body I'll never forget my pastor. I couldn't see him, but I knew he was there, and he was praying over me. What a blessing. I'll never forget he would bring tapes and I'd put it or they'd put them in a recorder for me and play that, and I'd hear people praying for me. And singing songs and giving a testimony for my benefit. What a blessing. You know, as a pastor, and I'm sure your pastor has this happen. Many times people come And they seek us out and they say, hey, I need some help. And I you know, as a church, I think we ought to be uh uh individuals that are willing to help the people in our community. But they never go to church. They never call upon God's name until there's a need. And all of a sudden they'd be say, well, where else we got to go? We've got to go. to the Baptist Church. Now, if you knew where we are, we're out in the middle of nowhere, and you don't just come happen by our church, you know, walking down the street, and you have to go there on purpose But people come. People call. We are referred to by all the other churches. Well, you can go out there, they'll help you. Uh they won't help, but we'll help. They'll help you, but we won't help. And so The uh the need is there, but I'm I'm telling people all the time, you know that's the benefit of being a member of the family of God, me a member of the the local church You've got a family here. When there's a need, they're there for you. They are praying for you. And so I I realize that I'm a pastor tonight, not because that's the career I chose, but largely because people prayed for me. And interceded on my behalf. The fact that you're here tonight, the fact that you, if you're saved and you're you're on your way to heaven, is largely because people prayed for you You know, I'm so thankful that I have a mother. Now, my mom, bless her heart, she thinks I can do no wrong. Uh it's kinda like my son Nathaniel when he was little in gr in Sunday school, the Sunday school teacher's talking about all of us are sinners. He says, Oh, wait a minute. My dad's not a sinner. That's right, son. You just continue to believe that. And he doesn't believe that any longer. But but my my but the point is, I'm thankful that my mother prayed for me all through All through high school, all through um after I was saved, and and just continues to pray for me. There are more places in in in um The word of God that I am going to cover tonight that deal with individuals who besought God on behalf of others. Who prayed for these certain people. And we'll see that here tonight, the Lord willing. But I want to preach for a few minutes on this thought. Somebody prayed. for me. And we're going to read there in the first one is that Moses prayed for the saints in Israel in Exodus chapter 17. Before we read, let's Bow our heads together in prayer. Father, we're thankful that we can be here tonight. I'm thankful for the faithful crowd that's gathered here this evening. And Lord, I pray that you would bless them from the uh the truth of thy word and challenge all of us. to be prayer warriors, to not go through the motions, but truly get a hold of you in prayer on the behalf of the lost, behalf of the saints. Behalf of our need, for we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. You know, oftentimes we are great liars. You know, you you you people ask you, how you doing? We might be and sometimes it's not a bad thing to not give all the truth, right? Oh my I have this problem, I have that problem, oh man, let me tell you about my life. Now not everyone's interested in that. But how often have you done this I'll pray for you. And never do it. Brother has a great need. A sister tells you about a real concern, and you say, I'll pray for you. But those were just words like, I'm fine. I'll pray for you. Hey, let's think about that. I remember, I can't remember his name. One of our teachers in school. He had the good habit, if every time that a prayer request was even spoken to him or some need, he'd say, let's pray Right there, wherever we were, in the hallway, in the classroom, that had prayer right then. That's a good idea. And because if you're like me, I tend to forget things unless I have it written down, stuck to my forehead, and um Or uh uh tape uh or recorded. But here in Exodus chapter 17, let's begin reading at verse 8. Then came Amalek and fought with Israel and Rephedim, and Moses said unto Joshua, choose us out men to go out. Fight with Amalek, and tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the rod of God in my hand. So Joshua did as Moses had said to him, and fought with Amalek, and Moses and Aaron and her went up to the top of the hill And it came to pass when Moses held up his hand to Israel prevailed. And when he let down his hand, Amalek prevailed. But Moses' hands were heavy, and they took a stone. And put it under him, and he sat thereon, and Aaron and Ur uh stayed up his hands, the one on the one side, and the other on the other side, and his hands were steady until the going down of the sun. And Joshua discomfited Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword. And we'll st we'll stop right there. But the I want you to see here in the context of this verse, of these verses, Israel was under attack. They needed someone to stand in the gap, someone to pray for them. Moses answered the challenge here, and he got a hold of heaven for his people. And he be why and that's why the vic they had victory. Because of his intercession, because of his prayer, because of his getting hold of heaven for them They had victory. God's people need someone who will pray for them in these days. You and I need to take it upon ourselves to truly pray for our brothers and sisters in the Lord. Both the soldiers in the front line, the people in the camp, they need someone to pray for them, someone to reach up by faith, to ring the bells of glory of heaven for them. What a comfort it is to know that people are praying for you as you go through your life day by day. I read in the New Testament where the Apostle Paul constantly was asking people to pray for him. Listen to a few passages here. In 1 Thessalonians 5, 25, he says, Brethren, pray, pray for us. In 2 Thessalonians 3, verse 1, finally, brethren, pray for us. The Apostle Paul says. Hebrews 13, verse 18, pray for us, for we trust we have a good conscience in all things willing to live honestly. Now, folks, if the apostle Paul needed prayer. Don't you think you and I need prayer? Of course we do. Now I can also read when the saints are are commanded to pray for one another. In James chapter 5, verse 16, it talks about the supplications, prayers, intercession, and giving of thanks are commanded to us, the believer. And also it's God's will. He says in verse 72, verses 1 through 8 speaking of prayer. But he says, I will therefore that men pray. Now we need to pray for one another. We need to pray for the leaders of the church. You need to pray for your, and I trust you do, I know you do, pray for your pastor. Pray for your missionaries. I like that prayer bulletin. Praise God. That's good. But don't just use it to look at the pretty picture on it or to just memorize, good memorize the verse, but take it home. Pray for those those missionaries, pray for those needs, pray for the deacons, pray for the Sunday school teachers, pray for every ministry of the church and those who serve in any capacity. Pray for them. We need to pray for the families that are that visit our churches. We need to pray for the children, our children that are headed out into the world, especially our children that are in public schools and the things that they'll face. Our college kids, as they go out into the world, pray for them. We need to pray for every member of our congregation. We need to pray for the saints of God. May the Lord help us to see the need to pray for one another. Not just talk about it, but actually do it May he help us to learn to pray hell off of our brothers and sisters and the power of heaven upon their lives to be victorious Christians in this day and age. There's nothing in the world like knowing it God's people. are praying for you. Having the prayers of God's people gives us great confidence in our life to go on and do the will of God. Reminded of a story that during during World War II, there was a Marine serving in the South Pacific, a young private, and he was there, his platoon had taken a hill And now the the sergeant had uh uh his his job was to get a flag raised on that hill so the rest of the group could know that they had taken that hill. So he gave the flag to one of the young men. He ran up that hill. He hadn't gone just a few steps and was picked off by a sniper. Another young man, without hesitation, ran to the flag, picked up the flag, he too was shot and killed by a sniper. Then this young private spoke up. He said, sir, in a few minutes it'll be four o'clock. He said, if you can wait for a few minutes, I'll go at four o'clock. The sergeant says, he didn't understand, but he said, okay, son, that'll be fine. So in a few minutes passed, there goes that young man. He runs with all his might. He picks up the flag. And the bullets are flying. He runs it to the top of a hill of the hill. He mounts the flag and raises it up, comes running back back into the the protected area without a so much as a scratch on his body. All the men cheered him And the sergeant said, Wait a minute, why in the world did you want to wait till four o'clock? He said, Sir, it's four o'clock here, but it's six o'clock in the morning in Kansas. And my godly mother said she'd pray for me every morning at six. So I knew she'd be praying for me. And God kept him safe. What confidence we can have knowing there's someone that's got a hold of heaven on my behalf, on your behalf. Are you touching heaven for the saints of God? Then number two, I want you to see a story here about Abraham who prayed for the sinners in Sodom. You know the story well in Genesis chapter 18. And in fact, I'm not going to take time to go there and to read it all. But in Genesis 18, you know the story, the context here. Abraham prayed for the sinners of Sodom. He got a hold of heaven for their behalf. You remember how he kept asking the Lord, will you spare them for this many and for this many? He got down to finally ten people. Will you spare the city? He said, Solomon and Gomorrah, if ten righteous can be found. Now think of it. There was Mr. Lott, Mrs. Lott. We know they had two unmarried daughters living at home. And we know they had at least two married daughters. Now you add that all up, their husbands included, there's eight. All Lot had to do was to reach his immediate family and two more people in all the time he had been there, if he had only reached two people besides his family. Those cities would have been spared. But as we know the story, Lot had such the tragedy of a terrible witness. His witness was so poor that all perished but him and his two daughters. Now I wonder Have you tried to reach your family? Have you prayed for them? Don't pray just one time and say, well it didn't do any good. I'm going to quit. I I'm I'm just uh uh uh t it's not working. No It doesn't work that way. Just continue to ask God, lifting them up before the Lord. Lost people need someone who knows the Lord praying for them on a consistent basis. Now you may wonder if your prayers matter when it comes to the matter of someone else's salvation. Well I want to tell you tonight, they do. Your prayers truly do matter. You see, your prayers touch the heart of God, and God in turn touches the heart of man. Your prayers can do what no man can do You may have an individual who who uh uh rebukes you, who says they want nothing to do with God, who may even curse you. But you can pray for them. And God can get a hold of your heart. It's amazing that in those times of need, How God can bring to their memory that one Christian that spoke to them. The one person that they were mean and ugly to, but yet who cared enough for them to tell them about Jesus Christ. And how the Lord can bring that individual around. It can happen. I remember a time in Chattanooga we went and knocked on a door and I had it just one of those situations that doesn't happen very often But she saw who we were and slammed the door in our face and said, I want nothing to do with that. It wasn't, it was within a month. I can't remember the time frame. And the Lord began to deal with my heart. We was out in the same area knocking on doors. I said, go knock on that door. I said, Lord, you know what that person doesn't want anything to do with us. Doesn't want anything to do with you, Lord. So you must have a m you must be making a mistake. No, God didn't. I went to that door reluctantly, not willingly at all, knocked on the door, ready for it to happen, ready for the explosion, just Tense en up, the same lady opened the door and was completely changed. I had a chance to share the now she didn't get saved at that time, but I had a chance to sit down with her and go through the plan of salvation And she had completely changed. Now I don't know what all happened in her life. I was afraid to ask. But I do know that God can change hearts if we'll just continue to pray. Lost people need someone J. Oswald Sanders said it is possible to move men through God by prayer alone. And uh J. Sidwalt Lowe Baxter once said, Men may spurn our appeals, reject our message, oppose our argument. But they are helpless against our prayers. Now, how true is that? They may curse you, and as I said, slam the door in your face, they may turn a deaf ear to your witness and on all those things, but they cannot. oppose your prayers. So pray. Oftentimes here's our response. I can do nothing else. I guess I'll pray. I wished I could do more, and I'm guilty too. I wish I could do more besides prayer. What? Prayer is so powerful. So mighty. It could change the hearts of people. God help us to carry a great burden for the lost Those individuals who are in this world without God and without hope. They cannot pray for themselves. They need you. They need me to pray for them. To stand between heaven and hell and to say, as long as I live, as long as I have breath in my lungs, I will not allow you to pass this way. Now I understand. We have no way of making them get saved. But may that be our heart's desire? That we're going to stand between them and hell and do everything we can to keep them from going that path, that direction. Who are those lost ones that you might be carrying in your heart tonight? Who are those people that God has placed in your mind right now? That needs someone to stand between heaven and or to stand between hell and them and to pray for them. Don't give up on them. Keep praying. It may take a while, but God will honor your prayers. You know, it is God's will that none perish, but that all should come to repentance. There was a certain Scottish man who was going through his father's records. And his father was a very wealthy man. His father had just passed away. And so he was going through all his records. Like I said, was a very wicked individual. a drunkard and all. But he noticed that in his father's records he had a consistent donation given every month to George Mueller's orphanage. And so he thought to himself, my father would probably be pleased if I would continue to do that. So he did. One day he thought in his mind he said, Well, you know, I ought to go check that place out. Maybe he thought they would congratulate him for all his efforts of giving. So he did. He went to the orphanage, and you wouldn't you know it? By coincidence, of course. There was a revival going on. They had a revival for the young people in the orphanage. So he sat in the back and he'd listened to the preaching. And you know what happened? God got a hold of his heart Oh, he was under the convicting power of the Holy Spirit, and he went forward in that meeting and trusted Christ as his Savior. He stood at the end of the meeting to give a testimony of what had happened. But none of those workers were surprised. He said, Brother Mueller has prayed for you for 38 years. So there was no surprise to the end result there. Mays Jackson was an old evangelist. Some of you might have heard that name. He told a preaching in a certain meeting, and he used this verse in Matthew 18, verse 19, that it says this, that if two of you should agree on earth as touching anything that they shall ask, it shall be done for them of my Father which is in heaven. So he used that as his text. He preached a powerful message from it. And he said, after the service, this little boy comes up to me and says, Preacher, do you really believe what you preached? He says, Well, I sure do. He says, yes, but sir, do you really believe that verse? I sure do, son, I believe it. He said, well then I want you to covenant with me to pray for my daddy. My daddy left me long time ago, left my mom and me, talked about how he went off into drink and womenizing and He said, I haven't seen him for a long time. Will you coven it together with me to pray that my daddy will get saved this week in this meeting? Now, Brother Jackson, he said, well, he he was reluctant to tell the boy he didn't really believe this would work. But he prayed with it. He said, okay, sir, son, I'll pray with you. I'll pray, and we'll claim this verse in Matthew 18, 19, that God will answer our prayers to see your daddy saved. So the the next night there was that little boy sitting on the front pew and he every time that uh brother Jackson would walk by and be near him and said, Matthew 18, 19, he was excited. He believed it. He was praying. And so it the next night went, the next night went, it was Friday night. And Brother Jackson was getting a little nervous. He thought, uh This this this is not gonna happen and this son this boy is going to be discouraged and and uh oh I hate to see what's gonna happen. He started the Friday night service, he preached that Friday night service They were given the invitation. That boy, he looked down there, he was waving his Bible. Matthew 18, 19. So they began to, they prayed, they gave the invitation. And there came a man through the back doors of the church. The little boy turned around and said, that's my daddy! That man came down the aisle, they say. He took his estranged wife's hand, took it to his boy, came down to the altar, and he received Christ as his Savior. Now Brother Jackson thought it could not happen, but you see there's power in prayer, and that little boy believed, and folks, it's true. I'm glad tonight that some folks refused to give up on me. I'm glad that some people just continue to pray and then they touched heaven for me. Now I want to ask you tonight, are you getting a hold of heaven for some lost sinner tonight? Are you praying for them? Are you touching heaven for the lost? If that is true, don't give up. Please don't. I know it's our tendency. We we get a little calloused and we think, boy, you know, those people will never listen No, somebody didn't give up on you. Don't give up on them. Keep praying. They may seem like the hardest cases, but you know we hear it all the time. Those hard cases get saved Oh, I've had some evangelists in my church who were in fact one in particular good friend of mine, he was a deadhead. Anybody know what a deadhead is? I had no idea what a deadhead is was until he told me. Uh is there a group called the um The Grateful Dead, thank you. I knew you would know. And uh but he he followed them around the nation. He was a deadhead. He had no job. He was into drugs and alcohol and he followed them around everywhere they went His life was a mess. But you would never know that now. God saved him. His mother kept praying for him, folks around him, his brother kept praying for him. And of course they talked to him about the Lord, and that man received Christ, and he's a powerful evangelist today. Now I'm glad that somebody didn't give up on me I just believe that your burden is an extension of God's plan to save a soul here tonight Then let me get to the third one. I have to hurry. Hezekiah, he prayed. In 2 Kings 19, verse 14. He prayed for the sufferers in Jerusalem. And I encourage you to read these passages when you have time. But the context here in these verses, Jerusalem is threatened by Zekarib, the king of Assyria. And if he is allowed to attack them, this man had a cruel reputation. He was brutal to people, to those he had conquered. And it was definitely a given that the people of Jerusalem would suffer greatly. And there would be brutality. However, the king Hezekiah, what did he do? He did not go and seek another kingdom near him to come help fight him, or fight the enemy. He got on his knees before a holy God and sought God's help. God, I need you. He was there at the end, and you read that story. It's a powerful story. And he turned to the Lord in prayer, and God Uh hears the prayers of Hezekiah. And he answers and he moves in a powerful way. In fact, you read on in that passage and you'll see that in one night God killed 185,000 men in the enemy's camp. Can you imagine waking up that next day? They had a big campaign. They were going to go in, they were going to take Jerusalem Wake up, 185,000 men dead. It's kind of like the time I I always think about when Peter and and when uh he was there at the Garden of Gethsemane. And we'll talk about that in a second here. But uh uh when he took his sword, remember he chopped the ear off that soldier? Now if I was with other men with those soldiers, I'd say, and I saw Jesus reach down and put the ear back on, I'd say, I hey guys, I'm with him Forget it this forget this. I said we're fighting the battle, we cannot win here. In fact, Seneca, the king of Assyria, he went back home, his own two sons killed him Well, and you know what he was doing? He was praying to his false gods, trying to get help. Now I'm glad here that there was a king who sought help from heaven. And God spared the people of Jerusalem. Why? Because one man got a hold of heaven, got a hold of God. I just want to remind you tonight that some of God's people. are walking through some deep valleys. And I'm sure even among you tonight that some of you are going through some pretty deep dark valleys. Some of you may have burdens and you're carrying a load and maybe some of you are carrying that load and the rest don't even know about it. You know what we all need? Someone who will stand up and pray for them. You know better than I, I'm just visiting here, but you know the needs of people in this church Have you prayed for them? Have you really sought heaven for them? Have you got a hold of heaven for them? Have you helped them? Listen, to stand up for them in the day of their battle And to go to God on their behalf. They're in a battle. They need help. I remember this reading the story of Dwight Eisenhower when he's a little boy, he got polio. And the doctors told his mother, said, This boy will probably never walk again. His mother said, No, I don't believe that. And she put her, just laid her body over her little boy and began to pray He said, God, I know you didn't bring my boy into this world just to be a crippled. God, I know that you have great plans for my little boy. God, will you touch him? Will you heal him? Well we know the the rest of the story as it said. That Dwight D. Eisenhower became a great man, a great leader, in fact the architect and leader of the D-Day invasion And was able to accomplish what he did. Why? Because he had someone that got a hold of heaven for him. Now listen, folks, we need to be in the business of praying for our brothers and sisters who are fighting the battles of life. In fact, it is a clear command that God has given us. Listen, bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ, Galatians 6. 2. You know, never are we more like Jesus than we when we are loving others and standing in the gap for them. Oh, I don't have time to share all the scriptures here, but let me go to my last point. Jesus prayed for the souls of men and women that were in sin. He prayed for the souls in sin. Now I don't know about you, but that thrills my heart. to think that Jesus prayed for me and is still praying for me. Luke chapter 23. You can turn to that passage if you would and we'll we'll wind up right there. But in Luke chapter 23, in verse 34, Luke twenty-three verse thirty four. Then Jesus or then said Jesus, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do, and they parted his raiment and cast lots. Now here, our Savior, you think about the story, you know it well. Our Savior has been brought to the that old hill of Calvary. He's been nailed to the cross, those long, rough, rugged nails to his feet and his hands. He's had that crown of thorns crushed upon his brow. We know how he's been scourged and he hangs there, which doesn't appear to be a man at all, but as Isaiah said, just almost like a piece of meat hanging on the cross. Why? To atone for the sins of all humanity. He has submitted to all the torture and all the the uh uh uh uh cruel statements of his tormentors without opening his mouth. Listen to what Isaiah says in Isaiah 537. He was oppressed, he was afflicted Yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before a shear as his dumb, so he openeth not his mouth. But when he does speak, You know, Jesus wasn't one to waste words. He I know my daughter has gotten a habit of saying, when it gets quiet, awkward silence. And then to me I always you say, well that's sweet silence. You travel with all those kids in the vehicle all over the vials we did. It's sweet to have some silence. So I don't mind when they fall asleep. No, they're not that bad at all. But uh Jesus didn't talk just for the sake of making some noise. For the sake of filling some quiet, silent moments. When he spoke, he meant what he said. He said what he meant And listen to this. When he does finally speak there on Calvary, it's not to condemn. Oh no. He's praying. He's getting a hold of heaven for his tormentors, for the ones who are crucifying him. Now to me, that's one of the greatest prayers ever prayed. Imagine for just a moment what is going on in heaven. Imagine a father watching his son die for sins he never committed. Imagine the holy angels awaiting there just for the moment, just a word spoken, for them to go and to free their Savior, their Lord, their master. Not their Savior, but their Lord. You remember where I talked about Peter cutting off the ear? And that's when Jesus rebuked him. He said, Thinkest thou that I cannot now pray to my Father? And he shall presently uh presently give me more than twelve legions of angels. They're in the Garden of Gethsemane. He said, Listen, all I need to do is ask, and all those angels will come to my aid. I was glad he didn't. But instead we have the blessed Lamb of God who has offered himself up for the lost of this world. And he lifts his voice up in prayer for forgiveness to those who have tormented him. What amazing grace! What amazing love. That Jesus would touch heaven for those who hated him, reviled him, and crucified him. That's more glorious. In fact, it's beyond any Words in our human vocabulary to describe the wonders of it all