I'm going to start reading it in verse one and uh go down a ways here Jonah 1, verse 1, it says, Now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah, the son of Amitai, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh. that great city, and cry against it, for their wickedness is come up before me. But Jonah rose up to flee unto Tarshish from the presence of the Lord, and went down to Joppa, and he found a ship going to Tarshish. So he paid the fare thereof, and went down into it, to go with them unto Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. The Lord sent out a great wind into the sea, and there was a mighty tempest in the sea, so that the ship was like to be broken Then the mariners were afraid, and cried every man unto his God, and cast forth the wares that were in the ship, into the sea, to lighten it of them. But Jonah was gone down into the sides of the ship, and he lay, and was fast asleep. So the shipmaster came to him and said unto him, What meanest thou, O sleeper? Arise, call upon thy God, if so be that God will think upon us that we perish not. And they said every one to his fellow, Come and let us cast lots. that we may know for whose cause this evil is upon us. So they cast lots, and the lot fell upon Jonah. Verse eight Then said they unto him, Tell us, we pray thee, for whose cause this evil is upon us, what is thine occupation, and whence comest thou? What is thy country? And of what people art thou? And he said unto them, I am an Hebrew, and I fear the Lord, the God of heaven, which hath made the sea in the dry land. Then the men were exceedingly afraid and said unto him, Why hast thou done this? For the men knew that he fled from the presence of the Lord because he had told them. Then said they unto him, What shall we do unto thee, that the sea may be calm unto us? For the sea wrought, it was tempestuous against them. I'm going to pray and then I'm going to preach to you this morning on the subject of some things that the sailors knew. Some things the sailors knew. Heavenly Father, I thank you for this day that you've given us. Lord, it's always good to be in your house on the first day of the week Lord, we're thankful for this church and the people here, Lord, and we're also thankful for the building you've given us here, and um we can meet in a nice uh climate control building, Lord, and um you've just blessed us so much. Lord, I ask now that you would uh be with me as I try to uh deliver these thoughts that you've given me. Lord, help me to yield my will to yours. I don't want to say anything that would go against your word. And Lord, if there's something that you would have me to say that I don't have here, Lord, I ask that you would bring it to my mind so that I can uh say what you need to have said, Lord. I just want to be a vessel that you use, Lord. And it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Story of uh Jonah in the whale is a pretty familiar story, I think. Um and if I were to ask for a raise of hands, I think everyone would raise their hand and say that they had heard of it before. I think VeggieTales has definitely added to that a little bit. It added to the popularity of the story. How many of you have ever watched Veggie Tales? I can't say I'm for it or against it, but I love it. So, um anyway, not exactly accurate. Um there were no cheese curls involved here in this story. Um but I'm just gonna really tell the story again real quickly here, um, just so the story of Jonah is fresh in our minds. Jonah was a prophet. He was a man of God. It was Jonah's job to tell the people what God had said. Um he was a preacher, so to say. So God told uh Jonah to go to Nineveh and preach to Nineveh. Now Nineveh was a very, very large city. It was a very, very wicked city. Um it would definitely be a city that um we would not want to go to ourselves. They're very hostile towards the uh the Jews. I think maybe as you could compare to some um cities, maybe over in the Middle East or some other foreign country or something that's hostile towards us Christians, um maybe. Um it might have been something like that. And he definitely did not want to go there. But nonetheless, God told him to go there, so it was his responsibility to go. But of course, we know he did not. Instead, he went down to Joppa and he got on a boat that was going towards uh Tarshish. So instead of going to Nineveh, Nonah got on the boat and went to Tarshish. So Jonah didn't just um disobey God, but he did the exact opposite of what God told him to do. He sailed the opposite direction, and we know that. And we know this. The Bible says the eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the good. And it's silly, we look at it and say it's silly that a man would try to uh run from God, try to hide from God, like Jonah did. But we do that ourselves sometimes, don't we? Um we think maybe no one's watching, you know, it's night, it's dark. No one sees what we're doing, but God sees it. You can't hide from him. He sees everything. The eyes of the Lord are in every place. So the evil you do when you don't think anyone's doing, God sees it But the good you do when you don't think anyone recognizes it, God God sees that too. So anyway, Jonah was trying to hide from God, and it really did not work here, and uh he got on the ship, headed towards Tarship Tarshish. That is a tongue-twisting word, is it not? Tarshish. But anyway, while the boat was sailing towards um Teetown, um a great storm came. A great storm came and um we might have thought of it like a tropical depression or a hurricane or something like that. But the Bible says that it was a a mighty tempest. And it was so bad that it was about to break the ship, it says the ship was like to be broken. So the the crew, they started throwing things overboard And um they started trying to do what they could to uh save the boat, and then of course they could not. Um so they got to went to Jonah. Jonah said, It's my fault, they cast lots and all that. You remember the story there. The lot fell on Jonah. Jonah said who he was. They asked where we left off there in verse 11, what do we need to do to calm the storm? He said, You gotta throw me over. They threw him over after some deliberation And uh the big fish, the whale came and swallowed him. He was in the the whale for three days and uh three nights and was spit back up on the land and then he went and preached to Nineveh and the whole city uh repented, the Bible says. Um that's a very familiar story, and many of us have heard it, but I want to focus on maybe a little bit different aspect of it today. Um all the men that were on that ship. We see them in chapter one, and then there's uh three more chapters of Jonah that they never saw, they never heard. You know, they they might not have even seen him get swallowed by the whale, I don't know. They definitely didn't know that he lived through that. They might not have even heard about what happened later in Nineveh, I don't know. But we are going to look at this story from the perspective of the sailors, and if you're taking notes, the title is Some Things the Sailors Knew. Some things the sailors knew. So, first off, I want you to notice these sailors knew, these mariners knew they were going to die. They knew they were going to die. Look at verse four and five again. It says, But the Lord sent out a great wind into the sea, and there was a mighty tempest in the sea, so that the ship was like to be broken. Then the mariners were Afraid. Let me ask you, why were they afraid? Because they knew the ship was about to be broken and they were about to die. They and they knew that it was just a moment of time. The boat that they were on, it was not um some nice modern day battleship type thing. It was it was not nothing like that at all. And it was just it the storm was too great for it. They knew they were about to to die. And I think these sailors knew it's very evident they were going to to perish, and they knew that, so they they um started to panic. And I got to thinking about this. There's a lot of people in this world that are one day going to die. That's something everyone has in common, death and taxes, is it not? And of course we we we are saved and we know where we're going when we die, but there are many people that do not know that. And there is something that is in everybody that knows one day I'm going to perish. And everyone knows that there is some sort of consequence for their for their sins, and everyone knows that um there is consequences. They might not know what we know about hell, but you go throughout all of different all of the world, different societies, they have um their version, so to speak, of a negative place that people go. Um and we know that of course to hell But this is in everyone. In Romans chapter 2 talks about this, that it was written on our hearts, even for when we're born. But the bottom line is this, and this is the point I want to make. We are surrounded by people today that know there's a day coming when I'm gonna pass on to somewhere. And they know that they're going to perish and and um it's a sad situation for them if that's all they know and if we don't tell them any an any way to be saved, and we don't share the gospel with them. But secondly, I want you to notice this. Not only did they know they were going to die, I think the Bible shows that they knew that their own gods couldn't save them, their idols couldn't save them. Look at verse 5. Then the mariners were afraid and cried every man to his God. You see, they knew they were in trouble. And all of these men cried to their own God, their own idols, I guess you could say Um and maybe it was just what they were familiar with, the culture they were from, or the region they were from, or whatever there But no matter how much they cried out to these their gods, of course the waves kept coming, the winds kept blowing. And um I think they finally got to a point where they realized These things aren't hearing us. These gods aren't aren't going to save us. We're going to trust in these false things, we're still going to perish. And maybe they would even like the the prophets of Bael, I don't know, and they just cried out louder and louder, and the louder they cried, the more the waves kept coming in. And I don't know how long it took them, but I think they finally realized their gods couldn't save them. Now, again, there's a lot of lost people out here in this world. They know that there's a day coming where they're going to perish. And they'll turn to just about anything that this world has to offer as some sort of band-aid, I guess you could say, some sort of temporary relief. This world has things to offer. And the Bible says that there is pleasure in sin. But what people will do Is they know there's a day coming where they're going to go out into eternity somewhere. But then instead of trying to take care of that, they'll look to the things this world has to offer to maybe distract from that. Or maybe just put some sort of temporarily temporary allevement on that. But again, there's a lot of people that out here that realize, you know what? This stuff isn't going to save me. This stuff that this world has to offer, the world's gods, I guess you could say, is not going to save my soul. I'm still gonna die. It doesn't matter how much money you have, it doesn't matter how much stuff you have, it doesn't matter how popular you are, there's still gonna come a day when you die. And then all that really matters is where are you going now? Not how much you have, how popular you are, or anything like that. So these uh sailors are on the boat. They know, man, we're gonna die, so they do what they think they know is right, and they're just calling out to these gods, and they realize these things are not hearing me. If I'm going to trust in these, I'm still going to die. So they the first thing was they they knew they were going to die. Secondly, I think they knew that their gods couldn't save them. Now this is important. I want you to catch this Thirdly, I want you to notice they got to the point where they realized they couldn't even save themselves. They could not save themselves. Verse 5 again says, Then the mariners were afraid, cried every man into his God, and then they started doing things, and cast forth wares that were in the ship to lighten it of them. Verse 13 says, Nevertheless, the men rode hard to bring it to land, but they could not. The storm was violent. Waves crashed in and all that and the the boat was filling up with water. They did what I think any of us would do. They probably started bailing water, throwing cargo over, trying to do everything they possibly could. They even rowed hard to try to make it to land, and they got to the point Well, they realize we can't even save our own life. If I'm going to trust in myself to get to land, I'm not going to get there. And again, I got to thinking about the people all around us. Man, this w we are f this world is full of people that they know, hey, there's a day coming I'm going to slip out into eternity. They looked at the stuff the world has to offer, and that's not fixing it. So then this is what they do. Well, I'll do as much as I possibly can To make sure I can get to heaven. To make sure I can get to land. Like the s like the sailors. They rode hard to make it to land, but they couldn't get there. It doesn't matter how much somebody does, doesn't matter how much good they do, how much stuff they throw overboard, I guess you could say, doesn't matter how hard they row to try to make it to land. You can't. And if you are trusting, or if if someone you know of is trusting in their own ability to get to heaven, you can't get there. Can't. Titus says, not by works of righteousness which we have done. Righteous works. Good things. You may you give to charity, you give to the church, maybe you maybe you work on a bus route or or teach a Sunday school class outland. Good things You help people out. You're a good friend. You're casting all the wares, all the bad stuff that's in your boat. You're getting all that bad stuff out of your life and you're trying hard to make it. Doesn't matter how hard you try, because that storm is too great for you to handle on your own And this world is full of people. There's religions all over this world that are all based off of how much you need to do to get to heaven. God says you can't. You can't. And I you have probably heard this illustration before. We're all going um, we're all trying to go up the same mountain just on different sides or whatever. No, there's only one way. And we know that's Jesus. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. So if you're trusting In something, some God of this world, I guess you could say, it's not going to get you there. And your own self, you cannot get yourself there. If it were possible for you to do enough good, to get enough bad out of your boat, get enough bad stuff out of your life, and row hard enough, work hard enough for you to get to heaven, if that were possible, why would Jesus have to die for you? You wouldn't need to. Because you could you you could get there on your own, but we can't. So that's why he had to to die for us. And it may be you or a lost person you know, you you're in this storm called life, and you're looking around like, I need an answer. Well that answer is Jesus Christ. That answer is not how much you can do, how much how much good you can do for a a church, how much good you can do for charity, or even how many how many good works you can do for God. Understand understand that um Judas did a lot of good things for God, right? He went around with the other disciples and did a lot of good things for God. He didn't make it. And the Bible says that there'll be many that say, you know, Lord, I've done this in your name and say, no, I didn't know you. So, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us. Fourth thing, not only did these sailors know they were going to die, not only did they know their gods couldn't save them. They couldn't save themselves, but I want you to see they knew the only hope they had was in Jonah's God. Verse 6 says, So the shipmaster came to him and said unto him, What meanest thou, O sleeper? Arise, call upon thy God, if so be that God will think upon us that we perish not. Notice how that's worded. They all call on their own gods, right? And then when they get to Jonah, they say, call on your God. If so be that God will think upon us. See, they really knew that Jonah's God was God. And everyone knows that. The whole world I this is my opinion. Opinions are like Feed everyone has a couple and they stink. But um it's my opinion that everyone knows You know what there there is God of evolution or this god of whatever that everyone knows who God is. Again, that's Romans chap uh I think it's chapter five or chapter two if again I'm just the assistant so I don't have to know exactly. But um that was a joke by the way. Thank you. But um it's my opinion that everyone knows. Yeah, this place didn't just evolve. There is a God. He is in charge. They just don't want to admit it. So but anyway, I like the way that's worded. If so be that, you call on your God, if so be that God will think on us that we perish not. And if we look at the end of the chapter, they realize that's the only hope they had. Verse 14 says, Wherefore they cried unto the Lord and said, We beseech thee, O Lord, we beseech thee. Let us not perish for this man's life. And lay not upon us innocent blood, for thou Lord hast done as it pleased thee. So they took up Jonah, cast him forth into the sea. The sea ceased from a raging Then the men feared the Lord exceedingly and offered a sacrifice in the Lord and made vows. There's actually twice here where they actually called on the Lord. Once was to save their life. They realized, hey, if he's going to save us physically, we need to trust in him with our soul, too. And that's good. Because the only way you can get to heaven is if you trust uh Jesus with your soul. But um they knew the only hope they had was in Jonah's God. And let me tell you people, there's a whole lot of people out here running, trying to find some sort of Great, some sort of of alleviation. I don't know who the first person that that said this was, but it's so true. There's a God-sized hole in every man that only God can fill, and they try to fill it with so many other things. But the bottom line is this: the only thing that can fill that hole, that void that you have, is Christ. Not the gods of this world. You can't even fill it your own self, even. But God can. And He's the only one that can keep you from perishing and spending eternity in hell. So, yeah, verse 14 through 17 that talks about how they um vowed vows unto the Lord and uh made vows unto the Lord, and I believe that's when they were uh when they were saved. So, if you're trusting in your own strength, if you're here and you're lost, you're not saved, you're not sure if you're going to heaven or not, and you're trusting in your own abilities, you're not going to get there. It's not possible. You're trusting in something else other than the Lord Jesus Christ. You're not going to get there. It's not possible. So I encourage you today, do not leave. Today, without making sure you have placed your trust in Jesus Christ. Because you ever again, the one thing we all have certain coming to us is a day of death. And you've got to make sure you know where you're going when that happens Now there's a couple more things. I'm going to challenge us as Christians here for a minute. That was the first part. Here's the second part. You didn't think it was that short, did you? Let me try to challenge you as fellow believers here for a few minutes. There's a few more things that these sailors knew. First thing is that they knew the man of God was asleep. God's man was sleeping. It says, I believe, in verse six, so the shipmaster came to him and said unto him, What meanest thou, O sleeper? Okay, picture this if you will. They're in the middle of a hurricane. The ship is breaking up. They're trying everything they know. And they're about to die. And God's man is sleeping. So he comes up to him, the shipmaster comes up to him, and I'm sure he had tannic written all over his face. Probably shakes him. What meanest thou? What in the world do you mean to be doing right now? And let me ask you the same question. What meanest thou, O Christians? There are so many people all around us dying and perishing in hell. Do we really mean to let them? But by not going next door and telling the person that lives right next to you that they don't have to die and go to hell, do you really mean to do that? What meanest thou, O sleeper? What I'm saying is this guy, we need to wake up spiritually. We need to wake up and realize this world around us is dying and going to hell and they're perishing. Do we really mean to let them? What meanest thou sleeper? They knew God's man was asleep. And let me tell you, people know that you are God's man. People know that you are a Christian. They know your car is not there on Sunday mornings. in Wednesday nights. They know what you believe. And they know you haven't told them yet. And they might even be thinking in the back of their mind, I wonder if they have an answer for me. Because remember, people that are lost, but people aren't saved, they have a void. And they're looking for answers. They probably might even be thinking, I wonder if that Christian, that church person I wonder if they've got the answer, and you do, and you haven't told them. Do you really mean to do that? Do you really mean to let them perish? So they knew the man of God was asleep. Not only that, they knew the man of God was living in sin. They knew he was running from God. And how how did they know that? Because he told them. Now I kind of like the confidence that Jonah had. Even when he was running from the Lord. Um look at ver look at verse um nine. And he said unto them, I am a Hebrew, and I fear the Lord. The God of heaven which hath made the sea and the dry land, where are they? In the middle of the sea And it's coming in the boat. And he say he had this much confidence. He say the they ask him who he is, and he said, Yeah, I I I'm I'm a Hebrew. I serve God, uh the one that made the water The stuff you're trying to get rid of. Uh yeah, my God made that stuff. That dry land that you're rowing so hard to get to. He made that too. I love the confidence. And we're just like that. Man, we'll run from God, we'll we'll live like the devil, and then at the same time, when troubles come, we know, yeah, God's in control. God knows what he's doing. We know exactly who to call to when we get in trouble. I think that's just like us, isn't it? Yeah, yeah, we're in the middle of a storm, but yeah, yeah, God, he's he he's got it in control. And I love the confidence he had. But at the same time, he told on himself, did he not? Here, I mean they hi the he was running from God going the opposite direction of where he was supposed to go, and he's like, Yeah guys, this this is this is my fault. The world knows when God's man's living in sin. Now you might not verbally tell the people around you that you're living in sin, but they know when you are. They know it. And they know you're not supposed to. And then I mean this is just an excuse, but people will look at it this way. Why should I listen to what that Christian has to say when he lives just like I do, you know? But anyway, I want you guys to think about this, and I'm done in just a minute. But I want you to think about this. If you're here And you're one of you're like one of those uh those sailors. And you can see, all right, there's a day coming where I'm going to go off into eternity. And I don't know where I'm going. Yeah, I've tried stuff here, it doesn't work. Tried to work hard myself to get there, and I I don't even think I'm gonna make it. How do I get there? How do I get to heaven? The Bible's very clear. We're all sinners. Romans 3 tells us that. And because of our sin, that's why we're in this storm that we're in called life. And that's why we're headed to the place called hell where we're going to perish. But of course, God loves us. Set his son to die for us. God commendeth, he proves his love toward us. So while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Why? So that we can be saved. And Romans says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of Lord shall be saved. You have got to get to that point in your life when you realize, I can't do this. I need you to save me. My father-in-law uh has told me this story a couple times. And um, you know, we it the when he was when he um trusted Christ as his Savior, his prayer probably wasn't even as long as what's on the back of most tracks On a Monday, he kneeled down by the welder at work where he worked. And his words were this, Lord, I need you to save me because if you don't, I'm going to die and go to hell. And there has got to be that time in your life when you realize, Lord, I'm going to die and perish unless you save me. Will you save me? And if you're here and you say, Pastor Man, I'm saved. I'm already there. Well, good. Now let me ask you, what meanest thou, O sleeper? It is now your job to tell the other people that are about to perish you don't have to Just like God saved me, he can save you. Heads bowed, eyes closed, no one looking around for just a moment. We'll have an invitation here in just a minute. If you're here and you say Pastor Matt, that's that's me. I'm like one of those tailors. I know I'm gonna one day I'm gonna slip off into eternity and I do not know where I'm going. Would you pray for me, Pastor Matt? I am not sure I'm saved, but I sure would like someone to show me how to be. I sure would like to know how to be saved. I'm not going to embarrass you. I'm not going to call you out. I'm not going to make you give a speech. I just want to pray for you. Say, Pastor Matt, I am not sure I'm saved. And I know I need to be. That's you. Would you just slip your hand up? I just want to pray for you. Just raise your hand. Pastor Matt, I'm not sure that I'm saved. And I know I need to be. I just want to pray for you. That's it. Okay. Now let me ask this. You're here and you say, Pastor Matt, I know for sure that I am saved. I know whom I believed in. I've trusted Christ as my Savior. I remember that day. That's you. Raise your hand. Ask your man. I know I'm saved. It's good. You put your hands down, thank you. Now, for all of you who just raised your hand, how about we wake up? Tell someone about Christ. Maybe that's you. I know I need to raise my hand on this one, but how many of you would say, Pastor Matt, pray for me that I need to wake up and tell someone about Christ? I want to be a better witness. That's me. Yeah. Thank you. You may put your hands down. And again, if you're here and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, don't wait. Just a minute. We have an invitation here. When she starts playing, you can come forward. One of us will talk with you. Show you how to be saved. And if you're hearing God's dealt with your heart about something, maybe you haven't been being that witness you need to be, maybe you need to wake up and tell someone. Why don't you use this time to get it right with God? You stand to your feet with me. As she starts playing, it's time of invitation here