There's a voice calling me from an old ruggetry And in whispers draw closer to me. Leave this world far behind. There are new heights to blind. And a new place in me you will find For whatever it takes to draw closer to you, Lord That's why I'll be willing to For whatever it takes to be more like you That's what I'll be willing to do. Take my dearest things to me if that's how it must be. To draw me closer to the Let the days appointments come, lonely days without the sun. If it's our wrong more like you, I become Take my house and lend, change my dreams and my plan For I'm lazy my whole life in your hand. And if you call me today to a land far away, Lord And your will obey for whatever retain To draw closer to you Lord. That's why I'll be willing to do. For whatever we change to be more like you That's what I'll be willing to do. I'll trade sunshine for ray Combate for pain. That's words I'll be willing to do For whatever it takes, for my will to break That's what I'll be willing to do. I tell you, my heart is so stirred. Um you know our theme is the harvest is great. And boy, we've seen that the last three nights. Just the need out there is so overwhelming. And then I thought while Brother Jacques's presentation while he was speaking I thought of the ten lepers the Lord healed. You know, saved, healed. God blessed them so much. And then one comes back to actually do anything for the Lord. And I thought of that. I thought, Lord, it just seems like there's so few that have any kind of heart for this huge harvest field out there. And then I was thinking as she began singing, I thought, I've got to do more. Somehow we've got to do more. We can't just let this go. And then you think, man, how much can I do? But I think Dr. Creed hit hit the nail on the head last night. It's God that does it. And what I need to do is just come put myself in his hands and say, God, however you choose to use me, wherever, whatever degree, whatever, Lord, I just put myself in your hands. In the Lord's hands. And then we don't know what's going to happen. We have no idea what God would do. And ninety days from now Brother Van Royen and his wife will be in an Inner Mongolia. That amazing thing. And reaching these people And uh my heart stirred. Let's ask the Lord to speak to our hearts when Brother Cree comes to preach. Okay, let me ask you to turn in your Bibles tonight to uh 2 Corinthians chapter 8 as we begin. I think uh I think one of the things that sometimes we miss in missions conferences and in churches like this is your importance. in this matter of missions. You know, it's easy to sit here and watch these presentations and have our hearts stirred, and that's a good thing. And uh it's easy for us to look and and realize uh what a great thing it is for these missionaries to surrender their lives and go to the field. But I think one of the things that uh we miss more often than than we should is the fact that it's equally important for each member of this church to do what God wants you to do right here. I mean, each church member, each member of Mountain Lake Is as important in the matter of world evangelism as these missionaries who are going. Because we're all in this together. And your giving is as important as their going. And the only difference between them and you is that God chose to send them. And he chose you to send them. And uh so uh boy we just have to keep in mind that uh we are all involved in this thing. And we just need to find out how God wants us to be involved. Now the principle we're going to look at tonight, I mentioned it last night. I think it's something that if we get a hold of and and it becomes a part of us, if it's something that we continuously think about. Then it just changes this whole involvement in missions and our involvement with each other in in the Christian life. And that is the fact that God gives us some things that are not for us. This Christian life is an other's life, isn't it? It's not uh we're not to be all wrapped up in ourselves and what we are. We're to be wrapped up in the lives of others, and God brings us in contact with others And God gives us some things that are for others. I remember years ago when uh I uh when June and I first got in a church where we were challenged to serve the Lord, uh we had never been in a church like that church. And boy, we were just excited about serving and we became a part of that congregation. And after a couple of months, the pastor came to me and asked me if I would teach a sixth grade boys' Sunday school class And I just said, no way. And the reason I said that is that I knew those sixth graders knew more about the Bible than I did. And they would ask me questions I couldn't answer and I was not going to get in that embarrassing situation because we uh we had not grown as Christians. But after a while I uh became convicted about it, and I went back to him and told him I would take that class. And once I got in that class and got involved with some others Then God began to show me some things that uh I had not understood. I I realized that I could study the Bible then, as I had to study it For a reason, for a purpose. And God would give me some things that I could share with that class. I think that's a tremendous thing for every Christian to understand. If you and I are willing to get in the Bible and study it Then God will give us some things for us, but He will also give us some things for others. He'll give us some things that excite us so much that it'll just sort of overflow And that's the principle that uh that we uh we want to look at tonight. We mentioned last night about 2 Corinthians 8. Of course, this is the portion of scripture that that teaches in detail faith, promise, giving. And we looked last night at those beginning verses that talk about faith, promise, giving by the grace of God. and the Macedonian churches, their example. He begins to talk to the church at Corinth about their responsibility and In the the following verses there he he deals with them about the promise they made and reminds them it uh of their willingness to make the promise But he said, now it's time to perform the doing of it. And then he dealt with that. And then in verse 13, after he talked about their responsibility to do what they said they were going to do, verse 13 he says, For I mean not that other men be eased and ye burdened. And he just sort of sticks that in there. And uh and he just simply says, after he tells them they ought to be doing what they said they were going to do, he said, now I don't want you to get the wrong idea I'm not trying to uh burden you in your giving and make it easier on other people. That's not what this is all about. He said that because that's our attitude often You know, what's going to happen to me if I give? What's uh what uh what if I have a need? What about mine? And God said, I'm gonna take care of that. I'm not going to put the pressure on you when you give to other people. And then he gets into this principle we're going to deal with tonight in verse 14. Look what he says. But by an equality. That now at this time your abundance may be a supply for their want. That their abundance also may be a supply for your want, that there may be equality. Now, the word equality there, of course, has the thought of being equal, but it also has the thought of likeness. And he's just dealing with us, the fact that we're in this thing together. And God wants to use us to meet the needs of each other, to be a help to each other, to be an assistance to each other. And he says he he he shares it by making the statement there that that uh there's a time that that your supply is used to meet the needs of others and their wants, and there are times when others' supply will be used to meet your wants. And he's just simply saying that, hey, uh I want to move this from one to another. I want you to be involved in each other's lives, and and I want you to realize that there are going to be times That I put in your possession, in your mind, in your thinking, I'm going to put some things in you that are really not for you. They're for someone else. Now the the problem that you and I have with our nature is that we don't think of others like we should when it comes to being used of God. We don't look at what we have, what God gives us in our understanding, in our knowledge, and our awareness of Himself. We don't look at that. As often as we should, as what what is not for me? What's for someone else? What should I look at here with others in mind? Now imagine what it would do if we became more sensitive to that. If we just as we came to church on Sunday, think of what it would do if we came to church saying, Okay God, now what did you give me this week that's for somebody here to this Sunday? What have you given me? Would you make me aware as I mingle with the congregation? On this Lord's Day, would you make me aware of what you've given me this week that's not for me, but for somebody here Now imagine how that would change us, right? It would take our minds off of ourselves more and on others. And that's what the Christian life is about putting others before ourselves. In many instances. And so that's what he says here. God has given us what we have, but what you and I have, he's given us through somebody. That's the way he works. You know, it doesn't just fall out of the sky. You don't pick it up off the ground. It doesn't grow on trees. God provides our need and he provides it through an employer. He provides it through uh a gift, he bides it through an inheritance. It's moved through people to one another. And when it comes to the Christian life, he says, now listen You need to think of others. You need to realize that there are times that I give you something for someone else. And this is so true in faith promise. I'm convinced that every member of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church has been given something for missions. It's not for you. It's uh the same for me and my church, the church where I belong. God has given me something. God has placed something in uh uh June in my life that it's not for us. It's for world evangelism. And what you and I have to do is become so sensitive to that that we take a look at what He's given us and say, okay, what part of this is not for me, but it's for world evangelism. Now, once we become sensitive to that fact, aware of that principle, once we become agreeable with God about that Then it's easy to make the promise. Amen. It's easy to do what he wants us to do once we accept the principle Once we realize the truth of that. Now what I want to do is go to a portion tonight that just uh I think reveals this in a good way. And so I'm going to ask you to turn with me back to 2 Kings chapter 7. 2 Kings chapter 7. To a familiar story that brings out the truth of this very principle and illustrates it for us biblically. Now the setting in 2 Kings chapter 7 sort of begins as far as the recent setting. In verse 24 of chapter 6, the king of Syria, it says, gathered all of his host and went up and besieged Samaria. Verse 25 it says, And there was a great famine in Samaria. And behold, they besieged it. The word besieged there simply gives the thought that they they closed it in. They they surrounded the place. They uh uh came into it in such a way that nothing could be moved in, nothing could be moved out. And they they held their place there for so long that the famine came and the people began to suffer as far as food was concerned. It it even came to the place that they they began to to uh uh purchase things that they would not have normally purchased because uh it was uh at such a premium and and the cost was so uh prohibitive and and they began to eat things that they would not have eaten before And they they even uh resorted to cannibalism. And we have the story, you remember, of the two women that came to the king and they were the one was complaining. She said, uh we agreed yesterday that uh we would eat my child yesterday and then today we would eat her child and now she will not uh She will not put her child uh for that purpose. And so they had resorted to cannibalism. And when when they came to the king with this story, he became so angry And his anger revealed it was an anger at God. And he turned his anger toward God through God's man, Elisha. And he sent his messenger down and said, You go on before, and I'll follow you, and we're going to go down. And they were to take him for the purpose of killing him. But when they went down uh to Elisha's place, Elisha uh it didn't bother him too much because God would tell him what was going to happen, so he knew they were coming, and so when they came Uh he told them just uh uh you know block the door, don't let them in. Make them stay out there for a while. And uh that just made them angrier and angrier. And so now uh the setting is that they're there to kill Elisha, they're there to make him pay for all that's happened. As a result of them being s besieged by the king of Syria. And now as we get into chapter seven, Elisha is responding. to this angry king and his messengers. And in verse one of chapter seven We see the promise that God places. Now remember, God has permitted the situation. God has permitted the circumstances. Things have not gotten out of God's hand. He he brought this about, the result of the uh of uh Israel not responding to him and And so uh it's it's uh it's a situation that he's he's permitted to come into being. And so now he's going to deal with them uh within the circumstances that he has permitted And in verse 1 of chapter 7, and we'll sort of work our way through this if you'll not get ahead of me. In verse 7 it says, Then Elisha said, Hear ye the word of the Lord. Thus saith the Lord, Tomorrow, about this time, shall a measure of fine flour be sold for a shekel and two measures of barley for a shekel in the gate of Samaria. He says, Now tomorrow It's going it's stuff's going to be so plentiful that you're going to be able to buy six times more for about a fifth of what you're paying down It's going to become so plentiful that you're just going to be able to have it and uh buy it and there will be plenty. Now he's saying this to a people that are in a starving situation. He's saying this to a people who have been so desperate they've turned to cannibalism. But I want you to see what he says here. Look back in the beginning of the verse. Then Elisha said, Hear ye the word of the Lord. Circle that word here in your Bible or in your minds. Here's what that word is saying. Here's what he is really saying there. He's not just saying listen to this. The word has the thought of to hear intelligently. It has the thought of obedience. It has the thought of to be content with. He's saying, now listen, I'm getting ready to tell you something that God has said. I'm getting ready to tell you what the one who is in control of this whole situation has told me to tell you. Now, as I say what I'm getting ready to say, you need to be ready to believe it, accept it, to be completely satisfied with it. God has reached down in this situation and begun to work in this desperate situation. In giving them the answer, and he's simply saying to this, you need to be satisfied with what I'm getting ready to tell you. You need to accept what I'm getting ready to say. Now you and I, you and I have the promises of God. We have the word of God that speaks to us And God tells us the same thing. Hey, he says, hear what I'm saying to you. I mean simple things like Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart. Lean not to thine own understanding. In all thy ways, acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart. Now think about that. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart. With all of your being, with all of your intelligence, with all of your emotions, with all of your willingness, trust in the Lord. Hear that, believe that, be obedient to that, be satisfied with that Now you and I know that our lives prove more often than we want to recognize we don't hear it the way we ought. Amen? And we talk about, bless God, I believe the Word of God, this is the Word of God, this is God speaking to us, and I believe every word that He says, and then the circumstances happen And we become anxious and nervous and forget what God said. Guilty? You see, we have the same promises. We have the same God. We have the opportunity to enjoy the promises that God gives us. Like he tells us in Matthew 6:33, but seek ye first the kingdom of God. And then what? And all these things shall be added unto thee. I mean, God says to you and to me, He says, Hey, if you'll just put me first, if you'll just trust me and recognize me. If you'll just put me in my rightful place and you get in your rightful place, then everything you need off supply. But we don't hear it, do we? Huh? You see, it would be a totally different life as to how we handle things if we really heard it. The way God wants us to hear. If we really believed what we say we believe. Too often the circumstances control what we believe more than God's word controls it. Amen. And so he just comes in this situation, and Elisha, the man of God, just says, Hey, now wait a minute. Hear what I'm getting ready to say. God told me to say, tell you this. Tomorrow, everything's going to be okay. But you and I cannot accept often the promises of God. And we react like they react because we see in verse 2 we see what he said questioned. Now notice what happens in verse 2. Look at this. Then a Lord, on whose hand the king leaned, answered the man of God and said, Behold. If the Lord would make windows in heaven, might this thing be? And he said, Behold, thou shalt see it. with thine eyes, but shall shalt not eat thereof. Were the king's messengers standing there, and Elisha told him what God said, and he said, Ha Man, if a i if the windows of heaven were open, this might happen. What if that word uh there windows has the thought of floodgates It's really referring he's really referring to to something like uh what happened to Noah when the the rains came. Instead of here he's talking about God providing for them. He said, Boy, if they just opened the windows of heaven and just uh the floodgates were open, then something like this might happen. And he was questioning what God said. Now you and I, uh, you know, we have enough sense not to just blurted out like that. But we live like that more often we want to admit. Amen. Our lives prove More often than we want to recognize, our lives prove the same statement In other words, he's not going to do this because it can't happen. The floodgates are not going to open. So when he said that, Elisha said to him You're going to see it. It's going to happen. Doesn't matter what you think. Doesn't matter what you believe. Doesn't matter what you say. It's going to happen. And you're Want to see it But you're not going to eat any of them. You're not going to enjoy any of them. I wonder how often you and I miss What God wants to do in our lives simply because we will not accept his promise. Huh? We will not let him put in us what he's trying to put in us. We will not let him make us what he's trying to make us. I thought one time as I was thinking of this uh this fact and not this particular portion, but I I I was thinking about this matter of trusting God and and uh how we question him often. I I got thinking about the banking in our DC area You know, it's very I'm sure very different than it is in in your area, but uh it's very impersonal. You know, it's just uh it's business, you it's Unless you're the big bucks person, it's it's not personal at all. I banked at one bank for 18 years. I was in the lobby of that bank maybe five times. They didn't know me from Adam. It was all at that drive-through window And you know I get my paycheck and uh uh man that's that's an important thing. You get that money, you gotta you gotta get it to the bank to cover the checks that you've already written or ones you have to write right away and Get things covered you're responsible for and I I got thinking about getting that paycheck and going to that drive-thru window and in our area, you know, they drive they change uh uh people at that window as fast as they change burger flippers at McDonald's. You know, they just change all the time. You you never know who it is. They don't know you. And you you drive through there and you sign your check and you give them that money and When's the last time you drove away from that drive-through window? As you drove away, the thought came to your mind, I wonder if they're really going to take care of my money. I wonder if maybe when I write my mortgage check and it goes through that my money won't won't be there because they use it for something else. You say that's silly. We don't think that at all, do we? We have, you know why? Because we have confidence in them. We trust them to handle our money and keep it, and they are people that we don't even know. And we give them that important commodity in our life. And then God comes along and he says, now listen, I'd like you to do it and say, oh wait a minute, I'll have to pray about that. We come to a place that we trust people here that we don't know more than we trust God. The individual we say we really know. And that's why he's not able to put in us what he needs to put in us for the benefit of others so often. And so he makes the promise here, and he brings out the fact that they're questioned, and then he begins to unfold this unusual activity Now notice what happens. We find that he uses uh he uses some people that are just uh questionable people, that people that that you know we wouldn't use in the situation. Notice verses 3 and 4. He says, And there were four leprous men at the entering in of the gate, and they said one to another, Why sit we here until we die? Because they're they're unclean, they can't go in the city. We know their situation is lepers. Nobody they can't be around people who who do not have leprosy. They they have to stay to themselves, they're in their own place And uh so uh they know that they're they're going to die one way or the other. Verse 4 said, if we say we will enter into the city, then the famine is in the city, and we shall die there And if we sit still here, we die also. Now therefore come and let us uh fall unto the host of the Syrians. If they save us alive, we shall live. And if they kill us, we shall but die. Now think about this. Here are these lepers sitting there. They're in the middle of this situation that God has brought about. God's working. In this situation. And he puts in the minds of these lepers the folks that you would think he would not use. But he's getting ready to use them. And so he puts this thought in their mind: hey, we're going to die if we sit here. If we go in the city, there's nothing in there to eat. We're going to die there. What we might as well do is go up here to the Syrians where they're all camped. If they kill us, we're going to die anyway. Well, you know, if they give us something, then we'll benefit. Now, God puts this in their mind. God's getting ready to do something, God's getting ready to move. God is working his plan. And he pulls out this unusual group of people that he's going to use as key figures in his plan. And then we find he begins to work it. Look in verse five. He uh the unusual circumstances. And they arose, the lepers arose, up in the twilight. To go unto the camp of the Syrians. And when they were come to the uttermost part of the camp of Syria, behold, there was no man there For the Lord had made the host of the Syrians to hear a noise of chariots and a noise of horses, even the noise of a great host. And they said one to another, Lo, the king of Israel hath hired against us kings of the Hittites and kings of the Egyptians to come upon us. Wherefore they arose and fled in the twilight and left their tents and their horses and their asses, even the camp as it was, and fled for their life And when these lepers came to the uttermost part of the camp, they went into one tent and did eat and drink and carried thence silver and gold and raiment and went and hid it And came again and entered into another tent, and carried thence also, and went and hid it. So we see so we see uh the unusual reaction they're going up there and And God just brings a thought into the Syrian warriors, the Syrian uh Syrian army, the thought that they're going to They're going to be killed, and boy, they just take off and leave everything, and the lepers walk into this situation where they just have everything. I mean, they move from nothing to having everything, and they respond as we humanly respond. Let's get all we can. Let's eat all we can. Let's hide all we can. Let's keep all we can. Now think about the situation. The city's in need, and all of a sudden they've had everything put right in their laps. Lepers, outcast, the unclean, the rejected Have had everything put right in their laps. God has put it there. Why? To teach us a lesson. What's the lesson? I haven't given it to you for you only. I've given it to you for others. But see their initial response is Let's hide this. Let's keep this. And that's the way we are by nature. If we're going to be changed from that, the Spirit of God's going to have to do it. Amen. Because that's the way we act normally. And so the next verse teaches us the lesson. Then they said One to another. We do not well. This day is a day of good tidings, and we hold our peace. If we tarry till the morning light, some mischief will come upon us. Now therefore come, that we may go and tell the king's household. And all of a sudden Uh they realize, hey, this is not the right thing. We are not acting right This is not for us. There are people that need what we have. And we have enjoyed this for our own benefit But now we've got to let them know that it's here. Now that's what he's teaching us in 2 Corinthians 8, verse 14. He's teaching us that sometimes God puts in our possession good things. And boy, you and I have to say. Man, we have done well. Amen. God has blessed us. We have much And what we have to keep in mind is, as we have much, there are those that have nothing when it comes to the gospel. When it comes to an opportunity to know Christ and have what we have. You come in here on Sunday, Sunday after Sunday, Wednesday after Wednesday, week after week, and God Puts it in your possession. His word, his presence, his blessings, and awareness of himself What a blessing it is to come into a church like you have and leave with what you get. Service after service. And you and I, by nature, if we don't watch it, we'll try to hide it and keep it and not share it. But God gives it to us for others, not just for ourselves. And the thrilling thing about it is when we share it with others. We're blessed even more. Amen. I uh I think about this, and and boy, you can think of th uh times two and uh that that God has just put in your possession and but but think about coming to a place that you you realize this. Coming to a place that you're more aware of. Coming to a place Coming to the place that you actually examine everything you have with others in mind. Imagine the change that that makes in our lives. But uh I can remember uh uh a couple of occasions. Uh one time when God dealt with me, another when he blessed me through an individual uh another individual, but What June and I, when our children were all teenagers, now we had four teenagers at one time. Now that's enough to make you think God's against you. You know, to have four teenagers at one time. But uh we had four teenagers. And uh you know when you at that time when we uh When we got ready for Christmas, what I'd have to do is sort of plan to have every all the bills caught up that last payday before Christmas. And that last payday before before Christmas have that for the kids for Christmas. You ever there? You know what I'm talking about? And so this this particular year I had it all planned out. Well I had everything caught up, everything taken care of I got paid on Thursday. Christmas was the next Tuesday. So I uh uh g w went home and I gave June $200. I said, now you take this two hundred dollars and you take care of the two girls. I've got $200, I'll take care of the boys. And I had it all figured out, all planned. And I was at church, we had a print shop in our church. And it was Thursday afternoon. And I started out of the church on Thursday afternoon and I walked by the print shop. And as I went by the print shop door, one of our ladies of the church, she was working in there putting some things together, and And as I walked by, God said to me, Give her that two hundred dollars. And I said, Ain't no way. That $200? That's for my boy's Christmas. Man alive, what would happen if I gave her that $200? Man, I went out of there. I went home. I tried to forget that. God would not leave me alone. I tried to do things to busy myself so I could feel it. I mean, it was miserable because I knew what God wanted me to do. So finally I was so miserable, I said, God, please keep her there till I get back there. Now, not because I wanted to give it to her. I just didn't want to be miserable. I said, keep her there till I get back over there. And so I drove back over there and she was in there and I went in. I said, listen, don't say a word. God told me to give you this. I just put the $200 down. I said, take it and enjoy it. I just turned around and left. I mean within just hours. I mean from unusual places I had $1,200 in my hands. That was just, you know, that just you had to stand back in amazement and say, how could I be so dumb not to want to do what God wants you to do? Huh? When God proves Himself. And that's what it's talking about. I'm not I'm not saying that's the way it happens all the time. I'm just saying God is not trying to make it hard on us and easier on others when he leads us to do what he wants us to do with what he's given us for others. One time June and I uh when we uh moved to Clinton, I mentioned last night that I was an assistant at Fairfax at Bethlehem Baptist Church in Fairfax in nineteen seventy-one to nineteen seventy-two. In seventy-two, that's when we went to Clinton to Independent Baptist Church. And when I accepted a pastor of that church, I had to take quite a cut in pay from being an assistant I mean, they didn't have many people. It was struggling. But we knew that's where God wanted us. I mean, it was just complete peace. And uh we went over there, we had practically nothing, uh, took a cut and pay. I mean it it was just struggling days And uh we've been there a couple of months and just trying to trying to keep it going. And and uh it was uh I think it was the 4th of July And I got a call from a fellow that was in the church we were in before, and he owned a a restaurant business downtown D. C. And I had taught him to be a soul winner and we had worked together and came became quite close and and he called me and he said, Hey, he said, what are you doing today? And I I wasn't doing much. It was a holiday. He said, I had to come in today. And he said, I'm down here in the office and he said there's nothing going on, but somebody had to be here. And he said, said, uh, why don't you come down, just fellowship with me for a while And I said, okay, I'll drive down. So I drove down DC and we spent a couple hours just talking, fellowshipping, and finally he said, Hey, the real reason I want you to come down, I want to give you some things. He said, pull your vehicle up. I had an I had one of those you remember back then they made those big old station wagons. I had a big old Plymouth station wagon and I backed that thing up to the to the dock there at his business and he put the back seat down and he started putting food in there. I mean it was restaurant food. It was uh flounder stuffed with crab meat, big old boxes of it, rabbit, chickens crates of eggs, I mean big old boxes of vegetables, hormel hams. I mean he stuffed that thing so full I looked at it and said, man, why didn't I bring a U-hole? But he uh he just he stuffed that thing so full of food that we we filled two freezers And that food fed us for a year, except just the few staples we had to buy. And it was just God saying, okay, now see, he listened to God As God gave him something for us. Hey, listen, that's what God wants to do. God wants us to just become sensitive to the fact that He gives us some things that are not for us. It's for someone else. Imagine what it would do to a congregation like this if everyone began thinking. In that direction about everything we have. Huh? Then what we do. Just started meeting each other's needs. But one place this is really true is the fact that God has put in your possession something for missions. That's why he's given us the command. The command means that he's given us the ability and the means to fulfill it. To get the gospel to the world. And this week is a time that's so important that you just simply look at what you have and say, God, What part of it's permissions. Amen? And just listen to him. He's not going to make it hard on you and easier on others Let's pray. Every head bowed, every eye closed. God's spoken to your heart. He's attempting to do something in your life. Are you willing to listen? Let's stand as we pray. Father, bless our invitation tonight. And God help us to get over our greediness, our selfishness, our covetousness Help us to be willing to take a look at all that you give us with others in mind. Realizing that we have a responsibility to take care of our own families, to meet our own needs, but help us to not forget. What you've given us for others. Blessed now as we do business with you tonight. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. God's spoken to your heart. Why don't you slip out of your place? Just get along with him do business with him tonight and say, God, that's what I want to learn. That's what I want to experience. Help me to do that. Help me just to listen. Help me be willing to listen. Would you come get alone with God and and ask him to strengthen you in this area? It's not a matter of do we need this or not. All of us have the same old nature. All of us live with the same old man. All of us have the same flesh. All of us face the same battles. The question is, do we want To learn. Do we want God to change us? Why don't you come? Father in heaven, once again, Lord, we're grateful for your Holy Spirit's work in our hearts and lives. We ask, Lord, that you would please direct us in the coming hours, between now and Sunday, make it clear Clear what you would have us to do in Jesus' name I pray. Amen.