Well, I appreciate that ringing word of endorsement, amen. But I am the same. You know if you're saved, listen, we all have our ups and downs, amen? We we everybody do the devil's good at saying, well, you know, they're living now listen, we all have our valleys. We all have our problems. Uh we all have our our our situation. But you know what? Listen, if you're saved You ought to be having the time of your life on your way to heaven. Quit looking like you're going to a funeral. Amen. Enjoy life. Really, enjoy life. Get off the Prozac and whatever again. Enjoy life. Come on. That's a joke. I uh just so you understand again, Brother Williams came up with that, amen. So just so we understand that that that's not me, amen. I I got a I got a phone call last night from Chip, y'all, you know, you know, accusing me. Oh, I can't believe you do the you know that poor little I said she's a spy. And I said, Kip, I said, you have defected to the dark side. So the next time you see him, you better be careful. I think he's a triple agent. I don't think he knows whose side. I think I think the Bowmanites have converted him. Don't trust him. Amen. So if he calls and says, how many tracks? You just say, I don't speak to the dark side. Everybody got that? Amen. Well, if you have your Bible, turn over to First Corinthians chapter one. First Corinthians chapter one. I want to bring in a message. Let me just say if I want to bring you a message tonight. If you will get a hold of the Bible principle, Behind what God has here, I will make you again. It will revolutionize your life. It will change your life. Would you like to see listen, would you like to do something for God? Life is short. It's short. You've only got so much time to be used by God on this earth. And the devil will do everything he can to convince you God can't use you. He'll do it to all of us. I'll guarantee you if you get this, it'll change your life. It really will. First Corinthians chapter 1, look at verse 25. They're one of my favorite chapters. I mean, literally, of the entire Bible. It's a great encouragement. By the way, let me just say this. I got the CDs back there. Don't forget, amen. Last night I preached on encouragement. You want to be an encouragement to me? Buy some C Ds, amen? Now under that the reason I say that is because all the money goes to going into helping brand new churches. I've got a new meeting coming up, uh I think it's in August. Down in North Carolina. And so uh I just finished one with a brand new church last week, and uh we're flat broke on that, so any money that comes in goes to that that meeting with that brand new church starting down in in North Carolina. I think it's important. Listen, it's important that that uh we get new churches started in these towns. We are desperate to see new churches trying to reach people before the Lord comes back. Amen. First Corinthians chapter one, look at verse 25. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men And the weakness of God is stronger than men. For you see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. Boy, I'm my glad God ever said that. Amen. But God hath what? Chosen. Now get that. Chosen. God chose this. God has chosen the Foolish things of the world to confound the wise, and God hath noticed chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty And base things of the world God has chosen at. And base things of the world and things which are despised hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not to bring to naught things that are. That no flesh should glory in his presence. But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God has made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. That according as it is written, he that glorieth Let him glory in the Lord. Here's what I'll bring you a message tonight on. Here's the title. Someday, someday, no excuses for a wasted life Do you believe that? Think about it. If you're saved, do you really believe that? If you get to the end of your life someday, and life goes by fast, And you look back on your life and you see absolutely nothing spiritually accomplished for God, you have nobody to blame but yourself. Because God will use you. And I hope you'll get a picture of that tonight. Let's pray. Father, bless the time that we have here this evening. Lord, I pray. That this message again, last night we preached on encouragement. But I pray that maybe tonight this message would be even a step further. It would be a great spiritual encouragement And motivation for folks to sit here tonight and maybe be reminded or excited About the fact that God will really use them if they'll just turn their life over to them. Lord, again, as we've prayed every night. We thank you for the souls that have already been saved. I pray that would never get old to us. But Lord, tonight if we have somebody here and they're not saved. Lord, convict them, deal with them as only the Word of God can. And I pray that tonight they trust Christ as their Savior, gain heaven, and avoid going to hell Which in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You know, I think, and I'm talking to myself also here I think all of us, if we're not careful, over the years we uh we developed a false assumption. That God will only use certain types of people. Am I not right? You can amen me there Am I not right? Think about it. We we look at somebody, well, you know, God God will only use somebody that has a dynamic personality. Am I not right? You know, uh that's a code word for big mouth, you know. Uh God only uses uh people that have uh uh talent or uh academic ability or or or or God will only use uh warm, lovable Fuzzy wuzzy type people like me. Amen? You know? And uh but God will only use people like that. I I see the young people down here. I think one of the great lies of the devil with young people is something like this. God can't use you till you get out of school. You've got to wait. I'm gonna tell you something. These are the best years of your life. Do you know why? You have more time right now to be used of God than any other time the rest of your life. It's important. But the devil will fight that. You see, listen, we need to understand something tonight. God has made every single person in here different. But he wants to use all of us. And if we're not careful, here's what we do, all of myself included, we focus on the negatives We focus on what we don't have when in fact there's not a person in here tonight that God won't use That God won't bless. Now, here's what I want to do. Get right into it. Here's what I want to do. If you study this passage out, you'll see five. Don't worry, I don't have a five-point message tonight. It's only three. Amen. Well you keep smiling every time I say that. Amen. But you'll see five qualifications of the type of Christian that God is looking to use. We don't have time. We really don't. We don't have in fact it's almost a five-week sermon. But uh we don't have time to in the time we have tonight, I want to take what I believe are the three most important. Characteristics or qualifications that God looks for and He uses. Now, before you write me off tonight, before you sit there and Make excuses and say, Well, you know, uh, you know, I ended up, Brother Barrett, I know, but you know, you just don't know me. Wait a minute. Look at verse 27. Notice what it says. But God hath chosen. You see, understand something, folks. This is God's list. It's not mine. It's not the world's. Why is that? Verse 29, that no flesh should glory in his presence. Verse 31: He that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. You see, God wants to do things through your life that you normally can't do. That the Lord would look at and say, you know what, I know they can't do that in of themselves. It has to be God. God says this, I choose, I pick, I set the standard. Why is it? So that in the end, after I use you, beyond what you think I can use you. God's the one that gets the glory. Why is that? To show us, to show us that someday for every single person sitting here tonight. There will be absolutely no excuses if you have wasted your life. Well, I hope we won't. What are the three? Let's look at them here. First of all, look at verse 27. But God hath chosen the foolish things. Of the world to confound the wise. What's he saying here? God can take a foolish messer, message, messenger, give him a foolish message What's the foolish message? The message of the cross. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. You see, folks, understand something here To the world, to the unsaved person. Do you know what we are? We're a bunch of fools. To the world, the world looks at us and says, you know what? You're wasting your life. But if you don't use your life for God, you're wasting. You see, that's the contradiction that the world doesn't understand. D. L. Moody, how many ever heard of D. L. Moody? D. L. Moody one day was preaching to a large group of unsafe folks. Way back in the auditorium, there was an old agnostic man sitting back there. He hated everything D. L. Moody was preaching. So he got a piece of paper out. On that piece of paper, he wrote a one-word note. Here's the note. He wrote one word fool. Folded it up, called an usher over, told the usher, he said, I want you to take this note up there right now, while he's preaching, and give him the note. The usher walked down the side of the aisle, walked up on the platform while D. L. Moody was preaching. Handed D. L. Moody the note. Moody thought it was an emergency, so he stopped preaching Opened up the note, read the note, it said, Fool. Moody looked out over the audience and he says, You know, folks, I've just received the strangest note He said, Over the years, I've gotten letters from people that wouldn't sign their name. But this is the first time I've ever gotten a note from somebody that signed their name and forgot to write the note. Now, what was the old agnostic saying? Here's what he's saying. DL Moody, you're a fool. Your message is foolish. You see, so understand something. Listen, how many of you here, how many of you here? Have friends and neighbors and relatives that think you're weird. Come on. Now listen Don't be embarrassed. Don't be ashamed. Do you know why? Because that's the type of person that God's looking to use. We have a big we have a big family reunion. I mean, people come over from Europe for it every year. Last year was at my house. So nothing unusual happened because it's at my house. But when is that one of my sisters' houses? Uh my wife and I will go to the reunion And I don't know how this has happened, but but over the years, uh my some of my nieces and nephews, they bring their friends with them. That's fine. I it doesn't bother me, it you know, but so but uh but but they come and and it that's okay But uh what's interesting is when when Marley and I, when we pull up the driveway to come to one of these reunions Right away, some of my nephews and nieces, they turn to their friends who have stuff that they know I don't approve of. They turn to them, literally, they say, How do you know this stuff? My mother tells me. They turn to him and they say, Hey, you need to put that stuff away right now. And they go, Why? They say, You see that car? Yeah, that's Uncle Bill. And he will embarrass you. He is crazy. Now listen. That's the type of person that listen. We don't purposely go out of our way to offend. Am I not right? But listen, you serve God, you do what's right. And when you do that, listen, people will think you're a fool. But understand something, that is the type of person God uses. Um uh uh Dio Moody. Dio Moody had a nickname. Anybody know the nickname? Crazy Moody. You know why they call him Crazy Moody? Hot summer afternoon in Chicago. He'd walk out of his office. He's an old man. He'd walk out of his office with a baseball bat. Now don't worry. He'd go to a busy Chicago street corner with the baseball, people walking around. You ever play Dizzy Izzy? Put the bat on your head and go around circles? D. L. Moody had a unique sense about he didn't get dizzy. So he put that back on the batteries for it, and he started going around circles. And all the while he's looking. And as he's going around, people people are walking by him. What's up? I don't know. Some crazy old man. He a sunscre I don't know. And he's going around it, man. I mean In fact, he's got this huge crowd of people, and he's looking. And when he's got this big circle of people, he'd stop and he'd preach to them. You say God can't use somebody like that. I know he can't, but he did. Billy Sunday Was what the world would call a foolish person. Think about this, folks. Billy Sunday only went to sixth grade. The only thing that Billy Sunday knew how to do was play baseball. For a while he held the record run around bases. That was his claim to fame. Billy Sunday, we'll talk about this later. Billy Sunday didn't even know how to make up sermons. For years he preached off another man's notes. At Billy Sunday's Ordination Council. Normally, when you go to an ordination council, first few questions are softballs. Make you feel good. The first three questions That they asked Billy Sunday, he didn't know the answers. They didn't know what to do with them. Finally, one old preacher turned to all the other preachers. He said, Guys, he may not know the answers, but he's already doing more than all of us combined. He said, Let's just ordain them. That's how he got ordained. You say, Brother Barrens, God can't use, I know he can't, but he did. God used Billy Sunday to win well over one million souls to the Lord. Billy Sunday would go into cities by the time he was done. Every single saloon and bar in the neighborhood would be closed down. He was a foolish, but God used him anyway First of all, foolish things. Stay with me. We're taking you somewhere tonight. Secondly, look at verse 28. And base things of the world. What's that mean? That's the idea of no famous answer, just plain old, common, ordinary folks. Nothing going for him. That's the idea. In Judges chapter 6 and verse 11, God comes to a man by the name of Gideon What was Gideon's occupation? He was a what? Wheat thresher. One How much in the way of academics does it take to be a weak thresher? Nothing. Amen. Hey, get a picture. Here he is. He's threshing wheat. All of a sudden, don't tell me God doesn't have a sense of humor. All of a sudden, he hears this voice: Thou mighty man of valor. And Gideon's looking for that mighty man of hour. Huh? Then God says this to the wheat thresher: Gideon, I got a job for you. I'm going to use you to deliver Israel from the Midianites, the greatest army in the world. What was Gideon's response? Can I suggest this? His response, I dare say, is probably the response that some of you use on a daily basis to God. You say, what was it? God, you got the wrong guy. Lord, you can't use me. Now watch, here's his excuse. He says this, Lord, in case you forgot I'm from the tribe of Manasseh. Now, if you're not familiar with the tribes, when somebody said this, I'm from the tribe of Manasseh, what they were saying is this. I am from the poorest of the twelve tribes. I am the lowest of the low. And then Gideon says this: and if that's not enough, my family is the poorest. In the tribe of Manasseh. And Lord, if that's not enough, he says, I'm the least of my father's house. You can't get any lower than that. What does he say? God's response is this: surely I will be with thee. And what does God do? God gives him, think about this, God gives him a nothing of an army. How many men? Come on, do you know your Bible? Come on. How many men? 300, wait a minute, 300 based on what? How they drink water. How would you like to take that plan back to your generals? Gideon! 300 met yeah. Well how did you select them? They drank water the right way. Are you nuts? Huh? But do you know what God did? God took that we thrusher who just turned his life over to God and he used him to deliver the nation of Israel from the mightiest army in the world. Now let me ask you a question. Think about this. If God can use a Billy Sunday, if God can use a D O Moody, if God can use a nobody like it, don't you listen, don't you just think, don't you just think that just maybe God can use you? Here's our problem. So many times we have a tendency of looking at people I don't mean this in the wrong way, but we have a tendency of looking at people, and all we see is the facade. You understand what I'm saying here? If you get this, I'm telling you something, if you get this, it'll change you. We look at the front. Am I not right? Let me give you an example here. Your preacher gets up. I'm an evangelist. God I mean I give God, but God, God's, you know, He's blessed me. I'm book way. I mean God. So your preacher gets up and he says something like this. It's good to have Dr. Barron's here. Come on, amen I right? Hey, doesn't that sound impressive? Oh. There's Dr. Barron. Now wait a minute. Do you know what that is? That's the facade. That's the front. That's what you see. Amen. But see, here's the problem. We don't see behind the front We don't see the nothing that God took and used. And so we automatically think, well, you know, God can use somebody like him, but he no, no, no, no, listen, we're all the same. I've already mentioned this a little bit this week. I was raised Catholic. I went to Catholic schools most of my life. Never held a Bible in my hand till the night I got saved. When I I listen, I'm not I'm not real despite what you might I'm not real smart. I'm not. When I graduated from high school, I graduated next to last. That's cutting her pretty close, amen. When I passed from third grade to fourth grade, I was so excited I cut myself while I was shaving. When I was in sixth grade, kids would bring me apples. They thought I was the teacher. I'm lucky. You sit down and talk to my mother for about five minutes, you say, ha ha. I thought he was just making it, oh no Take a guess, preacher. Take a guess how long I lasted in fourth grade. I wish one recess First day of school, first recess, I got kicked out of school. Fourth grade. You say what? Fighting. My academic record was about that thick. That thick. My disciplinary record. I lost I lost count how many times I kicked up flighting. When I get out of high school, think about it, listen, I got out of high school, I had nowhere else to go but the Marine Corps. And I wasn't even smart enough to join the Air Force. I joined the branch where everybody was going to get killed. That's not real smart. When I came back home, listen, I'm trying to help listen, when I came back home from Vietnam. I already met but I went on the drill. I was a drill instructor down at Paris Island. And uh I I had a lieutenant down. We got to be good friends. He was he was a lieutenant. I was a I was a staff sergeant But uh he he liked me, I liked him. His name was Lieutenant Kalum. He had uh he graduated from Arizona State University, had a degree in forestry. And uh I'm walking across the pray deck one day and uh I I I I met him coming across the prey deck and he stopped me. He says, uh he said, Sergeant Barrett, he said, uh he said, are you getting out of the Marine Corps? I said, yes, sir He said, what are you gonna do? I don't know. And uh he said this, he said, have you ever thought about going to college? Said, yes, sir. I said, but Lieutenant, I said, if you saw my disciplinary record And you saw my grades, you'd understand that my chances of ever getting into any college in the world are slim and none, and slim's walk out the door. I said, there's not a college in the that would take somebody like me. And he just looked at me and he said, Well, Sergeant, he said, uh If you had a college you'd really like to go to, he said, what college would you want to now? Forget about Harvard and Yale, amen. He said, what college would you like to go to And uh there was a college not far from my hometown in Pennsylvania, Shippensburg University. Anybody ever heard of it? Shippensburg, yeah, several of you have. Shippensburg University. I said, you know, I said, it would be my dream. To go there. I said, but they'll never take me. He said, okay. I had no idea he did this. He left me immediately. He went into the company office, got on the phone, and cracked down the president of Shippensburg University. Remember when I preached on encouragement last night? This is an end result of something like that, too. This is what you remember the ripples? They're still going just because of a phone call. He got on the phone, he says, you know, he says, uh, he says, you don't know me, I don't know you. He says, but I got a young drill instructor here From Carlisle, Pennsylvania. He said, He said, the thing you don't want to do is look at his disciplinary record and his grades. He said, but he's grown up and he's matured And he said, uh I can get, he said, I can get a bunch of officers. And he did this to write letters of recommendation. He said, would you be willing to take this young man on probation? I had no idea who was doing this. Two weeks later I get a letter from the president of Shippensburg University accepting me On probation for one semester. He had a sense of humor. I still got the letter. He's got a sense of humor. At the bottom he write, I'm quoting here. At the bottom he writes this PS If you sneeze wrong, you're gone. I still got the letter. Now, listen, here's what I'm saying. That is the start of what I am tonight. Not much of a story. Come on, am I not right? What am I saying? Listen, here's what I'm saying: God can take an absolute nobody and use him. You know, I I I you you you know he used to say I I'm not a pe you know I go around I smile we were talking about this today. Some people you gotta make yourself do stuff. I'm really not a people person I'm kind of a, you know, I I like to I like to be a loaner I'm a loner. Basically, that's my personality. I'm a loner. And uh I I go to preachers fellows. You know where I'm happy at Preacher's Fellowship? In the corner. Dr. Bigshot walks in. Everybody, oh Dr. Bigshot, oh Dr. Bigshot, sign my Bible. Nobody ever asked me to sign their Bible I've got such an inferiority complex about that, I sign all the motel room Bibles. Gideon Bibles. Go Baron, you know Here's what happened. I'm a young man. I just started out in college, struggling in college. I get saved. I'm sitting right about in here in church. And one night there was a message preached on this passage. And I'm sitting there and I'm thinking, that's me. I am a nobody. I have absolutely, I thought about my grades, my problems in school, my struggles, my personality. That's me. That night during the invitation. I walked out of my pew. I came right about to here in that church. Kneeled down, simple prayer. Here's what I prayed, Lord, you know I have nothing. But I'm going to give you that nothing. And you know what's amazing? For the last 40 years, God has taken the nothing and he's used it. And he'll do it in your life too. If you're willing to turn it over to him. I'm talking young people, I'm talking men, I'm talking ladies here He'll use it. He really will. First of all, foolish things. Secondly, base things. Here's the last one, and this is the most important one. 1 Corinthians 1 28, and things which are not. What's that? That's the idea of nobody's. That's the idea that people that go through life and they are absolute unknowings. In other words, here's the idea. People that live in, around, near Oakland, Maryland. This is not exactly a metropolitan area. Am I not right? The deer outnumber you. Huh? Come on. And so here's what happened. You know, here I am, man. I'm in Oakland. Nobody will ever say, come, see, hear you. No. That's the type of person God's looking for to use. You say, what are you talking about? I I think someday, I think someday when we get to heaven, we're gonna be shocked at who the real heroes are. You say what do you mean by that? Personal opinion. And they may not like it, but I don't I really don't care. I don't think it's going to be the big shots, the big names. I don't. I think it's going to be the pipsqueaks. People in areas like this, out-of-the-way places, that just said, God, I may not have much. But take the not much and use it. Take the nothing and use it. You'd be shocked at what God could do with your nothing. Years ago, years ago An unknown Sunday school teacher got his heart challenged to win people to the Lord. He had two problems though. Number one, he was scared to death. Anybody have that problem? Come on. Number two, he didn't think he knew enough. Anybody have that problem? What about the rest of you Maybe I need to preach tomorrow night on pride. Come on. Don't we all fight that? Come on. We all do. I fight it to this day. But he was scared to death. He didn't think he knew enough. But you know what he did? He kicked himself in the pants and he just went He finds himself in the back room of a Boston, Massachusetts shoe store. Back there, a 17-year-old teenager worked. He sat down with him and won him to the Lord Now, can somebody tell me who that boy was? Help me out. Dio Moody. Now There's a lot of Christians that know the story up until there. Am I not right? A lot of people. Now, if you're not familiar with these names, trust me They are well-known names in Bible history and fundamentalism today. Well-known names. Stay with me on this. One D almudi the Lord. God took Del Mudi and used him like he's used few other men. In fact, God used DL Mudi to stir up the entire nation. D. O. Moody went to Indianapolis, Indiana to preach a revival meeting. During the meeting, the singing and the music was so horrible that Dio Moody stopped the meeting. Can you imagine that He got up, he said, truth ain't got to folks, he said, I'm sorry. He said, but this music stinks. He said, the song meeting is horrible. It's hurting the meeting. He said, Is there anybody out there that can sing and lead you? Way back, some guy went like this. He said, Can you do it? He says, get up here. The guy came up, did an unbelievable job. I mean, he did a great job. After the service, the guy's walking off and said in Moody said, Hey, get back here. He said, uh Where do you work? The guy said, I'm a government officer. He worked for the government. Moody said, Well, you're going to have to give that job up because I've been looking for you for the last eight years. And so began the famous ministry. Of D. L. Moody and the great, great Ira Shanky. Moody and Shanky take a trip over to England. While they're over in England, they hear about some gypsies living in Epping Forest. You know the uh The gypsies, even today, are hated and despised. Same as they were back then. Nobody had anything to do with them. But they heard about some gypsies living in Epping Forest and They decided to go preach to them because Moody couldn't they wouldn't nobody'd have Moody preach over there. I'll tell you why in a minute So they went to uh Epping Force, they preached to the gypsies. Uh uh Sankey sings, Moody preaches, and they get done. There's a bunch of little gypsy boys, they're running around, and for some reason, Sankey grabs a little gypsy boy, just gets him by the head, and he just says, May the dear Lord save you and call you to preach someday. And then they left. Years later, a young man comes up to Irisankee. He's an old man now. And says, Mr. Sankey, he said, Do you remember a day when you and D. O. Moody were in Epping Forest and you took a little gypsy boy by the head and you prayed that he'd get saved and called to preach? Saki said this. He said, son, he says, there's a lot of things that I've forgotten. He said, but you know what? For some reason, I remember that. That young Gypsy man looked at him and said, I'm that young man. His name? Gypsy Smith. Never went to a day of school in his life. And yet he influenced millions of people. Are you still with me? Come on. Stay with me. D. L. Moody now goes back over to England to preach for the first time. Keep in mind, Moody was considered crazy. They called him crazy moody. In fact, if you read, I mean, he murdered the King's English. I mean he couldn't even run correct sentences together. While he was in England, he preached in the pulpit of the great Very distinguished, very, very proper F. B. Meyer. How many ever heard of him? Anybody here? I mean we got books we all got books in our life. I got books. In fact, I got one of his books with me On soul winning that I'm reading right now. F. B. Meyer. F. B. Meyer was the first preacher in England that took a chance on having Dion Moody preach for him When D. O. Moody got done preaching, F. B. Meyer got up, went to his study, opened up his diary or his journal, and he wrote these words down about D. O. Moody. I'm quoting here. Here's what he said. I sat on a platform that day and I put my face in my hands and said, Dear God, if you ever let this uncouth American shut up, I will never let him in my pulpit again. From F. B. Meyer. The next day, Monday, F. B. Meyer is having tea with his ladies. He asks one of the ladies how she's doing. The lady says this. Oh, Brother Meyer, he says, after I heard D. L. Moody preach, God so kindled a fire in my heart that I went out this morning and I won every lost girl in my Sunday school class to the Lord Jesus Christ. F. B. Meyer sat there, he heard that, he put his cup of tea down, got up, walked back to his study, opened up his journal, and he wrote this down. He said, This morning. I learned to talk the language of my people. I learned the art of winning men and women to Christ, and I owe it all to Dio Moody. F. B. Meyer went on to write over 70 books, dozens of millions of copies of both in print. F. B. Meyer, are you still with me? Take my word. These are great preachers. F. B. Meyer now comes to America. While he's in America, he preaches at the Philadelphia College of the Bible. That is 15 minutes from my house. Still in existence today, not what it used to be, but still in existence today. He preaches at the Philadelphia College of the Bible And a great number of young preacher boys out there, in addition to a lot of other people. He gets to the end of the message and he gives the invitation. During the invitation, he starts talking to the preacher boys. And he says this, just in general, young man, you're here today, you're discouraged, you're ready to quit. Come down right now and get it right. Give God another chance to do it through you. Out in the audience that day. Was a young, discouraged preacher boy that was ready to quit after, I mean, right after that service, he was going to pack up and go home. His name, Wilbur Chapman. How many ever heard of Wilbur Chapman? Great, great evangelist. He sat out there that day as a young man, he said, I'll do it. And God went on to use Wilbur Chapman as one of the great evangelists in American history. Does anybody here happen to know who Wilbert Chapman's assistant was? He was a young man, set up the tents, set up the chairs, cleaned up the trash after the meetings. Anybody happen to know who he was? Billy Sunday. Billy Sunday. Wilbert Chapman now decides to return to the pastorate of the same church he pastored in Philadelphia. When he decided to do that, leave evangelism, he turned his entire operation over to Billy Sunday. That's how he got a start. Turns everything over to Billy Sunday. There was a problem. Billy Sunday didn't have any sermons. So he goes to Wilbur Chapman, he says, I don't have any. He says, Chapman says, you can have my sermon. Just preach off my sermons. And that's what he did. For several years he preached off the sermons of Wilbur Chapman, borrowed sermons. In one Illinois, think about this. In one Illinois meeting, Billy Sunday put out of business 1,500 saloons. That oughta be a oh. West Virginia. Y'all familiar with West Virginia Huh? West Virginia. Back in those days, the states would vote to be wet or dry. You know what I'm talking about? Wet, they sold booze. Dry, illegal. West Virginia was going to take a vote on wet or dry. Everybody, I mean everybody said it was a foregone conclusion. West Virginia was going wet. So you knew what the preachers did? They brought in Billy Sunday. They preached him literally, they preached him night and day all over that state. When they took the vote. West Virginia went dry by over 90,000 votes, which was huge back in those days. Billy Sunday. Billy Sunday now goes to Charlotte, North Carolina. Supposed to go there for a one-week open-air meeting. Are you still with me? One week open air meeting. God shook Charlotte. That meeting went on for three and a half weeks. If you go to Winona Lake, Billy Sunday Tabernacle. Billy Sunday may not have been very educated, but I'm going to tell you something. If you go through, if you're able to go through, I've been there a number of times. If you go through the records, he kept unbelievably meticulous records. Unbelievable. In that three and a half weeks in Charlotte, they saw literally hundreds and hundreds of thousands of souls get saved. Out of the Charlotte meetings came another great evangelist that shook America for God, Mordecai Ham. From Mordecai Ham came many other preachers and evangelists. I'll mention one that came out of a Mordecai Ham meeting. Mordecai Ham went back to Charlotte, was holding a meeting. One night a 17-year-old boy walks the aisle and gets saved. I use his name only for the sake of illustration. This young 17-year-old boy that got saved under the ministry of Mordecai Ham has been called the pastor to presidents and kings. Preached to millions and millions of people. His name Billy Graham. A couple nights later, another 17-year-old boy walks the aisle and gets saved. His name, J. R. Faulkner. He's been called, J. R. Faulkner for many years, was called the most famous second man in America. He was the right-hand man to Lee Robertson. One day, are you still with me? Now we're going to get a little bit more familiar right here. One day, my wife is walking down the street. Marley's walking down the street. She runs into a little 80-year-old woman. That little 80-year-old woman wins her to the Lord. Guess where she got saved? Billy Graham. My wife then gets me saved. Now, get this. A lot of us here, we know the Dio Moody's The F. B. Myers, the Aversackeys, the Gypsy Smiths, the Wilbur Chapmans, the Billy Sundays, the Mordecai Hams, the Billy Graham's, the J. R. Faulkners, the Bill Barrenses. An amen there would be helpful. Oh here we go again. But if you miss this, then you've missed the whole message. How many here remember the name Of the scared-to-death, know-nothing Sunday school teacher that got this whole thing started that has literally affected the lives of tens of millions of people Edward Kimball. You see, the point is this. Earl doesn't know Edward Kimball. Most Christians don't know Edward Kimball. But God knows Edward Kimball. Huh? God knows them. And I think, listen to me, I I believe, I think someday, someday We're gonna be all around and yeah, I don't know how it's gonna work. I just I just have this weird imagination. God's gonna say you big shots. Move out of the way. Stand off to the side. Edward, come on up here. Huh? And the Christian world Is going to move aside for a little unknown scared to death Sunday school teacher that didn't know enough But he just gave the nothing to God. Do you believe that God created you? If you believe this, then you've got to understand this, my folks. Listen to me. God doesn't make trash, he makes treasure. Amen. Everything God makes, He wants to use. He wants to use. There is nobody here tonight. Listen, we all have different abilities. Amen. We all have different talent. We all do. Some of us have more, some of us have less less. We all have different uh abilities. Some more, some less. But you know what? Listen. Everybody here tonight has something that God can use. You know what I often wonder? I often wonder. I often wonder. If maybe in this church tonight we might have an Edward Kimball. Now, wait a minute. Maybe not to the extent of this Edward Kimball. Amen? But what I'm saying is this. If when you die, and I'm done here, but listen, if you the day you die, if your influence ends, boom, that's it. You've wasted your life. You have. If the day you die and they lay you out, and people walk by your cask and say, Well, I tell you what, hey, hey, it's the best hunter I've ever known. What's that? I'll tell you what, never met a golfer like him. What's that? Well, I'll tell you what, man, he is the best salesman I've ever seen. If that's all they have to say about you, you've wasted your life. Everybody here, listen to me, everybody here, if you're willing to turn the nothing over to God, you can leave a legacy that lasts years after your lifetime. And if you get to the end of your life and you look back on your life and you see nothing. No soul saved. Nobody influenced. Nothing. It's not his fault. It's not God's fault. It's your fault. Because everybody has something. Everybody, every man, every woman, every young, you have something that God can use. Listen, turn it over to God. Turn it over to God. You'd be shocked, stunned, and amazed at what God could do with what you consider so little. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Every head bowed and every eye closed. Nobody looking around. Quick question. Just a simple general question. I'm not gonna get specific I'm going to say it again, listen. One of the great mistakes we make is we look at the facade, we look at the front of people that maybe God has used a little bit When if you look behind the scenes, 99% of the time, those people had nothing. Absolutely nothing. But you know what they did? They gave the nothing to God I'm not talking just preachers and evangelists I'm talking to people in our churches. Listen, don't you want to leave a legacy? Don't you want to influence and encourage people beyond your lifetime spiritually? You can do it, but you've got to turn the nothing over to God. Can I encourage you to do something tonight? I think a great, great, great thing, maybe one of the best things we could do all week. Just do like a young man did by the name of Bill Barns. Come down the aisle, kneel down, and just a simple prayer. God, you already know this. I don't have anything I don't have any academic ability, and I don't. I don't have any talent. I don't have much of a personality. I'm scared to death to speak. I was. Well, I don't have anything. Lord, I'm going to give you the nothing. Would you use it? I'm wondering tonight how many might say, preacher, you know what? You're right. I want to leave a legacy beyond my lifetime. I may not have much, but what I have I want God to use. Would you pray for me that God would use the nothing? Would you slip up your hands tonight? Just slip it up. Hold up high. Thank you. Again, just tons of thank you. I appreciate tons of hands. Good number of young people too. Appreciate that, kids. Many, many young people, a lot of adults too, many, many adults. Anyone else, real quickly? Hey, I'm gonna say to you, listen, we we can sit back, we can sit back, well, you know, I'm not that that's fine. You can do you got a free will, you can do whatever you want But you're the one that wastes your life. You're the one that's going to waste your talents. You get to the end of your life, and life goes by so fast. And and you look back and you see nothing, it is your fault. I'm not being mean, I'm just being honest with you. I may be telling you something that nobody else wants to tell you. You're wasting your life. Anybody else, preacher? I want to leave a legacy beyond my lifetime. I want to be able to influence people right positive spiritually. I may not have much, but I realize even more so tonight that God specializes in using the nothing. Would you pray for me that I'd be able to turn that over to God? Anybody else real quickly? Thank you. Another hand here. Another hand here. Thank you. Anybody else? Two more hands. Anybody else? Anybody else? Let me ask another question God can't use you until you're saved. You know that? You are completely unusable until you get saved. Are you saved? Are you a vessel that God can use? I'm wondering if we have anybody here tonight that would say, preacher, you know what, I'm not sure I'm saved. I don't know that I'm going to heaven, but I do know this. I don't want to go to hell. And I do worry about that. I'm not going to embarrass you. I'm not going to call you out. I'm not going to come back and yank you out of your pew. But you just say, preacher, I I I'm not sure I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. And I do worry about that. Would you pray for me also tonight? Would you just quietly shift your hand up just high enough so I can see it? And just put it right back down, and I'll pray for you. Thank you. Anybody else? Preacher, pray for me. One hand. Anybody else? Just slip it up, put it back down, and I'll pray for you. Anybody else? Anybody else? Father, thank you for the time that we've had here tonight. Lord, help us to understand that you specialize in nothing. That's your specialty. So often when we have the talent, when we have the personality, when we when we have the academic ability, we tend to lift ourselves up. We glory in ourselves instead of glorying in God. And all too often, God specializes. And using people in little unknown out-of-the-way places that know that they have nothing going for them, but when God uses them, God gets the glory. I pray that would be the case tonight. For it's in Jesus' name we pray, with heads bowed eyes closed, let's stand to our feet