Amen. Second Kings chapter six, very quickly, page four twenty-eight in your old Schofield Bible, and uh I'm aware of what time it is, and Whatever that means, it's I'm aware of it, but no. I'm as hungry as you are. I like spaghetti, so. 2 Kings chapter 6. I want to read more verses than I'm going to preach from, so don't panic. Beginning in verse number 24. A psychiatrist told his secretary, his receptionist, he said, just just tell everyone, we're very busy. Don't keep quit keep saying it's a madhouse in here. Psychiatrist said that to his secretary. Second Kings 6 verse 24, and it came to pass after this. That Ben Hadad, king of Syria, gathered all his host and went up and besieged Samaria. And there was a great famine in Samaria, and behold, they besieged it until an ass's head was sold for fourscore pieces of silver. That's the head of a donkey. And the fourth part of a cap of doves dung for five pieces of silver. I mean, they're in bad shape. And the king of Israel was passing upon the wall, and there cried a woman unto him, saying, Help, my lord, O king. And uh and he said, If the Lord do not help thee, whence shall I help thee? I want to preach Just on that first verse I read, verse 24, some people never learn. Let's pray. Father, please bless now our study word. Lord, help me to get to the point here And I pray that the truths of this passage would uh take root in our hearts and bear fruit in our lives. And so we're looking to you, Lord, and asking for your help. Please fill me with your Spirit Father, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Now if you remember, we just finished up the previous section here where Elisha is being pursued by the king by King Ben Hadad. He has the entire army out because Elisha, through God, was telling King of Israel where Ben Hadad's army was at, and they couldn't win any battle. So they came after Elisha. They circle the city of Dotham. They get up in the morning, yikes, here's all these Um chariots and horses and aren't men and army and weapons and the whole little town surrounded And so Elisha goes out to him. Remember he saw he saw the big host, the invisible host there, and he goes out to him, and um and he prays, and God strikes the entire army with Blindness. How many people remember the story so far? Alright. And uh he leads them to Samaria. And the king says, What do I do? Shall I smite him? Shall I smite him? I don't know what to do. He says, No, you don't kill him Said there are captives. Give them some food and send them home. He was nice to them. So Ben Hadad takes his army and goes home. Now we get to verse 24. Look what it says. And it came to pass after this. That Ben Hadad, King of Syria, gathered all his hosts and went up and besieged Samaria. So we don't know Ben Hadad gets back home And it looks to me like he turns around and comes right back again. Now, as I was studying this, a number of commentators suggested that a long time had passed. Between verse 23 and verse 24. That when they they could get their sight back, they all went home, their tummies were full, and uh they were humiliated, went home, they were defeated in an unusual way, miraculous way. Commentators say many, many years went by, they forgot all about the kindness, and now they're stirred up and they come back. The fact is, reading this, it looks to me like very little time passed at all. I see no reason to suggest that there's many, many years between verse 23 and verse 24. Looks to me like Ben Hadad is treated very mercifully. They could have slaughtered him. Instead they fed him, gave him vic uh meat and drink and took care of him, sent him home safely, and um He gets home, turns right around, and comes right back. Now two thoughts real quick. One Kindness does not always produce kindness Follow what I'm saying? Kindness does not always produce kindness. In other words, if I am kind to someone. It doesn't necessarily mean that they're going to be kind back to me. Kindness doesn't necessarily produce kindness. Now, it's very clear in Scripture, if you read your Bible at all, God is kind to mankind. Right? God is very kind. You read through Psalms all through Scripture, it talks about God's kindness to humanity. And by the way, Jesus said in the book of Luke, he said that God is kind, is gracious to the just and the unjust. Even the wicked people, God's kind to them. But that doesn't necessarily mean they return the kindness to God. God will put air in a man's lungs. God will put food in his gullet. God will give him a job. God will provide for him, put him in a free country. God will do all these things for him, be kind to him, and that man will turn around and take God's name in vain. That guy will turn around and blaspheme. God will give him maybe a family that loves him. God will give them God will be kind. Kindness doesn't necessarily produce kindness. Now God is kind to mankind, but man isn't necessarily kind back to God. I always have a problem when somebody says, I hate God. I always have a problem with that. I think that person has serious problems. They don't comprehend how kind God is. How good God is. So God's kind to us. Kindness does not necessarily reproduce kindness. Not only is God kind to us, but throughout Scripture, God has commanded us to be kind to people. Whether some people kindness comes naturally. Right? They're just, it seems like they're naturally kind. Yeah, I I'm thinking of several people. I can't imagine them being unkind. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I think of me. No I think my wife. Seriously. Some people kindness comes naturally. It is naturally kind. Other people, you really gotta work at it. You know, that's where I fall in. I say, Lord, why'd you call me to be preached? It looks like somebody ought to be nice as a preacher. But um Some people kindness comes naturally, others it doesn't come naturally. But whether it comes naturally or not, whether it's easy to be kind or difficult, God has commanded us to be kind. And so we've got to work at it. I don't buy this business. Well, that's just not the way I am. Well, no kidding, Knucklehead. That's why God put the Holy Spirit inside us. So we can change. So we not be the way we are. Anyway, I gotta keep moving. Uh we're to be kind. We're to be kind to our family and to our friends. We're to be kind to our enemies and our antagonists. Turn with me if you would to Luke chapter 6 real quickly, and if you knew how far I was in my notes, you would be s on the verge of speaking in tongues right now. Luke chapter six verse thirty-five. While you're turning there, I'm going to quote a f Familiar verse. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 32, the Bible says, Be and be ye kind one to another Tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. I looked up that word kind. I like to look up words and see what the meanings are and get all the shades of meaning That word kind has all these definitions behind it, these aspects to it. It means to be good. If I'm kind to someone, I'm good to them. To be pleasant You know? Um some people have a naturally pleasant expression. You know, they don't have to try. Others, we really gotta work at it. Uh people walk up to me sometimes. What are you so mad about? I'm not mad, I'm happy. And um so whether we don't it's to be pleasant to people, we have to work at it. It has the idea of being very mild Not all hyper, but to be kind, you're mild, to be helpful. It's translated sometimes easy. Somebody that's easy to get along with. A kind person is easy to get along with. Beneficial. Somebody that, if I'm kind, I'm a benefit to the person. So he says, be ye kind. Now look at Luke 6 and verse number 35. Let me get there. Luke 6, verse 35. Look what Jesus said. But love your enemies. Do good and lend, hoping for nothing again. And your reward shall be great, and ye shall be the children of the highest, for he, the highest, God, is kind unto the unthankful and to the evil. So, what's our st what's my first statement? Kindness does not always produce kindness. God's kind to man. Man isn't kind back to God. God's commanded us to be kind. They're not necessarily going to be kind back to us, but God, Jesus, tells us in Luke chapter 6 that if we're kind to people, God will reward us. Whether that person is kind back or not is irrelevant because God is the one that's going to be reward my kindness. And so, um, don't think That your kindness to somebody is necessarily going to result in kindness back from them. Now I will say this. Usually if you're kind to someone, usually they'll be kind back, right? I'm going to give you an assignment this week, an experiment. Go and smile at people this week and see what people do. Now I don't have a natural smile on my face, so when I smile, people notice. What? That's weird. Something's weird about him. He's smiling. Um But smile at people and you know what you're gonna find out most of the time You know what people are going to do? They're going to smile back. But you know, sometimes you smile. People are going to become distrustful of you. What's he up to? What do you want? So kindness doesn't necessarily reproduce kindness. I'd like for you, if you would, real quickly, and I'm telling you, we're making good time. Proverbs. Turn with me to Proverbs. You got your Bibles with you? Good. Turn with me to Proverbs. We're using them tonight. Proverbs chapter 25. It's always good when the preacher uses the Bible. Amen? Proverbs 25 and verse number 21. Had somebody visit a number of years ago visit a church. They said, boy, this is unusual. You preach from the Bible. I said, yes Nice thing to do. Proverbs twenty five, verse twenty-one. Look at this. If by what Enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat. And if he be thirsty, give him water to drink. Now what does that make you think of? That makes me think of Elisha. With the army that was about trying to kill the whole city to get him, striking them with blindness, leading them 20 miles over to Samaria. There they're surrounded by the Israeli army The king is saying, Shall I smite him? Shall I smite him? He goes, No! These are our enemies, tell you what. Let's give them bread to eat, and let's give them water to drink. And so they fed the enemy. They gave them drinks, sent them merrily on their way. And Ben Hade got back and said, you know, Israel was so nice to us, let's go be nice to them. It's not how it happened. Look at the next verse in Proverbs 25. That enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat. If he be thirsty, give him water to drink, for Thou shalt heap what? Coals of fire upon his head, and the Lord shall reward thee. In other words, he said, if you're kind to your enemy, if you're kind to people, they're not necessarily going to be kind back to you, but God will bless you for it. God will take care of you. Now I don't know about you, but I would get angry if someone put coals of fire on my head. Can anybody give me a witness? Anybody? And so he's saying, listen, not everybody's going to respond to your kindness with kindness. Some people, when you're kind to them, it's going to make them really mad. Ah maybe this is where we got the phrase hothead. I don't know. But they're they're they're not gonna like it And they're not going to respond in kind with kindness. They're going to respond with anger and uh hatred. So Elisha was kind, but they didn't get kindness back. Ben Hadad got back, and I think those coals started burning his head. And he turned around and comes back in a rage. And this time, I'm getting a little ahead of myself, but that's fine because we're almost at the end. This time I just say that, it's meaningless, but you think we're almost at the end. You think, wow, this is great. This time he doesn't come sneaking back with his little strategy. Remember how he did the first time? Well we'll go over there. He likes, guess what? They're over there. That didn't work. Try it again. This time, look what it says in verse let's come back here to Second Kings. Look what it says. He's coming back, I mean Guns blazing. Second Kings, come back there, Second Kings 6. Look what it says. And it came to pass after this that Ben Had king of Syria, Ben Hadad King of Syria, gathered all his hosts And went up and besieged Samaria. I mean it there's the dust is up in the air. They are charging full blast. No sneaky No little guerrilla warfare. They are going to overwhelm these people. He is furious at Israel's kindness to them. Now, why would a person do that? Why would a person, someone spares their life, takes care of them, treats them very, very kindly when they didn't have to, and respond with anger and hatred and vengeance and bitterness I believe that God had been working in Ben-Hadon's life. His chief, his captain of his host got saved. He's not worshiping his God anymore. And then he goes and attacks Israel and he's foiled on every hand. I believe God's working in Ben-Hadad's heart. And rather than submitting to God, Rather than acknowledging God for who and what he is and forsaking his false gods, he begins to harden his heart. And he's stiffening his neck. And he gets harder and harder and harder. And the kinder that God is to him, the more angry he gets. A hard heart and a stiff neck does not respond to kindness gently. Gets angry. And so, number one, kindness does not always produce kindness. Number two, and last of all, some people never learn. Some people just never ever learn. Second Kings Chapter 6, verse 18 to 23, the blindness, marching over to Samaria, all that. That was a how many people would agree with me? That's a pretty impressive event. How many people would say that? That's pretty incredible All of a sudden they get their sight back and they realize where they are and all this. And uh a very impressive event. I read a quote, I don't know who it was from, Matthew Henry or somebody, but they made this statement. Impressive events Do not always impress. In other words, sometimes God does amazing things for a person or maybe in their life. But they just don't see it. It has no has no effect on them. They fail to see what God is doing. God was working in Ben-Heda's life. Remember, how many people recognize the name Felix from the New Testament? Remember Felix? Paul's witnessing to him. And he says, you know these things. You know that Jesus died on the cross. You know that Christ rose again. You know all the miracles Christ did. And Felix says, I will hear thee again at a more convenient season. Felix saw all that Christ had done. He knew these were impressive things that happened when Jesus was on earth, but it didn't make much of an impression on Felix. He just pushed it off. Just pushed it off. I tell you what's sad is so often people, God is working in people's lives. Individuals. And God will do something. Maybe there'll be a car wreck, and their life is miraculously spared. You know what? Has no impact on them They get out of the car and go right back to the bar. Huh? Sometimes there'll be a person that's Cancer or some sickness, and God in his kindness and mercy will spare their life. And they turn right around and go right back. I don't know how many people have been through this church. Come here, there's some sickness, some serious thing, they'll come, make a profession of faith, sometimes they'll get baptized. And they'll go, and then finally the doctor says, Oh, everything's clear, you're fine, you're well, and we never see them again. And they fail to see what God is trying to do in their life. Ben Hadad was that way. Ben Hadad, God, had done amazing things. All of his secret attacks were foiled. Now he's coming with an attack of full force. He gathers all his hosts And he failed to see that God was fighting what he was trying to do. All Ben Hadad could see was Elisha spilling his secrets. All Ben Had and Ben Hadad could see was the king of Israel didn't kill his men. He failed to see that God was working in his life. God was trying to get his attention. God was trying to show him something. And he never learned. He never learned. The ultimate end of a person that will not see what God is doing is destruction. They'll destroy themselves. God intervening, God intervening, God intervening, God's obviously doing things. You get that person alone by themselves and they'll say something, boy, you know, I think God's trying to tell me something But then they go back out and do the exact same thing. Ben Hadad never learned. He never learned. He failed to see what God was doing. You know that happens sometimes in church. Preacher preaches a message. There is no way in the world he can possibly know what's going on in a person's inner life, private life. But the preacher preaches a message, and lo and behold, the Spirit of God deals with that person's secret sin. Now I've seen this. Rather than saying God's working on my life, I better pay attention to what God's doing. You know what they do? They get mad at the preacher. Who does he think he is? Well, is he that preacher he's and then they start finding fault. When in reality the preacher had no idea. Just God was dealing with hearts. Huh? And never learn. Never learn Ben Hadan went through it. Proverbs 11 26, 11 says this, as a dog returneth to his vomit. So a fool returns to his folly. You know what he's saying? Never learns. Never learns I've told this story, I think I just did recently. I haven't said it a number of times over the years, but a fellow was asked to visit a family member years ago that had had a heart attack and they'd been witnessing this fellow For a number of years he was elderly, he had a heart attack. He was in the hospital down in Kaiser. I went by visit him in the ICU unit. Just had a heart attack ten hours before I showed up Shared the gospel with them, urged them to trust Christ. You know what he said? I'm not ready yet. Man alive. Some people never learn What does God have to do? What does God have to do in your life before you finally acknowledge, hey, God's trying to tell me something? But the fool just turns around, goes right back to their sin. Then Hadad never learned, and the last and the sad thing in here, some people never learn, Jehoram, the king of Israel, never learned. He saw God do some miraculous things, yet he would not trust the Lord. He would not just commit himself to him. Here is a man who is the king of God's people. God did some amazing things for him, and yet he would not learn to trust God and just live for the Lord. What in the world does God have to do? Kindness doesn't necessarily mean that people are going to be kind back to you, but we ought to be kind anyway, because God's going to reward us for it. And some people just never learn. Let me put it this way. I hope this isn't true for you, but some of us never learn. Huh? We go right back to the same thing. We got burned. God chastened us. God took us to the woodshed. How many people know what I'm talking about? Mercy. My dad used to let me have it. My mom was worse than my dad. None of them come even close to God chastening you. Am I right or wrong? Phew. You know what we do? We turn right around, go right back, and do the same stupid thing again. Why don't we learn? Why don't we learn? People say history repeats itself. You know why? Because man never learns. He never learns learns. People say, bless God, if I go back and do it again, I'd do it all the same. You're an idiot. You didn't learn a thing. How many folks hear there's a whole lot of stuff you'd do different and then you do it over again. I'd do it all the same. Yeah, you'd be in the same mess you're in now too. Some people never let's learn. Here's what I want to leave you with. Let's open our eyes and see what God is doing in our life. Let's open our ears and hear what God's trying to tell us. Let's learn. And let while we're doing that, let's be as nice, let's be the nicest people in Garrett County. Let's just be kind. Let's go out and be kind to everybody. Just everybody. Be nice to them Cuss them out, give them a track, they cuss you out, say, Well, God bless you. Walk on. Father in heaven, please bless our invitation. Help us, Lord, to be kind. Help us, Lord, to learn. Our heads bowed and eyes closed. How many folks say, Preacher, I gotta work at being kind. It don't come natural for me. You say, Preacher, pray with me that God will help me be kind. Just be kind, pleasant. Is there any like that? I I've got my hand raised. I need God to help me. Let's ask God to help us tonight to be kind. Whether anybody's kind back or not. And when they're not kind, we'll just go ahead and keep being kind to them. How many folks here say