You'll have to ask um, some of the ladies, particularly Robin and some of the ladies that were at the Lincoln Memorial, about the door that's in the back of Abraham Lincoln's leg that goes to a secret chamber All right, Ecclesiastes chapter seven. I want to read down through verse number ten. We've been looking at this. I think I'm on now, Brother Jamie. Verse 1, I'm going to read down through verse number 10. We've been looking at this passage. It's kind of captivated my attention. And um, oh, by the way, I meant to mention it. Today is Brian Schofield's birthday. How about that? If you looked on the back of the bulletin, you'd have noticed there, but uh how about that? Um he's not 69 anymore. Sixty eight. Sixty-eight. Going backwards. Happy birthday to you Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, God bless you. Happy birthday to you Amen. Well it's not too often you have a seventieth birthday, so we ought to recognize that. It's good to have uh Betty and Trish back. And uh at least Betty. Don't see Trish. But she's somewhere. Ecclesiastes chapter seven, verse one. A good name is better than precious ointment, and the day of death than the day of one's birth. It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting, for that is the end of all men, and the living will lay it to heart. Sorrow is better than laughter, for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better. The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth. It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise than for a man to hear the song of fools. For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool. This also is what? Vanity. There's a key word in this book. Surely oppression maketh a wise man mad, and a gift destroyeth the heart. Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof, and the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit. Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry, for anger resteth in the bosom of fools. Say not thou what is the cause that the former days were better than these For thou dost not inquire wisely concerning this. Key word in this passage, it's used repeatedly as what? We pointed it out before. Better, better, better, better. And so we're looking at this list of things that are better. Let's pray, and we'll look at a couple others that Solomon mentions here. Father, we ask you to bless. our time in your word now. God, you've preserved this for us. You've given it by inspiration. You've preserved it. And we know that these words we just read are given to us by you. For our correction, for our instruction. And so I pray that you would use these words for that which they are intended To make us better Christians, to make us stronger in our faith, that our lives would be more in line with what you've created us for, you've saved us to be. Lord, I can't do any of that. You have to do use your word that way. So I want to get myself out of the way, Lord, so I present my body to you. You take me. Take this body, and I pray you your spirit would fill me and speak through me the truths that are in this passage. God, if there's something I wrote down to mention that ought not to be said, I pray you'd help me skip over it Or if there's something I didn't jot down that ought to be said, I pray you'd bring it to my mind. And that you would speak through me, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. One of the key words through the entire book. Now in this passage here, a key word is better, better, better. This is better than that. This is better than that. But a key phrase through the book, the entire book of Ecclesiastes is under the sun. And I think we need to just stop here maybe. We've been looking at this here for the last couple weeks. I think we need to stop here and just back up again. and just get a re realign our perspective on where Solomon is coming from. And he begins the entire book by saying that under the sun Living a life that uh living a life for only that which exists under the sun, excluding God from life, just pushing him out of the picture and living just for uh what is under the sun. We would call that materialism, living for only that which exists under the sun. And he comes to the conclusion that all of that is vanity In fact, and of course the word vanity means empty, meaningless, it provides nothing, it profits me in no way. But he then goes beyond that, and he says, not only is it vanity, but it is also what? Vexation of spirit. And here's the point, I believe, that he's trying to make through this book: is if all you and I are doing is living for the here and now, what we can see, feel, hear, and touch, if all we're living for is what we can see and what this world offers, Our life is going to be empty and we are going to be frustrated. We're going to be angry. We're going to be aggravated. We're going to be on edge all the time. And do we not see that in the world? You live in an angry world, people blow up, blow up at the slightest little provocation and Something isn't exactly, boy, they're just frustrated and their vet their spirit is vexed all the time. So Solomon is saying that's where life is. And he had gotten to the point where that's the way he was living Through the influence of associates, wives in particular, he had gotten drawn away from God. He had drawn away from the Lord, and he got living just for the here and now and the things of the world. And if you remember early on in the book, he had mentioned that he had sought great wealth And he was looking to money and wealth and finances to bring purpose and meaning to his life, to bring fulfillment to his life. And he said that was empty. It was vain. It didn't produce that. And he looked to great works, remember? He built great buildings and all this, and he thought if I can produce things, if I can be productive. Then that will bring purpose and meaning to his life. And he said that was vain and vexation of spirit. It didn't accomplish it. And he said he sought great wickedness. And he pursued the most vile, wicked, base desires of his flesh and fulfilled all of it. He was in a position where he was able to do that. And the conclusion of that was it's all vain and it's frustrating. It's vexation of spirit. And what he is saying is this: there is a hole in the soul that only God can fulfill. There is a need in our hearts and souls. We are created with a vacuum that needs God, that needs the Lord. And when we try to live our life under the sun, without God, nothing in this world is going to fill that vacuum. Nothing is going to fit in that hole. It's designed, we're designed to for God to be the center of our life. Now he gets to this portion, this halfway point, and he's giving these proverbs, so to speak, and he goes through. And I think as I got studying this again this past week, I got thinking I think what he's doing, he's giving his his conclusion. Did you notice that list of things that are better? The things that the world would say is better, he gives the exact opposite Did you catch that? Let's look at these. And a couple of these we already looked at already. We noticed that, let me get here. He says that a good reputation is better than sweet aroma. We got that from verse number one. A good name is better than precious ointment. The world, much of the world at least, would say, hey, you know, if I got this valuable uh uh ointment, this great expensive perfume, and I can look good and I can come across as good. That's more important than whether I have any integrity or character The world's idea, much of the world, I should say, I don't want to lump them all in, not everybody might see it this way, but much of the world, particularly in the entertainment industry, would say that image is everything. How I look, anything that makes me popular, anything that gets attention. And Solomon says the exact opposite of that is true. Having integrity, a good name is better. So we put it this way, a good reputation is better than sweet aroma And then we noted in the second part of verse 1, the day of one's death is better than the day of one's birth. Now, when he uses that term better, just a reminder, he is not suggesting that It is more fun or more enjoyable or it's more pleasurable. That by using the term better, he means it is more beneficial to me. It will help me more. Um he's saying, and we already preached this, he's saying that going to a funeral or going to a a funeral and he touches on this later will benefit me and my understanding of life and and uh me as a person more than going to a birthday party. Birthday party you might get good cake. You might sing a song, happy birthday. You might party a little bit, but you leave there basically the same as what you keep. But if you have any insight at all and you go to a funeral or day of death, you go there, you walk away, and you learn some things. There's a little more depth to light. And then he pointed out, and this kind of tied along with it, going to a funeral, verse number two, is better than going to a feast. And we've spent some time on that, is that you learn more about life, and it's kind of a carryover from the previous section. Now we get to verse 3 and 4. And he says this: sorrow is better than laughter. Sorrow is better than laughter, for by the sadness of the countenance, the heart is made better. I believe he's continuing the thought from verse number two, where he talked about the funeral rather than a feast. Sorrow is better than laughter. Um, what does sorrow do for us? Sorrow penetrates the heart I like that statement. I think that's a good statement. Sorrow penetrates the heart. When my heart is broken, when I am sad, I learn things about life. I learn things about myself. I learned things about God. Now he's not saying it's more pleasurable or it's more desirable. Sorrow is better than satire. I'll explain what I mean by satire here in a minute. But what he is saying is it it benefits me more. It helps me be a better person. What do I learn when I go when sorrow comes to my heart and life? Well, one of the things I learned is I learn about myself. I learn things about God. I learn things about the world. If you would, keep your place here. Come with me to Job chapter number 42. Job, just go back towards the beginning of your Bible a little bit, Job 42. This is the end. How many folks are familiar with Job's story? Of course we are. Tragedy. Loses all his children. In one day, they're all taken, died, killed He loses all his possessions. I mean, in a day. Then his wife turns on him Basically he says why don't you just kill yourself? Curse God and die. So he loses his children, his heart is absolutely shattered, he loses all his possessions. He is absolutely overwhelmed with sorrow and and grief. His wife turns on him. Then his body fails. He gets intensely sick. Of course, Satan is doing all this under the allowance of God. Then the only thing he's got left is a couple friends, and what do they do? They turn on him And they keep telling it's all your fault. You're obviously you're hiding sin. Obviously. I mean everything, everything is taken from Job. You talk about sorrow And then God steps in. And look with me, if you would, at verse number two. This is what all the sorrow Job went through, this is what it did for him. Then Job answered the Lord and said, I know. That thou canst do everything, and that no thought can be withholden from thee. Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? Therefore I have uttered that I understood not. Things too wonderful for me, which I knew not. What's he saying? He said, I said some dumb things. I came to some conclusions and I made some statements I didn't know what I was talking about Verse 4, here I beseech thee, and I will speak, I will demand of thee and declare thou unto me. Now look what Job says. I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear. This was before sorrow showed up. He knew he heard about God, he knew about God, he loved God, he was He was faithful to the Lord. He was a good man. But now, I circled that phrase. But now, what happened? Intense sorrow showed up. Broken heart, grief. Nothing pleasurable, nothing we would desire, but now mine eye see it thee What's he saying? I have a clear perspective of who God is. I understand a little bit better God's power and his wisdom and his love and his compassion. I have a clear understanding of who and what God is. And by implication, he says, I have a clearer understanding of myself. Look at verse 6. Wherefore I abhor myself and repent in dust and ashes. Now, we're not told what his attitude about himself was previously, but the implication here is he thought pretty highly of himself earlier. And through this sorrow and through this grief and through this tragedy, he says, I understand God a whole lot better. I understand his power, his wisdom, his love, and compassion. I see that, you know, I'm not as great as I thought I was. And I understand clear. I understand clear. Did Job, would Job have desired that experience? No. Was it pleasurable? No. But was it good for him? Yes. And so going through that, he was able, he is a blessing and a help to us. Turn with me, if you would, to Psalms 119. Psalms 119. Now again, I want to remind you: nowhere is Solomon suggesting that we should be obsessed with sorrow and with death and these tragedies. He's not saying we should have some morbid fascination with it or morbid enjoyment of it. He's simply making a statement, hey, these things These experiences in life, these events that take place, that the world would consider there's no benefit in them, we need to be avoided at all costs, that there's nothing good can come out of that Actually, God uses those things to make us better, to help us. Psalms 119, and look with me if you would at verse 71. Psalm 119, 71. And I tell you, this verse reminded me of Paul Signs. He used to quote this verse a lot to me. Look what it says. It is good for me that I have been afflicted. Why? That I might what? Learn my statutes. David, under the inspiration of God, says, this affliction has been what? Good for me. It's been beneficial to me. Because through this sorrow, through this difficulty, through this heartache, I've understood God's word a whole lot better. I understand what God is trying to tell me. I understand what God is trying to do in my life. I understand what the purpose of my life is and the meaning of my life is. I have a clearer understanding because of this affliction, because of this sorrow So Solomon, come back to Ecclesiastes chapter 7. He's saying, listen, I'm not saying this is more enjoyable or more pleasurable or more desirable, but I am saying this: we benefit from it more. Sorrow rather than satire. Um no and the way I uh the word the word I get from satire is sorrow is better than laughter. The word satire there has the idea of the word laughter there has the idea of laughter that is the result of making fun of something. Making fun out of some events of life. The lot of shows on TV, and I don't watch any of them, a lot of shows on TV are called satire. Just a lot of the sitcoms. You know that? You know what they basically consist of? Making fun of stuff And he says the satire, laughter, and hoopla and carrying on and satire, you're going to get a whole lot more benefit out of sorrow. Because look what he says there in verse 3. Sorrow is better than laughter, for by the sadness of the countenance, what? The heart is what? Are you with me? I know this seems a little repetitious, but the Bible is being repetitious here. He's coming down through here and reiterating these things. The heart is made better. What does he mean by that phrase, the heart is made better? Our inner man is made more complete. There is more depth to my heart and soul. I have clearer insight into things. You meet somebody and all it is is laughter and chatter and carrying on and just uh just frivolous fun and that's all their life consists of. That person is generally a very shallow person. That's all they have. They're very empty. But you find somebody that's been through a deep valley of heartache, deep valley of sorrow. A lot of times that person has wisdom. Far beyond their years. That person has a greater insight. I mentioned often over the years Mrs. Anna Mae Nixon, dear little black lady down Chattany. You've heard me mention her a number of times I tell you, you talk about someone who's been through sorrow, widowed three times, working in the cotton fields, in that inner poverty. I tell you that she had a clear understanding of who God was and what life is all about than the guys out there rocking and rolling and rapping and break dancing out in the street. It was better for her, better for her. She had a clear understanding of what a blessing she was to me. So the heart is made better. Look at verse 4. The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning. But the heart of fools is in the house of what? Mirth. Just frivolous laughter. Those living only for laughter and feasting and fun and parties. The Bible says are fools. That word fool there means simpleton. They don't understand things of life. They don't even understand what's going on, what it's all about. Fun and laughter has its place. I enjoy fun. I enjoy having laughter. He's not saying it's wrong. He's not saying it doesn't have any place in life. I think God created us with a sense of humor. I think God has a sense of humor. I don't want to be irreverent to the Lord, but I think God has a sense of humor. I tell you, this is just my thinking. But I look at a skunk and I think God has a sense of humor. Who would have ever come up with something like that? I I I don't know. I again I don't want to be irreverent that I can kind of see God saying I'm gonna make a skunk. That'll be fun. You ever see the little picture of a little girl whose whole little baby skunks all around and says, Look, Ma, kittens So he's not suggesting that it's wrong to have laugh or it's wrong to have uh have some fun. He's not suggesting it's wrong to have a party, a birthday party, says that's all fine and good But listen, there's things in life that are far more important than that, far better than that. That are going to benefit us so much more than that. Fun and laughter has its place, but it is not what is going to make me a better person. It's the difficulties, the heartaches, the sorrows that bring depth to us. When I traveled on neighborhood Bible time, we made animal balloons. Brother Mark does that. Pastor Brett makes animal balloons. We used to do that when I was a little younger to blow those things up. And they're tough to blow up if you ever tried one. But I found I learned early on that if you take that balloon and stretch it before you blow into it, you stretch it, stretch it, stretch it, stretch it One, it's a lot easier to blow air into it, and number two, that thing will actually fill out better and hold more air and uh and uh function much better. And I think that's very true in life. I think that's what he's referencing here. When our heart is stretched, when our heart is broken and sorrow comes, and we're stretched. I think what God is doing, He's improving us and enables us to be a little bit more compassionate. You know the people I found are the most compassionate? Folks that have been hurt the most sometimes. I found the people that are most patient with others sometimes are those that have gone through the most heartache and difficulties themselves. And I've found folks that had everything done for them and everything protected from all heartache and everything was handed to them on a silver platter. They never had to have a difficulty. They never Got a paddle, they never went had to do anything, everything was done for them. Those people tend to be very what? Selfish and impatient with others and unkind and incompassionate Do you find those that have been hurt deeply? Find those that have wept deeply. A lot of times they're the most compassionate, most tender. I found that over the years that people who would never give one minute's attention to the Bible, generally in their life, But a family member dies. And then they're willing to have the preacher sit down, open a Bible, and show them things from the Bible. I found people that had no interest in God, no interest in things, anything above the sun. They were not interested at all. And then they went to the doctor, and the doctor said, you've got cancer. Suddenly their whole perspective changes. Preacher, can you come over and see me? Um Somebody had no interest, it's just party, live it up, fun, fun in games, fun in games, fun in games. And their wife leaves them. And suddenly, preacher, I need God to help me. See what I'm saying? It's those events, those sorrows, the heartaches, the difficulties where we learn. The value of life, priorities in life. So he says that sorrow is better than satire. Notice in verse 5 and 6, he says that the scolding of the wise is better than the songs of fools. Look at verse 5. It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise, that's where I get the scolding of the wise, than for a man to hear the song of fools. For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool. This also is vanity. Songs of Fools, the reference there, Songs of Fools, I believe what he's referencing is people that are just singing meaningless stuff. It could be praising a person, just shallow, empty praise. As opposed to the rebuke of the wise. I like that phrase in verse 6, the crackling of thorns. Anybody here ever have a campfire and you go out and you just got some scrubs and and some thorns or whatever, just some scrub stuff, you throw it in there. What happens when you throw that little scrub thorns and stuff? What happens when you throw that on the fire Boom! And it'll crackle and it'll fire burn up. And then what happens? It's gone. It's very loud, it gets a lot of attention, but it's very short, and it gives it has no value whatsoever. Doesn't burn long enough to heat up the meal. Doesn't burn enough. There's not enough substance to it to provide any heat to keep you warm. It's just an empty show. Lots of attention but little contribution. And all this singing and laughing and carrying on the song of fools, oh they'll get the attention, boy, they'll make the top charts on the the uh what do they call that? Those music things they make. Top things. What? Top ten charts. Does anybody have any idea what I'm talking about? I have no idea what I'm talking about. What? They'll get what? Billboard things. And uh they'll get re they'll get gold records and oh they stole and all that and you listen to it and it's nonsense Oh, we were getting gas. Yesterday I was there pumping the gas. I had to do everything on this trip. But um I'm pumping the gas and we're sitting at the gas station and of course you know they have speakers right over toppy of them. This music's coming down. I'm sitting there pumping and they're all completely ignoring all the work I'm doing. And um I get listening to the words of this song. You know what the song was about? What was it about, James? Dust comes through the ceiling, comes through the floors, comes in the windows, comes in the doors. That was the words to the song over and over and over. I memorized it. Then it goes sweep, sweep, sweep, sweep, sweet, sweet, sweet dust. I thought, what in the world? So the whole way home I'm sitting up there they're all asleep. Come through the windows, come through the doors, come through the wood Apparently that guy is very successful because they're playing it over the radio. So good grief. And Solomon's saying, it's better to have a wise man rebuke you than have some fools singing this meaningless stuff to you. It's like crackling of thorns, makes a lot of noise, gets a lot of attention, but has absolutely no value. What happens when a wise man rebukes you? What's he doing? If a wise man is rebuking you, he's what? He's correcting something wrong, maybe, in your life. He's investing so that I can be a better person. When I read that and I got studying this passage, I couldn't help but think of Dr. Charles B. Holmsher, founder and director of Bible Time These young preacher boys show up. We used to go out in Boulder, Colorado, Boulder, Colorado was where the training was. We'd all show up. We're these young preacher boys. We knew everything. We were the greatest preachers that ever listed existed. America is going to be, I mean, we're just going to be it. We're the D. L. Moody's. We're the Charles Spurgeons. We got out there Brother Charles Holmster was a pretty wise man. He set us down, and man, he just started correcting and correcting and correcting and rebuking. And he did it some it was you know we had 45-50 preacher boys and and he didn't do it subtly and he didn't do it privately. Brother men, that's terrible. What? I thought it was great. Sit down. You know, at the time it's humiliating. I thought, oh, who does he think he is? But I've been out and got out a little bit and I looked back and I said that was some of the best stuff that ever happened to me. I was a knucklehead, I was stupid. I needed somebody to say, you're a knucklehead, you're stupid. And Solomon is saying, listen, this empty, meaningless stuff that the world's living for is not going to benefit us, but somebody that is wise and somebody that loves us, they rebuke us. It's going to be good for us. Song of the Fools says, oh, you're awesome. You're amazing. You're great. The rebuke of the wise says, listen, you've got a lot of work needs to be done. You've got a lot of changes need to take place. I believe the soul of America is dying. The soul of our country is dying. And this is what I think the reason is. There was a day when nearly everybody heard the rebuke of the wise from pulpits that thundered the Word of God. Charles Finney and these great men in the early days of our country, they would preach hell fire and brimstone. They preached the judgment of God on sin. When um uh Jonathan Edwards preached his message, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God, he preached as if a sinner was hanging by a thread over hell. And the historians tell us when he was preaching, people under such conviction of sin were crying out for mercy in their pews. And that was characteristic of many, if not most, of the pulpits of our land. And there was no television, there was no radio. And the only the my major influence on America was the pulpits preaching the Word of God. But then radio showed up. Song of Fools. Then TV showed up. And the influence of the wise preaching the Word of God, rebuking the sinners in America, was replaced by the songs of fools. Coming over the radio, rock and roll, and all that nonsense. And then television showed up. Now you got satire. People by the millions every night watching nonsense. And the numbers of people coming to church here in the preaching of the word of God goes down as the influence of the songs of fools goes up. Now we got computer, now we got it on our phones walking around, and just feeding on the songs of fools, tackling of thorns. That benefits absolutely nothing, and we feed on it, we feed on it, and we feed on it. We wonder why our souls are empty. Solomon says, listen, that the song, the scolding of the wise is much better than the songs of fools. I came across the Titanic. We're all familiar with the Titanic. What an incredible, tragic, fascinating, tragic event that was. And I never heard this before, and I just cross this this past week. When the Titanic was going down, of course they didn't have enough lifeboats. Most of us understand that there was not enough lifeboats. They failed on so many levels on that thing. And there was a lady, we don't have her name, she was very wealthy, she was actually in the lifeboat before they let it down, she had gotten into the lifeboat. And she said to the fellow, whoever was in charge of the lifeboat, she says, she thought of it, there's something in my cabin I need. Now this is death Has struck the Titanic. People are dying. This is unbelievable tragedy She's in the boat. She goes, I have to go back to my cabin. There's something I need there. And the fellow in charge says, ma'am, I will give you three minutes. If you are not back here in three minutes, we are going down. We're going to go lower down in the water. You will not get on. She takes off They said, the story goes that by the time she got out, the deck was already slanting dangerously. She rushed through one of the rooms that she went through was the gambling room They said the money that had been on the tables and in the on the shelves and stuff had crashed down, and according to this, she was running through ankle-deep money. She didn't stop to pick up one dollar bill. She got to her room. She was very wealthy. What had fallen off her dresser and stuff was the very, very expensive jewelry and necklaces and and rings and brooches and just incredible wealthy jewelry. She didn't pick any of that up. She reached into the cabinet above her bed. She grabbed three oranges she had kept from that morning. She ran back to the lifeboat and jumped in the lifeboat. She had three oranges to eat Follow what you understand what took place? Her values had completely changed. She's going to be in a life for a long time. She was going to need some food. And that tragedy, that sorrow taught her that there are things more important in life than money and jewelry and stuff. It completely changed her values. And when you and I go through heartaches and you and I go through trials and somebody comes and says, hey, this is not right in your life. This needs to be changed. The world says, you don't judge me. The world says, hey, I want to have a good time. All I want to do is party. All I want to do is have some fun. God says, that is so foolish, that is so foolish, there's so much more delay. I hope this is coming across the way the Bible intends for it to be. We're not obsessed with sorrow. We're not morbidly enjoy it, but we understand there is great value when those days come, when that heartache shows up. I can learn so much from that. My life can become so much fuller if I learn from that. We've said this over and over. How many people have gotten saved at a graveside? How many people have gotten things right with God? When some tragedy comes. So let's pray. Father in heaven, I hope this truth here in this passage will grip our hearts. Pray you'd help us to see that the things that we think are so terrible and need to be avoided so much are the things you use in our lives to develop us and help us grow and be wiser and have greater insight in life and be of more value in life. So help us not to allow the frivolous things to crowd out the important things. Help us not to allow the shallow things of life blind us to the beneficial things in life. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed. I wonder if maybe there's someone tonight, and I don't know. But there is a heartache, there is a difficulty, you're going through some sort of value valley And you'd say, preacher, I want to see this from God's perspective. I want to see this what God is trying to do. I want God to accomplish whatever it is he's trying to do in my life through this difficulty. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that I'll be submissive. Pray for me that I'll be wise. That I'll be open to what God is doing. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, there is a valley that here, and I need God to help me. and rearrange my priorities, maybe rearrange my perspective and be a person that's a little not so shallow maybe as I was before. I went through an intensely difficult time a number of years ago. My prayer was this, God help me to see this from your perspective. Help me to see what you are doing in my life. God help me. Father, bless our invitation, I ask, in this serious subject. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.