And uh the Sermon on the Mount, we're working our way through here. I was tempted to say this is one of the most thorough studies on the Sermon of Mount I've ever come across that we've been doing. If not that, it's at least the longest uh series on the Sermon of Mount I've ever come across. But I trust it's a blessing and uh trust it's helpful. I've certainly enjoyed studying and preparing and and preaching and teaching from this passage Of course, it's the greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached, the Lord Jesus Christ. It is addressed, I always want to emphasize this, it is addressed not to unsaved people. He's preaching to disciples, people who have trusted Christ as Savior, and then going on beyond that and have committed themselves to live for the Lord. They've taken up their cross. They've denied themselves, they're following him, they're loving him supremely. And he's basically discipling disciples. He's saying this, and I keep repeating this, but it's important to understand. He's saying, if you claim to be my disciple, then these things will be true in your life. And he gives the Beatitudes and the series of things, uh salt, you saw the earth, the light of the world, and these types of things. Righteousness that's from within, not just superficial. And now we come to verse number 21 in Matthew chapter 7. The sermon is winding down. There's just a few more statements he's going to make, but they are significant. Look at verse number 21 of Matthew chapter 7. The Lord Jesus Christ says this: Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. And he expands on that. He makes that statement. We see this all through the sermon. He'll make a statement. He'll make a very clear statement. Then he'll come back and he'll expound on it or he'll illustrate a little bit. Then he restates it again. Now sometimes he varies on how he restates it. But we see that here. Verse 21, not everyone says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven Now he expounds on that. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works. Now he's expounding on what he said in verse number one. Many will say, Lord, Lord. He says, this is what I mean by that. Then he comes back verse 23 and he kind of ties it all together. Then will I profess unto them, look at his statement, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. I've entitled just I just titled this section, I Never Knew You. Let's pray. Father, I ask now, you blessed, we look at this portion of Scripture. Lord, this is uh this is a very sobering passage, and um I believe it needs our careful attention. And I believe, Lord, it needs real consideration on our part to understand exactly what you're saying here and what it means to us personally and what it means to the religious world. Particularly. And so please fill me with your spirit. I pray I present my body anew this hour. I yield my will to you, Lord, with all my heart. I ask you to speak through me. And open our understanding on this passage and help us to grasp the significance of this statement and that it would affect our life, how we live. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. There are some passages in Scripture that are profoundly sad, that are profoundly tragic. statements the Lord makes that are absolutely tragic in the truth that the Lord is giving. I I want to look at a couple of these and If you have your Bible there, I hope you'll turn with these to me, with the two these with me. Luke chapter 16. If you come over here, Luke chapter 16, and we'll kind of go down through a series of these. These are profoundly sad statements that most of them the Lord Jesus Christ made. You know, the liberal world wants to present Jesus as just a happy-go-lucky, love, love, love, peace, groovy, uh like a hippie kind of guy And the Lord absolutely does love. God is love. Jesus loved his uh loves us dearly. But he made some very Very strong statements. Look in Luke chapter 15, or 16, and verse number 22. I think most of us are familiar with this. This is a rich man, and there's a man named Lazarus. And Lazarus was a poor beggar, but he was saved. He had a relation with the Lord. He was a saved man. The rich man was a lost man. And notice the statement in verse 22, in Luke chapter 16, verse 22, he says this. And it came to pass that the beggar died. And was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. Today he's in heaven. But look at this next statement. The rich man also died and was buried. Now he just stopped there and say this. Both rich and poor die, don't they? No man can escape death. Then he goes on, he makes this statement, verse 23, and this is where the The tragedy is in this whole truth the Lord's giving here. And in hell, he lifts up his eyes, being in torments. Then the Lord goes down, and it's almost, this passage here is almost like the Lord is opening up a window, so to speak. And we can look down into hell, and we just get a foggy glimpse of what it is like for a person to be in hell. In hell he lift up his eyes. And that is not the purpose of the message tonight, but it's a tremendously significant passage here. Where we can see, through the words of our Lord, what it is like for a person in hell, a person that goes to hell. This is what they experience. This is what it's like. Um, if you would come over to Luke chapter 18, just a page or so over Here he's speaking to a rich young man. In verse 22 he says, now when Jesus Heard these things, he said unto them, Yet lackest thou one thing. Sell all that thou hast, and distribute to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven, and come follow me Now it's important to state, and again, this is not the message, so I just want to do this one aside, but it's important to state this, selling our stuff and giving money to the poor doesn't save our soul. Right? That's not what the Lord is saying here. You can't buy heaven. But look what happens here, verse 23. And when he heard this, he was very sorrowful, for he was very rich. In that stand, it's a rich young ewer talking to the Lord Jesus Christ. He has eternal life right there at the tips of his fingers. And he walks away. He'd rather have his riches than have eternal life. And that's Sam. Come with me, Wood, over to John chapter 17. John chapter 17 is what we refer to as the Lord's Prayer. A lot of denominational churches will have the Lord's Prayer, Our Fathers Art in Heaven. This is really the Lord's Prayer. This is where he's praying for us. And Jesus, this is a neat passage. It's kind of like you and I are sitting in, I picture it this way. I'm sitting in a little prayer room. Jesus is there. And Jesus is praying to his father, and we're listening in. What would Jesus say to God in prayer? What would God the Son say to God the Father in prayer? This is what he's saying. We're listening in on the Son of God speaking to God the Father. And if you come down to verse number 25, he makes a sad statement. O righteous father, look at this, the world hath not known thee. The whole world hath not known thee. I wrote in the margin of my Bible years ago, decades ago, and I keep copying over into new Bibles I get, and I put some of the saddest words The world hath not known thee. I thought about, when I was studying this, I thought about several years ago, Jerry and Pat Browning and Dave And I flew over to Kazakhstan. We flew into Ahmadi to do a little survey and see Brother Juwa was over there. And I think Brother Phelps went with us And we were flying in. I was just, you know, it's a it's a it's a sobering thing when you go in the mission field like that and you just you're thinking about everything and we're flying in and we can see the city of Almadi as we come down. As I was studying this, I thought, the world hath not known thee. I thought that whole big city, those lights, they don't even know God. They don't know God. Isn't that a sad statement? The world has not known God. I want to go to one more passage, and then we'll come back to the Sermon on the Mount here. Last book of the Bible, Revelation. Chapter number 20. We're thinking of tragically sad statements in Scripture, teaching Scripture, just sobering statements. That ought to cause us to stop and think and give careful attention to. Revelation chapter number 20, third last chapter of the last book. And I'm going to begin reading in verse number 11. And this is a little extended passage. Revelation 20, verse 11. I saw a great white throne. And him that sat on it, whose face the earth and the heaven fled away. And there was found no place for them. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God. And the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them, and they were judged, every man according to their works. And death and hell were cast to the lake of fire. This is the second death. Now look at verse 15. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. Isn't that how many of you agree with me? These are sobering statements. Sobering statements. I believe as we come back to Matthew chapter 7, I think when the Lord is talking here He says, then why profess to them, verse 23, I never knew thee. I think that is a reference to what I just read in Revelation chapter 20, the great white throne. It's where the lost have their sentence declared. If I believe this passage here, Matthew chapter 7, 21 to 23, I believe of all those that I read, this statement here has to be one of the most tragic truths in all of Scripture. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, we've done many wonderful works. And the Lord says Depart from me, lake of fire. I never knew you. Um, I got thinking about this. If this if I was didn't know anything about this, and I just heard some preacher. Make these statements and address hell and try and describe hell. In my natural reasoning, I think I know me well enough. If I didn't know anything else, I didn't know the Bible, I didn't know Jesus or anything. I just heard a man making these states, and in my natural reasoning, I would reject it. I would say I don't believe that. That can't be. It can't be that somebody dies in their sins and spends eternity in hell. My natural reasoning says that can't be. If I just heard a man say that I would refuse to believe it. My natural reasoning would not accept that. However, it's not just some man telling us this. These are the words of the Lord Jesus Christ telling us of these realities. This is the clear teaching of the infallible, inspired Word of God. And so we can't reject it. As horrific as it may be in our minds, and as how how uh awful it strikes us, we have to say it's true These statements are fact. They come from the lips of Jesus. They come from the very words of God. So we must accept The fact of being rejected by God and being lost for all eternity, we must accept that as truth We must receive it as fact, as it's given to us by the Bible. And we have to, I have to, uh, I have to we have to give it serious consideration. That there are people, many in the Lord's words, who believe that God will accept them, that they are going to heaven, and they are deceived And they end up in hell. Just like the rich man, just like the great as described in the great white throne. These are these comes from this comes from the Lord Jesus Christ. This comes from the infallible, inerrant Word of God. We have to accept it. We have to consider it. Now, the fact that these are facts, that these are true, I think that's a strong motivation for you and I to be soul winners If there is a hell, and if there's no salvation outside of the Lord Jesus Christ, a genuine relationship with Jesus Christ, then that ought to be a strong motivation for us to do everything we possibly can. To bring people to Jesus Christ, right or wrong. What greater motivation could there be? Love for the Lord. I heard a preacher years ago, and this just comes to my mind just so often. He said, if there is a hell, if that's true, what the Bible teaches is true, and it is, then what else really matters in life other than bringing people to the Lord Jesus Christ? If that's the case. If a house is on fire and we know there's people trapped inside, what else really matters than getting those people outside of the house? Right or wrong. You follow what I'm saying? Does it matter if our peas are going to burn on the stove? Good grief. There's people in the house. And so I come back to this and I read this and I'm studying this, and this is a this is a horrendous statement, and it's true. Now, as we look at this in context, this theme of deception is continuing along. The Lord is still addressing this idea of being deceived. Remember the previous verses? In verses 15 through 20, he was talking about the wolves in what? Sheep's clothing. Very deceptive. These are not, as we pointed out, these are not preachers or leaders or teachers that are mistaken on something or just you know inadvertently say or teach something that's not true. It's not that at all. They are deliberately They are deliberately deceiving the sheep. They are deliberately presenting themselves to be something they are not. It's not a mistake, it's not an accident, it's not a slip-up. It is a deliberate deception And it is an effort to indulge themselves at the expense of the sheep, at the expense of the church And we look very carefully that uh we look very thoroughly, I think, at the very real the reality that there are people out there who will indulge themselves at the expense of the church And deliberately deceive and deliberately present themselves to be something they are not, so that they can indulge themselves either financially or with uh attention or praise of man At the expense of the church. So now he's carrying this over, and this is not a deception by others. This is the worst form of deception here in this passage, self-deception. I think that's the greatest deception there is, the most tragic deception there is. And what the Lord here is doing, he's addressing people who have established a false basis for their salvation. In their own minds, in their own reasoning, in their own imagination, they have established a basis for salvation and have put their trust, their confidence in that false basis of salvation. And then they stand before God. And the whole passage here implies that they anticipate a coming judgment. They don't deny that. They're not trying to escape that. The whole thing is here. Hey, Lord, Lord. But they've established a false basis for their salvation. They've established a false premise on God's accepting them into eternal life, into heaven. And so he's saying here, and I'll just summarize, and then we'll look at a little more detail, he's saying it is very possible for a person to be very religious. But yet be as lost as the most wicked sinner there is. That's what he's saying I thought a word here, and we'll probably look at this a little more detail maybe in another week or two. But notice in verse 22. What's the first word of verse 22? Many will say unto me, I don't know about you, that bothers me. That's the that's the that's the um what's the opposite of exception? Uh that's not the exception to the case. This is the the rule. This is the Yeah, this is the way it is for the most people. Those that do not fall into this trap are the exception. And I threw, I circled that word many and I drew a line down to verse number 13 And I circled in the middle of verse 13, it says, many there be which go in thereat. I circled that. The ones that go into the straight gate are the exception. There's just a few. But the majority, the standard, the rule is for the most part, many are going through the broad gate that leads to destruction. And here you have many people who are self-deceived, very religious. But they're lost. And it's not the exception. Now I took these three verses and I broke them down into three thoughts. I'm going to give it to you. We're going to look at the first one tonight. We're not going to get to all of these. Notice in verse number one, I put it this here, I put number one, I notice there these people's words to Christ, their words to Christ. Many will say, not everyone that saith unto me. These are their words they're giving to God. A lot of people are going to say this. They say this to God. These are their words to Christ. Then in verse number 22, I notice their works for Christ. They make this statement, Lord, Lord, he says, not everyone that saith to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven. These are my words, Lord, Lord. Then, verse 22, they're presenting their works. We've done all these wonderful things. We've prophesied and cast out devils and raised the dead. And then verse number 23, I see the woe from Christ. And by woe I mean the the the terrible statement, the horrible statement. Depart from me. I never knew you. I never knew you. So I want us first of all to look at these words to Christ, what they're saying to Christ, and what I think it implies. Their words to Christ. Now notice here, let's look at this. Verse number 21, not everyone that saith to me. That word saith, I got looking at that. It's interesting. I think it helps us grasp what's going on here. They are speaking out, they're speaking forth, but it also has this idea. One of the definitions had this statement in it. To affirm a truth or a teaching. They're saying to me, Lord, Lord. And the idea is kind of like this. They are, by saying Lord, Lord, they are referring to who Jesus is. And all that's true about him. Let me try and explain what I'm trying to say here. Let me ask you this question. Is it wrong to refer to Jesus as Lord? No, absolutely not. They're not being rejected by God for referring to Jesus as Lord. That is a true statement. Jesus is Lord. He's King of kings and Lord of Lords. He's ruler over all. And so when they're saying, Lord, Lord, when they're saying to Jesus, Lord, Lord, what they're saying, what they're aff Affirming what they're declaring Is absolute truth is absolutely correct. Jesus is Lord. Now let's look at a few verses along those lines. Come with me, if you would, to John chapter 20. This is the Lord Jesus has been crucified, he's been buried, and he rose from the dead, and the disciples are just getting word. That Jesus is risen from the dead. And like you and I, some of them struggle with that. How many people, if you were in the disciples' shoes, it would take a little bit maybe to swallow that. Anybody agree with me? That would take a little bit And so they're sorting this out in their minds, and they're trying to figure this out. And the Lord appears to them in John chapter 20, and in verse number 28, Let's start in verse 26. After eight days again the disciples were within, and Thomas was with them. What do we know about Thomas? He is what? Doubting Thomas. He's always questioning stuff. Thomas is there with them. Then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and uh uh Jesus and the doors being shut, and stood in the midst and said, Peace be unto you Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger and behold the hands, and reach hither thy hand and thrust it into my side, and be not faithless, but what Believing. Thomas, you've got to believe this. Remember earlier he says, except I see him and touch him, I won't believe it. Now look at verse 28. And Thomas answered and said unto him, what? My Lord and my God. What's Thomas saying? He's saying, you are the Lord. You are my Lord. You are sovereign. You are who you claim to be. Every statement you've made about yourself, everything the Bible teaches about you is absolutely true. And Thomas is saying to him, Lord, my Lord, my God. Now I think it's interesting here. Jesus saith in verse 29, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed. Blessed are they which have not seen And yet have believed. Now there's just a little aside, I want to throw this here. I would recommend if you're in a discussion with Jehovah's Witnesses Ask them, and I've tried this on occasion over the years, I haven't talked to any in a long time, but ask them if in their teaching and if in their doctrine if it is wrong to refer to Jesus as God. Ask them, is it wrong to refer to Jesus as God? And a Jehovah's Witness answer will be what? Yes, that's wrong. He's not God. They're very adamant about that. But I think it's interesting here, Thomas refers to Jesus, my Lord and my God And if it's wrong for him to refer to Jesus as God, we would assume that Jesus would have what? Would have corrected him. But Jesus doesn't correct them. In fact, he praises them. He says, Blessed are you for seeing me. Blessed are those that don't see me and believe. So I think this is a powerful argument for the Jehovah's Witness to see the fact that Jesus actually is Lord and actually is God. And so when we say, when these people in Matthew chapter 7 are saying, Lord, Lord, They're saying something very true. They're saying something that is factual. They're saying something that is accurate and correct. In fact, Romans 10. 13, verse we use in soul winning so much. That a uh uh whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Of course, it's referring to the Lord Jesus Christ. So coming back to Matthew chapter 7, when they're saying to the Lord, these words they're saying to the Lord, Lord, Lord. What they're saying is correct. What they're saying is true. They were express their expression was correct. Lord! They said the right things about Jesus. They were saying right things about Jesus. They were saying the right things to Jesus. They're saying this to him. Now notice here, let's look at this. Verse back in Matthew 7: Not everyone that saith to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. Now, what does he mean by that? Let me ask you this question. Is it God's will that we recognize Jesus as Lord? Yes, absolutely. So what were they doing that was not God's will? They were saying the right things, and by implication, they were believing the right things about Jesus. But he says, You're not doing my will. They believed the right facts about Christ. Their doctrine was correct. Now let me stop here and inject this. Here's another thought. Nobody is ever saved without correct doctrine. You can't separate that. Just because they had their doctrine right and their facts right, yet were still lost Does not mean the doctrines of Christ, uh biblical doctrines, and the facts about God are not important. We cannot separate that. You follow what I'm saying There are certain fundamental truths that are absolutely necessary for salvation. I heard Curtis Hudson years ago use this illustration, and I've used it a number of times myself, but to me you can picture it perfectly. There are certain elements, parts of a car, that are fundamental for that car to function. Right? Some things, if they're not there, that car is not going to move. You're not going to it's not going to take you from point A to point B. And there are certain fundamental truths that must be in place if we're going to make it from a sinner under the judgment of God on our way to hell to a saint forgiven of God with a home in heaven. And there are certain fundamental facts, truths, must be accepted, must be understood, must be received if I'm going to make it. So when they're saying Lord, Lord, they're they're they got their facts right, they've got their doctrines right, and we cannot be saved without these facts, without these doctrines What are some fundamentals of a car? What are some parts of a car? Well, let me let me throw some suggestions out there. Is a radio a fundamental part of a car? No, you can get from point A to point B without a radio In fact, it'd be a whole lot quieter. And my wife gets frustrated with me. I always drive in silence. I don't hardly ever have the radio on in the car. I just like to drive silently. So you don't need a radio. How about um do you need air conditioning? No, that wouldn't be a fundamental. How many people agree it's nice though to have air conditioning? Sure. Would you uh uh what's something else you might not need? Um how how about leather seats? Yeah, or seat belts. Do you need to have a seat belt get from point A to point B? Not necessarily. Might get some tickets on the way, but um How about a drivetrain? Yeah, there's no drive shaft, you ain't going nowhere, right? Gasoline. Absolutely. What? Brakes. Do you need brakes to get from point A to point B? If you want to stop at point B you do, but So there's some that are important, there's some that are, you know, are pretty handy to have, others are completely meaningless. But there are some fundamental doctrines, there are some truths about Jesus Christ that must be in place or we don't have salvation, you don't have Christianity. There's a lot out there called Christian that ain't Christian. Now, you'll make it slight variations on these, but I'm going to suggest to you a few truths that must be accepted about Jesus Christ, or you don't have Christianity, you don't have salvation. One is this, the inspiration and infallibility of scriptures. Now, can a person get saved and reject the Bible being God's Word? No. They've got to accept that's the word of God. Now, can a person be saved and not fully understand what that means? I think so, yes. But if they understand this is the Word of God given to us by God, and they reject that, how can they be saved? That's the basis, that's the source of our information. Um, I put this one down, the virgin birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. If he's not virgin born, we don't have a Savior We don't have salvation. Can a person be saved and reject the virgin birth of Jesus Christ? No, it's not Christianity Can a person be saved and not fully understand it or be ignorant of it? I think so. I think so. But if they if they're saved, when they learn it, they'll accept it, they'll understand it and grasp it. Am I making sense? Another one here is uh the deity of the Lord Jesus Christ. If a person rejects the deity of Christ, I don't believe he's the Son of God, I don't believe he's God in the flesh, I don't believe that, I reject that then they have no basis for salvation. That's not Christianity. They don't have salvation. They're lost. Substitutionary atonement of Jesus Christ on the cross, him dying for us in our place, paying our pay wages for us. on the cross in our place. They reject that, you don't have salvation. Makes sense, right? Just some fundamentals, some basics. The physical resurrection from Christ of Christ from the grave. And it's bodily return, physical return someday. Person rejects that, you don't have a savior, you don't have salvation. And so, salvation is placing my hope and trust on the biblical Christ, the Christ that actually is, the true Christ. And so they're saying, Lord, Lord. They're saying this. They're verbally acknowledging that Jesus is who he claims to be and what the Bible teaches him to be. But here's what I'm suggesting they're doing. That is all they're doing. They're just verbally acknowledging that. There is a mental ascent to that. I can mentally believe the truths about Jesus Christ, but never genuinely trust Jesus Christ as my Savior. Right? I said this often. There's people, I guarantee you, there's people that have died and gone to hell that believe John 3. 16. That believed Jesus is the Son of God. Jesus is the only Savior. They believed that was true, but they never personally trusted Him as their own personal Savior. Lord, Lord, Lord, Lord. In James chapter 2, verse 19, James makes a statement that goes right along with us. It's very profound. He says, the devils themselves believe. You never find a devil denying the deity of Christ. You never find a devil denying the resurrection of Christ. You never find a devil denying the virgin birth of Christ. They know that's true. But they tremble. Of course they're lost as can be. Christ didn't die for them. And it is true. Historical facts concerning the biblical death and resurrection of Jesus Christ are beyond question. They're documented beyond question. But it is possible to know these facts, to believe these facts, and mental knowledge, yet never know and trust Jesus Christ on a personal basis. And I believe that is what the Lord is referring to. And we'll look later on when he says, but he that doeth the will of my father, we'll look at that later on in another part of this message. So it's possible that and let me throw this one other thought out here real quick. It doesn't say they say to and many will say and uh they will say to me in that day, Lord, he doesn't say it one time, he says it what? Twice Lord, Lord! I got looking at that, I got thinking, you know, that implies to me they're pretty emotional about this. They're pretty stirred up. They're not just saying, yeah, he's Lord. They're saying, Lord, Lord. And they're very enthusiastic. They're very emotional. Their emotions are strong in this matter. And you know it's possible for a lost person to be very emotional about the Lord and yet never know the Lord is Savior. I've seen in churches, in Catholic churches, where people are weeping, they'll see a statue or something, they'll just be weeping. They're very, very emotional. They're very, very sincere. They're very, very zealous. But they're sincerely and zealously wrong. They don't know the Lord on a personal basis. And all it is is words. Lord, Lord, Lord, Lord. And very emotional about it. Very emotional about it. Emotions are good when they're in the right place. But we must never confuse emotions. Emotions can be very deceiving. How many people here ever felt like you went through a situation wherever you felt like, ugh, I don't feel very saved? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Ugh, I feel like ugh. Emotions. If I'm basing my salvation on my emotions, I'm going to be lost one day, saved the next, lost, saved, lost, saved. I'm going to go insane. So emotions are good. I believe we could use a little bit of emotion in our Christianity. Right? I think so. John O. Rice used to preach about revivals years ago. He used to talk about revivals he had back years ago, a hundred years ago, when people at the altar just sobbing over their sins and sobbing over the lost people uh lost loved ones and lost Folks, and it wasn't a show, it wasn't phony. Put on their hearts were broken. I'd say that'd be good for our churches today a little bit But emotions must be in the right order. If I am basing my salvations on my emotions, then I'm basing them on a on a shift shifting sand This is the order. You must begin with the facts of scriptures, then you put your faith in those facts, then emotions follow that. You follow what I'm saying? You cannot get that order out of whack And so these are people that are they have they have their facts right, they have their their uh they have the truth in their mind on their lips, and they're very emotional about it But they never knew the Lord. They had no relationship with him. And they're lost, very lost. The presence of emotions does not necessarily equal the presence of saving faith So emotions can be very deceiving, and emotions can be very phony. Now, please uh uh I I'm not Trying to discourage or quench anything. I tell you, my heart is stirred. When folks Sunday nights and when we have Lord's Supper and their people give testimony and they're weeping, that stirs my heart So I'm not, please don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But I've been in situations where folks would try and work up those emotions. You know what I'm trying to say? And what do you call them? Those big old tears that are just phony as can be. Crocodile tears. And I've been in meetings and places where, you know, God knows, but it sure seemed like they were just working that up Listen, don't do that. Let the Lord stir our hearts. Let the Lord. Let it be genuine in our hearts. And let God stir our emotions based upon our faith in the facts of God's Word. So I look here and I see this verse and it's the words to Jesus Christ, Lord, Lord. Very emotional about it, very zealous. And what they're saying about the Lord is true. They're correct facts. But you get down to verse 23, and the Lord used that very important word, I never knew you. We never had a relationship. It was nothing more than just facts in a head and words on a lip and a tear in an eye. It was nothing, it was all superficial. I've told this many times, not long after we were here, there was a couple visited for a few times as a guest of one of the other members. And um and uh He they came about a month or so. They were new to the area and they came and very much enjoyed it and I visited with them and different things and one day in Sunday school, I don't know what what the lesson was, I have no idea, I don't remember But um afterward, back in the lobby, he came to me, pulled me aside, he said, Pastor Leatherman, and you've heard me tell this many times, he pulled me aside, he said, Pastor Leatherman, I've got it up here, but I don't have it down here. I think that is exactly what the Lord is talking about. Lord, Lord, they had all the facts, what they said about the Lord, they knew what was true about him, but it never got where they personally trusted Christ. Personally put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. The rest of that story is I said, well let's go back. We've got time. It won't take long. Let's go back. Let's get it down here. Let's trust Christ and get this thing settled. And he says, no, no, no, not now. And he never would come back. I visited him. I saw him just a couple months ago at the hospital. He never would get that settled. As far as I know, he's still unsaved. Lord, Lord. Lord, Lord. By the way, I think that's a real danger. Now Don't again don't misunderstand what I'm saying, but that's a real danger of children who grow up in a Christian home and a good, strong Christian church. But they can learn all the facts, they can learn the right answers, they memorize the verses, they got Lord, they got Lord, they got Lord down. But they never come to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so that's very, very important. We need to pray and really work with them, make sure they understand and they genuinely know Christ as Savior. And so I was reading, I'll close with this. Anybody recognize the name Carl Barth? Carl Barth, old uh theologian of about back before World War II. He was over in, I think it was Germany or somewhere over there, he was a theologian He wasn't he wouldn't be what we would call a fundamentalist. He was pretty neo-evangelical. But it's an interesting event. He he's incredibly well known. He's very, very famous and uh very well known. He lived in Switzerland. And he told this story. He said one day he was on a streetcar, and there was a tourist there in Switzerland visiting the city of Basel. And climbed up and sat down next to him. Total strangers. This guy's a tourist from somewhere. He sits down beside him. And they started chatting. And uh he said, are you new to the city? Karl Barr said to this tourist. He said, are you new to the city? He says, yes, I'm a tourist And uh he said, is there anything in the city you'd particularly like to see, maybe I could point out to you, or anything you're interested? And listen to this. He goes, yes. As a matter of fact, he said, I would love to meet the famous theologian Carl Barth. Do you know him? He's saying this to Carl Barr sitting on the in the bus, on the streetcar. Corobarth answered this way, well as a matter of fact, I do know him. He says, I give him a shave every morning. The tourist was delighted and jumped off the streetcar and went down the street and uh went back to his hotel saying to himself, what a blessing. I got to meet Carl Barth Barber today. That's a silly little story. But the tragedy is here you have people who know the facts about Christ. But that never gets beyond never actually knowing him. And here's a fellow that had some facts about Karl Barth, but he came to the wrong conclusion and walked out with the wrong perspective. You see what I'm saying? Trying to say? And it's possible to have all these facts and all these things about Christ and completely miss. Knowing Jesus Christ, my personal Savior. So what a tragic thing. The words. Now, next time we'll look at the works that they present to Christ, hoping that makes them acceptable. And then the woe, I never knew you depart. I think this passage stirs us, one, to salmon our own hearts, two, to be very, very aggressive and be very, very thorough in our soul winning, that we bring others to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. And that we get after that thing. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd take this passage and I pray you'd stir our hearts to be very careful and be sure of our own salvation. Lord, I would never want to put doubts in anyone's mind that's genuinely saved. But Lord, if somebody all they have is facts, I pray they get beyond that and have a living, genuine relationship with the with you as their Savior And I pray you'd help us go out of this place, hearts afire, burden, to bring others to Christ and win others and our Bible time coming up and our personal soul winning and our regular ministries To bring others to know Christ as Savior. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Pastor, I need to be a better soul winner, I need to be a better witness, I need to be more earnest about this, I need to be more diligent. And I need God to stir my heart and break my heart to reach lost. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? That was my prayer as I prepared this message. God help me to be more earnest. And bringing others to not just the facts of Christ, but to know Christ. Father, bless our invitation now, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.