Of the Book of Ephesians, Ecclesiastes They both start with E, so you should have known what I meant. Ecclesiastes chapter 7, midway point. We got startled on this two weeks ago. And um Solomon is, of course, this is a sermon we learned early on in our study of Ecclesiastes, actually the first several verses, Solomon is um Preaching a sermon in Jerusalem in Ecclesiastes, I believe, is a transcript of sorts of that sermon Of course, it's given by God, inspired by God, but that was the circumstances and it's uh being recorded down. And he is in many ways giving an account of his fall uh uh into a backslidden state and in fact a severe backslidden state. Um you study carefully the last years of the paw of the life of Solomon and um He got involved in some stuff that is absolutely horrendous. You would never imagine somebody of his caliber falling that low. And he's given account of that, and I believe in many ways he's giving the the thought processes That took root in his heart and mind that brought him to the point where he was so far from God. And so it is a warning. It is an instruction to us as Christians that we need to take very seriously our relationship with God. We need to take very, very seriously our walk with God. And so he's coming through, and now he's at the midway point, as we said. And I want to read verse 1. I'm going to go down through verse 10. We're not going to get all these verses. In fact, we're not going to get out of verse 1 tonight And I want to go through, he makes a series of statements, and I want to give a good bit of attention to each of these statements, and uh I believe they're very they're very full of truth and very important for us to grasp. So If you would look at me at verse number one, Ecclesiastes chapter seven, a good name is better than precious ointment, and the day of death than the day of one's birth. It is better, and you're going to see that phrase better, better, better. He's addressing some of these things. In verse 2, he says, it is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting. For that is the end of all men, and the living will lay it to his heart. Sorrow is better than laughter. For by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better. The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools in the house of mirth. It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise than for a man to hear the song of fools. And can I suggest to you, a lot of that's passed off as songs and music today is foolish. It just is a fool's. Verse 6, for as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool. This also is vanity. Surely oppression maketh a wise man mad, and a gift destroyeth the heart. Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof And the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit. Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry, for anger resteth in the bosom of fools Say not thou, what is the cause that the former days were better than these, for thou dost not inquire wisely concerning this Better, better, better, better. He goes down through it and he gives a list of things that are better than some other things. It's kind of a, did you notice it's a little bit proverb-ish? Anybody know what I mean by that? It's a little bit like the book of Proverbs. It's almost like Solomon is reverting back again to former days. When he had some wisdom and he saw some of these things. So let's pray, and we'll look at this. Father in heaven, we ask now that you would bless our time and your word. It's been a good day, good testimonies tonight. My heart's blessed. Lord, we've had this past week has just been a tremendous week in a lot of ways, and you you blessed us greatly. Now we look forward. We've got some big things coming up. Lord, a lot of folks I'm talking to have some significant issues they're dealing with in this week and the coming days and weeks and months. So I pray you'd use every message, I pray you'd use every song, every testimony, the little fellowship we have together. You'd use all of that to strengthen our hearts and to strengthen our faith, and we would be wise. And we would serve you acceptably. I present my body to you now for these next few moments. I yield my will. I plead with you with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit You speak to us and help us have a heavenly perspective on this thing called life. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. This list of things that Solomon gives that are better than others Would be contrary to a lot of what the world would say is better, right? How many people remember a couple weeks ago I gave that little quiz, that little personal quiz. This is better than that And what we would put down and say, oh yeah, these things are better than those, God says here in His Word almost the exact opposite. And uh what he is trying to do here, what Solomon I believe is trying to do, and that one phrase, and we'll look at it here a little bit, where he says, the day of one's death is better than the day of their birth Um he's not trying he's not just he's not just um caught up with a morbid obsession With darkness and negative things, I believe Solomon enjoyed living life as much as anybody We have statements he makes through some of his inspired writings that he talks about living life and the joy and a merry heart. Solomon wasn't a morbid person. The Lord Jesus Christ was not a morbid person. Christianity is not a morbid religion. It is a happy religion. Jesus says, I give my joy unto you, that your joy may be full. He uses terms like that. He says, I come that you might have life and that you might have it more abundantly. And so Christianity is not a morbid religion, and Solomon is not suggesting that we walk around with this morbid perspective on life. But he is trying to get us, I believe To take life seriously. I jotted this down. I was going back over my notes. I jotted this down. I think this is an important statement. Life is more than just fun and games. Now, if you watch what goes on in TV and you watch what goes on in the world, you get the impression that the highest priority of life is having fun and playing games. And I think these folks that are playing games, playing ball and all of that, take themselves far too seriously. It's a game for Pete's sake. It's fun. And life and what Solomon is telling us, listen, life is far more than just fun and games. And if all we are is caught up in fun and games, when it's all said and done, we're going to come up short Our life is going to be awfully empty. So he's trying to get us to take life seriously. And so he makes a series of statements here and he uses that term better. And I don't think he's necessarily comparing one to the other, and that one is more important than the other. I think what he's saying is some things are more significant in life Than others. Some things will benefit us, make us better people, give more depth to our perspective and our faith. And our wives, if we uh certain things that come into life will help us. If you remember, we said that a lot of the times it's the sober things in life that benefit us the most. Sometimes it's the most unpleasant things that help us the most. I made reference, and I really enjoyed it. I mentioned I really enjoyed having dad down. I always do, but this time was a special blessing. And a couple weeks ago on when we were preaching on this starting off this section, I mentioned about how the old timers used to take turpentine. Remember, put that on sugar and take it. And what else? cod liver oil and castor oil and uh those types of things. Um uh and dad said he says when I was little grandma my grandma his mom he says mom used to get kerosene. If we had a bad cold, put kerosene on a spoonful of sugar and we'd take kerosene. We didn't just jug it, we just jugged it, you know, it was Can you imagine that? No wonder you all are so fiery. But with those things, a lot of times it was the thing that were most unpleasant, but they were helpful at that point And I think that's what Solomon's trying to tell us here. He's changing our perspective on things that um come into our lives and help us see them and from a heavenly perspective. And a lot of the things that the world wants to push away, a lot of the things that the world wants to ignore and And uh push aside, God is saying, wait a minute, I allow those things to your life for a reason, they're they have tremendous benefit And we need to understand that. So he gives a list of them. We'll look at two tonight in verse number one as quickly as I can. I don't think we got started on these. But number one, I notice in verse number one I put this: a good reputation is better than having a sweet aroma. Look at verse number one. He says, A good name is better than precious ointment. Now, what does it mean to have a good name? Anybody want to offer a suggestion? Somebody has a good name. What do you think, Joel? They have a good testimony. That's a good way of putting it. What else? Somebody has a good name. They're honest? Reputation? Okay. Jerry's looking at it. A name that's been passed down, maybe a name that's highly respected. Somebody, and that ties into I think what he's saying, somebody back in that family line had a good name. and earned a good name and it was passed down to the children from there. I use the term reputation, but the t the phrase good name actually goes much deeper than simply having a reputation It's possible for a person to have a reputation of something and they're really not what their reputation is. You know what I'm talking about? You say, Oh, I heard about him, I heard his reputation, they get and then you get to know him, and that's not the case at all. Whereas a good name is more than just a good reputation, but there is actually character and integrity behind that reputation. It's not simply what people believe to be true. But the good name is what actually true about that person. Um it's more than simply reputation, but it is, I put it this way To have a good name, as it's used here, is to have an integrity of character. The qualities of life A godly heritage, a goodly heritage. And so uh a good name is better than precious ointment. I read somewhere uh at some time uh that everybody has three names. The name you were given by your parents at birth Right? And that's what we identify. It's on our license, the name we were given by our parents at birth. And then another name is what our friends call us. Sometimes they might use that other name, sometimes they'll give us nicknames. Seems like half of Garrett County has nicknames. You know We had when we ran the bus throughout down in Chattanooga we had little kids ride the bus. Those kids had the most bizarre nicknames you ever had. One kid, I never knew what his real name was. I mean I brought him in for three, four years, uh from this little to about that big I never knew his real name. Everybody called him cornbread. I have no idea what his parents named him. He had a name his parents gave him, obviously. It wasn't cornbread. But he's cornbread. To this day, he's probably in his forties. The kid's cornbread. Uh, there was another kid. No joke, I am not making these up. They called him Fathead. And his head wasn't that bad. I don't know where he got the name from. So they said one name you get is what your parents give you. At birth, the other is what the name your friends call you, and then there's the name that you earn. The name that you establish, the character that you portray yourself, or the and again we're it's a lot more than this word, but I I'm I'm at lack I'm I'm coming up short for the word that carries the full meaning, but the reputation I have. Somebody y you may that say the name of somebody. And immediately you think there's an honest person. That's a good name. It's something that identifies my character. You mention somebody's name and people will go, uh oh. You know, and so a good name, uh establishing integrity of character in my life More than just honesty, but every aspect of my life is honest. It's the quality of what I am is good. And he says pursuing that and achieving that in life is better than precious ointment. I put the good a good name as a result of internal tegrity. It is good character, a peculiar qualities. But then he says, having that, and I'm trying my best now to describe what I think he means by a good name, and I think you grasp what we're what he's talking about here, then he contrasts that in a sense, or he compares that to a degree Of precious ointment. Now, what is precious ointment? We would call it today, anybody want to take a guess? Perfect. But it's more than just perfew. It's more than just um, you know, uh my again, my dad's here, so I'm thinking of my dad a lot, but he grew up, all I remember growing up smelling is brute. Right? Brute. I'm telling you there is nothing effeminate about my dad at all. Even his aftershave was masculine. Brute. And a precious ointment is more than a $4 bottle of brute. In fact, the precious ointment here is something that is incredibly expensive, very, very valuable. And he says, having a good name, being a person of integrity of character and integrity, depth of character is better than precious ointment, a highly valuable oil, or a high-quality perfume. I did a little, and again, I just can't believe that you Google in preparing a sermon. But I Googled up some perfumes, precious perfumes, and I found one. Some of you guys might be interested in buying this It's called Clime Christian Perfume. Did you ever hear that, Pastor Bratt? You're cutting edge. You're a millennial, as Brother Fox said. Clive Christian Perfume. Now you can get it free shipping. If you order online, it's free shipping. It's only $5,500 for one and a half ounces of it. But shipping is free. How many people would be impressed if your pastor walked in had Clyde Christian Oh in there. How many people would say we're paying that guy too much? No comments from the peanut gallery there. We got a dog now. And do you know dog puts off a musk? You can buy musk cologne. And so what I've been doing is rubbing behind the dog's ears and just going like this, man. It's cheaper. Keeps people away. A good name is better than precious ointment. Because a good name is what I am. He says, what you are, being having integrity of character, what you are, is far of greater far greater value than how you smell. Right? A good name is integrity. Again, what I am Precious ointment is my image, how I appear, how I come across I would far rather have it said, and what people say isn't the issue, but I would far have it rather said about me, he is a good man, than it be said he smells good. Right? He is good rather than he smells good. Now I don't want to state. Don't get me wrong. But he's saying as far as benefit in life and adding to life, having a full life, being a person of integrity. is far better than the image I might establish. A good name has to do with gaining respect. Precious ointment has to do with getting attention. And I'm afraid we have a generation growing up that is confusing attention with respect. And so will dress incredibly immodest so that I have lots of attention And they do. A person, particularly a lady dressed as very, very modest, they do get a lot of attention. The eyes, the heads will turn. The eyes will look. But don't confuse that for one minute That you're gaining anybody's respect. Because it is not respect. It is attention. Making sense? And Solomon is telling us, God is telling us through Solomon, under the inspiration of God, he's saying, listen, being a person of integrity is far more important than being a person that gets lots of attention. A lot of people who lack integrity get tons of attention. The good name has to do with something that lasts beyond my lifetime. I thought of preparing this. I got thinking about some names. Think of this name: David Livingston. Demand respect? Man, a fellow that gave his light to bring the gospel to Africa. How about this? Corey Tenboom Tremendous respect. They're long gone. But their name lasts. The respect, the influence they had. because of their integrity continues on. A good name lasts beyond the lifetime of the one that has it. However, precious ointment is very temporary. It's very temporary. I'll just tell you how much I invest. in Cologne is I actually found a bottle about two years ago laying in the yard over here. And uh I sprayed it, smelled pretty good, so I've been using it for two years. I just put a little bit on there. I don't know. I can't believe I just told that publicly. But you know what I found out? I squirted some on that on this morning. I think it fades off before I get over here, isn't it? But I squirted on there. You know, I found out I had to put some more back on tonight. It didn't last but a few hours and it's gone. But integrity, a good name, can last for centuries, millennials. And he's saying a good name, having integrity, is so far more valuable than simply having some image. A good name leaves a heritage, as Brother Jerry and Jennifer sang this morning, Jerry referenced it. A goodly heritage You know what precious ointment leaves? A good name leaves a heritage. You know what a precious ointment leaves? An odor. It's just the smell. Um, a good name says a lot about what I am A person has a good name. That says a lot about that person, what they are. You know what precious ointment says about me? Nothing. Doesn't say anything about what kind of person I am. The lowest, dirtiest, most vile person in the world can put precious ointment on. But yet it takes someone of character to establish a good name Do you catch what he's saying? And this world is so obsessed. Now this is an old commercial, but it was so it so captured the mentality of the world. It was an old Kodak commercial. Some of you know where I'm going with this Remember that old Kodak commercial? What was their little motto at the end of the commercial? Image is everything. And the whole idea was this, however you appear, however you look like, doesn't matter what you are. Doesn't matter what kind of person you are, doesn't matter how lacking in character you may be, doesn't matter how dishonest you may be, if you have a good image, that's everything. And the truth of the matter is in what Solomon's telling us here in the inspiration of God, image is nothing. It's character. It's what I am. And we live in a selfie world. Right? And we're trying to portray this image. I'm somebody that's got it together. I am cool. I am hip. And the thing that blows my mind, everybody does that in bathrooms. What is with that? That's weird And Solomon's saying, listen, what you are as a person, the in depth of the character and the integrity and the qualities you are as a person Are far more valuable to life than some image you're presenting. It's so simple, but it's so profound. So, a good name is better than sweet aroma. Solomon had a good name, and he lost it. And he stained it. And I'm sure he had precious ointments. I'm sure he had whole cabinets full of precious ointments. He was one of the wealthiest men in the world. And he knew the limits of what an appearance and an image could do. And he knew how precious a good name was. And here's the tragedy. Sometimes we don't appreciate the value of something until we've lost it. Sometimes we don't appreciate the value of a good testimony until we lose it. Sometimes we don't appreciate the value of honesty. Until we lie. And we lose that testimony of honesty. And Solomon had a good name and he lost it. And he's saying to us, listen, listen to me. Listen to me. A good name is far more better, far greater value. And having some image and some stuff that makes you look and smell good when in reality you're not. It's a profound statement. We need to work at being a good man or a good woman so we can legitimately have a good name. Joseph had a good name. Integrity. And that integrity took him from a prison to a throne. And I guarantee you one thing: there was no perfume in that prison. How do you think he smelled? An Egyptian prison. What kind of odors do you think he had? Down in there. Now he tried to clean up the best he could, but when he stood before Pharaoh, it wasn't an image Pharaoh was looking at. It was the integrity of a young man. That he was looking at that put him on the number two throne in the country. Um it's not my image that inta but my integrity that determines the quality of my life Somebody said this: a good character is the best tombstone. Somebody else said this: it matters not what you are thought to be, but it matters what you are. We don't have time, and I'm not going to get to the second half of this verse. But I got reading about, remember Mary of Bethany? Does anybody remember what Mary of Bethany did? Anybody remember? What did she do? She had an alabaster box of precious ointment. Some have suggested, and I can't document this, but some Bible scholars have suggested it was worth at least one year's income. Now think about what your income is for one year and spending that on a box of ointment, a container of ointment. She took that And she broke that at the feet of Jesus and anointed his feet with this precious ointment. And in doing so, she was declaring to Christ and to the world that her love and devotion to Jesus Christ superseded all other things in her life. That he was the most valuable. And what did Jesus tell her? Jesus made a significant statement about her. Does anybody remember what did he say to her? He said, wherever the gospel is preached, your name will be declared as a memorial. Now I'm putting it in my words. And Mary of Bethany, in that one act of love and devotion to Jesus Christ, established a name, a good name. That Jesus said that wherever the gospel is preached, she would be declared, her name would be declared. Isn't that something? Just a dear, precious lady that we know little about. But a woman of integrity, a woman of devotion, a woman of right values and priorities. Now here's what gets interesting. Again, I wish we had time. But the very next passage, another name pops up. And this one did not express devotion and love for the Lord Jesus Christ, but criticism. and faulted Mary for her devotion to the Lord. Who was that? Judas Iscariot And everywhere the gospel's preached, Judas' name is remembered. But not for his integrity. Not for his character, not for his devotion to the Lord Jesus Christ, but his name is remembered as a scoundrel, as a devil. As the one who betrayed the Lord Jesus Christ. Two names remembered for two millennials. One is a good name. And one, would you agree with me? Judas had the image for a while, right? He was one of the disciples. When Jesus says, one of y'all is going to betray me, nobody suspected Judas. He had that image, but he did not have the integrity. And his name. Nowadays, what do people do with the name Judas? They name their dogs Judas. Huh? Nobody names their kid Judas. Nobody names their child Judas. It's not a good name. It's not a good name. So Solomon is telling us, listen, there's more to life than just fun and games. There's more to life than how you look and how you smell. And don't misunderstand. I think we ought to look nice. The Bible talks about. The Bible says that ointment rejoiceth the heart. So use deodorant, please. Do you find a bottle of cologne in the yard? Get it, use it. I'm gonna have a teenager, I know that somewhere a teen's gonna come up, hey that was my bottle. I was looking for I think we ought to look our best, we ought to smell nice. But we must never confuse that With what we really are. And we need to seek godliness. We need to seek integrity. We need to seek a good name. Anybody recognize the name? I know you will. Chuck Coddington. In my mind, Chuck Coddington's got a good name Just a humble, gracious guy, hardworking, blue-collar kind of guy. Came out to church, got involved in Bible Institute. Anybody that gets involved in Bible Institute is a great person in my mind. But he got involved in Bible Institute came out soul winning. And they found a tumor. And we do pretty quick, Brian, one good. And he was hoping for the best, and Chuck was praying, and boy, you know, maybe God will bring me through this. But the c I think it was the same kind as Mike had, wasn't it? Like that. Chuck's down, Chuck's gone. I mean it was like shop. And something happened at his funeral, at the viewing and leading up to his funeral. His son was up here, and I'm trying to remember his boy's name. Preston. I kept wanting to knew that one right. Preston. Preston came up. Preston was able to spend a few days with his daddy before he died. And I believe, if I remember correctly, Preston Preston was with him When his daddy took his last breath here on earth and then took his next breath in heaven. And Preston told me this. Came up, he hugged me, laid his head on my shoulder, he said, Pastor Leatherman, and I really didn't know him, I'd only met him a couple times. He laid his head on my shoulder. He said, Pastor Leatherman, listen to this. My daddy showed me how a Christian dies. He showed me how a Christian dies. You know what that is? That is a good name. It's a good name So life is a whole lot more than just fun and games. And I like to have fun and there's nothing wrong with playing some games. But if that's all our life is about, is what we think and having a good time and what people think of me, we come to the end, and we're going to be empty. And Solomon is telling us, listen, we need to work at being integrity. Be honest. Work hard. Be kind. Keep your tongue. Be gracious. Compassion. Help others. Love God. Walk humbly That's integrity. That's a good name. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven. Lord, you challenge us continually from your word. And Lord, we look at this life and we get blinded by the world's lights and their loud music and we get caught up in their philosophies and their approach, just fun and games and hoopla and looking like something. And we miss the most important things of life of what we are being people of character. I pray you would help me, the pastor of this church. Help me, Lord. Be a man of integrity and character. Help me. I believe, Lord, we got a church full of folks that no doubt perhaps feel the same way I do. And we long in our hearts to be men and women of integrity. And that we would have a good name, not to glorify ourselves, but to bring glory to God and to have a real influence in this world. Our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, like me, you agree with me, you feel the way I do, that this simple little statement has really challenged you? And like me, you pray and ask the Lord to work in my life, mold in my life, do what you need to in my life to get the frivality out. The meaningless temporal stuff out and get the things that are of value in place. I believe God will help us. How many feel that way tonight, the way I do? God bless you. I'm sure we all would. Surely. Maybe we just end the Lord's day and start a new week at an old altar and say, Lord, do what you need to do in my life to make me a man or a woman of integrity, of a good name. Would there happen to be someone here and they say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I don't know that my sins are forgiven? The Bible clearly says we can know that, and that's the starting point. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. I need this matter, my personal salvation, settled. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Any at all? Any at all? Now we need to have a testimony. And that testimony needs to be rooted in genuine character integrity. So Father, help us now we ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes