So Acts chapter 8. Our passage will be out of Acts chapter 8, but I would like to start with a verse in Acts chapter 1 first. Acts chapter one to begin with, and that is certainly uh our prayer Uh as we sing in the song, Hear my Lord, send me but uh I would like for you guys to take that that song to heart and say, it's so easy for me to pray that the Lord would burden you, someone else, but this time when I kneel in prayer, Lord, make this burden mine. Maybe the Lord may never call you to Argentina, may never call you to another country or even another location, but our prayers that the Lord would give you a burden, a desire. To to reach the lost, the lost in this community, uh as we travel even through the United States, we've just been up into Canada a few weeks ago. My my wife was raised in Canada. Her parents were church planning missionaries in Canada. And we have uh four churches in in Ontario that support us and my brother-in-law's church in in Halifax, Nova Scotia And one thing that just shocked me, and I see it even more and more and more in the States also, is just how many people from all around the world are coming to the States and to Canada and I tell ya there there's some places where I walk through I feel like boy I'm in a mission field somewhere and it's certainly the truth. Just just us folks that have been born in the United States. There's a mission filled with that, but people from all around the world, and I want you to keep that thought in mind tonight As we read our passage, especially in Acts chapter 8, because we're reading in just a moment in chapter 1 to begin with But just today, driving up here, uh I can't remember what city it was in Virginia, we're going up Interstate 81, and uh there there was a a college there. I didn't realize it was a college. I was just getting sleepy Some of them in in the van wanted to stop and find a restroom and I I saw uh a coffee place on the sign, so I got off and and pulled in and as we're pulling in we see three or four guys, I guess they were monks. They were dressed, they were from uh I don't know if it's an Asian country or or where Maybe Nepal is what some of our our family thought, and that might have been because when we were here for your missions conference, um is it the Dakotas? Is that the right Dev Coda, we we were with them and they're in the Paul and I don't know where these monks were from. And they go into the coffee place right in front of us. And I'll be honest, just to be honest as a as a human with a sin nature, my first thought is, oh no you know. But then I remember my message that I'm preaching tonight. I said, I've got to. I ha and and I didn't Give them a track right away as I found sometimes if the first thing you do is run up to somebody it you know they they can be caught off guard but I knew they they went in and they sat down and We got our coffee and I went out to the van and and I got those tracks, right? As now I don't know if they spoke English or not. It looked like they spoke enough to tell the guy whether they got the right coffee or not because I saw 'em pointing to their cup and they were looking at at something and trying to say it. But anyways, I gave them that that track and I thought to myself, I was like, you know what? A lot of times they might not accept it if they knew what it was. But I thought, if they don't know what it is and they can translate it with the phone app, you know you can do that. You can take a picture of anything, you know, translate. thought this is my chance, I'm going to give it to them and smile and be happy. So y we we got that gospel track, one that we picked up in Canada, in Nova Scotia. We still had them in the car. But think of that. The Lord has called us And our prayer is not only that you guys, as you have been for so many years, partner with us in Argentina, but that the Lord will burden you. for the people that you meet here in your location. So as we begin, one verse in chapter 1, verse number 8, a well-known passage, Acts chapter 1, verse 8. Jesus says to his disciples right before ascending into heaven, he says, But ye shall receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And I'll pause for a moment and say, the Holy Ghost came on the day of Pentecost. And when you ask Christ to come into your heart and be your Savior, the Holy Ghost comes into your heart as well. So that means you have this power. It's not something you say, well, you know, I'd try to reach the loss if I had that power. You do have that power. You may not feel like it You may not say, well, I can't do things like my pastor can, but that's not what it means. It means that any time that you try to share Christ's love with someone in whatever opportunity or or fashion that you have in that moment It means the Holy Ghost is working in their lives. The Holy Spirit will do his work. Another verse comes to mind. The Bible says, My word which goeth forth out of my mouth shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which how's that verse go? That which I send it to do. misquoted it. I apologize for that. But his word will do it and his spirit is working in you and through you and using you and working in their lives. Sometimes we feel like, oh, it did no good. No, I promise you it did. You may not see it then. We have to be patient sometimes, but His Spirit is working. So just be faithful, to give that tract, to share that those words, to show Christ's love. You shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And then he says this and Ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost parts of the earth Now I know in your four year coming in, you guys have uh a big old map out there of the world. And sometimes out of curiosity go out there and look because I'm just going to say this to help you think about Argentina, remember to pray for Argentina, because Argentina is all the way up to southern part of South America. It's right beside of Chile. Chile actually comes down just a little bit under Argentina, but Argentina likes to boast and say that they have the southernmost city in the world. It's the city of Ushuaia. And there's a Filipino man that's a Baptist and he started a church there, so praise the Lord. But Jesus said, go to the uttermost parts of the earth. If you go and visit there, I never have, but I I know what they say. They will say in their language Welcome to either the end of the world or you could translate it the uttermost part of the earth. So when you think of, when you see these passages in the Bible Pray for Argentina because that uttermost part of the earth. Now, I know that God wasn't speaking only of Argentina when he said that. From Jerusalem Oakland, Maryland, is an uttermost part of the earth. So you guys live at the uttermost part of the earth also. But uh remember when you when you see those verses, remember Argentina, because it did they actually have the closest city to Antarctica. It goes below South Africa. It's further south than Australia or New Zealand. New Zealand's pretty pretty far down there, but parts of Argentina go further south than that Now let's move on and turn with me in your Bible to Acts chapter 8. Acts chapter 8, another one verse. Acts chapter 8, verse 1, the Bible says, And Paul was consenting unto his death. This is the death of Stephen. I believe I just said Paul, but it's Saul. His name is still Saul at this portion. And Saul was consenting unto his death, and there was at that time there was a great persecution against the church which was at Jerusalem Remember, we saw Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and unto the uttermost parts of the earth. And they were all scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles. Now, we've seen seven chapters in the book of Acts. Chapter 1, Christ gives the church the instructions to go into Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and unto the uttermost parts of the earth. There have been some wonderful evangelistic meetings in Jerusalem Thousands have been saved. We've seen the day of Pentecost, and we wonder how far have they gotten? Well, because of persecution, they finally leave Jerusalem and they go to Judea and Samaria But not yet have we gone to the uttermost parts of the earth. Now let's go ahead and skip over to verse number twenty-six. Acts chapter eight Verse number twenty-six, Philip has been in Samaria preaching, many have been saved. Verse 26, the Bible says, And the angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying Arise and go toward the south and to the way that goeth down from Jerusalem unto Gaza, which is desert. And he arose and went, and behold, we see these two words, a man. A man of Ethiopia, an eunuch of great authority under Candace, Queen of the Ethiopians, who had the charge of all her treasure, had come to Jerusalem for to worship. was returning and sitting in his chariot, read Isaiah the prophet. Then the Spirit said unto Philip, Go near and join thyself to this chariot And Philip ran thither to him and heard him read the prophet Isaiah and said unto him, Understandest thou what thou readest? And he said, How can I accept Some man. We see a man of Ethiopia. Now we see some man, except some man should guide me. And he desired Philip that he would come up and sit with him. The place of the scripture where he read was this. He was led as a sheep to the slaughter. And like a lamb dumb before his shears, so he opened not his mouth. In his humiliation his judgment was taken away. And who shall declare his generation for his life is taken from the earth? And the eunuch answered Philip and said, I pray thee. Of whom speaketh to prophet this, of himself, or of some other man Then Philip opened his mouth and began at the same scripture and preached unto him Jesus. And as they went on their way, they came to a certain water, and the eunuch said unto him, See, here is water. What doth hinder me to be baptized? And Philip said, If thou believest with all thine heart thou mayest. And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. He's been reading about Jesus in Isaiah. He just had no idea who Jesus was Now he says, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. And he commanded the chariot to stand still, and they went down both into the water, both Philip and the eunuch. And he was baptized, and when they were come up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught away Philip, and the eunuch saw him no more and he went on his way rejoicing, but Philip was found at Azotis, and passing through he preached in all the cities till he came to Caesarea. Let's go to the Lord in a word of prayer. Father, we're so thankful for your blessings. We thank you for this time that we have to meet together in your house tonight Lord, I just pray that you would work in our hearts. I pray that you fill me with your Spirit as I seek to share your word. I pray that it would be a blessing and a help and an encouragement to everyone that's here. We love you and we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and unto the uttermost parts of the earth, and it's not until chapter eight that we finally see someone from uttermost parts of the earth, hearing about the gospel. When we hear about this man, the Bible calls him a man. He's just a man. He's any anyone that you might meet out on the street, we will call him the sinner. He's the lost person. The Bible tells us that he is from Ethiopia. He's uh under Candace, the queen of the Ethiopians. And we can see from what we read in the passage tonight that he's been influenced by Judaism. He's heard about the Old Testament. He's heard about Israel. He's heard about Jerusalem. He's heard about God. We're not sure how. We can suppose maybe maybe it's because of the stories from the Queen of Sheba who who came from the uttermost parts just to hear the wisdom of Solomon. I don't know, but we know he's been influenced by it. We also see that he has a copy of God's Word. It appears that he only has Isaiah And he's reading in what we would call Isaiah 53, Isaiah chapter 53. Do you know what most Jewish people or or I should say rabbis or Jewish leaders, do you know what they would call Isaiah 53? That's the forbidden passage of scripture. Did you know that? They will you because they will not read that passage of scripture. They won't read it in in their synagogues or they they forbid others to read that. Don't read that passage of scripture. Do you know why? Because if you've ever heard of who Jesus is, and you read Isaiah 53, it's obvious that Isaiah was talking about Jesus. And they won't let people read it, but this man He has a copy of God's Word. He has a copy of Isaiah, and he's reading, and he comes to Isaiah chapter 53. He's traveled with, I don't know if he maybe bought Isaiah in Jerusalem or if he had a copy of it. I I tend to think that he bought it. when he was in Jerusalem. He came to worship, and maybe he says, Hey, I want I want to buy a portion of Scripture, so he buys one, because we see that he's reading it as he's traveling. I don't know if he's trying to read it while the horses are running or not, or maybe he stopped in a shady spot to read it, but he's reading and he doesn't understand. You know, sometimes when I read the Bible, If I'm not careful, I have a habit of reading especially familiar passages and reading it while my brain is checked out. Does that ever happen to you? I have a bad habit. I have to force myself to pay attention. One thing that's helped me when I read something like let's say John 3. 16, if I stop and pause to myself and think What would I be thinking if this was the first time in my life that I was reading that verse? Now if I read something like John 3. 16 and I've heard and I'm searching And maybe somebody gives me a gospel track and it's on John 3. 16. I've never read it before in my life, but I want to be saved. And I read For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that who so ever believeth in him. Boy, that would get me right there, wouldn't you? That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but wow, have everlasting life. It helps me in in my study and Preaching to think, what would I be thinking if I were reading that for the first time? So this man it probably is reading Isaiah chapter 53 for the first time God's word is preparing his heart, and he is open to receive the gospel. Now let me just say a moment to you that the world is full of people. And your community also has people that are open to receive the Word of God. Now, culture will tell you no The media will tell you no, nobody wants to hear it. And Satan will definitely tell you no, nobody wants to hear it. But I promise you there are people that will receive and they are open for to hear the word of God if we will be faithful to to to share it with them. Now here's something That is a little bit shocking. And when you stop and think of this, this man, where did he just come from? Jerusalem. What has been happening in Jerusalem for seven chapters now? Daily in the temple and in every house what they cease not to preach and teach Jesus Christ? And now we see persecution. And they're scattered. And it seems that there has come an absolute total stop to the preaching of God's word. Because I wonder how is it possible that someone, anyone, a man from Ethiopia or anyone could go to Jerusalem during this time Go to the temple, worship, purchase a copy of Isaiah, and not one single time hear the name Jesus. How did he go to Jerusalem and to the temple and never hear Jesus? How did that happen? He had no idea who Jesus was. But then, you know, then then I start to feel the conviction in my heart and I think how many people, as I've mentioned, it shocks me the people from all around the world coming in to the States, to Canada, to Virginia, to Washington, to New York, from all around the world have come in, and how many of them could come and visit and spend a week, two weeks in the United States? and never have anyone say a word to them about Jesus. I'm afraid we've got less excuse than the early church did. We've got churches everywhere. We have more Christians that that that could preach and teach the gospel and and that's why the conviction hit me today when I thought, oh boy, what's it going to be like when I go in there? And though we saw those guys go in and then the Holy Spirit quickly said, Hey This might be the only chance. Now, the fur my first thought is they definitely don't want to hear that They don't but I don't know. Maybe there's one of them in there that says, boy, I hope I get a chance. When I leave my country, I hope I get a chance to get something about Jesus. Maybe he didn't want to be in this group. Maybe it was the only opportunity he had. I don't know. Maybe there's one of them. Maybe there's two or more. It says, I sure hope that somehow I can hear about Christianity, I can hear about Jesus. And my first thought was to just pass on by and not interrupt What if I had done that? What if I had let that person go back to wherever they're from? They obviously didn't speak our language. I think they had a translator with them. There was two people they were dressed in suits and ties and they were they were talking to him but I don't know. I gave him a track too Maybe he's the one that just wishes he could hear. I don't know, but it seems this man went all the way to Jerusalem He buys Isaiah, but never once does anyone pause and even say, hey, there's been persecution going on here because of what Jesus did. Nobody, because he knows nothing about it. Now let's look down in verse number 32. Verse 32. And the place of the scripture where he read was this. He was led as a sheep to the slaughter, and like a lamb done before his shears, so he opened not his mouth, and his humiliation, his judgment was taken away And who shall declare his generation? For he his life is taken from the earth. And the eunuch answered Philip and said, I pray thee, of whom speaketh the prophet theest of himself or of some other man. This eunuch has never heard Jesus, he's never heard explanation about it. And he says, I don't understand as I read this Isaiah What he's talking about is Isaiah writing about himself, or is he talking about some other person? He's on track, isn't he? He can see that I don't think Isaiah is talking about himself here. And he wants to know, who is the prophet Isaiah writing about? And Philip opened his mouth and began in the same scripture and preached unto him Jesus. But we see this other man a man of Ethiopia, and he wants to know about this other man who we know is the Savior. But let me ask a question this morning as we move on in in our thoughts. What is it? What does it take to bridge the gap between this lost person, the sinner, A man of Ethiopia, what does it take to bridge the gap from him to the other man who we know as the Savior? What is it? What does it take to bridge the gap for this person? Let me show you. If you'll look in verse number 20, verse number 31, I'm sorry. Verse number 31. What does it take to bridge the gap for them? Verse 31. And he said, Philip asked him, Do you understand what you're reading? He said, How can I accept Some man. What does it take to bridge the gap between a man to the other man? It just takes, let me put it in in my own words, just take someone. It just takes anyone. It just takes someone like you. He says, how can I accept some man should Guide me. And just take someone who will be willing to say, hey, let me show you. Then while I'm not very good with my words, well, guide them to the church. Say, hey, would you go with me to church Would you would you go with me and be my guest to to the church tonight? We're having a prayer meeting or Sunday's going to be a special day. I believe I heard you say an announcement about there's only one week left. Is that right? What was that about Oh, to memorize your verse. Oh, well hey, you say, hey, I gotta have this verse memorized by next week. You want to come and I don't know. But whatever it is, guide them. Bring them to the Savior. This is the soul winner. What does it take to bridge the gap for a poor lost sinner to the Savior? It just takes someone. It takes anyone. You know, uh today, I I know, I can tell you most of the way that we came in today, right up Interstate 81, my my hometown I can go out in the front yard of my parents' house and I can see Interstate 81. So we drove right up through Interstate 81. I could have saved I think ten minutes if I went through West Virginia, but you have to go through that spot called Somersville. Do you know where that is? They call it the world's largest speed trap. I learned that one time right after we got married. I learned it from experience. I try not to go through there But I've got a habit now as a missionary. I've got to get to the church that I go a little too fast from time to time. So I went up eighty interstate eighty one and it's easy, but where I got off Interstate 81, I have no idea where I got off. I have no idea how to come in. The reason why is I use a GPU. And I let that GPS guide me everywhere. But when my wife and I got married, there was no GPS, there was no smartphone, some had a cell phone, we didn't have a cell phone. But we did have, oh well I used to get out that that atlas and I would mark it up through there. We would go all the way to Canada at Christmas time and summertime to where her family was and I would follow the atlas. But then we got SMART. Somebody told us about on the internet. If you could get a computer with the internet, you could print out instructions. on map quest and we would take four or five pages and then we give us step by step instructions on how to go through. But you know, before those even before those days And my children think, how on earth did my parents ever survive without s m s uh smartphones? No, my kids know better than that. But some some people today think that Before those days, if you went on a trip, you didn't know where you were, and you didn't know how to get to the next stop, what did you have to do? Well, me and after we try and try again, finally we listen to our wives, right? And we stop and we ask someone. Who do you stop and ask? Do you wait until you see a professional person that looks like a college educated person? No. Do you look for only a police officer? No. Do you look for somebody that do you do you stop and roll down the wind and say, hey, excuse me, can I ask you a question? Uh do you know how to read? Do you even ask them if they can No, you don't use roll down the window. The first person you say is, hey Do you know how to get to Interstate eighty one from here? And if they know say, Oh yeah, you take this highway, done this you know, whatever it is, you say Ask them how to get to the next town. If you don't know where it is, how do I get to this? You ask anyone, anyone who knows how to give you instructions is good enough to give you instructions to the next stop. And let me tell you, when people are lost, if they want to know the Savior, I promise you they're willing to take instructions from you. I uh I enjoy listening to these stories from a missionary. Uh some of you may have even heard it. He he wrote a book for children called The Pineapple Story. Has anybody ever heard of the pineapple story? Some of you guys have heard of the pineapple story. He was a missionary in Papua New Guinea among the tribal people. Anyways, he was trying to plant pineapples and they were stealing his pineapples and he wrote a story for children about it. But I've listened to his audio uh uh stories many, many times. I kinda have them memorized. I listened to him so many times when we were on deputation. He's actually retired. Now he's in his eighties or late eighties and he actually his wife passed away and the husband of our secretary of my ascending church, he passed away and those two are now married, so he he goes to my ascending church. But What one out of all those stories that I've listened to in the jungle, one story that really caught my attention was him telling about when he was a little boy in Holland He didn't speak English. They were in Holland during World War II. Then he said they were so afraid they could hear the bombs going off and the war was going off. And and they were so afraid, and he said he wanted to know so bad how he could know that he was going to heaven when he died. He said they they fled Holland and they got on a boat to come to the United States and they were so afraid that that boat was going to sink, those big waves and the storms, and he said he wanted to know so bad how he could be saved and know that he was going to heaven. He said when he got to the United States, his motivation to learn English was so that he could go to a church and find out how he can know that he was going to heaven when he when he died. He said he he learned enough and he went to church and he went to to the pastor and he asked the pastor, and the pastor said, Oh, well we don't know how you can know that. What a shame that he went to a church like that. But he said later on As a teenager, he went to a youth for Christ and there was a an evangelist that preached and he got saved. But the point I want to share is this. He said during That time, even as a young adult, as a teenager, he said he wanted to know so bad, he said if a small child had said, I know how you can know you're going to heaven when you die, he said he would have sat down and that child could have led him to the Savior. I see some children here tonight. I know there's more children came in earlier. He he would have lit if a child had come in on a bus for Sunday school and had told him, Hey, I went to church last week and they told me how you can know you're going to heaven, he said, I would have let that child Lead me to the Savior because anyone. Now some of us can probably think back of some times in our life I was five years old when I got saved. My dad led me to the Lord, but I know even after that, there's been times I had issues in my life. I had Things I was trying to figure out and things from the Bible or whatever. Times like that, if I'd been an adult wanting to get saved There's been times I've heard children programs on the radio and it happens to be something that applied to my life and I listened to that and it helped me, right? But there's times when I needed help or if I wanted to be saved, and if a child had told me, say, hey, I know how, I may not have sat down at the time, but I would have listened, wouldn't you? I would have listened And he said even a child could have been enough to lead him to the Savior. But what I want you to realize today is this, they're not the only ones like that. This world is full of people who who, if someone like you were to take the time to say, hey, you know what I know how you can be saved and go to heaven and they will listen. They may never have a chance to talk to your pastor. They may never meet him In fact, if they saw your pastor coming, they might be afraid and go the other way. They might think, oh, I'm not ready to meet I'm not ready to meet the pastor. The pastor might know about my sin. People have all kinds of fears, right? But they might listen to you. People just like you. You could be the one. Now this Ethiopian eunuch, he had no idea who Philip was. He didn't know that Philip had just come from a great revival. He didn't know that All he knows is he's in the middle of a desert reading Isaiah, and some total stranger walks up and says, Do you understand what you're reading? He says, I have no idea unless somebody can help me. And Philip says, Let me tell you about Jesus. That's who that's talking about. And at the end of that story, that that Ethiopian eunuch said, I believe that Jesus is the Son of God that I've been reading about. He accepted him, he got saved, and he got baptized. You know what? You don't have to be a Bible graduate. You don't have to be a missionary. Now I think we should study and prepare and do what we can. But what I want you to know is that you can. You can be that someone to bridge the gap between a lost man and the other man who is the Savior. You can be that person. Let's stand together this evening with our heads bowed and our eyes closed, Father. We're so thankful for your blessings. We thank you for what you've done in our lives. Lord, I thank you that you have Given us your Holy Spirit. And Lord, it's not our ability. It's the power of your Spirit working in people's lives. Lord, give us a burden Let us not just pray that others will have a burden, but Lord, let us have a burden. Let us have a desire to share your love with people, that they would be saved, and that you would be honored and glorified. We ask this in Jesus' name.