Been reading through the life of David and and then the uh life of Solomon or just uh I think it was last night, Friday night we read where Solomon passed away and the kingdom is goes on to his son and the divided kingdom from there. And uh it's a tragedy to study, read and study how Solomon started out so well Divinely given wisdom. Divinely enriched by God. God made him rich. God gave him wisdom And uh he ruled 40 years, did a tremendous job, then towards the end, his wives, the Bible says, his associates, drew him away from the Lord. And he began worshiping false gods and got away from God. And he began living his life. And to use Ecclesiastes' terminology, he began living his life under the sun. And if you'll remember, and we've emphasized this through our study, that's a key phrase through the book, under the sun, under the sun, under the sun. And the whole idea is Solomon's giving an account of how he fell from God, fell out of fellowship with the Lord, and his whole world view now was under the sun. God's out of the picture. The only thing he's living for, the only thing he sees, the only thing he's pursuing is that which exists under the sun. God's out of it. And what an empty life that is. And his conclusion is what? He says it over and over: vanity of vanity, always vanity and vexation of spirit. So now he's making some conclusions. We're at the halfway point, and he's giving these statements. He's making a series of statements. that are observations of a wise man of a life lived that way. And they're very, very helpful. Of course, they're given under the inspiration of God, so God has a plan and purpose. So that's where we're at. Verse number one of Ecclesiastes 7. We've looked at these. Through this section, down through verse 10, he gives a series of statements where he says that one thing is better than something else. And what Solomon's conclusion, after living a number of years under the sun without God in his life, and becoming frustrated, and his life is so empty, He gives these theories and his conclusions are different than what the world would suggest. What Solomon says is better is very much different than what the world would say was better. Let's look and see And we've already noted a lot of these. Verse one, he says, A good name is better than precious ointment, and the day of death than the day of one's birth. Hmm. It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting, for that is the end of all men, and the living will lay it to his heart Sorrow is better than laughter. For by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better. The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth. It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise than for a man to hear the song of fools. For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool. This also is what Vanity. Then look at verse 7. This is where we're going to pick up tonight. Surely oppression maketh a wise man mad, and a gift destroyeth the heart. Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof. And the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry, for anger resteth in the bosom of fools. Say not thou, what is the cause of the former days? What is the cause that the former days were better than these? For thou dost not inquire wisely concerning this. Some things that are better than other things. Let's pray. And we'll pick up here at this verse number seven. Father, we ask now your blessing as we study your word. Lord, it has been a good day. And Lord, we just love Sundays. Lord, they're so refreshing. And we ask now that all the events of today, as if we bring this to a head here tonight, That our hearts would be filled and we can go out this week with a good, strong witness to your goodness and your wisdom and your grace as we see it in the gospel. Please fill me with your spirit as my prayer, Lord. I yield my will and present my body and pray you'd speak through me As I request so often, Lord, ask this now in Jesus' name. Amen. He says in verse number one that a good reputation is better than a sweet aroma. That was my version of it. A good reputation is better than sweet aroma. Then the second part of verse number one, we said we notice that the day of death, according to Solomon, is better than the day of birth. Verse number two, we noted that a fe a funeral is better than a feast. And then verse 3 and 4, sorrow is better than satire. We looked at that. Then we noted in verse 5 and 6 that the scolding of the wise is better than the song of fools. And so he goes down, and we noted as we studied each of these, there's tremendous truth in this. This is not the way the world says. The world says, eat, drink, and be merry. Just live it up. That's it. Have a good time. Have fun. Just have fun. And Solomon says, wait a minute. There's a whole lot more to life than just having fun. And how shallow that is and empty that type of life is. And he's not suggesting any of these, it's wrong in and of themselves, but that is not where the most benefit is. Now we come to verse number seven, and I put it this way, patience is better than pride. Patience is better than pride. I've found, I've been around 57 years now, I've found that patience is a great challenge in life. Can I get a witness? Being patient is very challenging. And I want to be patient. I really do. Right now. And um Uh all right, forget it. I thought you'd catch that, but that's all right. But patience is a tremendous challenge. Like I believe that patience is one of the chief characteristics of maturity. Of maturity. You find a patient person that can endure patiently a difficulty or trial or wait on something, generally, you have a very mature person there. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 1 and 2 tells us to run the race with patience. To me, that's a, is this a correct term, an oxymoron? Where it seems like it's saying two opposites, run, but you run with patience And so what he's saying is we press on. We go forward, we press on. We uh patience is not just sitting back saying, oh well, whatever, and not being active. Patience is not being proactive. Patience simply means I press on and press on and press on. Uh I have some definitions I came across. And by the way, the Bible, all through the Bible, the Bible encourages us and repeatedly says, wait on the Lord, wait on the Lord, wait on the Lord, wait on the Lord. What is that talking about? It's telling us to be patient Be patient. Let God work it out. I looked up the word patience in the Bible and it in the Bible in the dictionary, and it says this: the ability and willingness to wait for a desired outcome. The ability and willingness. Now I'd venture to say all of us are able to wait for the desired outcome, but we're not always willing. to wait for that desired outcome. I came across some quotes about patience. You might want to jot these down. I thought they were very, very helpful. But here's several statements about patience. Patience is the ability to put up with people that you'd like to put down. Alright? Just put up with that person. I'd like to put them in their place. I'd like to let them have it. I want to give them a piece of my mind. But I want to be patient, and so I put up with it. Somebody else put it this way. Patience is accepting a difficult situation without giving God a deadline to remove it. Accepting a difficult situation without giving God a deadline to remove it. You know what that is? You know what he's saying? Wait on the Lord. Wait on God. Wait on God. Somebody else said this. Patience is the ability to bear trials without grumbling. Or to bear hardships without grumbling. Let's put it in the context of our society. I put it this way: patience is the ability to bear inconveniences. Without grumbling. We've gotten to the point, we've got it so good in our country where we don't just grumble when it's a hardship. We don't just grumble when it's a trial. We grumble when it's inconvenient. Am I right or wrong? I don't know if conviction is setting in or if you all fell asleep, but uh patience Patience. Patience. Patience is possessing an inner calmness I like this one. Patience is possessing an inner calmness based on the knowledge that God is in control and God is good. An inner calmness that is based upon the knowledge or the assurance that God's in control and God is good. Would you agree with me? If God really is good, And if God really is in control, we can wait on him. We can be patient How many of you when you're raised, some of you have small kids, some of us the kids are grown. How many when they were all uh when they were small, you'd have to say to them, now just be patient. Anybody know what I'm talking about? They want it, they want it. It's immaturity. And sometimes God has to look down, and we read it in the scriptures, and God looks down at us, and he says, Listen, Dennis, just be patient. Be patient. And Solomon has learned this. He was the wisest man that ever lived. He had supernatural wisdom given to him by God. He had supernatural wealth given to him by God. He could have whatever he wanted. He knew the answers to the questions. He knew the solutions to the problems. And he pushed God out of his life, and for years he tried to find meaning and purpose in life without God. And he found that there was a hole in his soul. That all his wealth and all his wisdom and all his great accomplishments, none of that could fill that vacuum in his soul. And he steps back and he says, I've learned something. I've learned something from this whole experience, this whole tragic experience. I've learned something. I've learned this. To be patient is better than being proud. To be patient, to learn to wait on God. Pride, what does pride say? Pride says, I want what I want, the way I want it now. That is pride. Pride says, I want what I want regardless of the cost. I want what I want regardless of the consequences. It doesn't matter who it hurts, it doesn't matter what it'll cost, it doesn't matter what the consequences will may be. If I want it, I want it. And I'm going to have it Patience says, I'm going to wait on God. I'm going to trust God. I'm going to let God work things out in his time. and in his way. What a contrast. What a contrast. Solomon says, I've learned that waiting on God, being patient Is far better than getting proud and demanding and wanting it my way, my timing now He makes a few statements down here, and I think, I believe, verse 7 through 10 are all tied into the same thought that patience is better than pride. I put this down. Number one, impatience will ruin even the most prudent person. Impatience will ruin even the most prudent person. Now if you look at verse 7 And I looked at this and I had to study this a little bit to what to get what exactly is he saying? And I I think I understand what he's saying here. Look at verse 7. Surely oppression maketh a wise man mad. And a gift destroyeth the heart. That word oppression there is used throughout the Bible, and sometimes it's translated extortion. Extortion. And the meaning of the word, as it's given to us here, means this: to get gain by injuring another person. Now how do how would a somebody get gain, make a profit by injuring another person? What what are ways that that would transpire, that that would happen? Somebody, what would be some ways that would happen? How would I get gain, make a profit by injuring another person? What Uh steal it, yeah. Steal it. Uh blackmail 'em. I know some dirt on them. You give me some money, or I'm going to expose your dirt. Um robbing somebody, meeting them up, and taking what they have. I'm getting gain by injuring them. But there's a little more subtle way, Andy Ah, ruining their reputation, I make them look bad, and then I can reap the benefits of their work. It's the idea of just the old extortion. I'm hurting this person. I'm putting them and gaining for myself. Now look at now keep that in mind, that definition of mind, surely oppression It's getting a gain by hurting someone else, taking it from not through honest hard work, not through uh genuine, honest in investments and that type of thing, but I'm hurting people, I'm taking it But then he says this, Sur the Oppression maketh a wise man mad, we'll look at that in a moment. Then he says, and a gift Destroyeth the heart. Now, how does a gift destroy the heart? I think without going into it, I think what he's describing here is a bribe. It's bribery. And he makes this statement. He says, oppression maketh the wise man, surely oppression maketh a wise man mad. And I thought, well what is he saying? What does he mean here? I'll tell you what I believe he's saying here. He is saying when a and when a wise person, and the word wise there is translated in some places prudent, it's a very prudent man, he's wise. He knows how to handle finances. He knows how things work. He's wise. But this prudent man, this wise man, gets impatient. And he's not willing. He gets to the point where impatience creeps in and he wants that profit. He wants that gain. He wants that position. Without having to go through the process and waiting and working towards it, I want it now. He gets impatient for it. And thus that impatience ruins him and prompts him to use extortion. He's prudent, he's wise, but impatience comes in and it ruins him. And when it says it makes him mad, the idea behind that is it makes a fool out of him. And makes him act foolishly like a mad person. And what I'm taking away from this, I think what Solomon is telling us under the inspiration of God is Even the best of us, if we allow impatience to creep in, we may end up doing things we never dreamed we would do. Huh? We become impatient. We may start compromising our convictions. We may start doing things that actually injure others and hurt others so that we can get gain. We become impatient. We start offering bribery. We start doing these things. And when it's all said and done, we make a fool out of ourselves and we act foolishly. We should never, the best of us, the best of God's people, ought to always be on guard against impatience. Because it can ruin the prudent man. When a wise man who is normally very prudent becomes impatient for gain, he can resort to extortion. He can resort to bribery. It makes him foolish. It makes him fail. I came across a story in 1980 The Boston Boston Boston had their Boston Marathon in 1980. It was the 84th annual Boston Marathon, 1980. In the women's category for the marathon, a woman by the name of Rosie Ruiz, I think is how you say her last name, R-U-I-Z, Ruiz. She was declared first place winner in the women's division of the 84th annual Boston Marathon. Five days later, there was rumors flying around. Five days later, they went back and looked at some of the security cameras were up, and they determined that Rosie Ruiz did not run the complete race. That she had cut across, actually, I think uh she had actually taken a vehicle part of it and then jumped in and hopped in and then crossed the line first. Here's the thing, Rosie Ruz was as healthy as any one other one of those runners She was in as good a shape as the anyone else that was running that thing. She could have legitimately won first place. She had put the time in to prepare, she had put exercise in, she had did all that, but she became impatient And was not willing to work at the system and do it the way it should be and have integrity, and she wanted to cut some corners, took some shortcuts. And she was became mad, made to look like a fool. And even to this day, how many years later? Thirty some years later. 37 years later, that name is associated with a foolish woman that became impatient So even a wise man, even somebody that has some prudence about them, if they become impatient, not willing to wait on God, what not willing willing to go through uh the process and do what needs to be done, become impatient and resort to extortion and patience ruins them, and they want to become uh they want to exhort or use bribery or cheat And in the end they get caught and they look like a fool. Solomon says, patience is better than pride. And when you and I allow impatience to creep into our mind, our thinking, and allow it to creep into our lives, it ends in disaster. And by the way, what's true in the business world is also true in the spiritual world. There are no shortcuts to spiritual maturity. There are no shortcuts to God's blessings. And if we become impatient and we think that, well, if I do this or that or the other and then I can somehow be a strong, mature Christian. No. You know what I found out? I've got to go through some dark valleys for my faith to grow. There are no shortcuts So impatience, I put it this way, verse number seven, impatience will ruin even the most prudent person. Number two, I put this down, impatience is rooted in pride. Look at verse number eight with me, if you would. Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof, and the patient in spirit. Is better than the proud in spirit. Now that phrase in spirit is talking about my attitude, my way of thinking, my thinking processes And he says it's far better for you to have our minds renewed where we think with patience. Our whole thought process is saturated by I'm going to wait on God. I'm going to trust the Lord. We're going to follow God's process. We're going to follow God's instructions. And let God produce the results. Or I can become proud in spirit, in my attitude, in my thinking process, and thinking, I want it now. I want it my way. I want it how I want it, the way I want it, regardless of consequences, regardless of the price that's paid. There is no shortcuts to respect. Notice what he says here, and this kind of caught my attention. Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof. Now is he suggesting that the beginning of something is not good? No, he's not saying that. If anything's going to have an end, it has to have a what. A beginning. So he's not suggesting, oh, starting something is bad, just finish it. That's ridiculous. That's impossible. And the way I looked at it is this. If a person's starting out and they've got great ambition And they have great vision, and they have uh uh they have great uh uh they're gonna attempt some great things for God. I tell you, I admire that person If some a young person or whatever they say, I'm going to do this and I'm going to accomplish this in my life or I want to be this in my life, I tell you, I admire that person. But I'll tell you who I respect is the one that actually accomplishes that. That's where the respect steps in. That's where the respect takes hold When we accomplish something. As most of you know, I've been associated with Neighborhood Bible Times since 1985, been on the board for 20 years now, something like that. And I had for a period of time, when I was on staff, I trained, uh, helped train the evangelists, and then once we were here, I went back to Boulder for years and trained for a week or so. Many of you remember that And so I had exposure to a lot of young preacher boys, young fellows, I mean the cream of the croc, sharp fellows, on fire for God. And it was fun as we would train them, their zeal and their excitement, and their vision. And their ambition to do something for God was good for me. It was contagious and stirred my heart. And I remember on one occasion in particular, this is when I was on staff. Uh we were having testimonies and we had about forty-five, fifty, maybe fifty-five young preacher boys all f fired up and they're testing and uh brother Holmes should preach to them and One fellow stood up in his testimony. He says, uh, he stands up, he says, I'm gonna be the next DL Moody in America. And everybody's, amen. Another guy says, I'm going to shake this nation with the gospel. And we're amen. Everybody's all fired up. And I'm thinking, I admire that. I'm grateful for a young man that has a vision and a burden, an ambition to do that. Do you know what I learned after 20-some years Just about every one of those guys that had this great ambition, beginning, starting out with this great ambition, I've never heard of them again. They just kind of faded off. I never heard from them. Now, is that bad having that ambition? Is that bad having that? No, I think we thank God for vision. But I've learned that a lot of the fellas that actually accomplished something for God were the fellas that realized, hey, I need to learn to trust God I need to learn to obey the Lord. I need to learn to walk with God. And they incorporated some fundamentals of Christian living into their lives. You know what I found out? Those are the guys that are ending their time doing something for God. Several years ago, um Charles Keene invited me and along with a bunch of others to go to Mongolia. Remember when I was over there? And they were putting the Bible together and uh translating into Mongolian. We were sitting around there the first night we arrived, and it was a big uh motel a big hotel, fancy hotel, and we were sitting in a conference room and there was probably 35, maybe 40 of us around a big table. And Dr. Keene says, all right, first thing we're gonna do is go around and introduce ourselves There was missionaries and national pastors and the group that was with us. There's about 15 of us. We're all set around there. And so they started going around. And I had never some of the guys in our group I knew, but the fellows that were in country, I didn't know them, I didn't recognize any of them. And they're going around saying their names and it got to me and I stood up and I said, My name is Dennis Sutherman, I'm pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church in Oakland, Maryland. As soon as I said that, one of the guys across the table jumped up. Brother Dennis! And he comes running around and he, oh, it's good to see you. I'm like, who is this guy? And here it was Jeff Dean. He was a Bible time evangelist that traveled about 10 years earlier, 10 or 20 years earlier, maybe. And um I didn't remember his name. I didn't remember he was just one of the guys, but I tell you, Jeff Dean got a hold of waiting on God He got a hold of just trusting and daily walking with God, letting God lead him. And here he was in Mongolia and had a church where Mongolian Buddhists had trusted Christ and was doing a work for God in that God-forsaken country. Well, got to go to his church that Sunday morning. And uh here they are in all their garb and these people came in. A lot of them would come in just because they wanted to see an American, they wanted to hear what the Bible said just out of curiosity There was an element that had gotten saved and were living for God. While we're in there, I've told this story before, but I love this story. While we're in there, he had told us before the service, he says there's a Cuban fellow, he's from Cuba. He works in a mechanic shop, an auto mechanic shop in town here. He said, I've been trying to witness to him a little bit, but he doesn't speak English and he doesn't speak Mongolian. All he speaks is Spanish. He's from Cuba. I said, how in the world did he end up in Mongolia? He goes, I don't know. He's here. So we're having the service. One of the fellows that was with our team is preaching in the service for Jeff. He's preaching in English, Bill Patterson. Bill Patterson grew up in Mexico. He spoke Spanish as his first language. English was his second language. So he's preaching in the service. He's preaching in English. Jeff is translating into Mongolian for the people. Right at the beginning of the service, this Cuban guy comes in the back and sits down. He doesn't speak English or Mongolian, but he does speak Spanish. Lo and behold, here is Bill Patterson. So Jeff whispers in his ear, that's the Cuban guy that always speaks his Mexican Spanish. Bill said, I speak Spanish. He goes, I'll preach in English for the Americans, you translate it into Mongolian for the Mongolians, and then I'll say it in Spanish for the Cuban guy. So the whole sermon was in English, Mongolian, then back in Spanish, the longest sermon I've ever been in in my life And when it's all said and done, Bill is at the end, back of the auditorium, the little storefront auditorium. He's at the back with the Cuban guy, and they're on their knees, and he's calling on the Lord to be his Savior. I didn't remember Jeff ever standing up saying, I'm gonna be, I'm gonna shake Mongolia for gospel. I'm not against that. Praise God for that ambition. But what I'm trying to say is this, the end of a thing is better than the beginning Jeff said, I'm just going to trust God. I'm going to let the Lord lead me. I'm going to be faithful. I'm going to walk with him. And God directed him. And here he is in Mongolia doing some great things for God. Patience. Patience. Just waiting on God, trusting God, letting him lead, letting him direct. Impatience will ruin even the most prudent person, and impatience is rooted in pride. A lot of us know Tony Hess over in Ukraine. Bible time evangelist. Just learn to trust God, serve God, preach his heart out. And God's using them over there. You pray for Tony. Things are changing there. It's tough. But he started church, reached a lot of people. Um, I'm thinking of Luke Knickerbocker In in um Nepal. They're in the States now, but doing a great work, working on the translating the scriptures into Nepal. Just a guy that learned to wait on God. Learn to trust God and let Him lead. And so impatience is rooted in pride. Let me give you my last two observations here, real quick. Impatience riles up our passion. Look with me, if you would, at verse 9. Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry. Well, this next statement is important. For anger resteth in the bosom of what? Fools. Anger resteth in the bosom of fools. Impatience will rile up our passions, our anger. Notice the connection with haste. And anger. Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry. I've found that an impatient person is often an angry person. And an angry person is often a very impatient person. See if you'll agree with me on that. How many people here have ever experienced impatience You ever been to a doctor's office, you move? How many people here ever got impatient And you got and you got irritated and before you knew it you were angry about something. Come on now, it's group therapy tonight Impatience will produce anger. Impatience will produce anger. How many times has somebody been sitting at a red light? Come on, come on. Man, before you know it, you're mad at the red light. Who designed these things anyway? What in the world is something? Huh? I mean how how much road rage is there simply because the person didn't take off uh quick enough? We were talking about maybe taking a trip to Philly. I grew up outside Philly. Brother, when that light turns green, if you aren't on the gas, the slick second it turns green. Let's go, you idiot. I'm telling you, it's true. Impatience produces anger. Um uh I got thinking about that. Wonder how many people have needlessly been killed. On the roads because somebody got impatient, got angry, tried to pass on a ridiculous part because they weren't will because they were going to be eight seconds later arriving at their destination because of the person in front of them. How many people got impatient with somebody and tempers flared? Next thing you know, there's somebody shot dead. All because of impatience. I wonder how many ministries have been hurt deeply because somebody got impatient with another Christian and got angry. And said things that ought never to be said to another person, let alone another Christian. One thing leads to another, and next thing you know, there's a big split and a big division. Impatience leads to anger And anger rests in the heart of fools. Wonder how many marriages and homes have been ruined. Because a husband would be impatient with a wife or the children, or a wife is impatient with the husband and the children, and they get angry. They say hateful things. Here's a tragedy. So many times people we say we love the most, we treat the most hatefully. We treat total strangers and we'll never see them again. We'll treat them nicer. more respectfully than we do the people we say. We've taken vows to love the rest of our lives. Impatience produces anger and anger rests the hearts of fools. And it destroys homes, it destroys ministries, and in many cases it destroys lives. Impatience. Impatience. Solomon said that impatience will rile up our passions and make us angry. Then I notice, last of all, verse 10, that impatience often can rewrite our past. Or at least our memory of the past. Look at verse 10. Say not thou, what is the cause that the former days were better than these? For thou dost not inquire wisely concerning this. I think it's wise to learn from the past. Would you agree with me? What's the old statement? A mistake made once is a learning tool. A mistake made twice is by a Fool. In other words, the idea is learn from that. Learn from our past. We can look back and we can see things. So it's I think it's wise to learn from our past, but I think it's foolish to long for the past. The past is gone. Yesterday's gone. I can't go back. Can't ever go back. Now I can learn from my past, but to go around longing for the past is not wise. Um life can be difficult. How many people have learned that? You don't have to be around long. Find out life can be very, very difficult. And rather than pressing on and patiently trusting God and going forward, even when life is difficult, sometimes we get impatient And we start wishing, oh I wish I could go back. Oh, I long for the past when everything was so wonderful. Oh, in the good old days when there was no problems and everything was wonderful and everybody was happy and Everybody got along. Oh, the good old days when it was just perfect. You know what the problem was the good old days that I'm longing for, those people were longing for the good old days before that And in our impatience, our unwillingness to wait on God and trust God and go through and work through the problems and become stronger in my faith and more mature in my faith I get around long and say, oh, it's so much better in the past. You know, I I think sometimes I get that way, oh those good old days, how nice we go back. And then I remember they didn't have Novocaine when you went to the dentist back in those days. That wasn't so great. And we tend to forget that the past had just as many problems as the present. People had just as sinful hearts a hundred years ago as they do now. Now, I think in our country we had maybe more of a Christian influence, and we look back, we learn from that But we can't go back. We can't go back. We get impatient and we start longing for the past. We get impatient, we start imagining this non-existent, perfect past. And what does he say? Thou dost not inquire wisely concerning this. Trust God. Is life tough? Yes. Is our society decaying? Yes. We've preached about this morning. Are there dark days ahead? Absolutely. But I'm here to tell you we got a God in heaven. That loves us, that is in absolute control. And if we will learn to wait on him and trust him and let him lead us and direct us on a daily basis, just Have faith in God, follow his instructions, rejoice in the Lord. We can go forward, go forward, go forward, but we let impatience creep in. Man, we start doing things we would have never done. We start saying things we would never say that would never please the Lord. We end up longing for things that don't even exist. Just our imagination. So patience is better than pride. I had a roommate in Bible college, my first year of Bible college. The school was so packed they had what they called house storms. They just bought up every building around there, cleaned it out, threw some s uh bunk beds in, and that was a dormitory. We had eight of us in a one-bedroom apartment, Holly Hall. One of my roommates, his name was Steve. He was from Michigan. I hope you don't listen to this tape. But um Steve was a good guy. I think he loved the Lord. We got along all right. But Steve was one of those fellows, you ever have somebody that no matter what somebody else had, theirs was better Anybody know what I'm talking about? I mean if you if it was if you were poor growing up they were poorer. If you were wealthy growing up, they were richer. I mean it was just no matter what, there was more. There were more or less or whatever Steve was a good guy, like I said. I I'm not trying to be overly critical, but he had that tendency. I didn't have any negative tendencies at all. I was just ideal. But he had that. He got married at second or third year of Bible college. He met a young lady there. They got married. Here's a mistake Steve made. I hope I learned from this. I think I did. He wanted everything, he wanted the first year of marriage, everything his parents had after 35 years of marriage You know what I'm saying? They had to have the same size house, they had to have all the same furniture, all the same vehicles. And rather than being willing to wait on God, And work and save. And go through the same process I venture to say his parents went through to get to that point. He wanted it all now. It's what happened to Steve. Buried himself in debt. Had a drop out of school, worked three, four jobs for years. I mean tens of thousands of dollars in debt Why? Because he wasn't willing to be patient. He wasn't willing to wait on God. And Solomon said, when we allow impatience to creep in, we're going to find ourselves in a mess. We're going to do things we would have never done. We were going to say things. We're going to get angry. And he says, listen, that's wrong. Be patient, be patient. Wait on the Lord, be of good courage. Wait on the Lord, be of good courage. Wait on the Lord, be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. It's a terrible song, terrible voice. But tremendous truth. Amen. Let's learn to wait on God. Just wait on God. Yeah, but you don't No no no. Wait on God. But if you knew wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. Lord. Father in heaven, I pray you'd teach me and all of us to learn to be patient. It seems like it's a lifelong lesson we have to learn. And I pray that maybe a characteristic of us as a church body, our corporate body, congregation. That maybe one of our characteristics we could develop is of learning to wait, learning to trust you and wait on you and let you lead and direct. Lord, I want to testify publicly before you and this congregation. I've never regretted waiting on you, Lord. You've always been faithful. I pray you'd teach us to do that. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say tonight, preacher, I'm with you on this? I struggle with impatience. And I really need the Lord to help me, and I can see what it's done in my own life. And you'd say, preacher, in my home, on my job, in my personal life, I'm asking God to help me. Be patient. Be patient. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? How many preacher? That's me. I need God to help me be patient. God bless you. God bless you. We need that. We say things we would never have said. We do things we have never done if we did not allow impatience to creep in. So maybe we need to, before we go to the Lord's Supper tonight, maybe a lot of us need to just kneel at an old altar and say, Lord, I've been impatient. That's wrong. That's sin. I want you to teach me. I want you to help me, to learn to wait on you and trust you. And God will help us. We're in the heart of God when we're praying like that. So there's someone here say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I'm not sure that God has forgiven all my sin. I'm going to heaven when I die and not to hell. And say, preacher, I I need that settled in my heart. Is there anything like that tonight? Say, preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned for my salvation. I need that settled. Any at all? Now, Father, bless our invitation as we prepare our hearts for the Lord's Supper. Holy Spirit, move on us and help us, convict us. Stir us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation