I was just testing ya. I just did that for fun. That's so good to see you folks out tonight. I'm so glad you were able to join us. And we have uh this is the first time we've ever done this this picture and and uh I like it. How many like this from the best for the week? Okay, that's still a good number. Uh Pastor was mentioned it today. She says, I was wondering, you know, which is the favorite for the week at this point? And uh we've got a couple out there that uh you folks hadn't seen before. And we did find out last night there was a question of whether I'd ever done a bear before. since I did one last night. And uh Jor Brother George came up uh this evening and he said uh that he had two of 'em, isn't that right? Two book two pictures of bears that he got here. So and they're in his ho home and he ought to know. So we have done bears before. And uh that's the first of that picture though. So but do you mind if we uh let's take a quick vote on the on the uh draw and see which one is the favorite for the week at this point. And then tomorrow night we may do the same thing just to find out uh if there's any changes. So we'll d we'll go to the first one there. We did the you know, the patriotic with the flag and and the helmet and the and the rifle stuck in the ground, you know, a a symbol of the the soldier has given his life and uh then the uh for freedom and that's a the Statue of Liberty and then the uh you know the hidden picture that was in there Now how many like that with the best for the week? Let me see your hands. Okay. We've got a couple patriotic folks there. So there's four it looks like four or five. How about the second one there with the pine trees, the lake in the background and If you'll remember the hidden effect is uh I believe it's the crucifixion, isn't that right? I f I forgot what I did in the in the hidden effect. And the blood is in the water, uh, coming down. Uh is that the one with the hands in it, do you remember? The hand's like that, right. It's uh it's God the Father presenting his son and his shed blood that cleanses us from all sin. I mean, like that one's the best. Let me see your hands. Okay, I I kinda like that one. That's a good one. And then we did the the bridge and it wasn't until uh later on that I found out that I did a bridge last year here. Very similar to that. And uh I don't know who won it, but uh anyway, uh it was similar to that, not the same exactly the same, but it's uh it's similar to it. How many like the bridge picture, the fall picture there All right, good number on that one. Then we did the bear last night. How many like that one the best? Okay. Eight or nine or ten maybe. And how many like this one the best? And how many voted twice or more? I figured you did, so. But anyway, I'm glad that you're here tonight and I think your Bible turns me to the book of John. We'll just read a couple verses and we'll just use kind of use this as a jumping off place here. Uh let's see. Let's start let's let's start reading in uh verse nineteen. I guess that's a good place to to start. And uh the the Word of God says in John chapter eight and verse nineteen, He says, Then said they unto him, Where i Where is thy father? And Jesus uh answered, Ye neither know me nor my father If you had known me ye should have known my father also. Now these words spake Jesus in the treasury, as he taught in the temple, and no man uh laid hands on him, for his hour was not yet come. And then said Jesus again unto them, I go my way. And you shall seek me, and shall die in your sins. Whether I go, you cannot come. And then the said the Jews, Will he kill himself? Because he saith, Whether I go, you cannot come? And he saith, and he said unto them, Ye are from beneath, I am from above, and ye are of this world, I am not of this world I said therefore unto you that you shall die in your sins, for if you believe not that I am he, ye shall die in your sins. Let's pray. Father in heaven, once again we uh uh come to a familiar portion of scripture that uh kind of lays it out uh where mankind is in relationship to you And we ask you now to to speak to our hearts. We don't know uh the heart condition of any soul in here. Save our own. And we do remember the day that we trusted you as Savior. And uh I trust that everyone here that knows you as their personal Savior can can go back to that very moment when they yielded their will and their life to you and they called upon you, repented of their sins, and trusted you as their Savior. And if they can't do that, Lord, I pray that tonight they might uh might be reconsider and make that determination, decide that uh trusting you and knowing for sure that uh They're on the way to heaven is uh worth more than this whole world can offer them. So bless our time around your word, and we ask your blessings on the chalk drawing, you've already blessed it in my eyes, and I trust now that We get ready to show the uh uh picture in the light that uh you'll add your blessing to it. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Well, I just picked this portion of scripture out. one of those messages kind of hard to pick out a specific uh verse of scripture and say this is this is the one we're gonna be at. I was originally I was looking at uh at Proverbs chapter five and verse twenty-two Where it says this, his own iniquities shall take the wicked himself, and he shall be holding with the cords of his sins. And I thought uh that that's a good one there. And uh then I you know, I I start thinking I uh well I like I like James chapter okay, so I went over in the book of James and uh when I got in the book of James, why I read this verse. Let no man say, when he is tempted, I'm tempted of God, for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempth he any man. But every man is tempted when he's drawn away of his own lust and enticed, and then when uh lust hath conceived it brings forth sin, and sin when it's finished bringeth forth death. And I you know, I looked at all these verses and I you know, I just kinda got bum foozled about it. Just uh didn't know which way to go on that. You know, because you can go to so many different verses it has to do with that. But I thought we'd just we'd just do some verses here that that deals with sin and And uh perhaps talk a little bit about it because uh y you know, sin's a problem today. Is that it? That's that's the basic problem with mankind. Wherefore as by one man sin entered into the new world, and death by sin, so death passes upon all men, that's where our problem is. It's just a matter of sin. What is sin? Well, it's uh you know different uh definitions uh in the scripture. One of them is is uh it's a transgression of God's law. So when you break God's law, regardless of which one you break, you you've sinned And uh say, well, uh, which one? Doesn't make any difference. And when you break uh one of God's commandments, it's just like breaking a ball. Yeah, you say, well, you mean you mean telling a lie as bad as murder? Well, it's not not as bad as far as man's concerned, but as far as God's concerned, it's a broken commandment. See the commandments and in God's word it's it's like a it's like a chain. Whenever you have a chain, it's only strong as the weakest link. So when one link is broke, the chain's broke. And that's the way God's law is When you break God's law, why, uh, you've broken it and you've offended a holy and righteous God. Remember what the prodigal said when he went back to his father, he said, Remember, he said, I he said, I've sinned against God and before you. Send against God and before you. And understand that every time you commit a sin, whether it's a a bad word or a bad thought or a bad deed, doesn't make any difference But that deed or that sin is against a holy and righteous God and you'll build be held accountable for that. And you say, Well, I'm a Christian, so all I have to do is go to first John one nine. with attitude with the attitude that you just uh displayed by saying that, uh, you're not going to find much forgiveness at that uh at that point. You're going to find out that uh uh God's still gonna convict you of your sin. He's still gonna uh chastise you. The Bible says that he chastens those whom he loves If you're a child of God, believe me, you're not going to get by with sin. You still reap what you sow here on this whole world. And uh so you're gonna you're gonna find yourself uh being chastened. Uh we know what chasten is, don't we? That's what we are supposed to be doing to our children whenever uh they cross us, whenever they disobey us, when they turn up that snooty nose and and uh they rebel against God or rebel against your word then uh chastening is what takes place. Or should, you know, if you spare the rod, you know, you spoil the child. That's you know, that's just truth. There's no no way around it You say, well, you believe in in uh uh whooping or beating on a kid? No. I don't, but I believe in chastising them. When I was uh doing the chastising, uh I remember when I was chastised When I was chastised, it was with the the old uh razor belt. Of course nobody knows what that is today, but uh some of the yeah some of us with uh gray hair in our head We know what the old region belt was. It was just a p a big hunk of leather that was about that wide that hung right beside the sink, the kitchen s or the uh bathroom sink. And uh it hung there until Dad was wanted to sharp his uh his uh his razor. And that's what he did. He sharpened it. But uh there was another use for it, it was a secondary use, but it was used quite often in my home, and that was uh to chastise. And uh he was very free with his chastisement. And I don't think it hurt me any. I mean it hurt at the time, believe me, but uh as far as the outcome, and isn't that really what it's all about? It's the outcome that we're looking for And whenever we spare the rod, we do spoil the child. And so you're here, mom and dad, and then uh you're letting your kid uh uh cuss you and and and uh say smart electric words to you and and talk you down and all that stuff, uh you're absolutely nuts if you let 'em get by at that. All you're doing is breeding a juvenile delinquent that one day is going to bring a lot of heartache in your life. So you need to learn uh I'm not talking about beating on 'em I'm talking about uh a little switch on the legs. Doesn't hurt anything. And uh or a little on the back side where it's you know, patted especially for that Uh those kind of things are good. You say, well, Brother Williams, I just don't believe that. I don't I don't care what you believe. Uh I've just uh learned by experience No. Uh I've got four children, and all of them are in fundamental independent Bible believing Baptist Church, just like this, all in some form of service. Uh my son teaches Sunday school, leads the singing and and uh I don't know, got he has some other job that he does. Uh I have daughters that uh teach in their their the women's classes in their r uh respective churches. One's a pastor's wife. I you know it didn't hurt my kids to whoop on them when they when they needed it. And uh uh if you want to talk to me or Nan about that after the service, I'd be glad to give you the instructions and just about, you know But uh I'm not talking about you know leaving bruises and I'm not talking about black eyes and bloody noses. It's not like the one guy that uh I heard on on television Uh remember when this situation came up here uh a few weeks back or a month or two back where uh somebody uh got it because they had uh well I think they went to jail finally because they had they'd left bruises and cuts and, you know, that type of thing But uh this one one fellow said he'd he didn't feel like he'd been whipped unless he had a bloody nose or something like that, you know. Uh I'm not for that kind of stuff. But I am saying that that uh that God knows how to chase him. And the always the purpose of chastening is is not for punishment. That's not it. A lot of difference between chastising and and punishing But uh chastising is is uh with the the uh desired uh result of uh brick bringing back into fellowship that one who'd gone astray, you see And so this thing of sin is something we have that we all have to deal with every day. Even the Christian who has this second nature, these two natures that we have. uh the old nature that we inherited from Adam and then and then the new nature that comes in when we receive Christ as our Savior and the Holy Spirit living within that that Christian. uh then uh these two that war one with another. The Apostle Paul knew what it was all about because he he uh Um he mentioned in there where he said you know, he said I uh when I when I wanted to do good I found that I I do wrong. Whenever I you know well let me read it to you because I I always th I thought that was a another verse that would be interesting to uh to look at for a few moments. But it's in the book of Romans in chapter 7 if you're interested in going there. And uh he just simply said this He said, For that which I do I allow not, for what I would, that do I not, but what I hate, that do I. If then I do that which I would not, I consent unto the law that is that's good. Now then it's no more I that do it, but it's sin that dwells in me. Well now you can you know go back and forth on that. But the the main thing that the Apostle Paul is getting daddy, he d he said in in another portion of scripture, he said, In me that is in my in my uh heart, he said that uh in my flesh dwelleth no good thing. Well, that's this whole sin nature that's constantly dragging us and pulling us and enticing us and trying to get us, you know, to go down the wrong path all the time. And so uh the apostle Paul understood what it was all about, and uh uh I'm I'm so glad that he he uh uh He was the kind of an individual, uh, the Apostle Paul was a very logical individual. And when I say that, I mean that that when he he wrote with logic. And uh that's what made the book of Romans so interesting. Uh because he lays it out in step by step. He goes into into Romans chapter six there and and talks about the old nature in in chapter seven. And uh He finishes up in chapter 6 with this statement. He says that sin shall not have dominion over you. He's speaking to Christians. And so if you're a Christian, you're denied, and there is some sin in your life that is dominating your life. That is, it's that you uh you There's something wrong spiritually with you For sin shall not have dominion over you. The Christian is not to be under the domination of sin. And so uh the answer for that, number one, is of course is to put it under the blood. Well how you do that? You do it by simply saying, Lord Jesus, I can't do it on my own, and you finally just turn everything over to God. And I'm uh I know that's a simplistic way of looking at it, but uh uh from what I can gather from the scriptures that if a Christian will simply go to the Lord and say, Lord And meet it in his heart, Lord, I have failed you. I know I've sinned against you, and I am asking for your deliverance on this matter. I believe God will give it to you. And whether he'll do it in the very moment that uh you ask, or whether he'll do it uh a day or two or whatever take, I don't know. But I do know that he does uh take care of that situation in in in a believer's life So what is the lost person then? Where is he at in this whole scenario? Well, uh he's there where where Jesus was talking to those uh Pharisees at the at the very first where we started the reading there He said that you can't go where I'm going, and you're going to die in your sin. These were proud people that would not receive him as their savior. They would not look upon him and and believe that he was the Messiah. And so he was simply saying to them, he said, Listen, uh You will die in your sins if you continue to go the direction you're going. If you're here tonight and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, understand, I didn't say it, but Jesus did. That number one, you are of your father the devil. That's always a hard one to take. Say, well, I'm not that bad a person. I understand that. We always look at each other and compare ourselves with the with other people, and so we don't think we're all that bad But the truth of the matter is that if you're here tonight, you're without Christ, you're considered a lost person. You're considered a person of of from beneath, as Jesus spoke to these uh Pharisees. You're a you're a person that uh uh uh does not have the light of God. They love darkness rather than light because their deeds are evil. And you can go down a whole list of things that John talks about in John chapter 8 and see the characteristics of the lost person. You can see all those things in there. But all goes back to this matter of sin. And what can we do about it? What can wash away my sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. What can make me whole again? Well, it's nothing but the blood of Jesus. It's the blood of Jesus Christ that cleanses us from all sin, according to 1 John. So uh if you have a f have a problem with sin, you go to the place that you can have that cleansing take place, and that's at the foot of the cross. There's three things about sin. And back in the in in uh Proverbs chapter five, where we hit there uh just a moment ago, in verse twenty-two, it says his own iniquities shall take the wicked himself, and he shall be holden with the cords of his own sin. I see actually three things that that will perhaps help us understand this matter of sin and what it does The first thing is there is the enticement of sin. There's something about sin that just keeps drawing and pulling and and uh trying to drag you back into it Even the thing about a saved person is that with the old nature still there, if a person is not dedicated to Jesus Christ, that is if they're not spending any time in the Word of God If they're not spending any time in prayer, if they're not faithful in the house of God, if they don't have friends around them, they don't build them spiritually, then these are people who are going to be enticed. There are going to be people who are going to be easily led astray. That's why it's so important. It's like the drunk that got uh uh that uh when he got saved Why when he came down the street where his bar was where the bar was that he always stopped in. This was the place it was almost habit. As soon as he got to that door, it just like something dragged him in that door and and he'd have to stop and have a beer or have a a shot of liquor or something like that. But when he got saved, instead of walking down this side of the street, he went on the other side of the street and walked down because he didn't want that enticement He didn't want that that drawing ability of sin in his life. The second thing is I see about not only does sin entice you, but it also entraps you Notice that how it's worded there. His own iniquities shall take the wicked himself, and he shall be holding with the cords of his own sin. Part of the picture there, and if you go to other portions of scripture there in in the book of Proverbs, and I don't I don't have it written down. No, I didn't write that down. But it talks about uh the snare. Uh how that uh it talks about the fowler snare And how that the uh that uh that a person, for instance, a a Christian, is one who has escaped the fowler's snare. Well, a fowler, of course, uh was a uh well see, I guess he he's a bird catcher mainly. And uh this was over in England and he was a guy that uh was usually on these uh all the you know, when you had dukes and barons and and kings and stuff like that and and he was the one that took care of the woods and and saw that the animals and and everything was uh you know there's no poaching going on that type of thing. But sometimes there would be uh uh birds that he would he would actually trap And uh perhaps for food and and uh and perhaps it was like uh trapping a hawk out of an area that uh uh that was uh taking some of the game out And so he he learned how to set a snare or a trap for that. Now years ago I was in I was in falconry myself. trained uh uh hawks or raptors to you know to hunt with. And uh uh one of one of the joys that I had was trapping 'em. I just enjoyed that part of it. And so you you uh you have bait and uh uh you have a you have a pole with a with your bait on it And uh you're in a little s kind of a uh s uh stand. I used to have a cardboard box that I uh would crawl in and I'd have strings, you know, where I could pull the trap and I would jiggle the the bait and it would flop around and a hawk that was flying over at that particular time would see that he'd peel off, come down and and hit the bait. And I would pull the string and drag that uh the bait and the hawk over into uh where the trap area was and I'd pull the other string and the trap would trap it and and I would take it uh I would take it out of there and and train it and and hunt with it. So I know what this is talking about, the the the uh entrapment part The thing about about the trap was that once the hawk was in the trap, it couldn't get out of it. It was a it was a net trap. And the net, uh uh you know, once he if he tried more he tried to get out of it, the more entangled he would become within the trap. And that's exactly the picture that God wants us to have of sin Once we allow sin into our life, no matter how insignificant that sin is, no matter how small that sin is, there there's something about sin that entraps and and Then you decide, well, I don't think I want to end this and so you try to back out of the thing and you find that that the more you struggle, the worse it is. Did you ever see a f a uh a moth or a butterfly get in a spider in the web It's it's I hate to see it because yeah you can't untangle them, it's almost impossible to get them out of it once they're uh I've been struggling and and the the web has just made a net all around it and then finally Mr. Spider comes out and does the rapping thing, you know, and And then feeds off of that uh live carcass of for uh as long as it uh as long as it can. I'm just saying that's exactly the picture of sin. And what it does to an individual. It entraps you, it entices you, it draws you in, and then it entraps you where it's very difficult to get out. So you say, well, how can we get out of this thing once we're in and once this sin has taken over our body and it's it's so demanding on us that we can't seem to get get out of it I I feel I feel for the for the those who are uh have been have been uh entrapped by sin. And I don't care what what kind of sin you always think when you think of entrapment, you always think of something like uh, oh uh you know, like drugs or alcohol or stuff like that. Do you know that that adultery and and that type uh of sin is is just as entrapping? Then it gets the that individual it gets involved with someone else's uh spouse or uh or how whatever that whatever takes place there And uh and the next thing you know, they're into a relationship that it's difficult to get out of. And uh And the unusual thing about those relationships is that there comes a point in time when the very thing that they lusted after and desired They become it becomes an a an object of hate. And they begin to hate the very thing that they were involved with. I believe that's the same thing that that happens in in just about any sin that you get involved with. Lost her sound. Thanks, Ben. See, that's what a good wife does. She keeps you in tune. I have to say she keeps me at tune. So that's the way that's what that's what happens uh in the in the matter of of any sin, no matter what what it is The very thing that that uh we cannot stay away from, the very thing that keeps dragging us back to itself. is the very thing that that we become to we come to the place where it we despise it, we hate it, and yet we're still involved and still entangled and still can't quite get loose from this thing Now you say, well, good night, are we are we hopeless? No. No, sin shall not have dominion over you. You don't have to be dominated by sin. If the Son shall set you free, you shall be free indeed. Jesus came to this world for people. Listen, don't you know that that's why he came? He knows the effect that sin has. Please don't talk when I'm preaching. He knows the effect that sin has on each individual. And so he's here for one purpose. That is to set us free, to break the bonds of sin. In that verse it says, His own iniquities shall take the wicked himself, and he shall be holden with the cords of his own sin. Uh I've I've read a a story about a about a blacksmith, and I may have told this before, but I'll tell it again because I believe it's a good illustration. This blacksmith was known for the chains that he made. And he was so proud of the chains that he built himself, forged himself. That he put his initial on each one of them and he said that whoever wears these chains will never, never get free. And it wasn't too many months down the road, lo and behold, he committed some sort of a uh a crime that uh put him in prison. And so whenever they uh got the verdict that he was going to prison, he just sort of chuckled and spoke to the people as he was going out. He said, they'll never, never hold me. And he got into the into the dungeon where they chained him to the wall. And he began to go through the chain links to see, because all the chain All the other chains, they they have one weak link and that's all he had to do is find the weak link in the chain. And he can Finally get out. But as he looked at the chain, link by link he saw that everyone had his initial on it. He was bound by the cords of his own sin. That's what we do. The sins that we commit bind us. But there's only one way that you can be free. If the Son shall set you free, you shall be free indeed. You come to Jesus Christ and you admit, number one, that you cannot do it yourself, that you are totally dependent upon Him. And you'll be surprised at the grace that God gives you. You're here tonight and you're not saved. The thing that you need to do is, number one, you trust Christ as your Savior. If you don't, then what Jesus was telling the Pharisees, you're going to die in your sin. And by the way, you say, well, I have to get in my sin first. You're already lost. He that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son of God hath not life, for hath not believed on the name of the only begotten Son of God. If you've never trusted Christ, you're on your way to the devil's hell. It's not a pleasant place. It's a place where the s the least that we know about it is that there's wailing and gnashing of teeth. We also know though from the other scriptures that there's flames involved and and there's the worm that dieth not. There's all these unpleasant, horrible things, place of darkness. that uh we don't even we don't even want to think about the the awful uh the awfulness of of this place called hell. But the good thing is, you don't have to go. If you trust Jesus Christ, he'll save you from your sin Enticement, entrapment, and enslavement. That's what sin will do for you. If you want free from the penalty of sin, From the power of sin and the presence of sin. Yeah, I I read that outline somewhere, I think It's through Jesus Christ our Lord. The Son shall set you free, you shall be free indeed. Let's look at this chalk drawing