The book of Acts, chapter number four, and I'm gonna preach this morning on some things that excite me. Some things that excite me. You might notice You know, as you see me uh talking to me and everything, I'm a real mild mannered, just about to fall asleep kind of person all the time. And uh but there are some things that that stir me, that wake me up, uh, that makes me excited. Uh one thing is w every time the sun comes up in the morning Uh when I'm able to get out of bed. Now young people you don't realize this yet, but all those minor injuries when you have little, they become major when you get older. Uh it takes a while to get everything moving and and uh able to get the soreness worked out so you can face the day. But I thank the Lord every day I can get out of bed And uh just thank him for a bright new day. Uh there are some things that excite me. We're going to look at Acts chapter number four here in just a moment But I will uh David Livingston, I believe he was a missionary that was excited about God's work. He went to the heartland of Africa. We realise he had a great ministry there. He said, I will go anywhere as long as it is forward. He didn't look back. Paul said uh not looking back. Uh can't look behind you and see all the failures and everything of yesterday. This is a new day. This is the first day of the week We've got a new week to serve God. Doesn't matter how we messed up last week, what we've done, just repent of it, ask the Lord to forgive you, and then start this week afresh and anew this morning. Amen. Some things that excite me. I'm going to give you some of those before we get into the scripture reading this morning. FBN excites me. Amen. FBN Sherathon excites me I enjoy and I forgot to turn this thing on. FBN charathon excites me. We just had spring charathon back in March and we saw God do amazing things Now y'all listening on the radio, y'all don't see all the activity that's going on down there. Uh but the f you can't sometimes you don't hear all the phones are ringing in the back, sometimes you do. Uh but But there is excitement. There is like a revival when all the preachers get together and everybody's working for a common cause to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ around the world. That excites me, but I want to tell you something Uh the ne the day after is the Lord's day, and I went into the church and the lights were out. I went over there early. I had to get something out of the kitchen But I walked walked over there earlier and all the lights were out and there weren't any preachers behind the microphones and and it it just seemed like, you know, the day after Christmas or something Then the phone rang and said, Glory! Uh somebody's called in this morning. And I had to remember, you know, the seraphon's over But by that phone call, the Lord reminded me that He is the same God that worked all those miracles, all those phone calls the week before. He was the same God still on the throne Sunday morning, the Lord's Day, and we had something to be excited about that morning. We looked back at all the blessings and everything that took place And uh uh usually whenever I'm asked to preach right after Sherathon, I get up and the first thing that comes out of my mouth is the phone numbers. Uh call two five two-s two two three-four six zero zero or eight hundred Uh the other one. Uh two four five nine six eight five. Um but FBN in the ministry that God has allowed me to be have a privilege of being part of excites me I'll not get up tomorrow morning dreading that I've got to travel somewhere. I won't get up tomorrow morning dreading uh that we've got to go somewhere else and make phone calls and set up meetings and things like that. It excites me to be in part of the Lord's ministry. And you as a child of God this morning ought to be excited with what God has for you to do. Some of you go and work a public job, but you can let your light shine at that job tomorrow morning and tell somebody about Jesus Christ This church is not a dead church. This church and maybe a couple others that we're in is alive and well. uh uh beaming forth the gospel of Jesus Christ, going out and saving the lost, bringing them in. That excites me this morning. It excites me also when young married couples choose life and bring the miracle of a new baby into the world. What's going to happen to these countries in America too that is killing their next generation? We've got a good a godly generation. We've seen the the young people uh yesterday and today this morning in in the house of God. That excites me this morning because we know it's going to carry on I remember last time we were here, a year ago, yes, I can remember a year ago, uh, when I was here and I preached on that generation that was after Joshua that knew not the Lord But we've got a generation today that that's not going to happen with. Because you have the Lord and you're seeking to serve Him and to love Him and you're excited about Him. But it excites me when somebody chooses life. Amen. Uh we read in the Sword of the Lord paper how uh sixty-one million babies were aborted since 1973. Well a couple of a few issues ago it said, you know, we think it's bad in America But in China it's sixteen thousand babies per day that are aborted, that are murdered, that are taking life from them, they never got to live. Sixteen thousand a day. That comes up, I calculated it, twenty-two million a year. Do you think heaven's empty? All those souls of those human beings are in heaven. There's not going to be any empty mansions up there. Amen. God's not going to be defeated. It's just that we miss the blessing here on earth of them having their lives. Yes, it excites me when young people choose life, especially when it's a new grandbaby for me. Amen. We're in that stage of our life now. Those things excite me. 3 John 4 says, I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth. I get excited when I see God working in my children's lives I got excited last night seeing how God has worked in these children's life. These young people's life. Can't call them children. They'll beat me up after service. But in your lives also. You say, well, how have you seen God working in our lives? You're still here this year. You were here last year, you're here this year, and there's some new ones of you out there. Amen. I get excited hearing that somebody has received Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. Hey, if there's joy in the presence of the angels over one sinner that repenteth, don't you think we can have a little joy down here when a sinner Waltz Isle and get saved. Amen. We ought to be just beside ourselves when that takes place. Praising God, giving glory to Him for that I had the privilege during charathon, I was I was behind the microphone, me and two other guys, and and uh I think Brother Duane and Pastor Ebern and some of the other preachers were in a meeting talking about the radio station over in Newton Grove, uh having their uh bi annual meeting. And this Marine came in from Cherry Point. And uh he came in with uh some sweet potatoes I couldn't figure that out. He said that they had had a party the night before and they had all those sweet potatoes left over. Is that a marine thing? I don't know. You have sweet potato parties on Cherry Point Marine? I don't know. But all those churches that he came by on the way, he chose Grace Baptist Church way over in Newport to bring those sweet potatoes by. Uh a lot of people call them yams. We call them sweet potatoes. Amen And he brought them by there. And uh so uh Miss Robinson, the secretary, the one that does the weather sometimes on FBN, she was asking him uh some things and And she came and got me off the microphone and said, uh there's a there's a Marine out here, I think he needs to get saved. Uh so I walked out there and uh asked him uh if he was uh born again, if he'd ever trusted Jesus Christ to come into his heart and life and r and save him, to forgive him and to save him. And uh he said, well I'm a member of a Baptist church up in Buffalo, New York I've been in the Marines for ten years and I'm getting ready to we're just getting ready to leave Cherry Point and move back home. And uh I said Uh, are you are you saved? Have you ever been born again? And he said, Well, I was a member of that Baptist church there in Buffalo, New York. He said, but then he hung his head. He said, I've never asked the Lord to save me, to forgive me, and to save me And uh I said, Well, would you like to take care of that this th today? He said, I would. And so then I could uh I can see the devil started working on him, trying to make a a way of exit for him. I said, Well There's a lot of people here that were coming in, they were gathering around him and everything. And and I said, let's go down the hall. So when he said, I left my car running out there. He said, I I I really need to be going. I got I got to get on. And uh went out there. I said, Well, let's go out there And we got out to the car and he was getting ready to get in the car. I said, Just turn the key off in there And uh he turned it off. And I took the word of God and showed him how he could trust Christ as his Savior and that he he loved him so much that he died for all of his sins That he could be saved and have a uh life uh away from his sin here on earth, but have a home in heaven also And and uh I said, I can't pray and you get saved. That that won't happen. I can't say, uh Lord, please save him. Uh we pray for people like that, but but uh I said, I can't pray and you get saved. I said, you're gonna have to praise I said I'm gonna pray for you while you're praying And he started praying out loud. He said, Lord, uh I know I've been in church a lot in my life and I've heard the preacher preach and and uh I've I've um not pleased you. I've done some bad things while I've been in the Marine Corps. And he said, Would you please forgive me? I I want to turn from that and I want to live for you. Would you come into my heart and life and save me? And he's praying all this out loud and I thought, well now he's saying in Jesus' name I pray, Amen. That he said, Lord, he said, will you go with me the rest of my life and lead me the way I need to go so that I don't make these mistakes again? I think he got it, amen. I think he really truly uh asked the Lord to say that excited me. There might have been a whole lot of rejoicing in the presence of the angels before God there in heaven. But there was some rejoicing going on and out in the parking lot too. And then I took him inside and we got him some discipleship materials, got him a Bible, and uh so he went on his way. I get excited having a Bible this morning. The Word of God, the inerrant, infallible, preserved Word of God For us English-speaking people in the King James Bible here this morning. I get excited getting up in the morning, and the first thing before I even take a bite of something to eat, I want to read my Bible I I feel like my spiritual nourishment is more important than physical nourishment many times. I I I want to get something from God and just and I pray before that. I say, Lord, destroy this flesh Help me to live in the Spirit and give me something from your word this morning. I get excited talking to Him in prayer. He's real. He is sitting on the throne of glory and he hears everybody's prayers. There's seven billion people, over seven billion people in the world today, and all the Christians praying, and he hears and answers each and every one of those prayers. He said, well, he didn't answer mine this morning. Oh yes, he did. Sometimes he says, yes. I'll grant your request. Sometimes he sees the future and knows it wouldn't be good for us to answer a certain thing a certain way, and he says no. Sometimes he says, just hold on a little while. I got some other things to work out, and then uh you'll see the answer to that prayer. Uh I was reading my uh devotions this morning, and I always read Paul Chapels that he has. He said that uh uh this morning Uh he said that we've traded the sweet hour of prayer for just a little talk with Jesus. We need To be fervent in prayer today if we're going to make it not make it to heaven, not make it for salvation, but we need to be fervent in prayer if we're going to live the victorious Christian life that God has for us here this morning. We need our time with God. That's exciting to me. It's exciting to see how he answers prayer. I'm going to try to get to the scripture here in just a minute. But I had this trip for over a year. It was scheduled to go to Ava, Missouri. You say, where is Ava, Missouri? It's in Missouri. It's in it's in the heart of those arts out there and and uh if there's two things that Missouri needs, it needs a a wider bridge going over the Mississippi River and it needs a FBN radio station. Amen But it's beautiful country out there. Never seen so much sky in my life. But we had this trip set up for a year and it came down to the last week. I we needed to break the trip up. I can't drive uh 14 hours at one time. I just can't do it. Um, and we needed to break it up. So we wanted to stop off in Tennessee uh for a day or two, get in a service there, and then head on out there. Uh but coming up on Friday before we left the next week, we still didn't have a place to go And the Lord uh started, I just prayed, I said, God, this is a hard thing for me. I can't do it, but but this is an easy thing for you. We need a place to stay in Tennessee And uh my wife came to me and she said, how about um Brother Seats over there in Yakinville? He preaches out there in Tennessee a lot. Ask him if he knows of a place. So texted him and he said, try this one over in Morristown, Tennessee uh called there and got a voicemail. That's the worst thing as a missionary that you can get is a voicemail. Sometimes they answer back, sometimes they don't. Uh but they called back and said, yes, we have those dates open. Please come on. Make yourself at home. We'll be glad to have you. Well, that was an answer to prayer. It might be seemed like a little thing to y'all this morning, but that was a big thing to me and my family. Uh when our van tore up and God provided a new uh a nice one uh just two days later, that was a big thing for us Us. And God has done that over and over and over and over in our lives. We've not done without a meal. We've been on the road for three years now, and God has provided every need that we've had He's been so good to us, far better than I've been to him. In John chapter number eight, I want to read a verse of scripture there before I go to Acts 4. In John Chapter Number Eight In verse number 29, the Bible says, And he that has sent me is with me. The Father hath not left me alone, for I do always those things that please him. I wish that could be my testimony this morning that I always do those things that please him. I've got wow wrote in my Bible right there. Because Jesus always did those things that pleased his Father in heaven. As he spake these words, many believed on him. Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him, If ye continue in my word, Then are ye my disciples indeed. I want us to think about that as we look at these scriptures here this morning. I'm so glad that Jesus spoke in John 14, 6. Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. We don't have to wonder if the God that we're serving this morning is the one true God. He is a jealous God. He doesn't want to serve in idols. Uh they're dead. They're just pieces of wood or or clay or stubble or or something that's inanimate. It doesn't have breath in it. But our God is the God that created everything. I'm so glad Jesus spoke those words. And also in Romans 10, 17, so then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. There's still some places in Scripture that I don't uh understand fully. I don't understand everything. I don't have a uh a Bible education. I wish I did. I've done the best I can with commentaries and with just getting on my knees before God and asking the Holy Spirit of God to show me things in the Word of God. But there are some places that just preach their sales, like Acts chapter number four, this morning. If you've got your place there this morning, I want us to look at verse number one there to begin with. And as they spake unto the people, the priests and the captains of the temple and the Sadducees and the Sadducees came upon them. Let's pray. Our Father, I want to thank you, Lord, for the opportunity that I have to be in your house this morning and to be able to stand and have breath. to praise your holy name. Lord, I pray that you'll just take your word this morning. Speak to our heart. Speak to some soul, Lord, that needs to hear this message this morning. And I pray that you will receive all honor and glory for everything. And Lord, I love you. In Jesus' name, amen If I look at this verse of Scripture, it says, and as they spake unto the people, the first word there is and. That means that a lot has taken place before they get to this As I look in the chapter before that, I see Peter and John went down to the temple to pray. Must have been Wednesday night prayer meeting. Amen. They were on their way to the temple to pray, and there was a lame man uh that was asking an alms of them. You know the story. And and uh uh Peter said, Look on us. And he said, Silver and gold have I none, but such as I have give I thee. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk And he got up and and he sauntered on back home. No! He got up and he was leaping And he walked with them into the temple. He was uh praising and leaping. He was praising God. He was walking and leaping and praising God. We know the song and the scripture He had something to be excited about. Everybody else that was able to walk in everything, they might have looked, but they took notice of him because they knew that he was lame from his mother's womb Uh that he had never been able to take a step before and now he's walking and leaping and praising God. That's a big thing And then we come to verse number four. Peter and John still there. And they spake unto the people and priests, and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them. It doesn't say that they came to them to hear what they had to say. They came upon them like they were going to take over because they didn't like what was going on. We're going to look at it a little bit expository this morning. But it said the priest and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them. The Sadducees were sad, you see, because they didn't believe in a resurrection. And Peter and John was preaching that there was a resurrection, that Jesus Christ had raised from the dead. And therein we have our salvation sealed through his death, burial, and resurrection. Came upon him. We don't serve a leader of a movement today We serve a risen Savior. We're not serving some person that came on the scene uh centuries ago and then died, and his bones are still in a grave somewhere We serve a risen Savior that bodily rose from the dead and ascended into heaven, and he's just as real and alive today, sitting on the right hand of God the Father, and He's going to come back for us. So when's he gonna do that? I don't know. It might be today, it might be a hundred years from now, but I'm gonna look for him today, like he's coming today, and we need to live our lives like he's coming today. We don't serve a dead leader of a movement, but serve a risen Saviour Verse number two says, being grieved that they taught the people and preached through Jesus Christ, through Jesus, the resurrection from the dead, they were grieved. They were grieved that Peter and John were preaching the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. They were grieved. Have you seen people that don't have any hope? Have you seen them I I've seen people in different cults before and and they're trying to hand out their literature and and uh trying to get people in their cloak. I don't know why, because they have no joy They have no joy in what they're saying they believe. If I believe what they did, I wouldn't have any joy either. I don't, I don't, I worship the Lord Jesus Christ. He's my Savior. I don't worship a man here on earth that has started a movement. And I'm leery of any time I hear somebody say, are you of such and such this camp, or are you of this, or are you of that? I I get leer of that because they're following most times a man and not the Lord. No joy. They've reformed. They they look good on the outside. Jesus told them said you you make clean the outside But you leave the inside, the inside is like a sepulchre is full of dead man's bones. No change on the inside. They've reformed, but they have it regenerated. Regeneration means you m you become alive again in the second second birth. I wasn't excited before I got saved, not too much, maybe at a ballgame or something, but but now I've got something to be excited about. Over at the Threshers Reunion, I I'd never noticed it until last year, and and then in front of our post office in the big city and sprawling metropolis of Denton, North Carolina I've seen the Jehovah's Witnesses setting up in front of the post I was handing out their, there's no joy. They're just trying to get people to take that because they're working their way to heaven. They have to talk to people so that they can merit heaven. That's works. That's not by faith through grace, by grace through faith. I made a mistake, and I may have told you about this. I went to it, it said Independent Baptist Church, and I went in there, but it was not Independent Baptist Church. And they started talking about sovereign grace. And I thought, well, I don't know what sovereign grace is. I'm dumb as a bucket of hair. I I don't know what sovereign grace is. And and And he gave me some CDs before we left and and I listened to one of them. He said that uh he he made this statement in his message said that Jesus did not die for the sins of the whole world Well, my Bible tells me over in 1 John that Jesus came and he died for the sins of the whole world. So he's contradicting the word of God. And then he made different changes and everything come to find out he was a Calvinist. There again, I don't follow Calvin. I'm not a Calvinist. I follow the Lord Jesus Christ. You're safe just following the Lord. Don't worry about other men. They'll let you down. Amen. Follow the Lord. So they were grieved, and they taught the people and preached through Jesus the resurrection from the dead. And they laid hands on them and put them in hold until the next day, for it was now eventide. So they laid hands on them. and not going to let them go. Over in Luke chapter number twelve this is a a direct result of prophecy that Jesus told his disciples when he was with them And Luke chapter number twelve, verses eleven and twelve, he says, and when they bring you unto the synagogues and unto magistrates And powers, take ye no thought how or what ye shall answer or what ye shall say, for the Holy Ghost shall teach you in the same hour what ye ought to say This has come to fruition right here. Peter didn't have time to get up a doctrinal thesis or a great exposure. He was dependent on the Holy Spirit of God to tell him what to say to these people And they laid hands on them, and they put them in hold till the next day, for it was now even time. Howbeit, many of them which heard the word believed, and the number of the men were about five thousand. Now That tells me that there's some truth in what Peter and John were saying. People got excited because, hey, they've got hope now. There's a risen Savior, that one they crucified that Peter told them about, that they crucified And by their sins hung on the cross at Calvary, rose from the dead, said, This is something we can believe in. It gave them some hope. It still gives people hope today when you tell them And it came to pass on the morrow, and the rulers and elders and scribes, and Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas the and John and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred of the high priest were gathered together at Jerusalem and when they had set them in the midst they asked, By what power or by what name have you done this? Now I can imagine Peter, that's like saying sick em to a bulldog He was ready. You don't have to ask me whose name it is. I'll tell you it's Jesus Christ. It's Jesus. There's power. in the name of Jesus Christ. Remember when Jesus was in the Garden of Gethsemane and s Judas had gone out to betray him and brought the Roman soldiers back with him. And uh they Uh Jesus asked them, says, Who whom seek ye? Who are you looking for? And they said, We're looking for Jesus of Nazareth. And what did he say? He said, I am he. And what happened? They all fell back They all fell back. There's power in the name of Jesus Christ. There's none other name given among men under heaven whereby we must be saved. There's power in that name this morning. Philippians chapter number 10. They moved that one too, just like this morning I've got a bookmark, I just use it. Philippians What did I say? Where where am I? Philippians chapter number two, thank you. Philippians chapter number two, verses ten and twelve uh to twelve, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. of things in heaven, of things in earth, and things under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Wherefore, my beloved As ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. One of these days, every knee is going to bow and every tongue is going to confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God. Every knee. That's saved people and the lost people alike. Those that would not bow their knee here on earth will bow their knee one of these days. All those that have caused terrorist attacks and and all these that have uh put people under bondage are going to bow before the Lord Jesus Christ one of these days and say, Yes, you're Lord. You are who you said you were. You're the only God. And then verse twelve there In Acts chapter number four it says, Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. The verses in between there say, Then Peter filled with the Holy Ghost. We saw Peter in other places in the Bible where Peter was filled with Peter. He he spoke out of turn, he spoke too quickly without using wisdom or knowledge or understanding, and he got himself in trouble. But here it's different. And Peter, filled with the Holy Ghost, saith unto them, Ye rulers of the people and elders of Israel, if we this day be examined of the good deed done to this impotent man by what means he is made whole, be it known unto all and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man stand here before you b before you whole. This is the stone which was set at naught of you builders, which has become the head of the corner. Now now if I h I'd have been one of them that he was preaching to, I'd have felt about that small right then But it was an eye-opener because five thousand of them believed and got saved. Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John verse 13 And perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marveled, and they took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus And beholding the man which was healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it. When Jesus moves in a service, when Jesus moves and performs a miracle on somebody, when God is moving, uh man cannot deny it. There's no way to explain it. You just know that God did it. How many of you can testify to that in your own lives? Amen. How God you can't explain it any other way but that God did it. But when they had commanded them to go aside out of the council, they conferred among themselves, saying, What shall we do, these men? For that indeed a notable miracle hath been done by them is manifest to all them that dwell in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it But that it spread no further among the people, let us straightly threaten them that they speak henceforth to no man in his name. And they called them and commanded them not to speak at all, nor teach in the name of Jesus. But Peter and John Uh see that word but right there. That means that something's going to happen contrary to what their plans were right there. But Peter and John answered and said unto them, Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye For we cannot but speak the things that we have seen and heard. There's a lot of events that's taken place in our lives that we have seen. And we're still talking about them today. 9-11 happened 16 years ago. There's some people here in this church this morning that were not alive during that time, and it seems like yesterday to me when it took place I know where I was, I know what I was doing, I know what the weather was like. There wasn't a cloud in the sky, it was just beautiful blue up above where I was at, uh, over towards Ashborough, building furniture And then it happened. People are still talking about that today. We still have memorial services for that today, and our veterans that have given uh uh and those that we memorialize and those that we honor, those that are still alive Uh we th we have time set aside for them and we remember that, but people are still talking about Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world, over two thousand years since he came and gave his life on the on the cross of Calvary. Two thousand years later, there's none other name under heaven like Jesus. The Calvary Quartet on FBN radio sings a song called Let's Talk About Jesus. Jesus is the sweetest name I know. We gave some of the names of Jesus this morning, one of the hymns we sang this morning It's all about him. Jesus said, and I, if I be lifted up, will draw all men unto me. What we need to do is lift him up this morning in our lives, in our hearts. For sake of time this morning, I want to go a little farther. Verse 23, and being let go, they went to their own company. It's like saying they went back to their own church with believers where they could get some encouragement. After being out in the world all week on a secular job or Or just having to rub shoulders with the world during the week, isn't it? Sunday night and Wednesday night Being with the brethren. We're a family. Brothers and sisters in Christ. It's a blessing. So they went to their own company and reported all that the chief priests and elders had said unto them. And when they heard that They lifted up their voice to God with one accord and said, Lord, this is a prayer right here, Lord, thou art God which hast made heaven and the earth and the sea and all that in them is who by the mouth of thy servant David hast said, Why did the heathen rage and the people imagine vain things? The kings of the earth stood up and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ for of a truth against thy holy child Jesus, whom thou hast anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate and the Gentiles and the people of Israel were gathered together for to do whatsoever thy hand and thy counsel determined before to be done. And now, Lord, behold their threatenings. It said, We remember the time, we remember in your word how you said These things were going to happen to Jesus. He was going to go to Jerusalem and give his life, a ransom for many, and how he's going to die for the sins of the whole world. We remember those things, but he says, Now, look at us today Help us, he says, And now, Lord, behold their threatenings and grant unto thy servants that with all boldness they may speak thy word. I don't read anywhere there where it says, and they and they said, where they said, Lord, protect us from bodily harm. I don't see that in the scriptures right there. It says, grant unto thy servants with all boldness that they may speak thy word. They didn't say Thank you for that one opportunity we had, Lord, to stand boldly before you and proclaim the name of Jesus Christ, because they wanted to know what name we did these things in. And we're glad that opportunity's over. I'm glad it's over. They didn't say that. They said, give us boldness for the next time. Give us boldness because we know we're going to be confronted with them again They didn't say, keep us from the consequences of our words that you have laid on our hearts, dear Lord. They said, help us to speak with boldness. We in the day we're living, I truly believe we are living in the last minute seconds of the last minutes of the last days. I don't know when the Lord will return. I have no idea. But I know we've got to stand today. We've got an open window of opportunity in this country of ours, and it may not last very long. We've got to take advantage of it. We've got to be about our Father's business, as Jesus said when he was here on earth Verse 30 of Acts 4, oh hasty, it says, By stretching forth thine hand to heal, and that signs and wonders may be done by the name of thy holy child Jesus. Look at verse 31. And when they had prayed The place was shaken. The place was shaken where they were assembled together and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost. And they spake the word of God with boldness. God granted their prayer requests right there. What we need this morning is a shaking in this place, amen. We need a shaking in every Bible-believing church all across America this morning That people wake up and say, Hey, we have got a Savior. He is he he came to this earth as a poor little baby and he wrote he raised up and he grew up sinless, lived a sinless life. He gave his life for our sins and he died. They put him on the cross and he died on the cross of Calvary He willingly gave his life for us. He died. He was buried. He rose again. He's coming again. We need to tell this to a lost and dying people in a lost and dying world this morning. With boldness, we need a shaking this morning. And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul, neither said any of them that all of the things which they possessed was his own, but they had all things common, and with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus and great grace was upon them all. When we're spirit filled When we ask the Lord to do away with whoever we are, Lord, get Gerald out of the way and fill me with your spirit. And he can do great things. He has great power, great grace. And then skipping over to the next chapter, chapter 5, verse 5, says Anna and I. And nice hearing these words fell down and gave up the ghost. And great fear came on all of them that heard these things. There's a lot of great things God wants us to see, and there's a lot of great things that He wants us to do. He has great power, great grace, and we must have great fear before the Lord. Great fear meaning we have a reverential fear for him, but that he sees our thoughts Our hearts and everything that's in us. He knows who we are. But he also remembers that we're but dust. He's here to help us and to love us and to be everything for us. In Acts chapter number twenty, I'll turn there very quickly this morning, I'll be winding up. Acts chapter number twenty. We see Paul here now. The Apostle Paul. We were reading about Peter and John back there and the miracle that God worked there and that lame man and the trouble that they got into for that. We never see them say that they regretted doing one thing for the Lord. We never see them belly aching about, oh, this has come upon me. Hey Peter Said that uh the history tells us that Peter uh didn't even uh feel like he ought to be uh crucified the same way Jesus did, so they crucified him upside down. And all these things befell the disciples. Well, here's the Apostle Paul. He says in verse 24, but none of these things move me. Neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy, and the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus to testify the gospel, the grace of God. Paul had just gone through many scriptures right here, many verses of scripture talking about all the things that he had suffered for the cause of Christ. But he says, that doesn't excite me. The title of the message this morning is some things that excite me Uh but Paul said, you know, he was beaten five times. Forty strikes save one. That's thirty-nine strikes times five. That's Two hundred and ninety-five stripes that the Apostle Paul bore upon his back and the scars were left there. And all the beatings, all the Being out in the ocean, uh uh perils of hunger and thirst and all these other things that befell uh Paul, he said, None of those things moved me None of those things excite me right there. He says, Neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy He knew what the important thing was and the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus to testify the gospel, the good news, the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. He said Those other things, those things that have befalled me, they don't excite me, but one thing that excites me is the Lord Jesus Christ. And those things ought to excite us this morning. Do you know him as your Lord and Savior? Do you know him? I want to see God raise up some young people that'll yield and give their whole lives The whole life they have uh before them from today on to the end of their life, that they'll give their lives to Jesus Christ and be used to him. And let God's power come down upon you and that He'd have His hand upon you for the rest of your life. And on the whole church of Mountain Lake, Independent Baptist Church That God's hand would rest upon here. And when people lost, people come in the doors and they sit on the pews, they'll say, Hey, there's something different here There's something different. I want what they have. There ought to be some uh uh uh feeling of remorse, some some uh Uh what the Lord puts on them when they come in that they need to have a change in their life, that they need to repent and be saved. I want to see God raise up some young people. I want to see God use some of us older people. Amen. Till he comes, may it be so in our lives. In Philippians, final verse Philippians chapter number three, Verse thirteen and fourteen You know, Jesus told his disciples, he said, Without me you can do nothing. That's uh that's zero with uh with the mark erased out around. Nothing I couldn't take a breath this morning except God gave me the breath to breathe. But then in Philippians 4. 13 he said, I can do all things. Through Christ which strengtheneth me, not my own power. David didn't do it in his own power. Paul didn't do it in his own power. Peter and John, all the disciples didn't do anything in their own power. It was by the power of the Holy Spirit. Jesus Christ that dwells within them. Notwithstanding you have well done that you did communicate with my affliction. There's some things that excite this world. You can see the excitement. You can go to the amusement parks, and you can see excitement on people's faces. But the world's amusements and things are not the same things that excite us. It's okay for a Christian to go and enjoy life and have a good time. Whenever we go, we went to Pigeon Forge and rode some go-karts. We had a good time, but I was handing out FBN stuff there too. I used it as a time to minister. Usually as a time to be a witness for the Lord. But the world what I'm saying is the world's type of amusements, the world's type of saying things excite them are not the same things that excite us, the child of God. None of these things move me. Are you living and doing your best for Jesus Christ since he saved you All heads bowed, all eyes closed, let's all stand for just a moment. You may be here this morning. The Lord spoke in your heart. Maybe you're you're a visitor here. Maybe you just started coming here and the Lord spoke to your heart and said, Hey, you need to make things right with God. You need to come down, repent, and ask the Lord Jesus Christ to come into your heart and life and save you. And he will do it. I guarantee you He'll do it. He keeps his promises. He's never failed. You may be here this morning, a Christian, and this message is spoken to your heart. Maybe some things that used to excite you have sort of gotten tarnished, gotten old now, and they don't excite you like they used to. This altar, you can refresh that fire again. You know the fire in the tabernacle out in the out in the wilderness with the children of Israel, it was to be burning forever. It wasn't to ever go out. They told the priest, said, don't let the fire go out. It's to never go out. Sure, they carried the ashes out, but they put more wood on it. They kept that fire going. Don't live on the ashes of yesterday. Live on that, let that fire swell up in your heart again and be on fire for the Lord. Father, do your will now. In this time as Pastor Letheman comes, in Jesus' name. Amen.