Would turn here. Ecclesiastes chapter seven. Good job, guys. Good singing. And uh praise the Lord for that. And we're halfway through the book of Ecclesiastes, halfway point. We live in such a politically correct day. People are afraid to say anything, just straight up what it is. And I am very, very glad that we have a Bible that says things just straight up the way they are The Bible calls sin sin. What's right, the Bible c says is right. What's wrong, the Bible says is wrong, and um what's good the Bible declares to be good, and what's evil the Bible says it's evil And so I forgot thinking about that this afternoon. I'm just praise the Lord that we don't have a politically correct Bible And we know exactly the way things are. You say, oh, I get triggered on that. That's the new thing. Oh, you get triggered. Well, we need some Holy Ghost triggering going on around here. And let people get conviction of the Word of God. Amen. Ecclesiastes, I've been wanting all day to say that, and uh felt pretty good. Alright, Ecclesiastes chapter 7. I want to read verses, uh begin reading verse number 1. I'm going to read down through verse number 10 Think what I'm going to do tonight for several reasons. I'm just going to kind of give my introductory thoughts and then when we get back to this, we'll dig in and kind of break it down into an outline form a little more And you pray that I can get through this without coughing my lungs out. Verse number one, the Bible says, a good name is better than precious ointment. And the day of death than the day of one's birth. It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting For that is the end of all men, and the living will lay it to his heart. Sorrow is better than laughter, for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but in the heart but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise than for a man to hear the song of fools. For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, So is the laughter of a fool. This also is vanity. Surely oppression maketh a wise man mad, and a gift destroyeth the heart. Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof. And the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit. Be not hasty in thy spirit to be anger, for anger resteth in the bosom of fools. Say not thou what is the cause that the former days were better than these, for thou dost not inquire wisely concerning this He gives a list of some things that are better. A list of things that are better. Let's pray, and uh we'll just get some get lay the foundation here for our thoughts. Father, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. Again, it's been a good day. Again, we rejoice in you, Lord. and your goodness to us. And I ask that you'd speak to our hearts now. Help us to get a heavenly perspective on this old life we're living, this world we live in. Help us to see it from above the sun and not just what's under the sun. I ask that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew. I ask that I yield my will to you. And again, fill me and speak through me as my prayer. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. We're halfway through Ecclesiastes, chapter 7. It's been kind of a strange book. How many people agree with me? There's some strange statements going through here. and uh some dark statements, but if we understand where Solomon is coming from, it all makes complete sense. And there's kind of a shift now in the This is a sermon that he preached there in Jerusalem. It's a little bit of shift in the content of it, and now he's giving a series of of statements. It's a little bit more like Proverbs. Did anybody notice that? The beginning part was like a dialogue. He was just kind of telling his story and his conclusions. Now he's given these pithy statements, these uh kind of um uh uh proverbs type thing going through there. And uh and so there's a little bit of change. Um In this passage we just read, anybody want to take a guess as to what I believe is the key word Down these ten verses I just read, it's actually through the whole chapter. Anybody want to take a guess? Was anybody paying attention and we read down? A key word. Not vanity, not in this passage right here, this section I just read, there's one word that shows up over and over and over. Better, better, better, better, better, better is this than that, better is this, better is that. He goes through, and uh I believe the key word here is better. It's actually Excuse me, it is actually used eleven times throughout the chapter. Now I'm going to give you a little quiz. Alright? Get your pen out. And uh this is uh we're halfway through, we're midway through the uh Book of Ecclesiastes, so this is a midterm. Tests. We're halfway through the book. You got your pen. Y'all are ignoring me. You're gonna flunk this. I'm telling you right now. Got a pen. I'm gonna give you a list of true or false Questions. You just write down true or false. Let's see how you do it. Then we're going to grade it all together. Alright, number one, here's the first question. Laughing is better than crying True or false? Laughing is better than crying. Just you put the answer down. Well you just, whatever. Do you like laughing? Do you like laughing better than crying? Alright, laughing is better than crying. Here's number two. Now true or false, just write true, T or F. Second one, weddings are better than funerals. Weddings are better than funerals. True or false. You just write down whatever you want. Whatever you think. Here's the third question, third quiz. The day a person is born is better than the day a person dies. The day a person is born is better than the day a person dies. What? Just whatever you think. A day a person is born is better than the day they die. Don't complicate this, just straight true or false down. Alright, here's the next one. I got two more. Compliments are better than criticism. Compliments are better than criticism. T or F, true or false? How many people are cheating on the person beside you? Robin is All right, here's another one. Here's one. This is the last one. Shortcuts are better than taking the long way. Shortcuts are better than taking the long way. Alright, did you get them? Let's go down. Laughter is better than crying. Weddings are better than funerals. The day a person is born is better than the day they die. Compliments are better than criticism. Shortcuts are better than the long way. Now if you put true for any of those, Solomon would have flunked you. Solomon would have flunked you. All but Solomon, how many people passed the test? How many people knew where I was going with that before we even started? Yeah. After all that Solomon had been through, he had been blessed of God with supernatural wisdom. He had been blessed of God with supernatural wealth. He is the wealthiest man on the planet. He was the wisest man on the planet. He had experienced answers to prayer like few other people in history. And yet, in spite of all of that, he got to the point in his life, get this, that he pushed God out of his life. And he sought to find meaning and purpose in a life that excluded God, leaning on his own understanding, trusting in his own resources. and um trying to find meaning under the sun. And his conclusion to a life lived with God excluded was what? It is all Vanity and vexation of spirit. It is empty. It is frustrating. It made them angry It made him very, very frustrated. Basically, Solomon ended up in the condition that most of our world is in right now. Empty and frustrated and angry And he's coming, he's making these conclusions. He's seen both sides of this life. He's experienced God's presence and God's supernatural power in extraordinary ways. He's lived a life that has completely pushed God out. He has everything, experienced everything the world has to offer. And he says, this is vain, this is empty, this is frustrating. And now he is giving his his uh his uh the lessons he's learned, the observations he's made. And he says here that some things are better than other things. And I thought it was interesting here, and I tried to point that out in this little quiz we gave. He pointed out that the painful and the unpleasant experiences of life Are better in many ways than the carefree and uh uh pleasant experiences of life And he approaches it, his observation, his conclusion is the exact opposite of what the world would say. And I believe what he's doing here, and I'm getting a little ahead of myself on this, but I believe what he's doing here, and of course God through him, he's trying to change our perspective on the events of life. And see things that in the world's eyes, a world without God, a world that is empty and vain and is under the sun. The way they see these things is I want you to see this from God's perspective. And what God is trying to do. Now, He doesn't have some morbid obsession with the negative. Do you ever meet anybody that is morbidly obsessed with the negative? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I mean it's just obsessed with negative. Everything is negative, negative, negative, negative, negative. Oh, it's better oh it's better to die than live, you know. That's not Solomon's point here. In fact, Solomon and I believe Solomon enjoyed life. I believe Solomon loved the happiness in life and loved a life of joy. In fact, eight times throughout the book of Ecclesiastes he uses phrases to this effect. Enjoy your life. Enjoy life. You go through Proverbs and he references so many times about things of life and having the joy in life. So Solomon is not morbidly obsessed with the negative. He's trying to drive a point home. He's trying to help us see something that he has learned and he's observed. By the way, the Lord wants us to have an enjoyable life. God this idea that if you're going to be a good Christian and you have faith in God and you're living a good pure godly life, that somehow you got this big black Bible under your arm and you wear black Jackets and um you're just f frown and uh you're mean and you're hateful and you're miserable. Boy, that guy's a spiritual person. That is not of God That is not scriptural. Can somebody tell me what does John chapter 10 and verse 10 say? I'll help you out. The thief cometh not. But for to steal and to kill and to destroy. And he's referencing, of course, Satan there Then Jesus said this, but I am come that ye might have life, and he doesn't stop there, and that ye might have it more abundantly, a full life. A life that is uh uh fulfilling and satisfying and and uh uh uh um satisfactory, a life that is filled with the joy of the Lord. He says I'm coming in might have my joy, that your joy might be full. So when we look at this passage of scripture where he's saying these These events that are painful, these events that are that are unpleasant, and they're better than these other events, it's not again, as I say, it's not a morbid obsession with the negative It's a perspective he's trying to give to us. It is possible. In fact, I think what he's trying to teach us here is this. When we have a right perspective on the painful, the unpleasant experiences of life, when we have a right perspective on them, The joy and the our joy becomes much more substantial It's a deeper joy. It's more fulfilling. Is everybody with me? You follow where I'm trying to go with this The world has a joy that is very superficial. It's based on everything's going my way, then I can be happy. If everything is pleasant, if everything is positive, there's no pain involved in it, oh then I'm just, oh, it's just wonderful. And Solomon is saying, listen, if we understand a right perspective on life, we understand a right perspective on the events of life. And we see these painful and these unpleasant experiences from God's perspective, they actually help us Be more fulfilled in life. They help us appreciate and have a more uh more a greater depth to our joy and our fulfillment. And I think we'll bring this out as we work our way down through here. It's possible to have fun, but not have joy. Take your Bible, if you would. Let me just show you a couple verses. Come over to chapter, well, we're right here in uh chapter seven, look with me at verse six. And my point is this, under the sun, people that are just living under the sun People that put basically pushed God out of their life and everything is here and now on a on a um horizontal perspective They can laugh, they have a lot of laugh, and they might have fun, but they're lacking joy. Look at verse 6. For as the crackling of thorns under a pot. I don't know what how you picture that or how you hear that, but I just hear this. Alright? You follow uh uh it's crackling of thorns. They're popping underneath there and you throw some thorns and some brush in there and it's crackling and popping away. But look what it says, as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the what? Laughter of the Ooh. And so they're laughing and they're having fun. But there's no more substance to it than thorns just crackling underneath there. It's just an empty, temporary, meaningless fun. And there's no real joy in that. There's no real contentment and fulfillment. And we look out of the world and we see a generation of people who are so obsessed with fun. At the to the point where it doesn't matter how perverse or how ungodly or how empty it may be, as long as it makes me cackle. As long as it makes me laugh, they're just grabbing for it. Because they have a wrong perspective on life, and it always just this superficial fun. And Solomon's addressing that, saying, listen, there's more to that than this. If we have a right perspective, come over to Proverbs. We're not far away from Proverbs. Come back to chapter 14. Again, he touches on this. Jeff, we Proverbs chapter 14, and look with me if you would at verse 13. Excuse me. This is what I was praying wouldn't happen. Chapter 13, even in laughter The heart is what? Sorrowful. And the end of that mirth is heaviness. Heaviness. I don't know how many people this would apply to, but I wonder how many folks here before you were saved, Maybe you live a little wild life. You get out and you can be out partying, partying, and that type of thing. How many folks would go out and really in the world and in the flesh you had a great time? You laughed and carried on and had a blast, but when you got home, that emptiness settled in. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That emptiness settles in. And that's what he's talking about. And he's addressing this world's idea that as long as everything is positive, everything is going my way, I can cackle and I can laugh. But the problem is life inevitably has to deal with pain. Life will eventually end in death Life eventually is going to hurt at some point. And if all my contentment and all my joy and all my happiness is in painless, pleasant experiences. I'm going to have a very, very shallow, very, very temporary happiness and joy. And it's going to end up in vanity And vexation of spirit. So he's helping us here. I believe God through Solomon is helping us here get a correct perspective On the inevitable things of life. Come back here to chapter Ecclesiastes 7. He mentions that term better. Better is this, better is this. And without fail. The better things, according to this passage, are the things the world would say are worse. But he says, no, no, no. If you have a right perspective on them, they enable you to deal with life and have a more fulfilling life. He is saying this that the negative, the painful, the unpleasant experiences of life, get this, deepen our walk with God. Years ago, some of us are old enough to remember this and it's probably a little before my time, but years ago, uh how many people remember how many people took um is it castor oil if you weren't feeling good you took castor oil how many people just love drinking that stuff Oh man, this is great. Can I have some castor oil, Mom? And uh what were some of those old-time medicines? Uh turpin put turpentine and uh Yeah, put in a bu uh put it on a spoonful of sugar, put a little turpentine under it, clear that cough right up. Of course you're dead in two days, but um clears the cough up. And here's the try what I'm trying to illustrate. Sometimes it is the most unpleasant things in life that are the best for us. Sometimes going to a funeral helps me understand what life is a whole lot better than going and welcoming a new baby in the world. See what I'm saying? He's not saying that the positive things are negative. He's not saying he's not addressing that. He's simply saying, listen, God can and will use, if we have the right perspective. the painful and the unpleasant experiences in life to help us understand him a little better and to be a little stronger in who and what we are And we're not going to have time, but in that first verse, a good name. These difficult, painful times sometimes help us establish a good name. in a more in a more substantive way than going to a party does. Follow what I'm saying? Just like that old time medicine. It seems like the worse it tasted, the better it was for you. Right? It's kind of like these stupid diets. If anything tastes good, don't eat it. If it tastes terrible, then you can eat it So what they're trying to do is starve us to death. I was at Mark's house. His grandma had her 87th birthday, right? A couple about a month ago. Grandma was 87. Wasn't it Mark's house, it was Mark's dad's house. And we were there, had a picnic, and I'll go anywhere to get free hamburgers and stuff. And so uh we went to the picnic. It was nice, had a little party for and and um his dad He's a neat guy. He was out showing us all kinds of stuff. And he said, let me show you, I've got some monarch butterflies. And he had a little jar, and he had the little um uh well he actually had some milkweeds there and he had some monarch, it's not the butterfly, it was the uh caterpillar. What do you call it? Monarch caterpillar? Is that what you call it? You don't know any more than I do. It was the caterpillar part. The worm. All right, just listen to me, all right. That little bug, caterpillar bug It's crawling up there and he's showing that to me and he's explaining all these things about it and it's fascinating. And I had heard this years ago before and he was telling me all that. And um then he had one where it was actually the The that thing is up there and it was in the cancoon. Don't give me all these fancy words. It was in the concun And it was hanging there. And he had one in a jar, and we got talking about that. And he said the amazing thing was is how quickly that thing will transform it from one uh stage to the next. And then he got talking about how that thing peels out and will push its way out and it'll work and it'll use its wings to work itself out of that cocoon it's in. And he made this statement. He says, you know, and you probably heard this. I'd heard it before, but I've forgotten. He says, you know, if you take and cut that cocoon and let that thing out of there without the struggle, Without the pain, without the unpleasantness, that thing will be crippled and will never fully. I mean he put it didn't put it this way, but This is my application. That thing will, if it doesn't have the pain and the unpleasantness of busting through that, experiencing that, that butterfly, that monarch butterfly, will never fully enjoy its life. It is better for that little Butterfly to struggle and hurt and stretch because it'll be a better butterfly. It will fulfill its person, have a live better life. than if it would escape that unpleasantness and that pain. And we live in a world that is desperately trying to escape the unpleasant and the pain. And they're frustrated, and their lives are empty, and they're living for under the sun. And Solomon, I believe, God through Solomon is trying to tell us, listen When those painful experiences come, when those unpleasant, inevitable unpleasant experiences of life come. Understand that God is allowing that so that we can be better people, so that we can have more depth. To our integrity and our understanding and our faith in God. I tell you this: this personal experience, I've learned more about God's power in times of need than I have in times of plenty. It's been better for me to have need than it has to have plenty. I've learned a whole lot more about God. I've learned to understand the comfort and presence of God in times when I am sobbing my eyes out than I have in times when I'm cackling and laughing at meaningless stuff Those are better for me. And he goes down, he gives these lists of things. And we're going to look at these. And I wanted to get started tonight, but for sake of time, we won't do it. The first one is a good name. is better than precious ointment. I'm eager to get to that because it's a neat truth that he gives there. But what I want to leave us tonight, let's ask God. to help us not pursue the meaningless, shallow cackle of this world. But let's ask God to see the events that He brings into our lives and say, God, this hurts. And it's very, very good for me. And it's helping me be a have more depth as a person and a clearer perspective. Make sense? I've had a lot of people experience the greatest event of their life standing beside a grave. I'm thinking of a woman in Indianapolis. She never came to church, unsaved, wanted nothing to do with God. But her mother was a faithful member of the Thomson Road Baptist Church. Loved God, tremendous testimony. And at the grave of her mother, we gave the gospel out. And that daughter saw and understood how desperately she needed Jesus Christ as her Savior. And that daughter at the funeral trusted Jesus Christ as her Savior. And God transformed her life. And she became a good strong. I'll tell you this, the day of the funeral was better than a day of birth. For that dear lady, because it opened her eyes and she saw. You see where Solomon's going with this? And so he's going to go down through a list of these things. I think they're going to be very helpful and help us see different things from a different perspective. Father in heaven I ask now as we come to the invitation time that you would help us to see our lives and understand we don't have to pursue pain and unpleasant, we don't have to run after it. But God when it inevitably comes, help us to see the value of it and understand what is being accomplished here and what you're doing in our lives. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I haven't gone through it. It's not something I would choose. It's a bit painful But I want to see it from God's perspective, and I want to yield to the Lord and let him have his way and let him break me and mold me and give me some depth in my life. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I would have faith in God. Now I would be able to trust him what he's doing to develop me into the person that this unpleasant experience intends for it. Is there any like that? You know when any like that, preacher, pray with me, that I've had some faith in God and that he could accomplish his will in my life. Thought of Joseph. What a painful time he went through, yet how good that was for him. It's better for him to be trade by his brothers than it was for them to be loyal to him because he would never become Pharaoh's right-hand man. How many would say, preacher, I know somebody that's going through a hard time And I want to be a blessing to them, and I want to be a comfort and encouragement to them, and that maybe through that they would see God working in their life. Is there any like that? And we don't want to come and preach to them and be harsh to them, but we do want to love and cover them. I'm thinking of somebody with a heavy bird. God bless you. Would there happen to be someone here tonight and say, preacher, I'm not saved? And you would say, I can see God's been working in my life, and I see things have been happening in my life that are causing me to think about the Lord and think about my soul and think about eternity. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that I can get this settled. I know God's working in my heart. I know God's trying to get my attention. I need my salvation settled. Is there any like that this evening? Pray for me, preacher. I need this matter of my own personal salvation. I need to get that settled and know for sure my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. Any at all like that? Any at all Now, Father, we come to the invitation. I ask you to bless. Help us, Lord, to seek you. Help us, Lord, to be yielded to you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's pleasure.