Chapter number seven, if you would turn there. You notice we've got the decorations up here and uh the set stage is set for our uh program next week. We're really looking forward to that. I hope you're praying. Praying very, very much. We had our teacher-worker meeting before the service, and uh Brother Mark said something good. We want to pray earnestly this week that God's hand be on this effort I'd really like to see some people trust Christ as Savior, and God use this for the purpose of what Christmas is, to bring people to the Lord Jesus Christ. So please be much in prayer. Ecclesiastes chapter 7 We're going to pick up our reading in verse number fifteen. We looked at the first uh part of this. Am I on, Jamie? Okay. We looked at the first uh half of this chapter we're picking up at verse number fifteen. I'm going to read down through verse number eighteen. Ecclesiastes chapter seven. Verse 15 says this all things now by the way this first statement he makes very important so pay attention. Because it's going to help us understand the following statements, I believe. Verse 15. All things have I seen. Now look at this. In the what? Days of my vanity. When did he see these things that he's going to talk about? In the days of his vanity. Now keep that in mind. That's going to help us understand what he's saying here. All things have I seen in the days of my vanity. And by the way, vanity that's kind of been the theme through it, hasn't it? Vanity of vanity, all is vanity. Living under the sun. These things have I seen in the days of my vanity. Now here we go. There is a just man that perisheth in his righteousness. And there is a wicked man that prolongeth his life in his wickedness. What's he saying? I've seen good men die young. And I've seen wicked men live a long, long time. Now let's read on. Be not righteous over much. Neither make thyself over-wise. Why shouldest thou destroy thyself? Be not overmuch wicked Neither be thou foolish. Why shouldest thou die before thy time? It is good that thou shouldest take hold of this. Yea, also from this withdraw not thy hand And he says this, for he that feareth God shall come forth of them all. It's not real clear how he words it But I think you'll see what he's saying here, and I think it will help us. So let's pray. I have a pitiful title for this, some good advice, and it really doesn't even fit the message, but I couldn't think of anything else, so I just made that up So let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would use your word tonight to help us to see life from heaven's perspective. To understand a little bit better, perhaps, the things you allow in our lives that we don't understand. And I pray that you would use the thoughts here and the truth presented in this passage that we would fear you in the biblical sense and in reality. And so I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body to you anew With all my heart, I ask you speak through me to each of our hearts and lives and help us to grow in our faith. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. There's a lot of perpet perplexing questions in life For instance, somebody says, boy, I slept like a baby. How many people have ever heard that statement or made that? Slept like a baby. Now think about it. Babies wake up every two hours. Both our boys had colic. That means they woke up every 15 minutes. We got no sleep. That statement makes no sense at all. But yet we use it. I slept like a baby. Here's another one for you. Somebody said this. How in the world do the deer note across wherever those little yellow signs are? That's a very perplexing question. And like the one gal on the radio thing said, why don't they move the signs out away from traffic so the deer are crossing other places? Good profound questions, perplexing questions. Here's another one for you. I uh man I used to love this. I ate these, I love these. Grape nuts, cereal. Anybody? Grape nuts? Man, I love it. You can put it on ice cream, you can put in yogurt, you can pour milk on it, it's great. Applesauce on it, it's great. Grape nuts. The problem is what? It doesn't have any grapes and it doesn't have any nuts. Where'd they come up with that cut name for it? It's about as accurate as my title Here's another one. The weatherman says it's going to be partly cloudy. Then another day he says it's going to be partly sunny. W what's the difference? I guess it's pessimism and optimism there, one or the other. Well these are silly questions we ask. But Solomon is addressing some pretty serious perplexities. In fact, the whole chapter so far, he's been dealing with that. We mentioned them earlier. Things that come to us in life that seemingly don't make any sense. Things that happen. We made this statement. Life oftentimes will throw us a curveball, right? We never saw that coming. We never expected. I didn't think things would turn out this way. I didn't think this is the way it would be. And so we deal with that. That's part of life dealing with that. And I think we have Solomon here. is addressing again this subject of things that he sees, he observes taking place, and he said, I don't understand this. Somebody made this statement. I like this statement, and I can't tell you who it was. I can't answer who it was. But they made this statement. They said, we cannot fully know the mind of God But we can clearly see the heart of God when Jesus was on the cross. And the idea behind that statement is, I know God loves me. He's proven that beyond a shadow of a doubt. If we question God's love for us, just look at the cross. Well, greater love has no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. So we don't, we cannot allow ourselves to doubt that God loves us. But where we struggle sometimes is I don't understand what God's thinking. I don't understand why God is allowing this to happen. Why do these good people die young? And these wicked people live long lives. And all the issues that are associated with that type of scenario Solomon has been emphasizing, as I said, the perplexities of life. And a lot of life is uncertain There's a lot of aspects of life that we don't understand, even as believers that God brings into our life. How many, let's just give, let's try and get a witness here. How many folks would say there are things that happened in my life since I've been saved That I really don't understand why God allowed that. Anybody give a witness to that shore. I mean it's a a continual basis So Paul uh Solomon is addressing some of these, and I want to just give you a little outline here of this passage and try and communicate what I believe he's saying here. Number one, I think it's very important that we understand the context. of Solomon's statements. Now I get that from verse number 15, the first part there that I highlighted when we were reading down through here. And again, this is so important. Verses 15 and the rest of verse 15, 16, 17 isn't going to make much sense if we don't understand the context of the statement. Look in verse number 15. All things have I seen In the days of my vanity, what are the days of Solomon's vanity? Let me ask you this question. Is it vain to live for God? Yes or no? No. We know it's not vain, it's not empty to live for God. In fact, we want that. We urge people, we work very hard to get ourselves to live for God, keep us living for God. So it's not vain to live for God. Is it vain to live by faith? To trust God? No There was a period of Solomon's time, of Solomon's life. There was a period of time, Solomon's life, where he was living for God. Very diligently, very faithfully, very effectively There was a time when Solomon exercised tremendous faith in God. In fact, the beginning of his reign, his prayer is profound. As God approaches Solomon, he says, You ask me anything you want, I'll give it to you. Now think about that. If God approached you, clearly God approached you and said, You ask anything you want, whatever you want, I'll give it to you. What would you ask for? We all have got our things going, our minds racing right now. You know what Solomon's request was? Give me wisdom. I tell you what, that's a pretty wise request. In seeking wisdom, he gained the other things that we might have asked for outside of that. So he was exercising tremendous faith in God. That was not vain for Solomon to trust God and have faith in God when given that opportunity. It wasn't vain for Solomon to follow God's word and follow God's instruction. And he did tremendously in the early days of his life, but then he started marrying lots of pagan women. And he began to drift. And his heart was drawn over, away from the Lord, to the point where he pushed God completely out of his life, and then began the days of his vanity. And now he's living an empty life. He's pushed God out. He's looking to wealth. He's looking to work. He's looking to wickedness. To try and find some fulfillment, find some sort of purpose, find some sort of meaning in life. The very focus of his life, he's pushed aside. Now his life is vain, it's vanity, it's vexation of spirit, it's frustrating It's empty. And so he's telling us here in this first part of verse number 15, the following statements I'm going to make Are from the days that I was living in my vanity, from the days I had pushed God out. Alright? So that's important to understand. Take your Bible if you would. Now keep your place here. We're going to hopefully get to a bunch of different verses, and I think we'll be able to get through this tonight. But turn with me, if you would, to Psalms 111. It's not too far away, Psalms one hundred and eleven. What happens What happens when we no longer fear God? What happens to our understanding when we no longer fear God? It becomes what? What would you say? Okay, it becomes self-centered. This is what I have. When I no longer fear God, the Solomon's at a point he doesn't fear God anymore. He's completely disregarded God. And his understanding becomes skewed is the word I'm using. It is not clear. His understanding is, what would be another word for skewed? Messed up. Right? Look at Psalm 111 and verse number 10. Let me get there. Psalms 111, verse 10. Look at what the Bible says. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. We're familiar with that statement. A good understanding have all they that do his commandments. Come over to Proverbs chapter 1, just a few pages towards Ecclesiastes. It's stated the same truth, is worded just a tad bit differently. Proverbs chapter 1 and verse 7, I have this verse underscored and highlighted and bracketed in my Bible. Very important verse. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. But the fools despols despise wisdom and instruction. So here's what I'm trying to get at here. Solomon is living in the days of his vanity. He no longer fears God. He's living under the sun The things of the Lord, the things of eternity, the things of God are all pushed aside. So he no longer has the fear of God. What happens when a person has no fear of God? What happens to their understanding? It's not clear Because the fear of the Lord is the beginning of understanding. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And if I don't have the fear of the Lord, I'm not going to have correct understanding of issues in life. How many people sit and wonder when you read the news or whatever and you think, how can this world be so stupid? How can they think that way? I'll tell you how it is. The Bible tells us. They're living under the sun. There's no fear of God. And they're under their common sense almost is evaporated. And their understanding is skewed. So Solomon's making a very important confession right at the beginning of this passage, saying, listen, what I'm about to tell you comes from the years of my vanity. The years when I wasn't thinking clearly, the years when I wasn't, I didn't see things from a true perspective And so then that helped me. When I caught that, that helped me to understand, because I didn't understand what verse 16 and 17 were saying. That seemed to contradict other passages of scripture. But now I understand, aha. Solomon is making these statements not under the Spirit of God, not under the wisdom of God and the fear of God. He's making the statement in the days of his vanity when he's not seeing clearly Now I want us to notice number two, the conflict in his observations. He sees something that is conflicting in his mind And that's what we touched on back there in Ecclesiastes. Look, he says, the second part of verse 15. All things have I seen in the days of my vanity. Now this is what I've seen. There is just man that perisheth in his righteousness. And there is a wicked man that prolongeth his life in his Wickedness. Did I read that right? Let me read again. There is a just man that perisheth in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man that prolongeth his life in his wickedness. A very vile, wicked man was extremely popular and probably still is, I don't even know if he's still alive. Extremely popular in the United States. He wrote some songs that he made millions, gazillions of dollars off. His name is Billy Joel. I hate to even mention him because he's a very perverse man. But he sang a blasphemous song that I am convinced has injured hundreds of thousands of people with its philosophy. And as I was reading this, that song from my days before Christ came right back. Some of y'all are talking, you already know, you know where I'm going with this His famous song was what? Only the good die young. Number one, there's several things wrong with that. One is, I know a lot of good people that have lived long, long lives. So it's a lie that only the good die young. And then he goes on, of course it's a Catholic setting, but he goes on and just blasphemes God. You say heaven is better, I say it ain't. I'd rather laugh with the sinner than die with the saint. Tell me that isn't hurting a generation of people. Tell me that isn't throwing in the face of God a blant lie. And Solomon is Thinking along these lines, although he's not being as blasphemous as he is, but he's thinking along these lines and he's saying, you know, I I I see something. And it looks to me like it should be the other way around But I've seen some really good people and by the way, sometimes good people do die young. I think in Bible college, some godly young people. How about um uh Joel Collette? Missionary to Netherlands. Bible college students killed in a car wreck loved God. Sometimes that happens. By the way, there are some awfully wicked people who live a long, long time. And so Solomon, in the days of his vanity, when he doesn't think clearly and he's not, doesn't have the wisdom of God at this point in his life. And he says, I'm looking at this, I see this conflicting in my mind. It seems like it should not be this way. I think you could reword his conflict this way I see bad things happening to good people. And I see good things happen to bad people. By the way, we see that all through Scripture, don't we? In fact, way back in the early days of man's existence here on planet Earth, shortly after God created Adam and Eve, We find a really bad thing happens to a pretty good guy. Cain kills his brother Abel. Abel was a good guy. He was trusting God. He was had faith in God. Cain was just he was the first modernist, really. And Solomon seeing these things, and we see it in history. David struggled with this. Turn with me, if you would, to Psalms chapter 73. Now David is a tremendous man of God and he lived by faith and he's not in the days of vanity. Now he had his downtimes, of course, we're aware of that. But in Psalm 73, I want to read a fairly extended portion. Just David's really struggling with this. And verse number one of Psalm 73, he says, Truly God is good to Israel, even to such as of a clean heart. That's a good statement. He said, That's what I know to be true. But as for me, my feet were almost gone. My steps had well-nigh slipped. He said, I got messed up. Why? Look at verse 3. For I was envious at the foolish. Now, what in the world would make someone of David's caliber He knows God is good to Israel. What would make him to the point where he says, man, I I was my feet almost slipped. I almost messed up here What would make him envious of foolish people? Somebody like David, why in the world would he be envious of foolish people? Well he tells us When I saw the what? Prosperity of the wicked, say, man, these people are living ungodly lives and they have incredible bank accounts. They're making buckoos. Look at verse 4. There were no bands in their death, but their strength is firm. These are the foolish. These are the wicked. They're not in trouble as other men. Neither are they plagued like other men. Therefore, pride compass them about as a chain. Violence covereth them as a garment. Their eyes stand out with fatness. They have more than heart could wish. They are corrupt, speak wickedly concerning oppression, they speak loftily, they set their mouth against the heavens, their tongue talketh through the earth. Therefore, his people return hither, and waters of a full cup are wrung out to them. And they say, How doth God know? Is there knowledge in the Most High? Behold, these are the ungodly who prosper in the world. They increase in riches. Verily, look at what he says here. Verily I have cleansed my hand, my heart, in what? Vain. You see the struggle going on in David's mind? Man, I'm trying to live right. I'm trying to cleanse my heart and pure it. It's vain. They're all they're all doing great. Here I am. He said, I almost slept over that. He goes on. I washed my hands in innocency, for all the day long have I been plagued and chastened every morning. And if I say I will speak thus, behold, I should offend against the children of thy generation. When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me. Now look what he says. Now this is actually Asaf. I misspoke there. I said David. It's actually Asaf. But look what he says here. He finally figured it out. Until I went into the sanctuary of God Then understood I their what? Their end. Oh. What is he saying? He's saying, this life is not all there is. They may be living wickedly, they may be prospering and all that here and now under the sun, but there's something far more beyond just what's here. Follow what he's saying? So ASAP is struggling with the same uh concept here, the same conflict going on that the good are Bad things happen and the bad good things happen. Let me say this. Our ability to understand God's working in our lives. Or let me let me take it back. Our inability To understand God's working in our lives is a reflection of our limited understanding, not of God's failure. You follow what I'm trying to say here? You say, how in the world can God let this happen? Why in the world would God let such a wicked person prosper? Why in the world would he let someone like we were talking downstairs about Mike Stubler? Why would Let somebody that loves God so much, so dedicated, Lord Jesus might start to let him die of brain cancer, and others that are so wicked live a long time. Why would God do that? The problem isn't that God's making a mistake. The problem is your understanding and my understanding is very limited. We're seeing it down here. And Solomon's looking at this in the days of his vanity. He's excluded the wisdom of God, the fear of God, and he's trying to reason with this. How many when you were small, the things your parents allowed you and to do and the things they did not allow you to do and the things they put you through made no sense to you at the time. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I have no idea why in the world uh my parents made me have to live with just two sisters and no brothers. It's very, very abusive. Why in the world do I gotta clean out the garage, Dad? You hate me. Other kids don't. Those kids down there, they're they don't go to church and they don't have to clean their garage. Well we found out later we got older, we looked back and say, oh my parents knew what they were doing. Right? You follow what I'm trying to say So as a child, their limited understanding, their limited understanding, the parents aren't making a mistake by giving the children chores and having them do things they don't want to do. Parents aren't stupid. The parents aren't being dumb or being hateful. You're the meanest mom in the whole world. No. You just don't understand what they're trying to develop in your life. And I think that's a lot of it what it is. It's not that God's making a mistake. It's our understanding is limited. There's no reason to believe that salvation exempts us from the trials of life. There's no promise in the Bible, and the TV preachers are wrong. There's no promise in the Bible that if I trust Christ and get saved and live by faith, I'm not going to have any trials, I'm not going to have any difficulties, or not even a promise, I'm going to live a long life here on earth There is a promise that I have eternal life and I have a home in heaven and something much beyond the sun and beyond this life. Hebrews chapter 11, and we won't take time to go there, verses 33 through 38, gives a list of people who suffered horribly, not because they had weak faith, but because they had great faith. Some of them were sawed in half. Because of their faith. Some of them their lives were cut off and they were tortured. The world wasn't even worthy of these people. And so there's no reason to think that because I'm a Christian, because I'm saved, I'm not going to experience trials of life or I'm even going to live a long life. There's no promise of that. Then I want to give you real quickly, number three, the carnality of his reasoning. I hope you're bearing with me here on this. Come back And so here he is, the days of my vanity. I'm not operating under the fear of God. I'm leaning on my own understanding here. And he says, All right, this is what you should do. I see a conflict The righteous are living short time, and the wicked are living a long time. So in the days of my vanity, this was my reasoning, and I call it carnal reasoning. Under the sun. This is the way I see it. Verse 16. Okay, if that's the case, verse 16, be not righteous over much. Neither make thyself overwise. Why shouldest thou destroy thyself? I see righteous, good, godly people die young, so don't be too righteous, don't be too good and godly. You'll destroy yourself Then he says over here, however, on the other hand, be not overmuch wicked either, neither be thou foolish, for why shouldest thou die before thy time? And he has enough common sense to know, you know, if you go overboard in wickedness You go overboard in foolishness, well, you get killed too, because you're dumb. So you see his reasoning here When I first was studying this, I thought, is God telling us not to be too righteous and telling us don't be too wicked? You can be a little bit wicked, but not too wicked. Be a little bit righteous, but not good grief, don't go overboard on it. That's the reasoning This is not the reasoning of a spiritually minded man. This is the reasoning of a man living in vanity. You've got to keep a balance. Doesn't that sound a little bit like the world? Sure, you can go to church, but good grief, don't get crazy about it. Don't go Wednesday nights. I mean, if you gotta go Sunday night sometimes, but Don't you know don't be overmuch. Just don't get carried away with it. You give out tracks, what do you got? Some kind of right-wing radical freaks It's fine to have a Bible in the house, but you read it every day. Follow what it sounds like he's saying. Listen, you can listen, here's the big time of year. Drink. Responsibly. Oh, sure, you can go ahead and drink. Get a party, you know. Enjoy a little bit of drink. But listen, don't be overmuch. Be responsible. It's the only that's the only product I know of where the people trying to sell as much of as they can are telling you, listen, don't overdo this Why, they know. They know it's wrong. They know it's destructive. They know it destroys homes and lives. You'll never convince me that the people behind the liquor industry don't know what their product is doing to people's homes and people's lives Unbelievable. Saw an advertisement the other day for some liquor. And it was just, man, if you drink this liquor, you're like a movie star. And they show this incredible mansion he's in. He's drinking this liquor and He's doing all this stuff. I'm sitting there saying, lie, lie, lie. Some poor sucker sees that and he'll go buy spend thirty dollars for a bottle of that stuff and go home and get dead drunk and beat his kids. and lives in a shack. Well you can you can sin a little bit, but don't get too mo don't get carried away with that It's the same concept. Oh, you can commit fornication, but just practice a safe way of doing it. Listen, there's no safe sin So Solomon is messed up in his reasoning here. I see good people dying young. I see wicked people living a long time. What's my conclusion? It's carnal. Well, good grief. If that's the case, don't get carried away on that righteousness and be careful on the wicked end. Just keep a balance in between there John chapter 2 and verse 1, the Bible says this these things write I unto you that ye sin not. There's nowhere in the Bible that God tells us it's okay to be a little bit wicked. Right? He says, I'm giving you the Bible. One of the reasons I'm giving you the Bible is so you don't sin. He doesn't say these things write unto you that you don't sin too much. God doesn't want us to sin at all. And then if we go back to Matthew chapter 5, verse 48, I want to turn these, but we don't have time. There he says, be ye perfect even as your Father in heaven is perfect. That sounds to me it's a little radical on the righteous end, huh? Well, how righteous are you going to be? Well, my goal is to be as righteous as God. What? That's being righteous over much, don't you think? Listen to Romans chapter 12. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that you present your bodies. Listen to this. A living sacrifice. How many people agree with me? That's a little extreme. A living sacrifice? Are you serious? We're not conformed to this. We'll be transformed by the renewing of reminding them being prove it is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God Solomon's saying, don't get that radical about it. Don't be that wicked, but don't be that extreme either. And that is carnal thinking, that is not biblical thinking. I've been in this this year, this coming summer, this coming May, it'll be 33 years I've been in the ministry. Some capacity. I've been a Christian this coming year will be 39 years since I've been saved this coming May. I've seen a few things. Brother Brian, you've been around a little while, a lot longer than I have. But um I've seen a few things. I have never seen a Christian grow into an effective, strong, mature Christian who was constantly holding back on their living for God. Follow what I'm saying? I put it this way, I have never known anyone that has gone very far in their Christian life that was constantly worried about doing too much for God. Constantly worry about being too dedicated to the Christ and to the gospel. Never seen anybody in Christian service that would that effectively Influence the world with the gospel that was always worried. I don't want to be too much this, I don't want to be too much that. I just gotta be careful. The people God used to turn the world upside down were all out for Jesus Christ. They're giving their lives for Pete's sake in the book of Acts. They're suffering torture in prisons for Christ. And we have a mentality in Christianity today, even among our own circles, that has adopted or modified Solomon's mentality. Don't get too carried away. Don't get too extreme. Just all things in moderation. Just be careful. And we have a world that's going to hell, and there are billions of people going to be standing at the judgment seat of Christ, and Christians are back here saying, well, I've got to be careful, I don't want to do too much. Am I right or wrong? You read the biographies of missionaries. They were gung-ho all out. I'm reading right now, I'm reading the biography of Don Sisk Tremendous missionary to Japan. It was all out, all out, all out So Solomon's reasoning here, I believe, is carnal. Careful. I mean you're going to sin, you know, all right, just don't get carried away with it. And it'll be righteous, but good night. Don't go to extremes. Then I notice his conclusion. His conclusion, verse number 18. It is good that thou shouldest take hold of this Yea, also from this withdraw not thy hand. Say, all right, that's the way my days and my vanity, I saw this. Now here's what you need to get a hold of. Here's what you really need to understand. This is what you need to take away with you. And he makes his final statement, his conclusion. For he that feareth God. Shall come forth of them all. With the good that die young, the old that live long, the wicked that live long. He says, here's the ones, here's what God's looking for: those that fear God. That trust Him with their life and fear God. We cannot avoid the perplexities in life by being balanced. Not according to not Solomon's definition of balance. I hope you understand what I'm trying to say I cannot avoid the perplexity. Some good people are going to die young. Some wicked people are going to live a long time. I can't change that. Say, well, I'm not going to be too righteous, I'm not going to be too wicked. That does not change. Young people are s good people are still gonna die, young old people are still gonna wicked people are still gonna live a long time, and you're still gonna have these complexities in life, these perplexities in life But if I learn to fear God, if I learn to trust God and fear God with my life, then I can deal with these. Complexities. I can grow through these complexities. I can understand. Listen, I fear and trust God with all my heart. And God lets these things happen. I know God knows things I don't know I'm not going to lean on my own understanding. I'm going to trust them with all my heart. I'm going to fear God. There's two extremes in Christianity you have to watch out for. One is justifying sin, which is almost what Solomon is doing here to an extent. And the other extreme is being self-righteous. Well, I don't do what they're doing. I'm going to live a long time. God's going to bless me, because I'm this and I'm that. And we have to be careful. We don't want to adopt Solomon's mentality, but we don't want to adopt this other mentality of being either Justifying wickedness or becoming self-righteous. I read about a fellow that was living in adultery, Christian, was living in adultery. And came to church, I guess revival service or something, and God convicted him about it strongly and went forward, and he repented of his sin of adultery. Repented. He got involved in the church, and I understand this from the preacher that told that told it is true true story actually happened. He got involved in the church, got active in the church. And he went from extremely carnal Christian living in adultery, but he went all the way over here, and he became so self-righteous. Then he began criticizing the preacher and condemning others. And one day he came to the preacher and was just letting the preacher have it. How he was failing, coming up short. And the preacher finally stopped and he says, you know what? I liked you a lot better when you were living in adultery. He said, at least then you were humble. At least then you were humble. Now what do we want? We don't want Solomon's version of balance. What we want is we want to live righteously. We want to not live in adultery, but we want to be humble while we're not living in adultery. And I think that's what fearing God is. That's what fearing God is To keep my life pure, trying to be as righteous as God is and and not sinning and being holy and and doing right But doing it very humbly with a fear of God on my life. Faith in God and love for God. So Where are we at? Have we adopted this? Well, I'm not going to get carried away. Do we have little sins in our life that we justify and excuse? Well, I'm not going to get carried away with that. You know, I'll watch this show, but I'm not going to go and down there. I know to be careful. I ought to be careful. We had a Sunday night re not too long ago. We talked about How Satan creeps in with little things, right? And they lead to something else. And if we got this mentality, I don't want to be over right I don't want to be overwicked, too wicked. Well we better fight the little foxes that eat the grapes. Or we're going to lose the whole vineyard. Did I make sense tonight? I don't know. But Solomon makes some interesting statements here and he makes, I believe, very carnal Reasoning, but his conclusion is pretty good. Fear God, fear God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, I pray you can use these thoughts tonight. I hope I conveyed them clearly. I pray that they would have practical application in our lives. Lord, we don't want to be foolish. We don't want to just be foolish in our service to you. We want to be wise. But Lord, we don't want to be held back. Lord, your great servant Paul said, I'm willing to die for the cause of Christ. And I pray that you would instill a little bit of that fire, a little bit of that devotion, a little bit of that determination, inject that into this generation of believers, in my own heart and life, in our church. That we be out and out for you. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, with me, along with me, say, preacher, I I I could use a little bit of the fire of devotion injected into my heart and soul. Little more of that Paul's fire for the Lord in my life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Amen. God bless you. In fact, maybe I want to ask it this way. How many feel like I do? And I hate to even admit this publicly, but how many feel like I do? That fire's dimmed a bit. That fire's dimmed a little bit. Anybody know? No one talking about it. Anybody else feel that way? I've been praying. Kathy and I, on my knees, on our knees, have been asked God, send a revival. Send a revival in our hearts and lives. And we don't have this moderated, oh, not too righteous, not too wicked, but just an out and out for Christ. I wonder if maybe a bunch of us tonight wouldn't be willing to kneel at an altar and say, God, set my soul afire. Set my soul afire, a righteousness in Christ and the cause of the gospel. I believe that's what the Lord wants. There's anybody here nights not saved? God will save you like that. If you'll come and trust Him as your personal Savior, turn to Him. Repentance and faith, accepting Jesus Christ your Savior. He'll do it. But we as Christians need to get on fire for God. Father, bless the invitation. Please use this, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed, Jennifer's playing the invitation