Ready? Let's read together verse number eight. All together here we go. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just Whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report If there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. Now let me read verse 9 Those things which ye have both learned and received and heard and seen in me, do. And the God of peace shall be with you. I want to speak to you this morning on some things to think on. Some things to think on. Let's pray. Father, I ask you bless our study of your word this morning, particularly this passage. Lord, I ask that uh Your Holy Spirit would fill me, and that you would challenge us in our minds, that we would have the mind of Christ, that you would give us victory in our thought life And Lord, we need your Holy Spirit to do that. And so again, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew and pray with all my heart that you would fill me and challenge us and help us. Change our thinking, Lord. Make it right. Make it scriptural, pure, honest, and we'll give you the glory for what you do in our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We all understand that we live in a world, we live in a world of turmoil. Would you agree with me on that? I don't know how you can pay any, remotely pay any attention to the news And this world is in absolute conflict that we live in. Nations are in turmoil and conflict All we hear about are threats, nuclear threats, and this nation threatening to go into war against that nation. This past week, I don't know how many times I heard Israel and Iran are just uh at each other's throats. Um seems like the whole world hates Israel. It's always been that way. I'm glad our country stands with them so far. But um I mean the Middle East is an absolute powder keg ready to blow. Um Europe is in turmoil With uh immigration and changes taking place there. Down in Central America, Venezuela, war and talking about communism getting a root in there, China And so nations are either at war or they're threatening to go to war. So we live in a world of turmoil nationally. Politicians are at war with each other. Now I would imagine back in the late 1800s, 1860s in there, it was probably worse than what it is now as far as a divided nation But I'm telling you, in my years, I don't remember a nation as divided, as a clear division in our nation culturally and even politically as it is now Socialism is taking a root in our country like in ways we never dreamed. Uh anti-American uh uh thinking and philosophies have taken over our media and big portions of our country. We are absolutely uh in turmoil in our country and conflict I don't believe I surely we're not at that point, but you every now and then you hear somebody throwing around the term civil war And that type of thing. And so our nation, uh, as a country, we are at war with each other. Politicians are at war with each other. There's turmoil and conflict in our churches. There's fussing and fighting and turmoil and changes. And within many of our churches, there's conflict, unrest. In our homes, there is war goes on in our homes. And what a tragic thing that even within the Christian, those who profess to know Christ, to be born again, filled with the Spirit. And yet in the home is bitterness and hatred and anger and wives, I hate my husband, and husband saying, I hate my wife. What a tragic situation. Parents, children say, I hate my parents. I'm telling you, no Christian, no Christian should ever have the attitude of hatred towards a family member. That ought not to be. And yet, nevertheless, we live in a world where that's the case. Parents despising their children. And uh what a tragic state of affairs. And yet God tells us, I said all that to say this God tells us that in the midst of all this conflict, this world we live in, this turmoil that this world is in, in the midst of all that, God says that we can have peace. Real, genuine peace in our hearts. Look with me, if you would, in our passage, Philippians 4. Look with me at verse number 7. He says, if you do certain things, if certain things are in place, verse 7 he says, and the what? Peace of God, which passeth all understanding, it cannot be explained. This peace of God that passeth all understandings, look at this, shall keep your hearts and what? minds through Christ Jesus. The peace of God can keep your heart in your mind I'm telling you, pe uh some of the biggest conflict, now I'm way ahead of myself in my message, but let me make this statement here. I think the greatest conflict going on in the world is not between Israel and other nations The greatest conflict going on in our country is not between the socialists and the capitalists, the Democrats and Republicans. The greatest conflict going on in our churches is not between liberalism and fundamentalism and contemporary and conservative. In our homes, the greatest conflict I'll tell you where the greatest conflict in all the world is, it's in our minds. Troubled minds. Minds turmoil in the thinking produces turmoil in the living. Bitter angry thoughts produce bitter angry actions. He says he'll keep the peace of God Which passeth all understanding can keep your heart and your mind. Let's uh look with me if you would down at verse number nine. We read that here just a moment ago. He says, These things which you have both learned and received and heard and seen in me, do if you do these things. If these things are in place. Look at this. The God of peace shall be with you. The God of peace, the God of peace. What I'm trying to say is this: the Bible clearly teaches us that when all the world is falling apart around us, when our world is collapsing and our home may be chaos, it may be turmoil, our nation, our world. But in my heart and mind, in my heart and mind, I can be at peace. I can have that calmness, that presence of God in my heart and life. And that is what we need. And until there is peace in our hearts and minds, there will never be peace in our homes and in our nations. And so he gives us, I believe in verse 4 down through verse 9, I believe God gives us a bit of a formula, so to speak. So that I can experience this peace. So this can be true in my life, that my heart and mind can be kept by the peace of God, that the peace with God And peace of God. Now, this is not my message. I just want to give you this little outline here that I I see in verses four through nine. I notice if we want the peace of God, first of all, there has to be praise in our heart. Look at verse 4 and 5. He says, Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, Rejoice. Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. I tell you what, if we would just learn to, in the midst of everything, just learn to praise God and rejoice in the Lord I don't care what this world does, it doesn't matter what our situation may be, I know this is true. God is good to us You say, preacher, you don't know what my home is like. You don't know what it's like where I work. You don't understand what I'm dealing with. And no, I may not, but I know this: there is a God in heaven that's far better than anything the devil can come up with. And we have reason to rejoice. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. I'm telling you, knowing the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior gives us something to praise God for. I've had people make this statement to me. They say, Preacher, I'm going through hell here on earth. I'll ask them, do you know for sure you're going to heaven and not to hell when you die? And they'll make this statement. I think hell's right here. And my response to that is I say life can be pretty rough and it can seem pretty nasty, and in our minds it may even seem like hell. But I'm telling you, there's nothing here on this earth that comes even remotely close to what hell is actually like. And the fact that I'm not in hell right now gives me all the reason in the world to rejoice in the Lord. And so we can have a lot of peace. Peace can come to our heart and mind if we just learn to praise God, rejoice in what He's done for us. And then I notice in verse 6 and 7: if we learn to pray. He says, be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. And then verse 7, he says, and the peace of God. I'm telling you, if we learn to pray, I found the many times that folks that are so upset, so worked up, they're angry, they're in turmoil, their life is uh absolutely stressed out. I found a lot of times they don't spend much time in prayer. I found a lot of times they're all worked up and everything's a mess. They're not seeking the Lord because my Bible says if I pray, I should be careful for nothing but everything, prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let my request my known to God. And the peace of God will keep my heart. Prayer. Donna Rice made a great statement about prayer. I want to modify it here for the context of our message. Little prayer, little peace. Much prayer, much peace. No prayer, what? No peace. So he says, pray. If we would learn to praise God in the midst of everything, I want to encourage folks not to walk in and out of the service unless it's absolutely necessary. And if it's emergency, I understand But um I believe the preaching of the Word of God is the most important thing going on in the church service. I don't mean to embarrass anybody or do anything like that, but um Uh I just believe. I was I've been I've been to movie theater one time since I got saved. I was so convicted, I said I'm never going back again. But back in the day when I did go, back in the eighteen hundreds when they had the little s sound What was it called? Silent movies. But they would make statements like this. Please do not walk in and out during the service to disrupt the movie or the other patrons. They used to say stuff like that. And so to me, preaching the words God more important than anything going on in any movie theater. God have mercy. Alright, so I got that off my chest. Now let's go on here. What was I talking about? Prayer. And prayer gives us peace. And so prayer. And then another thing he says, the third formula to have peace is to ponder. Verse number eight, we read it together. Finally, my brother, what sort of things are true? And he goes down that list and he says, Think on these things. To ponder on these things. I tell you, uh, we get thinking right, and it's going to solve a lot of problems. We get our ther thought life in line. It's going to solve a lot of problems. And then verse number nine, he says, These things which you have both learned and received and heard and seen in me, do. And the peace of God, and the God of peace shall be with you. And that is our practice. Do right. You know what I found out? If I don't do right, it causes problems. I found out, uh how many people have found this out and how many folks here are five years old or older? How many folks here found out that my actions have consequences? I think some of y'all haven't found that out yet. You will. You will. I'm free to make whatever choice I want, but I am not free to choose the consequences of those choices. And Paul is simply saying, God, through Paul to us, is simply telling us: listen, how you act and how you behave has a profound impact on what you experience in life. And so he's saying, if we will simply praise God, if we will learn to pray, if we'll ponder correctly, think correctly, and if we will practice what God tells us to do, doesn't matter what's happening around us, we can be at peace. We can be calm. Have you ever been in a situation where everybody's all worked up? Maybe it's at work or there's something they're striking or whatever. Everybody's all worked up and there's that one Christian sitting there just happy, smiling, praise the Lord They don't even care what's going on around them. They're in their own world. That's what God's talking about. We can rejoice in the midst of trial and heartache and turmoil. Now what I want to zero in on this morning is verse number eight, that pondering part. How we're thinking. As I said, I believe the greatest conflict in all the world is not taking place in the capitals of our nations or in the theological seminaries. The greatest conflict in all the world is going on in our minds. And in our thoughts. David understood that. Listen to Psalm 19, verse 14. David made this prayer. He said, Let the words of my mouth, listen to this. And the meditation of my heart. Now the word heart is used interchangeably with mind in the Bible He said, Let the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart, my thinking, my mind, what I think on, what I meditate on, the thinking processes be acceptable in thy sight. David understood the importance of thinking correctly. Thinking thoughts that are acceptable to God. Thinking in ways, having the perspective and the understanding and the worldview and the attitude that is acceptable to the God of truth David understood the importance of thought. The battle is in the mind. The conflict is up here. That's where our problems are. Solomon understood that. In Proverbs chapter 4 and verse 23, he made this statement. He says, Keep thy heart, and again, the word heart is used many times interchangeably with mind. Keep thy heart, protect it, control it, keep thy heart with all diligence. I believe one thing that application-wise of that statement is this: control your thinking. Keep control of your thoughts. Don't let them just go. Because that's where the battle is, that's where the issues of life are on how I think. Again, in chapter 23, verse 7 of Proverbs, Solomon under the inspiration of God says this: For as he thinketh in his heart. So is he. You've heard the statement, you are what you eat. Anyone ever hear that statement? And that's true, I'm oatmeal. With honey on it. No w no water. You boil it in milk. Don't put milk on it. Put honey on it. That's what I am. You always wondered why I was so sweet. You are what you eat. I want to suggest to you we're not really what we eat, although what we eat is important. But can I the Bible clearly tells us this: you are what you think What I think, how I think, the way I think, very much determines what I am. For as a man thinketh in his heart So is he. So is he. Say, why is that guy so dishonest? Why does she lie so much? But she has a dishonest heart and mind. Why is that guy so nasty and so dirty? Why does he think that? Why does he talk that way and act that way? He's just pervert, he's a pervert. Tell you why. That's how he thinks. How he thinks, why is she so hateful? Why is he so hateful? He hates everybody, everything. Tell you why. Because he thinketh in his heart. So is he. So is he. I'm telling you, it all boils down to what goes on in this computer stuck in our between our ears. What we think, what we think, what we think, how we think. Solomon understood that. Paul understood that. Now I would like for you to turn to this passage with me in the book of Romans. And chapter number eight, Romans chapter eight, a great chapter in the Bible. Of course we're familiar with Romans 8. 28, all things work together for good, to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. The end of the chapter is the great love of God. Nothing can separate us. But in verse number five, he makes an interesting statement about our mind. And about how we think. And he's talking, he's addressing to Christians, folks that are saved, been born again. And look what he says in verse 5 of Romans 8. He says, For they that are after the flesh. Now, what does that mean, they that are after the flesh? These are perhaps Christians that are living in the flesh. We would call them carnal Christians. They're not living for God. They're living for what they want and the desires of the flesh. We could refer to them as worldly Christians. Corinthians, Paul referred to them as babes, immature in the faith. He says, They that are after the flesh do, what's that next word? Mind the things of the flesh. And then he contrasts that and he says, But they that are after the Spirit, and the idea here is they do they mind the things of the Spirit. They that are after the flesh, do mind the things of the flesh. They that are after the spirit, the things of the spirit. Now, the key word in that passage is they do mind. That's the determining factor whether they are after the flesh or after the spirit, what they might Now what does that word mind mean? It simply means this, to think in a specific direction. They're minding this. They're thinking in that direction To think the same way as. It has the idea to concentrate my thoughts in this direction. What's he saying? The reason some Christians listen, the reason some Christians do not live for God, all they're living is for their flesh. for pleasure and for the here and now and the temporal things of this world and uh they're carnal and they're immature. The reason they're that way is because they think that way And then you have some Christians, young or old, maybe a teenager, adult, senior citizen, Christian, and man, they are man, they're spiritual, they love God, they're having victory. For the most part, they're having victory over sin, they're walking with God. They're being a witness, they have a credible testimony to the unsaved world that Christ is in them And he says the reason those people are that way is because they what? Mind the things of the Spirit. They think that way. So the determining factor in whether I'm a victorious, spiritual, mature Christian, or whether I'm an immature, worldly, carnal, defeated Christian, is what I mind. The way I think, the way I see things, the way I value things, my perspective on things, what I in my mind establish as priorities in my life. That determines if I'm after the flesh or if I'm after the spirit. And then come over, if you would, to Romans chapter 12, classic. I mean, I just love this passage. It's so powerful, at least it has been in my life. Romans chapter 12 and verse 1, and no doubt many of you are very familiar, probably haven't memorized many folks. It's a great passage to memorize 12. 1, Romans. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Look at verse 2 And be not conformed to this world. Don't be like the world, the world's values, the world's priorities, the world's principles. Don't be like that. Don't be conformed, pressed into the world's image. Be not conformed to this world, but be ye what? Transformed, completely changed. That word transformed from the inside out. But being transformed how? By the renewing of your mind. Mind. I believe very strongly every Christian ought to have convictions and standards. I think a Christian ought to have standards about the and convictions about the places they go and the places they do not go. Amen. Christians ought to have convictions and standards about the language they use and the language they do not use. There are some things that Christians ought not to say. Some places Christians ought not to go. There are some places Christians ought to go and things ought to say. Conviction standards. I believe a Christian ought to I don't know how this will go over. I believe a conviction ought to uh Christian ought to have conviction standards about how they dress. And here's the mistake some preachers and some churches maybe make is they put all this outward pressure on conforming to these biblical standards. biblical convictions, these biblical uh standards, and they'll man, and they'll put the outward pressure on, put the peer pressure on. Their motives may be right, but I think their methods wrong You know what I found out? If I put pressure, if I put external pressure and peer pressure on somebody to go to the right places and say the right things and dress the right way, as soon as that pressure is removed, what happens Zing. They're right back where they were. Why? Because their mind has not been renewed. And what we need to take place if we're going to be victorious Christians, what we need to take place if we're going to be the godly men and women that God saved us to be, and if we're going to And we're going to be transformed to this wholly acceptable person before God. It has to begin with the changing, the transforming of our mind. The way we think. It's what it all boils down to. Years ago a fellow wrote a book, and I'm not vouching for him or anything, but it's a tremendous title, and the book was it was I think he hit the nail on the head. He said the battle for the mind. That's what it is. How we think, how we think. All through Scripture, you find victory and defeat is dependent upon the condition of that individual's mind. The development of their thinking, the discipline of their thinking, how they thought, determined how they behaved and how they behaved. Brought tremendous consequences, either positive or negative. You and I do what we do because we think the way we think. The mind, the mind. Satan successfully altered Eve's thinking God put created Adam and Eve, literally, and one day from the dust of the earth, God created man and woman. He put them in the Garden of Eden, you know the story. He said you can freely eat of all the fruit of the garden. All the trees and garden, you can have whatever you want. It's yours to enjoy. You have free will, whatever you want, have at it. Except tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Don't eat that. And the day you eat thereof, you're going to die. That was in Adam and Eve's mind. That's the way they saw it. That's the way they thought. We have no reason to believe that they thought anything different. Trusted that, they believed that. No indication they thought otherwise. That man, don't eat that. The day you eat thereof you will die. We can eat anything we want So Satan didn't come along and take the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil and shove it down Eve's throat. How did he get her to eat that? How did he get her to disobey a very clear, simple, un unquestionable command of God. And not unreasonable. They got 10,000 trees they can eat from. It's not like he said, there's 10,000 here you can't eat them. This one's the only one you're allowed to eat. One like that at all. It's the opposite. So, how in the world did Satan get Eve, who knew and clear in her mind what God expected her, how did he get her to violate such a clear, distinct command? He changed the way she thought. Yea hath God said Well, yeah. Oh, he knows if you eat thereof, you'll be like him. You'll know good and evil. You'll be like God's. Huh? She never thought that before. She never saw it that way before. She never reasoned it that way before. But Satan changed the way she thought. He changed her whole perspective. She believed a lie. And acted accordingly. The only reason Eve ate that fruit was because she changed her thinking about it as from this is bad, her thinking changed to this is good. And that which was evil she believed was good, and that which was good she was convinced was evil. In her mind. In her mind. And what Satan brought man down with into the fall into sin is what he's still using today, affecting people's thinking. He has convinced generations now, not just this current generation, but previous generations, that to keep yourself pure and right and holy If your body is pure, the one that God has for you, he's convinced that that's stupid, it's unnecessary, and in fact, it's Evil in some cases. We have a generation being taught directly under the inspiration of Satan. That it is harmful for young people to keep themselves pure. Now, where does that thought come from? Where does that thinking come from? Certainly doesn't come from the truth. Certainly doesn't come from reality. It's a lie. The world Satan has convinced the world that marriage is not just a man and a woman. Anybody in the world. Anything goes. In fact, we live in a day, my wife and I were talking about this yesterday. We live uh we live in a day now. Where if you say, no, the Bible says marriage is one man, one woman, anything outside of that is sin, if you say that, you're the bad guy. I got a phone call Friday night, 1030. Letting me have it. Because we preach against sodomy. Let me put it that way. Let me reword that. Because we preach the Bible And so in some people's mind some people's mind, not just me, others, some people's mind, I should be killed. I mean, they told me that. And not just me, there's others. But my point I'm trying to make is how why do people say that? Why do people act that way? Because that's how Satan has convinced them to think. These completely changed realities, completely changed truth. And we have a whole world. That is now thinking in their minds that lies are true, and truth is lie, and good is evil, and evil is good. And it's in the mind is where that's taking place. Am I making sense? And so the real conflict in this world, the real spiritual warfare between heaven and hell, between God and Satan Takes place right here. And the battle is for the mind. The Holy Spirit of God wants us to have the mind of Christ. And Satan and the world and the flesh wants us to mind the things of the flesh I think the greatest area of sin in the Christian life, and by the way, let me back up here a little bit. We tend to pickle in certain sins. Let me say this. Even within Relationship between men and women, adultery is just as sinful as homosexuality. And I tell you, the church has been awfully hypocritical. And a number of years in preaching against that one particular sin and then overlooking adultery Within the body of Christ. And I'll tell you, the Bible speaks a whole lot more about adultery than it does about homosexuality. I'm not you know I'm not trying to go soft on anything. I'm just saying we all got areas we need to work on. I hope you follow what I'm trying to say. But it's in the mind. I've had people over the years come to me, Brother Heinball, and a guy in particular, I've had this a number of times, but one guy in particular Telling me that he loves this other man's wife and he believes God wants him to leave his wife and go for this other man's wife. Now I'm not a violent person, but I want to choke him. I said, what are you? What's the matter with you? Here's the statement we make. What are you thinking? What are you thinking? And so it's up here, folks. It's how we think. It's how we think. The greatest area of sin in the Christian life is the thoughts, sins of the mind and the heart. The greatest area of obedience to Christian life is I'm obedient in my thinking. My thinking. My thinking. And we need God to help us. Because I tell you, this old sinful flesh has powerful, powerful influence over my thinking. I don't know if you've ever been this way, but I get on something, man, I get thinking about it, and I'm going here and I convince myself that something is true. Then I come and look at the Bible and say, wait a minute, I'm way off base I need to bring this back in line with the truth of God's word. Thinking, thinking. Now, let me give you three thoughts here real quick, and I know what time it is, and I know how short Pastor Matt preaches. Stop bringing that up. Anybody get the impression that's bothering me a little bit? Uh there needs to be concentration. of our thoughts. And that's where verse number 8 of Philippians 4 comes in. He goes down through this list of things that we are to concentrate on. The word think there means focus your mind on. The word think in verse 8, finally, my brethren, at the end of the verse, he says, think on these things. The word think there doesn't just mean, oh, have these thoughts floating around your mind. Oh, I'm just thinking of lovely stuff I'm just thinking of things that are true. That's not what he's talking about. This is intense. He says, think, focus your mind on uh calculate and compute these things, see what they are, what they mean, how it affects my life. In fact, I thought it was interesting. The word think there comes from a word that's uh very similar to our word think Curriculum. Young person goes to college and they have a curriculum for that semester, a course of study. And they're going to apply themselves and they're going to study and they're going to see how that affects my life and how this will make me a person in the business world or the financial world, whatever. And I'm studying this so that I will be successful in that realm. And that's the idea. When you think on these things, you study this, you calculate this, you incorporate this as you you uh focus your mind on this. So that you can be the person God saved you to be, so you can live these things out I'm to concentrate my mind on these virtues in order that they will characterize my life. So that is the concentration of our thoughts. Then he gives us the content. This is our curriculum. This is the content of what we s uh that we must uh think on. He gives six specific things to think on, then he gives two general ones at the end. But these are all tests that every thought must go through, all right? If that thought, is it true? Is it honest? Is it just? Is it pure? Is it lovely? Is it a good report? Is it virtuous? Is it praise? I need to uh I need the this that has to be the content of my thinking. Now I'd really like to go through and look at each of these words because they're significant. He says, that which is true. Whatsoever things are. And it's interesting, he says, whatsoever, whatsoever, whatsoever, whatsoever, whatsoever, whatsoever Whatsoever You say, and these are important. You need to zero in on these in your thinking. Um, true. I must ingrain my mind in things that are true. I put this down. It's possible to think on a lie long enough that I convince myself it's true and then reject the truth as a lie. Think on these things, things that are true. I'm told, I don't know, we got some bank tellers here. I'm told that when uh a person is being trained to handle money, particularly counterfeit money, they don't study the counterfeit. They study the genuine. And if I understand and grasp and comprehend that which is genuine, then that which is counterfeit come along, I'll see it. And I think that's a little bit what he's saying about here. Listen, we need to focus and concentrate our thinking on that which is true. That way, when a lie comes along, it's obvious. No, that's not correct. So, the content of my thoughts are to be true, are to be honest. That means respectful, reverent. Think things I would not be ashamed of. How many people how many people would dread uh suppose we came in tonight and I said, all right, everybody that's here tonight, we've we've installed a brand new technological advancement We can read your mind. And we're going to beam it up on the screens. Every person, the thoughts that you are having and that you've had. I would venture to say we'd break a record of attendance tonight. Nobody. Agreed? So when he says, think on those things that are honest, he's saying, think on things that you would not be ashamed of if people knew what you were thinking. Yes. Just means fair and innocent. Things that are acceptable to God. A just man is acceptable to God. David said it. Psalm 14, let the words of my mouth, meditation of my heart, be acceptable, be just in thy sight. Would God approve of the things my mind dwells on? Would it be acceptable before God? Pure means modest, morally clean. And a lack of modesty in the life of a person is a result of lack of modesty in the thinking of that person. Lovely means pleasant, uplifting, good. 1 Corinthians 13 is a powerful study on what it charity is and what loveliness is. Lovely, pleasant people are lovely pleasant because their thoughts are lovely and pleasant. Good report That has the idea of things that God praises, things that God speaks highly of. Let that be your focus of study, the focus of your mind. Things that God thinks highly of. That show that you watched last night, your mind was focused on, your thoughts were zeroed in on. Is that something God would speak highly of? Good report. And then he gives these two general statements: virtue. And praise, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise. Virtue means excellent, morally excellent. I'm telling you, we become lukewarm in our Christian lives. We become mediocre. Oh, it's good enough for state work. Do you ever hear that statement? It's good enough for government work. Anybody ever hear that statement? Tell ya, whether that's the case or not. I believe a Christian will do their best no matter who they're working for. But my thoughts ought to be, hey, my whole life has lived for God. It ought to be the best it can be. I believe when and the ladies did a great job singing. I believe when folks get up here and sing, they ought to sing the very best they can. Ought to practice and give it a. You say, well, she's not that great singer. He's not that great singer. Hey, if they're doing the best they can for the glory of God, I'm saying amen. But it ought to be virtuous. It ought to be excellent. The best we can. Praise the things I thank God for. You know what some of us do? We don't walk around thinking about the things we praise God for. You know what we walk around thinking about? Stuff we don't like. Stuff we don't agree with. That's the danger of watching news all the time. And we get so our mind gets so consumed with all this wickedness in the world and the nonsense in the world, we forget all about what God's doing for us. We forget all about things to praise God for. Listen, don't get worked up when pigs act like pigs. When sinners act like sinners, duh that's what they do. And so he gives us this list of content that we are to think on, eight virtues that are to govern or dominate our thinking. And then, last of all, I end with this: the control of our thinking. Now this is where the rubber meets the road. That's all wonderful what I said, yeah. The concentration and the content. But I've got to make a decision that I'm going to take control of this computer here in my head. Notice what he says: think on these things. That is an imperative. In other words, that is a command of God. It requires decision on my part, it requires discipline on my part. Have you e did you ever do you ever think about what you think about? Now think about that. What am I thinking about? Wait a minute. I need to stop that. I need to stop thinking that way. Because God tells me very clearly, he instructs me very clearly, think on these things. Don't just let it wander. Don't just let it go. Paul said, bringing into captivity. Every thought and intent of the heart. Bring it into captivity. Control it. Keep thy heart with all diligence. Control it. Contain it. Controlled thinking is necessary for victorious Christian living It's necessary. Dr. Lee Robertson used to tell us, preacher boys, when I sat under him down there, he used to say this: he'd say, Fellas, you can only have one thought at a time. Make it a good one. Maybe a little simplistic, but that's pretty good advice. Control my thinking. Control my thinking. Control my thinking. If I'm sitting around Reading or watching or listening to ungodly stuff, guess what I'm thinking? I'm thinking exactly what I'm feeding into my senses. Seriously. Violence? My Bible says God hates violence. Psalms, uh materialism, I'm feeding sensuality Into my mind, I'm watching and reading books and reading articles and watching shows. And I gotta say, that has to stop because God has instructed me to think on these things. I don't I was trying to remember if I've used this recently or not. I hope I don't I hope not. I don't think I did, but if I did, excuse me. But I read recently of a young lady dating a fella, and she was a Christian, loved the Lord, wanted to do right. The fella presented himself as some sort of Christian, but um he wasn't everything he presented himself to be. And one day, through whatever circumstances, one evening, they ended up at the house, just the two of them. Her house, just the two of them, which is not a good thing. Amen. It's not a good thing. And he began to badger her. You go up to the bedroom. Your folks aren't here. Your parents are gone. It's just the two of us. Come on. We're in love. And together. Nobody will know. Come on. She goes, no, I'm not going to do that. And he kept on her, he kept on her. And she says, no. And he made this statement. He says, Why? Are you afraid of what your daddy will do to you if we do that? She said, No. I'm not afraid of what my daddy will do to me if we do that. I'm afraid of what us doing would do to my daddy. How badly it would hurt my daddy. She thought differently than that boy thought And I tell you, a lot of us Christians could get victory in our Christian lives if we started thinking this way. Stop thinking this way. Boy, what would God do to me if I did this? And start thinking, what would this do to God, my Savior, my Heavenly Father, if I act this way, if I behave this way. The way we think, the way we think, the way we think. This verse is so profound, so important. And let's ask God to renew our minds. And help us have the mind of Christ. And to think this way. Father in heaven, I pray you'd use these thoughts and this challenge from your word. Lord, I know as I studied, I was convicted, and am now even as I preach it. I pray you change our thinking. Get that old carnal mind out. Lord, Holy Spirit, convict us and move on us in such a way that we Put away minding the things of the flesh, and we would mind things of the spirit. And we would think on these list of things you've given us. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many, their heads bowed, eyes closed, by the uplifted hand you would say, Preacher, I need God to help me win this battle in my mind. I need God to help me win this battle in my mind. I say it, it's real. I need God's victory there. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Amen. God bless you, hands all around. Probably if we were honest, it'd be every one of us. Assuming we cared whether we had victory or not. I need victory in this area. I need victory in this area. So someone here this morning say, Preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I'm not sure if I die now, I go to heaven. You see, I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that my sins are being all my way to heaven. And God is Savior if you'll just believe him, trust him. How many like that say, preacher, pray for me? I'm not saved. I need to be saved. I want to go to hell. I want God to forgive me and give me eternal life. Any at all, by the uplifted hand, how about it? Any at all, preacher, I need to be saved. I need Christ as my Savior. One last question. Is there any say, preacher, I know someone that needs to be saved? They're lost. God needs to move on their mind. They need to change their mind about Christ, turn to Christ. I'm burdened for them. I want to see them come to Christ. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. My hand's raised. You have folks that we're burdened for. God says, pray. Let your requests be made known unto God. Father, bless now our invitation, I ask. Help us. Give us victory, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together with our heads bowed, eyes closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation.