Alright, Job chapter number 24. I want us to notice, if you would, verse number two, and I'm just going to read the first phrase Of verse number two of Job chapter 24. Notice what it says. Some remove the landmarks. Some remove the landmarks. I want to talk about these folks that remove landmarks. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts this morning. Father in heaven. Lord, we're grateful for a good week. My heart's full. What a blessing it's been. And back in your house today with your people, we do pray that you would meet with us. That's what our desire is, Father. That your presence would be very evident in this service. I thank you for the music and the special market. Bless my heart. But now as we look into your word, we're asking that your Holy Spirit Would take the truths that we're going to try and present here, Lord, and I ask that you would apply them to each of our hearts and lives That our faith in you would grow, that our lives would fulfill your will for which you've given us our lives. And so, Lord, I can't do that. I acknowledge that. I have nothing in me of any spiritual, eternal value. And so I look to you and I pray with all my heart, Lord, that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. And Lord, please speak through me. Speak to all of our hearts. Lord, if there's somebody that does not have assurance of sins forgiven, Soul saved, home in heaven, of eternal life. I pray that would get settled today. And then others, wherever we're at in our spiritual life, help us to grow. Help us make good decisions, Lord. That will help us be better Christians I ask all these things now in Jesus' name. Amen. The book of Job is, to me anyways, the book of Job is an intriguing book. There's several books in the Bible. Now, we understand all scriptures given by inspiration of God, right? All the Bible. Genesis, Revelation. It's all profitable. I was telling in Sunday school class. Every Christian ought to at some point read every book of the Bible. You ought to read that whole thing through. It's all profitable. But there are certain books in the Bible, at least for me, that are especially intriguing. Genesis is a fascinating book. As you read how God spoke this universe and life into existence, I tell you what captures my uh imagination which captures my mind is when Genesis when it says that God breathed in that body of clay breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul. Isn't that an amazing thing? God breathed life into this clay body. And it becomes a living soul. Ah boy, I'd have loved to have been one of those little Tweety birds up on a branch watching that. Of course I wouldn't have been, because man didn't exist yet, but But wouldn't that have been a fascinating thing to see? Genesis is an intriguing book. Revelation is an intriguing book. Good heavens. You read through Revelation, the things that this world faces is defy imagination and fearful things and yet wonderful things The book of Revelation is an intriguing book in my mind. And the book of Job. I don't know why. Years shortly after I got saved, I got attracted to the book of Job and just this whole scenario that takes place. In the book of Job, you have tragedy, intense tragedy He loses his family, his children, or in one day, loses his children, loses his possessions, all of it in one day You have an argument. Get this. An argument between God and the devil in chapters 1 and 2. And here's the thing that fascinates me. It's God that starts the argument. God says to the devil, have you considered my servant Job? Now, in saying that to the devil, you know you're going to have a fuss on your hands. Devil's going to jump all over that. God knew it. And so you have this intense tragedy in the life of of uh Job. You have this fascinating uh event where God uh approaches the devil and they get in this argument. Uh another thing about Job that's fascinating to me God puts his faith in a man. God says uh job's gonna be Job's gonna be faithful. You can take his health away, he can take all his possessions away You can take uh his uh children away from him. You can treat him however you want, Job, but can't kill him, but I'm telling you, he's going to stay faithful to me. God had faith in Job. Isn't that an amazing thing I'm telling you, Job is an intriguing book. There's betrayal in the book of Job. Betrayal. His wife turns against him and becomes an ally with Satan and she says to him, I think it's chapter 2, she says, why don't you just curse God and die? You know what? That's exactly what Satan said Job would do to God. He says, you take away your hedge about him, he'll curse you to your face. His wife turned against him. Betrayal. Accusations. His three friends turn on him. And they start telling them, Job, all these terrible things happen to you because you're a sorry, wicked sinner, and you don't help the poor, and you liar and you treat kids bad. And they came up with just horrendous stuff they said about Job. Poor guy here suffering. His family's been killed. His wife turned against him. He's so sick and in uh uh incomprehensible pain, these boils all over his body, and these guys are throwing accusations against him Man a lot. Difficult questions come up in the book of Job. In fact, here the chapter of the verses Pastor Matchus read, Job is saying, listen These people move landmarks and they do this and they steal and they commit adultery and they murder and they're cruel and yet they still prosper Anybody here every anybody here ever look out in the world and you see some of the most wicked people, seems like everything just goes just fine for them Anybody ever see that? And you say, what in the world? And then you have somebody that loves God, doing right, living pure, trying to be a witness for Christ, and man, they just have sickness and heartache. Anybody ever see that And Job deals with these questions that are hard to answer. And so Job to me is a fascinating book. It's intriguing. Looking at the book of Job, we're not sure when the book of Job was penned Some of the books in the Bible we can kind of figure out when it was written, what time in history, and what the events were around it, but we don't know much about Job. It is suggested, and I think there's probably some uh credibility to this, although we have no idea. We're speculating. Some have suggested that the book of Job was penned before Moses was uh lived, before Moses' time Very, very early on. It's generally believed that Job is perhaps one of the earliest books penned in the Bible. I had a pastor years ago, many, many years ago, he believed, and well, he suggested that perhaps. Job was penned even before the great flood, before Jonah. There's some references in there that I think he's describing dinosaurs, to be very honest with you He makes uh he describes some beasts that I can't think of anything now, and huge, immense Fearful beasts, he describes in there. And so my pastor, uh, as I said, many, many years ago, he suggested this book could have been written even before the great flood Now, I don't think that's the case because he references rain and snow in the book of Job, and before the flood there was no rain or snow. So I think he was mistaken, but I do believe, I'm pretty certain, is very, very, very early on in the history of man, perhaps even before Moses. And so again, an intriguing book, fascinating, the subjects and things that are dealt with there. Who wrote the book of Job? Well, the obvious We don't know, we're not told, but the obvious one we would suppose would be who? Job You know, I think, and I I'm no Bible scholar, I'm a I consider myself a student of the Bible. I don't consider myself a great Bible scholar But my uneducated guess, my thinking is he would be the one that would know better than anybody else what took place. And so perhaps it's autobiographical a little bit there, and that Job perhaps may have been writing. Others have suggested different people. Moses was one suggestion. We don't know. But I do know this Job was an actual man, a literal person. Some liberals have tried to suggest, well, it's just a mythological story, it's just an allegory, somebody made it up, just a try and uh deal with the issues of life. No, we have no reason to believe that Job was not an actual ma real man that had an actual real wife, had kids and went through everything exactly as it is described here. I believe Job is a historical account of a heartbreaking experience in the life of this man. The word Job, uh his name itself, I like to study the names of people and uh sometimes it gives us a little insight. I thought this was interesting. The name Job means To be hated. It means to be persecuted. Boy, that describes Job. Everybody turned against them and uh to be hated. Now my question comes to my mind, who in the world would name their kid to be hated? You know? Uh who would name them? Uh what's your child's name? Persecuted. Uh I don't know who would name their child that. Now we don't know. Maybe that wasn't his birth name. Maybe that was a name given to him. We don't know But I find it interesting that that's what the name Job means, to be hated or to be persecuted. Uh look with me if you would. Now keep your place here, but come back with me if you would to chapter 1 of Job. I wanted to notice something here. Just to get an idea of this fellow Job, a little bit about him, a little bit of background of the book. In Job chapter 1 and verse 1 and 2, here we have God's assessment of Job, God's introduction to us of Job. And notice what it says. There was a man in the land of Uz, whose name was Job. Now look what God says about him. And that man was perfect and upright, and one that feared God. And eschewed evil. That phrase eschewed evil simply means he hated, despised that which was evil. I don't know about you. I get the impression Job's a pretty good guy. Man, how many people can you say what God says about Job? How many people can say, oh yeah, he's perfect. Now, when the Bible uses the term perfect in reference to man, it doesn't mean sinless We see in the book of Job, Job had his faults, Job had his weaknesses. But when the Bible says, uses the term perfect in reference to man, it's talking about complete. He's mature. He's everything God expected of him as a human being. So Job was perfect. He was upright. He did right. He was feared God. Boy, you can get that down. We're in good shape. And eschewed, hated, despised evil. Then look what it says there. Verse 2, and there were born unto him seven sons and three daughters. So he had a household by our standards His substance, his possessions, his estate, you might say, also was 7,000 sheep, that's a bunch of sheep, and 3,000 camels, that's a heap of camels. 500 yoke of oxen, 500 she asses, and a very great household. And so Job was pretty well off He was pretty well off. He had huge herds and flocks. He had wonderful ten kids. He had a household. Notice it says there, a very great household means uh uh people working for him in the house and and uh uh maids and butlers and uh butchers and candlestick makers and all. He just had uh quite a household there, uh folks. So he's he's a very wealthy man So he's godly, very godly, one of the few people in the Bible where God makes statements like that about a man. He's incredibly wealthy and successful, material-wise, he's prosperous. And then look again, if you would, at the end of verse number 3. So that this man, look at this next statement, was the greatest of all the men of the East. He was a leader. He was highly respected. He was very, very influential. And so we get this picture of this man Job. By the way, not all wealthy, prosperous people are bad. You know, sometimes uh we have a society that is driven by envy and jealousy and hates people who are successful and want to tear them down and want to make them out to be some evil, terrible people. Now there are some bad rich people. Hey, there's some bad poor people. And there are some godly righteous wealthy people and godly wealthy poor people. I never had a poor person give me a job. Everybody I worked for, everybody who hired me was very successful in what they did, so I'm grateful for that. And so Job was very successful, very prosperous, uh was the greatest man in all the East. He's quite a fella. And uh again, I find this intriguing that a man of that caliber, of that character, that wealthy And yet he goes through the lowest valley, the hardest experience you and I could possibly imagine If you would, now again, we're going to end up in chapter 24 here in a moment. Would you come to the end of the book of Job, chapter 42? And I want you to notice, if you would, verse number five and six, chapter forty-two. Let me get there. Job chapter 42. And notice with me verse 5 and 6. Now he goes through this series. As we mentioned, and and many of you are familiar with the book of Job. He uh God and Satan get in this argument, and God says, Alright Satan, you can do what you want to him, just uh don't take his life, and uh I believe and God says, Job will be faithful to me, I've got confidence in him And so uh Satan comes and kills his cattle, or all his flocks, takes all his possessions, his children die, his wife turns on him He gets incredibly ill with these boils from the top of his head to the sole of his foot. He's in incredible pain. And his buddies show up, they listen, they're just kind of quiet there with him for a while, and then they start running their mouths And for the most of the book is them throwing accusations at Job that if he was if he was as great as what uh the everybody thought he was, then he wouldn't be going through this And um and uh they're saying, you know, good people don't suffer like this, and Job counters them, says, no, there's a lot of wicked people that are very pussy, and they go back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. Finally, God steps in And God says, wait a minute, hold it. And God starts asking a series of questions. Where were you? And uh are you God, or do you know uh have the wisdom of God And God confronts them, put them all in their place. God basically says, listen, I'm God. I do what I know is best and what is wise in the lives of people. Then Job makes this statement in chapter 42, and look at this. He says, I have heard of thee. Job's speaking to God. He says, I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear. In other words, Job knew all about God. He knew that God was holy, that God was wise, God was good, God was just God was all powerful. He knew all these things about God, and he believed it, and he was living for God, and he feared God. He said, But this experience This heartache, unbelievable heartache, and this physical trials that I have been through I've learned a whole lot more about God. God, now I understand. I see who you are and your wisdom and your power. And I can fully trust you even when I don't understand what's taking place. Isn't that something? I've heard of you with the ear, but Lord, now I see. I've seen who you are. I've seen how you respond. I've seen your wisdom in action. Therefore, verse 6, he says. I abhor myself and I repent in dust and ashes. He says, I've said things, God, foolish things, I questioned you. There's a few places where he's almost throwing accusations at God. And he goes, I was wrong, I was wrong, I was wrong. I believe verse 5 and 6 of chapter 42, I believe that those are the key verses. Of the book of Job. It's really a fulfillment of James chapter 1 where it says, Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations Knowing this that the trying of your faith, that's Job, knowing this, the trying of your faith worketh patience, but let patience have its perfect work, that you may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing And Job said, I went through all these trials. I see what God has done, and I have grown. I'm stronger in my faith. I'm stronger in my relationship with the Lord. I'm stronger in my understanding of who my God and my creator is. And he's saying this, this has been good for me. I guarantee you he wouldn't want to go back through it again. Amen. But he says, this was good for me. This was good for me. The book of Job is a fascinating book. Now, come to chapter 24 with me back there if you would. I was reading my devotions a couple weeks ago. I was reading through Job, and I came across verse 24 in my daily reading, and I saw this statement. In verse number two, that caught my attention. And I underlined it in my Bible. And Job, this is Job speaking. He's countering one of his buddies that threw a bunch of accusations at him And he makes this statement. He says, some remove the landmarks. And then he goes on down through there and he describes what these people are like that remove landmarks. They're cruel, they're murderers, they're liars, they're adulterers, uh, they're thieves. And he describes these people that move landmorts. Now The question came up, what is so significant about landmarks? What's the big deal about some people moving landmarks? Well the question is, what is a landmark? Now a landmark is is used pri uh is used two ways mostly. The first one, and this is how it's used primarily in scripture, is to indicate the boundaries or the borders of private property. A landmark. If you go out here on a property of the church, you could go back here in the northeast corner of our property and you would find a stake there, hammered in, uh a metal stake that's in the ground, has our top as orange. That's a landmark That tells us where the corner of the property is. There's another one over here, several down along the side there, and uh landmarks to indicate Where property is, where a property line is. It's usually in scripture, it would often be a large stone they would put, or they'd put a post in Sometimes it would be a rock pile. They would pile rocks up. It would indicate the boundary of property lines or where the perimeters of someone's property was. By the way God is for private property. Communism is unscriptural, where nobody owns their own private property. God's for it. In fact, he had it set up where they would put landmarks to indicate whose property is where. I was with my son a few weeks, a few months ago out to see the grandbaby Um, I was in Tennessee so I ran out to see the grandbaby. My wife's out there now and uh she is having time with the new grandbaby. We had Kenley turn two on Friday and we got another big grandbaby, Skylar uh um Skyla. And uh just born in August. And by the way, let me show you some pictures here, um, real quick I don't think she's ever coming home, to be honest with you. She's having a time out there. I'm here with the dog. And um But uh I was out there it was Sam and he took me on the job one day. I think I talked about that for a while, the the Tiggers. And um but anyway, we were out there And uh there was these piles of rocks. He says, Dad, uh I mean we're back in the woods. We're in Arkansas actually. We're back on this uh four-wheel, we're way back in the woods, he's surveying the land there that had a job And uh we came up over this ridge and there's these piles of rocks, I mean literally four four foot high, just rocks piled up very strategically all through there And he says, what are these things here? What are they? And it's out in the middle of this big trees. There's no fields or anything. It's just the middle of the woods. And uh I mean seven, eight, ten, twelve of them in different places And uh we got looking down, we thought maybe aliens did it, and we were trying to figure out what in the world, where did these things come from? And the best we could come up with was there were probably some sort of landmarks marking property lines or whatever, and it didn't really make sense. But that's the idea. When Job said some move landmarks He was referring to, in that case, he was referring to pulse or a rock or some sort of indicator that marked the property lines. Now we also use the term landmark in a little different way. in the sense of identifying where I'm at. You have a landmark and that tells me where I'm at. When I came here 27 years ago, this handful of people And uh I decided I was going to visit everybody in the church. I want to get out and see where they live and talk to them and visit everybody in the church. And it's very simple to do. There weren't that many, but I didn't know the area here And so I didn't know where and back then they didn't have uh back then if you remember out of town they didn't have house they didn't have street numbers It was before 911, and so they were all they had these rural rural route numbers. Anyone remember that, the old rural route now? And it didn't tell you where that was at. You'd look at it and say, I don't know where rural route number four is Or whatever. And so I asked someone, I said, I want to go visit a lady in our church, and uh, but I don't know where that address is. How do I get there? They said, oh, it's simple Say you pull out of the parking lot of the church here, go down here, one stop sign, two stop sign, go to the third stop sign, turn left You'll go down there until you get a traffic light, turn right, you'll cross the train tracks, go up there, and don't turn to the left, you go kind of straight there, across there, and you'll go through a little town, you'll come out, and then you turn left at the stop sign, and there's a big oak tree right there. I said a big oak tree. Yeah, big oak tree. You can't miss it. I said, all right, at the oak tree, turn right. I said, alright, stop sign, stop sign, stop sign, left, light, train track, straight, stop sign, oak tree. Right. And they said, at the oak tree turn right, and you'll cross a little creek there, and there'll be about all 15-20 cows on the right hand side in a f in the meadow Cows in the meadow on the right. Yeah, on the right side. If you wait till you get to the left side, you're past it. If the cows are on the left, you're past it. If the cows on the right I said, all right. And you get up there and there'll be an oak grove. There'll be a bunch of oak trees up there. And uh right there, there's a little driveway go in, and some of y'all know who I was going to visit, Nancy Kitchen Lived out there. And uh and so the oak tree and the cows and the crick and the train track were landmarks Indicating to me where I was at and how to maneuver and where I needed to go. So landmarks in the Bible were we are told In Scripture, they were told, you don't mess with landmarks. You don't mess with them. And God was very serious. About not moving landmarks. In fact, in Deuteronomy chapter number 27 and verse 17, listen to what God says. This is what God says. Cursed Be he that removeth his neighbor's landmark. Twice in Proverbs he says very point-blank Remove not the ancient landmarks. Proverbs 22, 28, Proverbs 23, 10. Remove not the old landmarks. Landmarks back then were you could move them fairly easily if it was a rocky enough people you could shift that thing over and you could steal your neighbor's property. They would move it a little bit at a time, but it wasn't too obvious. Move that thing, move that thing. You could steal from your neighbor's landmark. Neighbor's property. Sometimes if they move that landmark, that could put somebody off track. Could cost them their life. They'd get out in the wilderness somewhere because the landmark was moved and end up in bad shape. And so God takes his landmarks very, very seriously. And he says again, Deuteronomy, he's, man, you can't get much stronger than this. Cursed. Be the man that moveth his neighbor's landmark. Now I said all that to say this. God has given to you and I some spiritual landmarks God has given to you and I some doctrinal landmarks. And these quote unquote landmarks will indicate to us When we are inside genuine Christianity or we have stepped out of genuine Christianity. You follow what I'm trying to say? Landmark told me there's a landmark. All right, I know if I cross over these landmarks, I'm off the property of so-and-so. I'm on different property. There are some landmarks, spiritual landmarks, doctrinal landmarks given to you and I that tell us when we get outside of Christianity. I'm here to tell you, not everything that calls itself Christian is Christian. Amen. Not everything that says it's Bible is necessarily Bible. And so God has given to you and I some, what I refer to as doctrinal landmarks And if that doctrine isn't adhered to, if that doctrine isn't accepted in belief, then it is not Christianity. We call them, we often refer to them as the fundamentals of the faith. They are necessary if we're going to have Christianity, these truths, these landmarks must be in place. And if we get outside of them, then we no longer have Christianity. What is a fundamental of the faith? Well, I heard Curtis Hudson years ago illustrate it, and I think he had a great illustration. He would say, well, what are the fundamentals of a car? What do you need in a car for it to function, be able to function as a car? So think about that for a minute. What wouldn't be necessary for a car to be able to function? Let me ask you a question Is a radio, a stereo radio, a fundamental for a car, necessary for a car to function? Yes or no? No, it's just nice. How about air conditioning? No. How about a drivetrain? Yeah, you're not going to get far without a drivetrain. So that would be a fundamental. How about windshield? Now you can drive without a windshield. I did for a while. How about a trunk? How about tires and wheels? Yeah. So you get the idea? There's some things that have to be in place for that car. There are fundamentals that are necessary if a car is going to function. I'm telling you, God, there are some fundamentals that are necessary if you're going to have Christianity. There are some fundamental truths that must be accepted, that must be in place if anybody's if a person's going to have eternal life. Amen or not. I get it all the time. The knock on doors. Pastor Leatherman, Mount Lake Baptist Church, want to invite you out. We get to talk a little bit. Let me ask you a question. You know for sure you're going to heaven when you die? Oh yeah, I'm going to heaven when I die So, oh really? How do you know? What gives you that assurance? What makes you so sure? Oh, I was a Sunday school superintendent for 40 years. Hold it Is it good to be a Sunday school superintendent? Sure, but that's not what gets you to heaven. They're outside. Do you see what I'm saying? They're outside the perimeter of salvation. And so there are these fundamental truths, these landmarks, spiritual landmarks that God gives us that tell us if we're if we have the real thing or whether we're out of bounds. This isn't my message. Let me list some of them. And the list varies with people. But I would say the Trinity, God the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, a proper understanding of God is necessary if you're going to have biblical Christianity. The Trinity. The deity of Jesus Christ. Somebody says, yeah, I'm a Christian, but I think Jesus was just a man. That's not a Christian. That's an imposter. That's a false prophet. The Bible's clear. Jesus is God in the flesh. The deity of Christ, the personality and deity of the Holy Spirit, I would say is a fundamental is a landmark. The resurrection of Jesus Christ and the resurrection of the believer Would be a fun. Oh, I believe in Jesus, but I don't think he rose from the dead. He's just dead back there in the grave. That's not Christianity. A person a person who's believing in a Jesus that is dead and buried is an unsaved person. Jesus said the gospel as Jesus Christ died for our sins, according to scriptures, was buried and rose again the third day, according to scriptures. By the way If you're trying to win someone to Christ, you better include the resurrection in your gospel presentation, or you're not giving them the gospel. That's a fundamental. That's a landmark of the faith. Salvation by grace. The reality of the devil and angels, heaven and hell, the second coming. These are all landmarks. These are all fundamental truths that must be adhered to if we're going to have Christianity. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is a fundamental independent Baptist church. And that means we adhere to these fundamentals of the faith. That means we operate within the landmarks of truth that God has given to us. We hold to these truths. Fundamentals. Now, again, I said all that to get to this. There is one landmark. There is one fundamental truth. In my mind, that is primary to all other landmarks, and that is this: the inspiration of the scriptures. This book right here is God's word is given to us miraculously by the Holy Spirit of God. It is without error, without contradiction. It is the basis of everything we believe. It is the foundation of our hope of eternal life. It is the foundation of our hope of forgiveness of sins. It is the sole authority for everything we believe and we do. Amen? I think, as pastor of this church, I think it's important that every now and then we just stop and remind ourselves this is God's word. Right here. We take it for granted sometimes. We just uh uh we neglect it sometimes, and we can never get away from the importance, the landmark of the Word of God. I tell you, you get away from this book and you're outside the boundaries of God's truth. Amen? The inspiration of Scripture, the very Word of God, is the Bible. Let me give you, and Job says this. This is what struck me. I read that. In my devotion, I was reading in the morning. And some remove the landmarks. There's some people who want to remove that book. I'm telling you, their denominations all around the world once held to that book and they removed it. They removed the landmark. When I first got saved, uh May 7, 1979, it was a Monday night. Um, I'll tell you about it sometime. On Monday night, that next Sunday, my dad drove truck, it was just my dad and I my dad drove truck, he was gone all week out on the road And um I trusted Christ Monday night. I started reading my Bible. And that next Sunday morning came around. And you know what I thought? I thought I ought to go to church Nobody's twisting my arm. My daddy had, you know, for years been witnessing to me. Nobody nobody called me up five times Sunday morning. You need to be in church, brother. Dennis, you want to be in church? Nobody did that The Holy Spirit inside me stirred my heart. I needed to go to church. By the way, I just thought of this. You know, when we were in lockdown back in March And they said, nobody can go to church. Ten people only. So we were doing online. Had the stupid little cell phone down here. I was preaching into this dumb little thing. It was duct taped to a music stand And um brother Marks, those that were here remember, and I'm here preaching into that stupid little phone, and uh you know what started happening? People would show up. Preacher, can we sneak in? And the next week somebody called me up, Preacher, I know we're not supposed to, but can we just kind of sit in the back and be at church? And uh don't tell anybody, but uh there was folks sneaking in And they come in, we'd lock the door so no Gestapo could come in and get us And you know, it stirred my heart, and I thought, you know, there's something inside the heart and soul of a believer that says I need to be with other believers. I need to assemble together. And you couldn't stop it. And I tell you, the government can try and stop it all they want. God's people are going to get together one way or another. The Russians tried it for years Didn't work. Chinese trying it for years. They'll meet together. They'll meet out in the barn, out in the woods. They'll meet in a tent on frosty night and have church together in a tent somewhere. And so I thought I ought to go to church. And I showed up, and I'm one week old in the Lord. Save Monday night. This is Sunday. Not even eight days going by, seven days. I got a Bible that I had. And I went to that church down the road from my house. I didn't know anything about church. I didn't know nothing about nothing. And I walked in there. You know what? I sat in a Sunday school hour. I was the only person in the Sunday school class that had a Bible, including the teacher. It's in the church service time, so I went up in church service. As far as I could tell, I was the only person in that church that had a Bible, including the preacher. Now I'm only six, seven days old in the Lord. I don't know. I couldn't quote you the first five books of the Bible at this point. But I knew something, there was something about that book that was important. And it ought to be in church and it ought to be in my life. And you know what happens? Somebody in that denomination removed that landmark. Job said some remove landmarks. You know, there's churches and denominations removing the landmark of the deity of Christ. This morning, while I'm preaching here, there are churches that are preaching Jesus just a man. No different than you and I. Just a great teacher. Just an amazing person. No, Jesus was a great teacher. He was an amazing person, but he was God in the flesh. And some people remove these landmarks and remove these landmarks. And you know what the consequence of that is? You know what the consequence of people die and go to hell People die and go to hell. They move that landmark and they don't know where they're headed. They head off and go off the cliff out into eternity. Listen, the doctrines, the teachings of Scripture are vitally important, and there are some that are fundamental There are landmarks, and one of those is Scripture. God forbid that Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church ever gets away from the divine inspiration and preservation of that old book. My prayer has been for years. Lord, if this church ever goes liberal, stops believing and preaching and teaching that book, I pray it burns down, the whole thing collapses in. I don't want anybody standing behind this pulpit preaching something other than the Word of God. Job said some people move that landmark. We must never let the landmark of God's word be removed from Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church It is the primary doctrine that we hold to. All other truth is built off of that truth. It's built off that truth. Some remove the landmarks. Let me give you real quickly, I got a couple minutes, let me give you real quickly some uh some uh characteristics of this landmark of God's Word. Number one, I put this down. It is divinely given. It is a divinely given landmark. In other words, God is the one that planted this landmark in our lives God gave us the Bible. Don't you ever let anybody for one minute suggest to you that that is nothing more than a book written by man. Now I'll grant you it was penned by man, but it was authored by God. I wish we had time. We would go drop these verses Down. Maybe this afternoon you can look them up. Jot these verses down. 2 Timothy 3 and verse 16. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. God breathed these words. God breathed these truths into the Word of God. Write this reference down. 2 Peter 1 and verse 21. Holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. In other words, Paul and uh Ezekiel and Jeremiah and Moses, as they penned down the Word of God, the Holy Spirit of God moved upon them Moved on their mind, moved on their thinking, and they would write down exactly what God intended for you and I to have in this book. It's called the inspiration of scriptures. That word moved there in Peter, and again I wish we had time to look at it. That word move there has the idea of a wind blowing our sailboat that with the with the um uh the sails the sailboat has sails That wind blowing on that sails and directing that little ship into a certain direction. That's the idea. The Holy Spirit moved on their mind, put thoughts and And uh ideas and words into their mind. And as they were writing, did they all realize God was doing at the time? I think probably not. Some were just Paul was might have just been writing a letter to the church. But the Spirit of God was working. The Spirit of God was moving on his mind, and he's writing down exactly what God wanted him to write. And God preserved it for you and I. This, there is no other book in all the world like this book right here. It's divinely given to us directly by God. Uh here's a here's I I like this idea. This came to me years and years ago. When I sit down, I like to read the Bible in the morning, and then again at night of the evening But I'll sit down with this Bible open. And many of you, perhaps, this morning, you've got up and you've got alone, you've got your Bible out, and you read your Bible, um uh read your Bible every day Amen. Amen. But anyway, I'm reading that. And this is the way I like to look at it. I'm sitting there and I'm reading this. It's like God is sitting right there in front of me And he's talking to me, the words I'm reading. It's God speaking to me. God talking to me. Everybody follow what I'm saying? I tell you, you want your Bible reading to come alive You look at it that way. God is talking to me. God is speaking to me. I read this morning Proverbs, first thing in the morning. I read Proverbs chapter 4. Today's October 4th. I read Proverbs 4. And he said this: He said, keep Thy heart with all diligence. I read that this morning, Proverbs 4, I think it's verse 23. And I thought, that's God telling me. I need to keep my heart with all diligence. I need to guard this thing. I need to be careful what I what I allow in my heart. Don't let my heart take over. I'm sinful. It's God speaking to us. This is a divinely given landmark. Some people remove the landmarks. You better not remove this landmark. This is given to us by God. Amen. Can you imagine somebody standing before the God of creation and they remove this landmark of God's word, the answer to God for that? Another characteristic of this landmark of God's Word, it is not just a divinely given landmark, but it is a distinguished landmark. In other words, I started to say this a moment ago, no other book in existence comes even close to the greatness of the Bible. Isaac Newton. Anybody ever anybody recognize the name Isaac Newton? Isaac Newton discovered what? He he discovered the I mean did he discover it or he what? The law of gravity. So my question is, did he dis he didn't invent it Because it was already there. I guess discovered is right. Is that right, Wilbur? Yes, thank you. I just needed some assurance there that Isaac Newton was a great Bible believer. He held to that landmark. He didn't move that landmark. You say a scientist? Believe the Bible? Yeah. I tell you, that Bible's more accurate in science than a lot of the scientists today. Listen to what Isaac Newton said about the Bible. This is fascinating to me. Of all the great books, oh no, if all the great books of the world were given life All the great books of the world, uh Shakespeare, all these great books of the world, Plato, all these books, if they were given life And they were all brought together in a big convention. Now, use your imagination. All the books have come to life. In a big convention, the moment the Bible entered. All other books would fall on their faces as the gods of Philistia fell when the Ark of God was brought into the presence in the temple of Dagon. Do you get that? Isaac Newton said this book, this book is so great that if all the other books in the world came alive The moment this book came in, they would all bow before it. What a book. What a book. Never has been, never will be, a book like the Book of God, the Word of God So it is a divinely given landmark. It is a distinguished landmark. And then I put this down. It's an indescrupt indestructible landmark Indestructible landmark. I got news for you. The devil hates that book. I wish, again, I wish we had time. We never have time to do everything I want. But if we had time, we could go back to Genesis chapter 3. And the devil, in the form of a serpent, approaches Eve. How many people are familiar with the story? And she's just minor business. We don't know all the details there, but the serpent starts talking to Eve of all things. And the very first things out of the mouth of the serpent, who was Satan personified in the serpent, the very first words out of the mouth of the serpent, Satan, to Eve, God's fleshly created. Man and woman, very first words were this, yea, hath God said I'm telling you, that was not a question. That was not Satan asking a question. That was Satan planting a doubt. He wanted her to doubt that what God said was so. He wanted her to doubt that whether God that God was being good to her. Satan knew exactly what God said. I'm telling you, for all these years, Satan has been trying to remove the landmark of God's Word by putting doubts in people's minds about that book. In fact, you and I are sinners today because Satan enabled Adam and Eve to doubt God's word and act against God. You don't think that book's important? You don't think this landmark? Needs to stay in place. I'm telling you, Satan's been trying to move it for years. He tries to, it's indestructible. He tries to get us to doubt it. Satan is trying to destroy this book I like the old song, the Bible stands like a rock undaunted mid the raging storms of time. It's going to stand. Try to destroy it. They never can Jesus said, heaven and earth will pass away, but my word shall not pass away. Satan can try and move that landmark of God's word all he wants. He can try and remove get us to doubt it. He can try and destroy it. But I'm telling you, God's word will stand. When America is ashes in the heap of history, this book will stand. It's indestructible. It is divinely given. It is distinguished from all other books. It's indestructible. Jesus said in Matthew 24, 35, heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. No matter what century we live in, the Bible is always up to date. Isn't that something? I was listening to Albert B. Green this morning on uh on the radio at 88. 7 FM. I was listening to Albert B. Green. And um he was this was back in the 60s, I think he recorded this. And he was talking about how violent society is, and riots in our streets, and murders, and discontent, and people causing problems. And I thought, 1960, nothing, that's 2020. This old book is up to date. It don't matter what century you're in, what decade you're in, this old book is going to stand Destroy it, they never can. Destroy it. It's an indestructible book. Ah, they'll try and doubt it. They'll get us to doubt it. They'll get us to destroy it. They'll try and get dilute this book Satan try and get just get it so it's so diluted it's useless. Uh anybody here um dr ever drink Kool-Aid? I I don't sow much anymore. I'm not big. I drink water and coffee is basically it. But um uh some uh cranberry juice and sometimes I'll drink apple juice and but never mind all that. But Kool-Aid, sometimes when you're a kid, somebody makes Kool-Aid and they put double the double the powder in there And it's like, whoa! Or sometimes they start running out, all the other kids in the neighborhood would come over, and you know the big Kool-Aid guy, remember, comes running through the wall. And um Oh no, there's more kids here. We're all out of Kool-Aid mix. So mom would just add some water to it. And it's like, it's pink water. This is nasty. Hey, I'm telling you, that's what the devil tries to do, the Bible. I got studying this week. Now, years ago, I did a count, I got a catalog, a Bible catalog. And I counted 125 different English versions of the Bible. 125. I did a little research this week. Guess what that number is up to? About 900 English versions of the Bible. Now you'll never convince me for one minute that helps people understand the Bible You know what that does? That just dilutes that thing down. They reword it every possible way you can imagine until you don't even know. It's like pink water calling it lemonade. Try and dilute the word of God. I tell you, I'm the older I get, the longer I study that book, the longer I live for the Lord, know the Lord, the more I'm convinced God has preserved his word in that old King James Bible. And say, well, it's hard to understand. I tell you what, you read the newspaper, it's hard to understand. Destroy it. Doubt it. Dilute it. Distort it. Again, man, I wish we had time. Write down Matthew chapter 24. I mentioned this in Sunday school. Jesus is answering a question the disciples ask, when will you set up your kingdom? In other words, when are you coming back? When's the return of Christ? And he goes on and he gives a description of the characteristics of the world that will precede the second advent of Christ. And over, and I wish we had time to go there and show it to you, over and over and over and over, in that chapter, he says this: Beware, don't be fooled, false prophets. And what he is saying this, one of the characteristics of the last days is going to be a distortion of this book and the truths that this book teaches. And I'm telling you, you and I live in a day of spiritual apostasy. And people distort the truths of this word. I tell you, you gotta be so careful when you're on that internet and you're re buying books at the Christian bookstore or whatever, you've got to be so careful. I'm telling you, man is awfully good at taking a lie and making it sound like truth And taking false doctrine and make it seem so biblical. I tell you, we just gotta stick with the old book Just stick with the old book. Just stick to the truth. The Bible says what it means, and it means what it says, and it doesn't have to be explained away. I have a problem with any theology, any doctrine, any Any teaching that has to explain away words and verses in Scripture. You need to just be able to take it for what it says. Amen or not? So dilute it, doubt it, destroy it, distort it, trying to move that landmark. Last of all, let me give you this This is an undivided landmark. Not last of all. Second last of all. It's undivided landmark. There's no contradictions. It fits together perfectly. And last of all, it is a dynamic landmark. This book is alive. Hebrews 4. 12, for the word of God is quick. Means it's live, it's living and powerful Sharper than any two-edged sword. Nothing has changed my life like the truths in this book right here You say, preacher, I've got somebody I'm trying to win to Christ, and they're so hard-hearted, their mind is so wicked, their heart is so hard, they'll never get saved. I tell you what, this book's like a hammer, and you keep giving them the truths of scripture, and this thing can break the hardest of hearts and bring people to Christ. I like what Clyde Box said. He was here years ago, great preacher out of Texas. I loved Clyde Box. And he was standing right where I'm standing, he was preaching to us, and he said this: He goes, You don't have to defend that book. He said, just declare it. He said, if I had a lion here, I wouldn't have to tell you how terrible this line was. I just let it loose. You'll find out real quick You know what? All we gotta do is let this book loose. Just get it out in the world. That's why I'm sold on these literature ministries. I'm sold on the radio ministry, the internet Just get this word out. Get the word out. I'm telling you, have a profound impact. There's nothing wrong with America that a good saturation of the truths of God's word couldn't turn it around. This is a dynamic book. It's powerful. I was reading back in 19, back in the year 20, 20, 22, 2002. 2002. There was a boy, his name was Bra his name was Bingham Byron. Byrant. He was a 10-year-old boy, and he lived in Connecticut. Connecticut, brother. And uh he was in school and in the little elementary school where Bingham Bryant went to school, 10 years old, in the back of the library, On a wall behind a bunch of boxes and stuff, there was a painting hanging on the wall. And it was old and it was dusty. But somehow, Bingham Byron Was back in there doing something and he saw that painting and it caught his attention. And it was a painting of some mythological thing. I don't remember what exactly it was But whatever it was, it captured his imagination. And he would go back and look at that thing. And he started looking up in the library about the character, this beast that was in this picture. And he came home and he started telling his dad about this picture. He said, it's amazing. He said it's all covered in dust back there. And finally his dad said, Oh, and the boy was just enamored by it And so finally the dad said, well, let's go in and see that thing. So they went in, they told the librarian in the school, and they took him back, and there it was, he got looking at that. He said, he took it down and dusted it off. He asked the library and Reuters has this a news report back at the time He said, could we take this down to an art shop down here, an expert on artwork, and just see what this is about? They said, sure. It's been there forever. We don't know anything. He took it down there. You know what that painting was? It was a masterpiece. They determined it was worth over a million dollars. Hanging on an old wall in the back of the library, a bunch of boxes stacked up around it. The librarian said it's just been there forever. We never gave it any thought. We don't know where it came from or what. Million dollars Hanging on the wall covered in dust, a masterpiece. All around our homes. There's a book sitting on a bookshelf, sitting on a coffee table, stuck up on the back dash of a car, covered in dust. I'm telling you, that book is a masterpiece. It's the word of God. It's worth more than more than anything this world could ever come up with. The landmark of God's Word. Some remove the landmarks. There's churches that used to preach that book. They moved it. There's poems that used to read the Bible. I appreciate Paul Harvey gives testimonies that parents always read the Bible You always read the Bible. You know what? A lot of homes moved the landmark. Bible setting back on some shelf. It's not a guide. It's not a manual for life. It's just nothing People say, we need to get the Bible back in schools. We need to get the Bible back in the state house. Yeah, I'm all for that. But I'm I say, let's get the Bible back in our houses Let's start there. Reading the Bible together as a family, as individuals, living by it, doing what it tells us, letting it be a landmark. For our lives to direct us, lead us. God's, I told the Sunday school class, we were looking at this in Sunday school, God has a special blessing through those who meditate and live by the Word of God. Don't move the landmark. Don't be one of those who land if you've gotten that landmark out of your home. That's not part of your life. I say get it back Get that thing back where it needs to be. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to stir us in this matter of your word. God, you'd help us put it back in its rightful place in our homes, in our lives, in our churches. Help us to live by it, believe it, and trust it. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. Ah, that Bible doesn't play have a place in my life like I know it should. God spoke to my heart and I need to get that Bible back. Maybe your personal Bible reading, maybe in your family time. Maybe living by it. How many like that, preacher? I need to get that Bible back. I need to be more concerned. Consistent and reading it. I need to get it back. Any like that uplifted hand, preacher, I need that. God bless you. Hands all around. How empty our lives are, because it's the Bible is not a part of our lives I wonder if there's some here who say, preacher, I'm I don't know for sure I'm saved. I don't know if I go to heaven when I die. I'm concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell. I tell you, this Bible tell you how you can know if you're saved, how to get eternal life. We can show you from the Bible how to do that. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm saved. I don't know for sure I have eternal life. I don't want to die and go to hell I need the Lord. I need the Lord. Any like that by the uplifted hand? Any at all? We can show you. How many folks would say, preacher, I need to be more active in sharing the Word of God with others? That's what our country needs. That's what our world needs. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I'll be more faithful. I'll be more diligent in sharing the gospel, sharing the word of God with others. Any like that? By the uplifted hand. Sure. That's a burden on our heart that people get the Word of God. Here in our country, around the world. Father, bless our imitation time now, I ask. Have your way. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.