Two weeks ago, midpoint of the Book of Ecclesiastes, and uh he gives a series of statements of things that are better than some other things. And uh some of them might on the surface, and somebody who's not aware of what's the context of what's being said here, um Might think these are somewhat bizarre, but as we look at them we find out that uh Solomon is correct and he's spot on on what he's saying here. Of course, this is all given under the inspiration of God, so it's very, very profitable. I'm going to begin reading in verse number one. And I want to read down through verse number 10, and we're going to focus primarily on the second part of verse 1 and then verse 2. But notice with me, if you would, verse 1, a good name is better than precious ointment. And the day of death than the day of one's birth. Hmm. Look at this statement. It is better to go to the house of mourning What would the house of mourning be? Funeral hole, we would refer to it. Go to a funeral. And he says it is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting. For that is the end of all men. And the living, look at this, the living will lay it to heart. Sorrow is better than laughter. For by the sadness of the countenance, the heart is made better. The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth. It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise than for a man to hear the song of fools. For as the cackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool. This also is vanity. Surely oppression maketh a wise man mad, and a gift destroyeth the heart. Now here he picks it up again. Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof. And the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit. Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry, for anger resteth in the bosom of fools Say not thou what is the cause that the former days were better than these? For thou dost not inquire wisely concerning this. A list of things that are better than other things. Let's pray and we'll pick up where we left off last time. Father, we ask now again tonight as we finish out the Lord's Day. Lord, I always feel like Sunday night is such a crucial, important night As we bring together what took place on your day here in your house, and then we look forward to the work week, go out into the world, I pray you'd prepare our hearts, our minds. That we would be close to you and be strong in the Lord as, and our armor would be in place as we go out and try to be a witness for you this week I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew, yield my will. I ask that you'd speak through me, dear Lord, and be our teacher. Tonight, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Again, I want to reiterate the fact that Solomon is not trying to be morbid here in going through this. He loved life as much as anybody else. We glean that from other statements he makes throughout his writings. Paul loved life. I'm convinced of that. The Lord Jesus Christ talks about sharing his joy with us. But he's talking here about events in life. And aspects of life that are more beneficial to us than some others. We pointed out last time we looked at this, I believe, that the day of death is uh better than the day of birth. And that's a bit of a bizarre statement, but um uh he pointed out that um uh that uh Uh wait a minute, that's not what we did. That's what we're looking at tonight, right? I'm getting way ahead of my notes here. So it's been a long week. Y'all pray for me. We look last week. Let me back up here. We looked last week at verse 1. The good reputation is better than a sweet aroma. How many people remember that? Alright, I'm back on track here again. Good And we pointed out the fact that having a good name, being good, having some integrity and some character about myself is far better, more far more beneficial in life than smelling good And having that image out there and appearing to be something. So we looked at that. Now we look at the second part, and where the day of death is better than the day of life. Notice verse number two. Or the end part of verse number three. He says, the day of death, uh, and the day of death, then the day of one's birth. I put it this way, the day of death is greater than the day of birth. Again, a very bizarre statement Now, he is not I do not believe he is making a contrast here between the birthday and your death day, I'm going to call it. He's not making some contrast. He's said he's not suggesting it's better to die than to be born. You can't die if you're not born, right? And so he's not saying that one is superior than the other But he's comparing, I believe what he's doing here, and I think it ties into the first part of verse one, he's comparing two significant days in our lives. How many people agree with me the day you're born is pretty significant Yeah, we wouldn't be if we weren't if we didn't have a birthday. So the day we are born is very significant. However, that is the beginning of our life. Everything lies before us. Nothing has been accomplished. Nothing is set. There's no character established yet. There's no integrity ingrained in my life. It is all before me. So that's a significant day. There's no doubt about it. However, the day, the death day is the day my life ends. And that is the day that my reputation is sealed. Alright? You follow what I'm saying? That's where that good name has been established. At any point leading up to before I die, I could lose my good name. Right? And so the day of death is very significant. That's where what I am and how I'm known and how I'm remembered is sealed, it's settled, it's established Solomon knew what he was talking about when he said it is possible to lose a good name before you die. Because he had done that very thing. And he had really messed up in the last days of his life. So two days that our name is very significant. On our birthday is the day that our parents give us our name. Dennis Lee Leathermitt, I was given that name at that point. And then on the day we die, that is the day, again, that our name is sealed. what I did with the name my parents gave me. Um my grandfather used to say I remember on s on uh on some occasions, he didn't do it a lot, but on some occasions Uh we were there and as I was getting into my teen years and starting, he could see what was happening to me. And he would make he would make a statement like this. He would say, they c he called me Denny. I let him do that when I was 12. But he'd say, Denny, he'd say, you're a leatherman. You're a leatherman. What was he telling me Yeah, he's saying that name means something. That name means something. Now he wasn't saying in so many words, but now I look back, I see it. He had w he had lived very, very carefully, very diligently to it. Keep that name a good name. And when he died, that Leatherman name was sealed. And to this day I go back home and get talking to somebody, they'll say, Oh, you're Sam Leatherman's grandson Or they'll say, you're Clyde Leatherman's son. They'll say something like, hey, he was a good man. Your grandpa was a good man. And that's what he's saying here. When we get to that day of death, it's very significant in our lives the day we die because that seals Who and what we are. That seals the character and the uh uh the significance of our name. If you would turn with me over to Proverbs chapter number ten. Solomon, of course, again, the penman of Proverbs, and he touches on this, Proverbs chapter 10 and verse number 7. Notice he says here, the memory of the just, he's talking about that day of death, they've died. Now their memory, who they are and what they were, is established, it's sealed. The memory of the just is blessed. But the name of the wicked shall rot. Shall rot. It's interesting, the word memory there and the word name there, they're two different words, but they have the same meaning. In English, sometimes You have two different words that mean the same thing. That's the way it is here. They both mean this, the memorial. Now think about it. Think of it this way. The m memory or the memorial of the just is blessed, but the name or the memory or the memorial of the wicked shall what? Right. Can you think of some names of wicked people that have already passed on and their their their their reputation is sealed? Who's somebody you think of like that? Hitler. Somebody think John Wilkes Booth. They are what they were. Regardless of how they lived before, and that deed, they died, it's settled. You follow what he's saying here? So he's not saying, oh yeah, we're all happy about the day of death. We're more happy about the day of death than we are about the day of our birth. That's not what he's saying He's saying the day of our death is of greater benefit, is of more significant than the day of our birth, though they're both very, very significant. At our birth, we have potential I love the little um blankets for babies. Uh I really appreciate uh Mark and Jackie and their love for the little children in the church here. Do you see that? I mean I think Mark's a little kid, actually, but um These little children, what potential they have, and what a tremendous ministry we just had our teacher work with me, and what a tremendous ministry With all the folks in the church that working with this little children, their whole lives are before them. Their whole eternity is before them. So the birthday is a day of potential. The death day is a day of fulfillment. Whatever I'm going to do, it's done. Whatever I'm going to accomplish, it's been accomplished. It's done. There's no more after that. The day of birth is the start of a temporal life. But the death the birthday is the start of a temporal life, but the death day is the start of what? Eternal life. Eternal life. That's pretty significant. The birthday is you have your future ahead of you. The death day, your fate is sealed. The fate is sealed That's why when we're winning souls and we're evangelizing people, a lot of times we will emphasize, we're trying to win people to Christ, sharing the gospel, doing soul winning, a lot of times we will emphasize the fact that we don't know when death will arrive. Because that fate is sealed. That is a significant day. And so he's emphasizing that The day of death is a stark reminder to me that it how important it is how I live my life. You'll hear preachers say this at funerals sometimes. They'll say, on the tombstone, there's a day of d a day of your birth. That'll be on there, May 6, 1960. Mark that down. May 6, 1960. And then when they die, um we don't know that yet. Hopefully it's like three thousand ninety, but whatever But uh the day of death, they'll have the date they died, and there's something in between those two dates. You'll hear preachers say this at funerals a lot. There's something in between those two dates. What is that? That little dash in between. That's the light lift. And the day of death brings that to an end, brings that to a culmination. So that little dash in between there, how I'm living my life from the day I was born from my birthday to my death day, how I'm living my life is very, very important. And the day of one's death Seals that. Finalizes that. And so that's what he's touching on here. I put this down. We party on our birthday, but we prepare for our death day. Right? So which is more important? Partying or preparing? Preparing. Preparing. Preparing. My grandfather, I mentioned him, and as I was studying this, he kept coming to mind. My grandfather, Sam Leatherman, and we named our oldest son after him And what a humble, godly man. I remember as a child when we'd have like Thanksgiving dinner, Christmas dinner, we'd all get together, and uh and grandpa would pray. I'm telling you, I'm just a little kid. And he would he ha he didn't talk a lot. And um uh but when he prayed, he would stand up, it'd all be around the table, he would stand up and say, let's pray. And I'm telling you, it was like God was there. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You ever have with somebody when they pray? It was like and I'm sitting there and I'm kind of looking around, where's God at? You know? somewhere around here. And just a tremendous man, very humble, godly as can be, as pure as can be, and he had developed bone cancer. Very, very painful. His last days. He was in the hospital in a rehab type thing. And uh as he was dying of bone cancer It was interesting. My dad told me. He said one day, Dad called him Pop. He says, Pop called me in. We were talking. I'm ready to go home real soon. And dad misunderstood and dad said, Well, I don't know, you know, we got a lot of doctors, we gotta check with the doctors and make sure. And then uh uh grandpa said to dad, he goes, No, son, going home real soon. Isn't that sweet? He was ready. He was saved. There's no doubt in my mind. He knew the Lord is Savior. But he made this statement, and he was in there and he was in tremendous pain, in incredible pain. And dad was with them, and dad said something about being painful, and you know, something about praying for them and about being in pain. And grandpa said this, dad told me this, and it's just burned in my mind Grandpa said this to my father, he says, men far greater than me have suffered far more than I'm suffering. He says, this is nothing compared to what other great men have done. I don't know. That speaks volumes to me. And the day of grandpa's death is a significant day. And I look back and I remember those things, and all that is sealed. And I think that is what Solomon is referencing here. The day of one's death. And then let's go here. So the death day is better than the birthday. That sounds bizarre, but as far as benefiting us, It's far more significant. Then look with me, if you would, at verse number two. It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting. What does everybody want to do today? They want to go where? The house of feasting. Oh, big party, let's go there But Solomon is telling us, under the inspiration of God, I put it this way, a funeral is more beneficial to us than a feast. We learn a whole lot more at a funeral than we do at a feast. The word better there means this. I'll tell you what it doesn't mean. The word better here does not mean more fun. I had more fun at feasts than I do at funerals. Anybody agree with me on that? It's a whole lot more fun. So the word better doesn't mean it's more fun to go to a funeral than it is uh to go to a funeral than it is to go to feast. It doesn't mean laughter. Now I've been to some funerals where Christians of saved people, and here's a funny thing. You go to a funeral of a Christian and sometimes there's laughter And we have a big time. And we say stuff like, this is amazing to me, but a Christian, they passed away, they've gone to heaven. And we say stuff like, boy, praise the Lord. You know, oh, this is wonderful. We sing happy songs at funerals. And so, but the word better here doesn't mean laughter, it doesn't mean fun, it doesn't mean pleasure, it means more beneficial. Here's one of the definitions I found. Morally good. To be more morally good. It means to have a higher value. Here's one definition, the word better, to be more prosperous. So he's saying going to a funeral, it will improve me, it'll benefit me a whole lot more than going to a feast. In the long run, as far as my character. Now the house of mourning would be, as we said, a funeral home. It's somewhere you go when someone has passed away The house of feasting here, go to the house of feasting, has the idea of going to a banquet, get-together. We have a big fellowship. Um over the years we've had different uh things we've done here after church service and we've done tick and barbecues. Anybody remember some of the tick and barbecues we've done? We get together, we eat and have a big time. We've done um uh corn roasts and stuff like that. That's the idea behind this house of feasting. Just getting together, having a meal, enjoying each other. There's nothing sinful about it. He's not referencing some drunken party. He's not referencing going out and just a sinful event, some big party. Nothing sinful at all. It's getting together, having a meal, fellowshipping with each other, and just having a feast, Thanksgiving type thing. And so he says a house of mourning is better than the house of feasting. Again, he is not suggesting we develop a morbid obsession with death. He's not saying we have to enjoy funerals. Oh boy, I get to go to a funeral this week. It's going to be great. He's not saying that's the way we should be. We would talk that way about a feast. Oh, Thanksgiving in two weeks. Turkey, it's going to be great, right? Talk that way. So he's not suggesting that we have we enjoy feasts. A joya funeral. At a feast, we have enjoyment. At a funeral, we have education. We learn. We learn. Look what he says here. It's better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting, for that is the end of all men. Look at this last statement. And the living, when they go to the house of mourning, they do what? What is it? They lay it to heart. What does that mean? They're going to lay it to heart. They go to this house of mourning. They go to this funeral. They see the deceased. And they lay it to heart. What does that mean? Are you with me here tonight? Was it? They take it to heart? Yeah. Here's the definition of it. This is my definition. Looking it up. This is the way I put it. They let it sink in. It actually has the idea of bringing it into your soul. So they go to the house of mourning, they go to the funeral, here's the deceased, they see the end of their life, they see the the grief and and uh their past on their life here on earth is ended. And they take it to heart. They let it sink in. They bring it into their soul. It affects them. They're influenced by it. They've been educated by it. It has a deep influence. Now I've done I don't know how many funerals. Brother Bowman said yesterday in youth rail he did 105 funerals. I wished I'd have kept track. I'm confident I have I'm confident I have more than he does. But um I've done a lot of funerals over the years. And occasionally I have a funeral where there'll be a friend or a family member, and they'll be outside the funeral home, and they'll say something like this They'll say, I ain't going in there. I'm not going in there. I I have one, I'm thinking of one fellow in particular, he says, I don't do this. I don't go into funerals. I don't go into the casket. I don't go into the room where the dead body is I think that's foolish. Be very honest with you. Let me be honest with you. I think it's disrespectful to the family. And number two, I think it's very foolish on his part. Because my Bible says that the house of mourning is where people lay it to heart, is where they learn things. It helps us. It's good for us. To go into that house of mourning. Ah, I don't do that. I think that's very, very foolish. Let me ask you. What does a person learn? Now I want some input here. Y'all are kind of glassy-eyed here a little bit. What are some things that we learn about life at the house of mourning, at a funeral? What do we learn? Aha, I put that down. I put this down. The reality of death. In fact, it says there, did you see that? For that is the end of all men. Say, where am I going to end up? Go to the funeral home. Right there is where we end up. Mortality rate among human beings is 100%. And it's good for us to lay to mind, hey, we got folks in the world live acting and living like they're going to live forever. As if it's just going to go on forever. And they toy with death and they play with death. And I think it would do our generation, uh it would do our world a heap of good to just stop and stand at a casket of the deceased body and take it to heart, this is where we end up And so one thing we learn in the house of mourning is the reality of death. It is real. That is where I'm going to be. Someday it's going to be my body in that casket there. And we need to keep that in mind. And we're a fool if we don't prepare for that. In fact, I hate uh I hate we don't like to think this, but it's a reality. By next week this time, some of us could have already been through that. There's more than a few funerals we did where they were in the service one week and next week they were they were in eternity. And so it's a powerful lesson. When I go to the house of the house of mourning, hey, the reality of death. What's something else we might learn at a funeral home? Where will I spend eternity? Eternity is real. Uh uh um uh yes. Somebody else said something. Ah, that's what I thought. The brevity of life. Very, very short. How many how many have ever been to a funeral of a child? I've done a heap of those. I was thinking, uh, Kathy and I were talking this afternoon and I I cannot remember the girl's name, but a number of years ago was coming into church here, she came on the bus She got saved, baptized, and she was really wanting to live for God. She started coming Sunday nights, and um I thought her name was one thing I asked my wife, and she said it was a different name Um I think she's wrong, but she's probably right because I'm usually wrong. But I could not but anyway, uh the the girl was Trying to live for God. I believe she was sincerely saved. I think she was genuinely saved. I think she was sincerely wanting to live for God. She got tied up with a fella A guy's drinking, taking her home to Ter Alda, driving drunk, he hits a tree or a pole or something, she's killed. Anybody remember that? Remember that? Was it Riley? Yes. We were both wrong. Um But Riley, and what a sweet girl. And I did the funeral for her. It was at the funeral home over in Terald on top of the hill. And that place was absolutely packed out. And the public school took all the kids from the public school and brought them up there to her funeral. Anybody there? Anybody remember that? And that place was jammed. They were sitting on the steps. They were in the back. They were outside. I believe that was the wisest thing for that school to do. To get those kids up there and see the reality of death the brevity of life and how unexpected death can show up. And I trust that those young people learned a powerful, powerful lesson. I guarantee you they learned a whole lot more at that than going to a birthday party. Right? That's what Solomon is saying. And by the way, at that funeral, we had, I don't know, 15, 18, 20 young people pray to trust the Lord as Savior. And so that's what he's talking about. You go to the house of mourning, we see the end of man, the reality of death, we see the brevity of life. I put this down. What were you going to say, Sydney? Exactly. I mean things we like and like you said, we exercise, we do all that stuff. How many people in the in tremendous health boom are going like that? There's appointed unto man once to die. And we can do all we want. God has that day set. And so, and I put down the unexpected arrival of death. Sometimes God is very gracious and merciful and he lets us know ahead of time we're coming to the end. For four years I was chaplain with hospice. And of course that's where folks are diagnosed and they you know there's not much more you do that you expect a certain amount of time to live. And of course it's very upsetting and I try to put myself in their shoes and how would I feel and You know, there would be fear involved, I'm sure, and concern. I was able to lead many, many people to the Lord. And sometimes they would say, they would say something like this, why, why this way, Pastor Leatherman, why this way? And I said, one way to look at this Is God is being very gracious and merciful in giving you time to prepare and make sure things are in place. And that was when I was able to lead quite a few people to the Lord. Say God has given you a heads up. How many people get in their car and they're a mile down the road and they're gone? They never have a chance to make things right. And so death is unexpected. And we need to live every moment. We need to live every moment in light of the fact that this could be my last day. Or we spoke this morning, the rapture. The rapture could take place. We don't learn that at a birthday party. We don't learn that at a feast. All we're thinking about is, man, this turkey tastes great. Oh, this pumpkin pie, I can't wait. Blueberry cheesecake. Oh, it's going to be awesome. That's all we're thinking about. We don't learn a thing. But we go to a funeral home and we're confronted with the reality of life, eternality, the reality of death. That's a powerful, powerful lesson. Um, I read about during World War II over in England. I never knew this before. I just came across this this week. There was a missions organization. It was called Scripture Gift Mission. It was during World War II. It was in England. And what they did was they would place scripture verses in bomb shelters. Of course, London was being plastered by Germany, you know, and people were dying and just terrible. And so the scripture gift mission would go into the bomb shelters where everybody was set up, and they put scripture verses there pointing people to Christ, pointing people to the Lord, seeking God. They would give scripture portion in the Christian literature, gospel literature, they would give it to a lot of the English soldiers, the British soldiers. And uh our our country did similar with little go uh Bibles. But they would give gospel literature out, trying to win the soldiers to Christ. One day a fella sent a gift to the Scripture Gift Mission. He spent he sent what was what would be a five shilling is what they call James. You might know this. Apparently it's $1. 25 would be equivalent to us To help them put these scripture posters up. But here's an interesting thing. In his gift that he sent, he put a little note. And he wrote and he asked them for prayer for his farm. He was a farmer outside the city. And the farmer requested prayer that no bombs would drop on his small farm. The year before his harvest was terrible. They were going through a drought at this time. His farm was very dry. He was having to buy water. The crops were very minimal. And if a bomb would land on there in his mind, it would be terrible. Please pray that no German bombs fall on my farm. Ashley Baker was the secretary of the mission. He wrote back and he said that God impressed upon his heart to not pray that prayer. That he would not ask God to keep the bombs from falling on his property. And he says, rather, I will pray that God's will be done. On in June of 44, uh Hitler unleashed his V-1 rockets. One of those landed on the man's farm. Now he was praying, God, please don't let this happen to my farm. Secretary of the mission said, you know, I don't have peace praying that. I'm just going to pray God's will be done A rocket comes over and lands on his farm, blows up, blows all the windows out of his house, but nobody's hurt. It was such a big explosion, it went down very deep into the ground. And uh went down very deep into the ground and unearthed a spring And out of that explosion that he was praying so much that would not happen, water came gushing out. Listen to this The spring not only watered his farm very, very well, it enabled him to provide water for other farms around him. Grateful for a very good harvest, he sent 50-pound check, whatever money that is, to the Scripture gift mission and a thanksgiving offering. Now, what's the point of that? The point of that is something that in his mind was such a terrible, horrible thing, I have to avoid this at all costs, is something God used in a powerful way to meet his needs and benefit him. Now I'm suggesting you what Solomon is telling us as we think, oh, the day of death is terrible. Going to a funeral is terrible. That would be a horrible thing. You know, going to a funeral may be the best thing ever happened to us And make us wake up to the brevity of our life and the reality of death and eternity. I mentioned in a previous message not long ago a lady in Indianapolis, and I'll end with this. Her mother was a very faithful church member. She never came. I just told this recently, but it applies here. And she would always pray for her daughter, ask prayer for her daughter, daughter be saved, pray for her daughter, be saved. Finally this dear lady died And the pastor, I believe, did the funeral, but the funeral was there, and the daughter came to the funeral, went out to the graveside, and at the funeral the daughter was saved. And the daughter became a faithful Christian, living for God, faithful to church, got involved in the church. The day of death That day of funeral was the best thing, perhaps, that ever happened to that girl that brought her to Christ. Amen. So the things we dread, the things we fear, sometimes are the very things that God uses. To help us see reality and see light. Amen. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to see this. We don't know what's going to happen this week. We don't know what you're going to allow. But I do pray you'd help us. To keep our eyes on you and whatever you bring into our lives, bombs or funerals, whatever, I pray you'd allow us to learn from it. Take it to heart. Be stronger in our faith and have a more clear perspective of what life is and what it's all about. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I want God to help me see events of life from a heavenly perspective. And not from a temporal, just living it up, party fun, fun, fun, but see the real. the earnestness of life. Anybody, anybody here tonight, God spoke to heart in some way through this? And go, God bless you, hands all around. And maybe what I need to do is just come and kneel and say, Lord, here I am. Take my life. Help me to see the reality of eternal and how important it is how I live my life. Would there be someone here tonight and say, preacher, I'm not saved? I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven I tell you, we hate to say it, we hate to even think it, but it's a very real possibility next week. Maybe out in eternity. We've got to settle that. Any like that, preacher, pray for me. Not sure about my salvation. Any at all? Now Father, bless our invitation. And I hope that you could take these few thoughts tonight and just burn them deep in our hearts and make us better Christians, stronger in our faith In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.