The Bible this evening. Primarily I guess if you want to find John chapter four and mark that, but we're going to be going to a number of other verses. I've been trying to take the first Wednesday of each month and just go over some tips on personal soul winning. I'm trying to be real practical on these. Some end up being, I'm gonna turn this on, Brother Dave, so hold on. Um some end up being a little more practical than others But uh tonight I want us to look at some soul-winning tips from the life of the Lord Jesus Let's start out in John chapter 4, and I'm going to begin reading Verse number three, John chapter four and verse number three. Here it is. This is a familiar passage, I believe. He says, he left Judea and departed again to Galilee. And look at this verse 4. And he must needs go through Samaria. Now the interesting thing is Samaria, two reasons why that's an unusual statement there. One is, what was the relationship between the Jews and the Samaritans? Not good at all. And uh you talk about racial tension in America. This was this that is this is nothing compared to what these guys were. They hated each other And so it would be very unusual for a Jew to be going through Samaria. And two, it wasn't the most direct route. It was actually out of the way somewhat. for him to get to Galilee and uh go through Samaria. But nevertheless, the Bible says he must needs go through Samaria. Why in the world does he have to go through Samaria Then he cometh to a city of Samaria, which is called Sikar, near to the parcel ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. Now Jacob's well was there, Jesus therefore, being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well, and it was about the sixth. hour. That's about noon. Aha. Here explains verse number four. And there cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus said unto her, Give me to drink. And then the rest of the event is recorded there. Soul-winning tips from the life of our Lord. Let's pray together, ask the Lord to challenge us. I would encourage you, maybe get a pencil piece of paper or something and jot some of these down. I think they might be very, very helpful. So uh think about that. Let's pray together. Father, we ask now as we look into your word about sharing the gospel with other people on a personal level And uh I ask that you would help us and teach us from your word. I pray you'd help me to be true to your word. I don't want to exaggerate anything, I don't want to misrepresent Anything that is recorded about your interaction with the unsaved, Lord, so I pray you guard my tongue, guide my thinking, I yield my body to you. present uh my body anew and yield my will. And I ask, Lord, with all my heart, I ask you fill me with your spirit, you speak through me. And it's my prayer, Lord, that I could be a better personal soul winner. And I pray that all of us would be used of you to uh bring others to saving knowledge of Jesus Christ on a personal level. So hear me, Lord, I pray, and help me And challenge us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I really believe with all my heart that the greatest activity that I can be involved in Well there's two of them. Two of the greatest activities I can be involved in. Number one, we've been studying uh in the Lord's uh Sermon on the Mount is prayer. I do not believe there's a higher activity a Christian can do than that of praying for others and spending time in prayer. So prayer is vitally important. But the second, along with that, as far as most important, I believe, is personal soul winning. Number one, praying, interacting with God in prayer. Number two, interacting with unsaved people of the world, with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you read the book of Acts, I've been saying this. the last couple of years as I've noticed it in my study is that the book of Acts, the church was characterized by those two activities. prayer and the preaching of the Word of God. We say preaching the Word of God, we don't mean necessarily standing behind a pulpit in front of a congregation, but we mean they went everywhere. They went out in the streets and highways, villages all through that part of the world, telling people about the Lord Jesus Christ, urging people to say, and they saw tremendous results. So prayer and personal soul winning are the two greatest things that Christian can do, the two most important activities we can be involved in. But not only are they tremendously important, well I will say this. I believe they're probably the two we struggle with the most. Disciplining ourselves to pray as we should, as presenting the Word of God, and that matter of personal soul winning. We joked recently, I think Brother Mark brought it up, or we were joking in one of the services recently how it takes about three, four houses. When I finally do get up the nerve to go out and visit and confront people, then it takes me about two, three, four people to talk to before my tongue gets loosened up a little bit and I feel a little confident I'm able to coherently speak with people. So we struggle with those two things. How many people would agree with me? Sometimes being consistent And being earnest in my prayer life is a challenge. Anybody agree with me on that? Sure. How many people agree with me? Being a personal soul winner, confronting people with the gospel, uh, that's a challenge. Anyone? Sure. There's a lot of other things we can do. Reading our Bible, not so much. I can do that. Going to church, we can be faithful. You're here Wednesday night. But those two, for some reason Prayer and personal soul wedding, uh, as important as they are, nevertheless they are tremendously challenging. Now, as I go through the Bible, I notice that God's greatest servants, some of the greatest men of God You can include women of God in there with that, were personal soul winners. They shared the gospel of you. Now here's where I want to show some things. If you would, turn with me to the book of Proverbs. Who is the penman of the book of Proverbs? Solomon. The wisest man apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. Proverbs chapter 11, if you would turn there. And I want you to notice a statement that King Solomon, the wisest man In history, again, apart from the Lord Jesus Christ, notice a statement he makes in Proverbs chapter 11 and verse number 30 Proverbs 11 and verse number 30. How many people agree with me? Most likely Solomon was practicing what he was recording here under the inspiration of God. How many people agree with that? That's probably true. Yeah, I think that's probably true Now later on the end of his life he messed up. But at this point I believe he's probably writing down through the inspiration of God experiences, his experiences, what he's learned, and uh and so when we get to verse thirty of Proverbs chapter eleven I think this would no doubt apply to Solomon. Look what it says. The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life. And the last statement we're all familiar with, he that Winner's souls is wise. I believe, and again, this is my take on this, but I believe King Solomon was a personal soul winner I believe he shared the message of the coming Messiah that God had promised Israel that a Savior would come and even the Gentiles would be saved. I believe he witnessed to the Queen of Sheba When she came to uh visit him, and I believe he shared the message of the Messiah with her. And so I believe Solomon, the wisest man, uh, was a personal soul winner. Turn with me if you would to Psalms chapter 51 Anyone want to take a shot? Who is the penman of Psalms 51? King David, I often call Psalms 51, is the most public confession of sin in the history of the world. This was David's after uh he had committed adultery with Bathsheba. He had tried to cover it up for about a year. Uh he thought, I've no doubt, he thought he got away with it. But you know there's something about sin. You never really get away with it, do you? Eventually it was found out. Nathan confronted him. David humbles himself. And Psalm 51 is David's confession. of the sin of adultery committed. And can you imagine for all eternity this confession is recorded in God's Word. Now I want us to come down, if you would, notice verse number 10. David is confessing his sin. He's pleading the Lord's mercy. In verse 10 of Psalm 51, he says this, create in me a clean heart, O God. And renew a right spirit within me. He had gotten a bad attitude through this whole thing. And he's wanting that right. He's wanting to get his attitude right. Create a right spirit within me. Cast me not away, verse 11, from my presence Take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Look at this. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. By the way, didn't say restore unto me thy salvation. He did not lose his salvation. He lost the what? Joy of his salvation. He was miserable. You get a Christian in sin, they're miserable. And so he says, Restore to me the joy of thy salvation. Uphold me with thy free spirit. What's the first word of verse 13? Then and he said, if those statements he made before, if you would do those things for me, if they will be in place, I got a right attitude, a clean heart, the joy of my salvation is back again. If we get those things in place, then, look what he says, then will I what? Teach transgressors thy ways, and what will be the result of that, and sinners shall be converted unto thee You know what David's saying? He's saying, if I can get my attitude right, if I can get the joy of the Lord right, if I can get a clean spirit, uh uh a right spirit, a clean heart And a right spirit, get the right attitude, get the joy of my salvation back, then I will again, once again, be an effective soul winner. I will teach transgressors thy ways, and sinners will be converted unto you. I take from that passage that one of the things that concerned David so much about the consequences of his sin is that it hurt him as a personal soul winner. It hindered his personal soul winning. He said, if I can get my attitude Lord, if you would just give me a right attitude and clean heart and to restore the joy of thy salvation, then I'll be effective in my witness again. Then I'll be able to be an effective uh uh uh soul winner again. David's great concern over his sin, I believe, is it made him an ineffective soul winner, and that was a great concern of his And he wanted to get back and teach transgressors the way again and sinners be converted unto him. Turn with me, if you would, to uh 1 Corinthians chapter 9. Now I'm building up to the Lord Jesus, so bear with me here. All the way back in the New Testament, 1 Corinthians chapter 9. So Solomon, the wisest man on planet earth, was a soul winner, I believe. King David, the most passionate man On earth was a soul winner. Now we get to Saul, the Apostle Paul. And notice in 1 Corinthians 9 I think Paul was the most aggressive soul winner. Solomon was wise. David was passionate. It was his whole heart. But Saul was aggressive. The Apostle Paul was aggressive. He was relentless in this matter. Man, they would stone Paul and leave him for dead as soon as he came to. He'd wake himself up, you know what he'd do? He'd go back in the city to start witnessing again. The guy was relentless. Uh I mean he'd get after it. And started churches, and people say he was effective in his witness. Look what he says in 1 Corinthians 9, and I want to begin reading in verse number 19. For though I be free from all men, yet have I made myself servant unto all, that I might gain the more. What does he mean when he says I might gain the more? Is he trying to raise funds here or something? No. Yeah, he's not talking about gaining more money. He's talking about seeing more people say. I can get more people to trust in Christ. And so he says, listen, I don't have to serve anybody, I don't have to, but I made myself a servant of all so that I can win them. Look at it. He expands on that. Unto the Jews, I became as a Jew, that I might gain the Jews To them that are under the law as under the law, that I might gain them that are under the law, to them that are without the law, as without the law, being not without law to God, but Under the law of to Christ that I might gain them that are without the law. What's he saying? Oh well look at the next verse. He goes on explaining to the weak became I as weak, that I might gain the weak. I am made all things to all men that I might by all means what Save some. Paul was intense in this matter of reach people with the gospel. Look at verse 23. And this I do for the gospel's sake. Now I want to back up and just clarify a few things here. When he says that those that are without the law became I without the law, then he qualifies and says, wait a minute, don't think I'm just living wild. I'm still under the law of Christ. He says, but I'm I'm as much as I can without violating, disobeying God, I'm whatever I can be with others so that I can win them to Christ. And his whole drive, his whole passion, I put in the margin of my Bible, that is servant soul-winning. He became a servant to all men so that he could win them to Christ. And as much as he could, he would accommodate the unsaved so that they could be saved. Not to the extent he disobeyed God. Our number one obligation is to obey God. But in so doing, as much as he could, without disobeying God, he would do everything he can to try and win others to Christ. So Paul was a soul winner, King David was a soul winner, King Solomon was a soul winner. I come to this conclusion. You do not have to you and I do not have to be very, very gifted. We don't have to have tremendous talents to be a part personal cell winner. But what we do need to be is we do need to be we need to be submissive to the Lord and we need to be concerned and care. Now I'm way ahead of myself. This is my closing statement, but I want to make it here I believe the biggest reason we, we, myself included, the biggest reason we don't win folks to Christ like the Bible presents it is because we just don't care that much. care about it. We want people to be safe, but not enough to alter our schedule. But not enough to inconvenience ourselves. We care about it, but not enough to get in a place where it's a little bit awkward. I'm a little bit uncomfortable confronting someone with the gospel. I want them to be saved. I really care. I don't want to go to hell, but not enough To put myself in an uncomfortable situation and put myself in a uh uh to uh to alter my schedule or inconvenience myself in some way. And that's the challenge for the New Testament church Paul was passionate. David was passionate. King Solomon was strong on this. And so we see these men, tremendous men of God, that were soul winners, Paul especially, but we come to the Lord Jesus Christ. And I believe the Lord Jesus Christ was the greatest soul winner in all of history. Thirty-five times in the Gospels we have a record, at least thirty-five times, we have a record of Jesus interacting with on an individual basis with people about their soul, about their spiritual condition, about their relationship with the Lord. Sometimes it was one or two, often it was just one individual. But he would deal with them about their sin, about their standing with God. Now, I'm going to make this statement. I think I can back it up. You may might take issue with this statement. But I don't really see that Jesus had any tremendous revivals as we think of a revival during his earthly ministry. In fact, when it was all said and done, they had them nailed to a cross. In fact, there was one point where everybody left them except his twelve disciples, and one of them was a hypocrite. And so we think of Great Revival as an entire nations turning to Christ. We read about the Welsh Revival and the New England, the Great Awakening up in New England. Read all those things. I don't see events like that happening in the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ, but what I do see is this. Jesus finding individuals, interacting with individuals, and confronting them with the gospel, and many of them putting their faith and trust in him as their Savior. And that's what intrigues me And that's what our attention is here this evening. Thirty-five times at least, where he on an individual basis personally witnessed to people. In fact, there are some instances, and we can't take time for all this, there's some instances where he almost looks like he bypassed a big crowd in order to find one individual, in order to confront one person about their soul and bring that person to Christ. Now that's not to suggest he didn't care about the big crowds. He cre he preached to huge crowds. And many thousands were saved. But he he was very, very focused on the individuals. Now that is what I want to look at in the little bit of time we have left, I want us to look at that and I want to try and glean some tips or some characteristics of how Jesus interacted uh with unsaved people. And I want to I want to incorporate that into my personal witness and help me be more effective as I can learn from the examples that the Lord Jesus Christ gives us. So here we are. I'll give a few of these. I think I have about five jotted down. I'll try and go through them very, very quickly. Number one, if you're going to write these down, I notice this. That Jesus had a soul-winning mindset. He had a soul-winning mindset. Um Lost people in their sin without a Savior absolutely consumed the Lord Jesus Christ. You can't come to any other conclusion. It constantly was on his heart and mind that people were lost in s in sin. As he's going about his travels. If he sees a farmer sowing seed out in the field, and back then they would do what was called broadcasting. Many times they'd have a big saschu or something on the side. And they didn't of course didn't have the equipment we have today, and they would just cast that seed out and just broadcast it across a field that they had worked. And the interesting thing is, Jesus go on his travels, he'd see a farmer out there broadcasting that seed. You know what came to his mind Sharing the gospel with folks and that seed being the word of God and that dirt would be the hearts of the believers and some of them would receive it and and bear great fruit and others It was tarred and and trodden down and the seed didn't even take root and some of it fell a bunch of rocks and it grew up real quick. And when you'd see that scene, you know what his mindset was? His whole mindset was, hey, that's just like sharing the gospel That's just like soul winning. That's just like track month. And by the way, I've been hearing some tremendous testimonies. I'm excited about our victory dinner. We're gonna have some testimonies from Track Month next week. Some neat things God is doing with these tracts outside the walls of our church. And so Jesus sees this farmer sowing seed. And what comes to his mind isn't, well, the ground's kind of dry. I wonder if the harvest's going to be good this year. That's going to affect the economy. We're an agricultural economy and well that's going to affect the presidential election next year. And he didn't think about politics, he didn't think about agriculture, and he didn't think about the economy. You know what he thought about? So getting saved And how that was an illustration of that. What I'm trying to say is this. His whole uh mindset was on seeing lost sinners saved. Uh if he hears about a woman that loses a coin And she's up all night looking for that coin. You know what he thinks of? A soul winner out there trying to find a lost sinner and the value of that one little sinner and all the effort that's put into trying to find that coin He hears about a shepherd that lost a little sheep that came at the end of the day is out in the wilderness somewhere and he's got all the others. He's got one that's still lost, and he hears about that shepherd going out. You know what Jesus thinks of? He doesn't think about what this that he He thinks about, hey, that's just like a soul winner going out, inconvenience himself, risking himself, and go out to get some soul saved, go to some far country where people are lost, and uh risk himself and inconvenience himself Jesus' whole mindset was on winning the loss, reaching the loss. If he heard about, if he saw some men fishing. He didn't think and say, wow, they must have stopped Galilee today while he and I were talking. He doesn't say, wow, I wonder if uh uh bath season isn't in yet. Those guys he didn't think about fishing. If he saw men fishing, what'd he think of? Soul winning, going out fishing for men. And uh he said to the disciples, behold, I'll make you fishers of men If he saw uh if he thought about a little child being born, his thought was about the need to be born again. In fact, Nicodemus came to him in chapter three at night. And Nicodemus starts praising him and going on and saying, All these wonderful things we know thou are a prophet come from God, because no man can do the things thou doest except God be with him. And Jesus, his first thing was, I mean, he didn't even debate it, he didn't thank him, he didn't do anything. He simply said this, Nicodemus, you need to be born again or you'll not enter the kingdom of heaven. His whole mindset was this guy needs to be saved. And all the way through the gospels, all these different people he approaches are And his very first thought, his whole mindset is, this person needs to be saved. This person needs to be saved. Here's a woman taken in adultery. She needs to be saved. Neither do I condemn thee, go and sin no more And uh here's a deaf man, and thy sins be forgiven thee. Oh, how can a man forgive sins? Only God can do that. Oh yeah, to prove thee I can forgive sins, rise uh uh uh uh an invalid rise up and walk His concern before healing anybody was that they'd be saved. And so Jesus' whole mindset was on reaching the lost. He saw a woman, he'd see a woman draw water from a well. And uh he didn't think about how hard she's working or what all that. You know what he thought about? Living water and receiving, uh getting saved and living forever. And he engages her on that. Every single person to the Lord Jesus Christ was a sinner in need of a Savior. Every single person. Go to Walmart, every person there, center needs to be saved, center needs to be safe. Somebody staying along the road, somebody downtown, wherever it may be, that guy working next to you at work, the secretary in the office Sinner needs to be saved. Every situation that Jesus Christ was in was an opportunity to present the gospel in one way or another. It's fascinating. If you read through the Gospels and keep that in mind, what is Jesus' mindset? In fact, what does Luke 19, 10 say? For the Son of Man has come to Seek and to save that which was lost. You know what that is? That's divine soul winning. That's the Savior out looking for the loss and trying to win them to a saving faith in the promised Messiah. His whole mindset was that way. Um I I when I was in Bible college I shared an apartment one year Most of the time I was in college, I lived off campus, and I shared an apartment with you with a guy named Johnny Downs, good guy. He works um he's a chaplain in prisons down in Texas. Johnny Downs was a heroin addict in his late teens and early twenties And uh he got arrested. He he broke into a hospital, uh, the emergency room. He faked he was sick, and they got him in there, and when they got in the room, he went through trying to find needles steel needles, he was going to run out and they got caught and he got arrested. The judge gave him two options. He could go to jail or he could go to the Lester Roloff boys' homes. So if you're familiar with the Lester Roll of Boys homes, that was uh pr quite a place. So he says a boy's home, that'd be great. He went down there I mean to tell you Lester Roloff preached the devil out of those guys. And um it was quite a setup. Well Johnny went down there. He got saved. Uh God called him to preach while he was at the Roloff homes there, and he became buddies with Lester Roloff And uh they uh he was like his right hand man when Lester Olaf was killed in the playing nineteen eighty, whatever it was, eighty two, eighty three, when Lester Olaf was killed, Lester Olaf's wife's Johnny Brother Roloff's personal Bible. And so I was there living with them and we got to look for their full off the Bible. And um anyway, so that was Johnny's background. This guy was fired up. He was going to be a soul winner, and he wanted to be just like Jesus in soul winner. And because of the influence of Brother Off, he had some strange thing. Uh only thing about goat's milk. So I learned goat's milk. I found out you can tell what a goat was eating by drinking its milk. And so um and he had all these different things about eating and um so anyway he uh he would only use water from artesian well. He wouldn't drink it out of the spigot. He wouldn't want to buy they didn't sell it too much back then. So he came home one day after class and he had all these jugs of water and uh he told me what happened at Gartesian well. He was there, there was a lady uh lady or fell ahead of him And uh he sa and he thought, I need a witness to this person. So he thought, well how did Jesus do that? He is well, the woman at the well, and he says uh I'll give you water that lasts. Uh and so Johnny's all excited. He's scared to death, he's nervous And he came across something like this. The guy's ahead of him says, Hey, did you ever drink water that never ends? That wasn't even close to what Jesus said. He goes, What? He goes, uh I mean, did you ever have water that's everlasting and doesn't stop filling you up? The guy's there, what are you talking about? And the more nervous he got, the worse it got, and finally Johnny said, Never mind. And he jumped in a car and took them off. So, you know, uh I got a handed to Johnny, he had a soul winning mindset. He tried and the guy had no clue what he was talking about But anyway, uh you study the Lord Jesus Christ and um uh he had a soul winner's mindset. So this is a challenge to me. I want to go about my daily business, my daily routine, and I want to keep in my mind the fact that the people I meet need the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. Everywhere I go, every situation, I'm interacting with people that need Jesus Christ as Savior. If I'm going to be an effective soul winner, if I'm going to be to see people saved and be able to uh uh be uh used of God to see people come into the kingdom of God, be saved from sin and hell. I've got to get that mindset that people need Christ And I think a lot of times I'm as guilty as anybody. A lot of times we talk to people, see them, and then afterward we think back, ah man, I should have given my trap. I should have done this. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? And what I need to do is these are divine opportunities. I don't think they're coincidence where God allows me to interact with people and take that opportunity and keep that in mind. These are folks that need Christ. These are folks that need what I have. The message of Christ. And so number one, I noticed this, he had a soul-winning mindset. Number two, I put this down as I studied his witnessing techniques. He made deliberate effort to reach the loss. He made a deliberate effort to reach the loss. Now, this is where we need to come back to John chapter 4. And uh incident with the woman at the well. Now there are others throughout the Gospels, but this one so clearly uh points out he made a a deliberate effort to reach the lost In fact, think about it while you're turning back to John chapter 4. Think about it with me. Jesus Christ left heaven, deliberately left the glories of heaven. Come down to earth so that people could and would be saved. Right? So that's the whole reason he came. And so he deliberately made an effort, even in his initial coming, even in his coming to earth, that whole thing was about him coming to where we are into our world where we live and confronting us with the truth of who we is and then paying the price for our sin and rising again He made a deliberate effort to reach the loss. Now in John chapter 4, we notice verse 4, I highlighted this when we read our scripture, and he must needs go through Samaria. In other words, he made a deliberate effort to go to where he knew an unsaved person was. He's traveling. But he stops and he makes a deliberate, he deliberately alters his schedule. Now get that. I think that's important. He deliberately alters his schedule to go over into Samaria. There's a well there, and being God, he knows this woman's coming to that well at noon. And so he alters his schedule so that he can confront a sinner with the need of a savior. Now that challenges me. I found this. A lot of times I'll think, you know, in fact I did it this week, you know, I need to get out and make some I need to go out and visit. I need to go out and soul winning. I'm gonna do it one of these days. One of these days this week I'm gonna get out. And here we are at the end of Wednesday. I still have several soul winning uh some neighborhoods I want to visit here in Mount Lake Park. I still didn't get I hear intention. I'm going to wanna anybody guilty? Anybody say, Yeah, well I'm gonna get I'm gonna get one of these days, I'm gonna you know what we need to do We need to follow Jesus' example and we need to deliberately say, all right, I'm gonna go I must needs go to Mountain Lake Park. I must needs go out. He deliberately altered schedule. We are so busy, if we're not careful We'll not get anything done for the Lord. And we'll get so caught up working our yards and getting that garden in and getting that garage cleaned up and doing this and doing that and doing over here We need to stop and do what Jesus did and say, I must needs, let me say this, I must needs go out on Thursday night and go out and make some visits. That's one of the reasons we schedule a Thursday night visitation because It's so easy to just put it off. But if I put it on the calendar, it's scheduled there. I got one hour, Thursday night, I can make sure I get out and make some visits. That's what it's all about. That's why notice here, Jesus deliberately made a deliberate effort to reach the loss. He did that by altering his schedule so that he could get over there. He went out of his way To reach this unsafe person. It was actually inconvenient. This isn't the most efficient way to get where he was going. It was a little inconvenient. It was out of his way. He had to alter his schedule a little bit. But the salvation of a soul was worth all of that. That was his mindset. His mindset was so winning, he deliberately made uh made a deliberate effort to reach the loss. Look at verse 5 and 6 Then cometh he to a city of Samaria, which is called Sikar, near to the partial ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore, being weary with his journey, sat thus on the well, and it was about the sixth hour. He deliberately, and then it says, look, he says, there cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water. That was what this whole excursion was about. This woman at the well. He deliberately put himself into a position where he would encounter lost people. Uh when I was in New Zealand, we sent a hundred thousand gospel tracts down. Lewis had a few others from before left over. Give out over a hundred thousand tracts we distribute on But Wednesday and Thursday we went downtown Auckland and uh we went to uh the main street there. And just thousands and thousands of people. We stood there for an hour and a half, two hours, just gave out tracks almost as fast as we could. Now what we did was we didn't go to some back road out in the mountains where nobody was And try and hand out tracks. That was silly. We went to where we knew we would encounter unsafe people. And that's what we need to do. We need to make a deliberate effort Might need to inconvenience ourselves, maybe need to change our schedule, and then we need to go where we know unsaved people are. Uh uh I've found most unsaved people I know live in houses And I found that if I go to their house, a lot of times that's where they are, not as often as they used to be, but still I find them at their house. And so we go out and we go to houses. You know what else we do? We found out, we learned a long time ago, a lot of people go to the fair. We can set up a booth there. We can be in a place where there's a lot of unsaved people We found out that a lot of guys and women now go to a wild game dinner. Tell you what, let's have a wild game dinner and deliberately do things where we can encounter unsaved people. That's what Jesus is doing here He's gone to a place that he knew an unsaved person would be. He went to knew where she he when he knew uh where she would be. And so, number one, he had a soul-winning mindset. Number two Um he uh made a deliberate effort to get to confront the loss. Number three, put this one down. I like this one. He was very gracious in his interaction with the unsaved I notice Jesus when he's talking to some of these people are horrendous sinners by man's standards. Some of these people are absolutely, you know, pretty wicked people. And not one time does Jesus treat them disrespectfully. Not one time is he unkind to them. You say, yeah, what about the Pharisees? Pharisees were self-righteous And they're coming after him. And he gave it to them. But you know, the the publicans and sinners, these loose women with loose morals, I never find him calling them nasty words, nasty names. I've heard preachers use some nasty names for people for sinners and different things. I don't see Jesus doing that anywhere. Jesus is always gracious. He's always very, very respectful. And I think there's a lesson to be learned from that. This woman here, woman at the whale. She has very loose morals. I think we can all agree on that. She's been married five times. The guy she's with now she's not even married to, the guy she's living with. And you know, and some people in the world has names for women like that and people that live like that. But I don't see Jesus using any of those names. In fact, he doesn't call her anything. He treats her very graciously. He treats her very respectfully. In fact, as I study this and I mention this in other messages, I think she's a woman that's difficult to get along with. I won't say what I'm thinking. But um she she's very difficult to get along with. Uh she's kind of a smart aleck here. Look at some of these verses with me. Look at verse 9. Uh she says, uh then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou being a Jew ask drink of me which am a woman of Samaria? For the Jews have no dealings with the Samaria. That's the way I hear her saying it. And Jesus is very gracious. If thou knewest the gift of God, who it was, you'd ask of him. Look at verse eleven. The woman saith to him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. From whence then hast thou this living water? Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us water? I mean, she's kind of smarting them off And Jesus doesn't respond in kind. He's very, very gracious. He responds very kindly. Look at verse 15. The woman saith him, Sir, give me this water. But I thirst not, neither come hither to draw. Oh, you got water? Good. They're not going to have to come out. She's kind of mocking him, I think. And she's giving him these smart, sarcastic answers, and he responds constantly. Look at verse 17. She's a little deceptive. Jesus said, Go call thy husband and come hither. Did Jesus know she didn't have it wasn't married? Yeah. He's setting her up. But look what she says. The woman said, I am no husband. I can can you see it? Jesus says, go get your husband, tell him to come here. She goes, I don't have any husbands. She knows she's had five of them. I think she's trying to cover up the fact she has a checkered past. And the Lord just very gracious. Look at verse 19. Is she being critical here? Listen. The woman saith to him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet. Our fathers worshiped in this mountain, and ye say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. You think you're the only ones right. You think the Baptists are the only ones going to heaven It's kind of what she's saying. What did Jesus say? Oh yeah, well, Bethesda are the only ones that believe the Bible. He didn't get in an argument with her. He just goes right about his business. And he's very respectful, and he's very, very gracious to him, and he's very patient with her, I should say. Is he firm? Yes Is he truthful? Yes. But he's always kind. And when you and I are witnessing the people, sometimes they're going to say some hateful stuff to us. And they're going to be make fun of us maybe, and they're going to be a little smart alecky, and sometimes they'll be just downright rude. But I should never, ever, ever respond in kind To something like that. Be very, very gracious. Should I be honest with them? Yes, but in a tactful way. Should I be patient with them? Absolutely. How many people here are glad that God was patient with you and I? Man, praise the Lord for that. And when we're trying to win people to Christ, that's the way we need to be. I put this down. We will win more people to Christ by being kind and respectful than we will by being rude, arrogant, and offensive. I read a statement somebody had put on one of the computer things. Uh they said, if you're not offending people, you're not much of a soul winner. I thought, I don't see that anywhere in the Bible. Now if the gospel offends people, that's one thing. But I ought never to offend anybody with my presentation of the gospel and how I approach that. In fact, we ought to work Jesus said in Luke, he said, Woe unto you through whom offenses come. He rebuked that type of thinking. Now, sometimes we give the gospel. I had a lady last year at track month called me up. It's your fault, Matt. You're the one that gave it to her. But uh from the other side of Morgantown, she laid in to me she threatened to beat me up. I don't know what she looked like, but She might could have, I don't know. She was from West Virginia. But um I mean she was mad, not that anything Matt did, but that thing said that she was a sinner. And she took issue with that. And she used very sinful words to try and prove to me she was not a sinner. And she threatened me, my life and limb. So if they get offended by the message, I can't control that. In fact, people will be But in my presentation, in my effort to win them to Christ, I need to be very gracious. I need to be very kind. I need to be very respectful. I need to be very patient. And I see that with the Lord Jesus Christ all the way through. People called him names, they threatened, he never responded in kind. He always responded in kindness Never the way they did. Let me give you the last one here real quick and we gotta quit. Uh number four, I put this down. He was focused on his objective. This woman is trying hard to get him sidetracked. She's trying I think she's digging for an argument She's throwing these little things like, oh, you're the only ones. Oh this. Oh, you don't talk to us. Oh, you say Jerusalem's the only place. She's looking for an argument. He would never get sucked into that argument. Not one time did he get sidetracked from his object objective. He stayed right at it the whole time. His mission, Luke 19, 10, was to seek and to save that which was lost, and he would not divert from that mission. And when you and I are witnessing and going after people with the gospel, we need to stay focused. They're going to wonder, you know what questions folks are going to ask when you're trying to witness to them? You know what questions they're going to ask? Where did Cain get his wife? Anybody ever hear that? They love that question. The answer is very simple. From his mother-in-law. And so there's the Oh, it's good. Where else would you get your wife, right? So anyway, uh, but don't get diverted. Um he stayed focused on his mission. I need to get these people to their faith and trust in God's Messiah Don't get in caught up in arguments or that. Listen, uh Jesus Jesus' mission was not to build a great congregation. Now he ended up with some tremendous congregation, but that was not his objective. His objective was to seek into save that which was lost. Our our objective in our witnessing our evangelism is not to build the biggest congregation in Oakland or anywhere else. We're not in competition with anybody. We're not trying to build the church. Jesus said he would do that. Our objective is to get lost people to put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Now, where that goes to, then fine. Jesus wasn't trying to get a lot of people baptized. Our objective isn't necessarily to get people baptized. Now, after they get saved, they ought to get baptized, but our objective is to get them to Christ. And get them saved. Jesus wasn't trying to get people to live better lives, to reform their lives. He was trying to regenerate their souls. And I found that if we win people to Christ, if people genuinely trust Christ as Savior, you know what happens? They start coming to church. You know what I found? If you teach them, uh, they get baptized. Not all of them, but some of them. And you know what I found out? That uh those, if we went them to Christ, their lives are changed, not from outward reformation, but changed from a new heart and a whole new way of thinking, whole new values. And so we've got to stay focused on the objective. The objective is to win as many people to Christ as we possibly can. He was after law sinners. He wanted to see people saved from sin. Let me give you the last one Number five, I notice this from the Lord Jesus Christ. He was divinely empowered. He was divinely empowered. We don't have time to turn there, but Luke chapter 4, verse 18. Jesus said this. I'm butchering the quote, but it says to this effect. He's speaking about God. He says, Thou hast anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. You know what he was saying? He was preaching in the power of the Holy Spirit. Jesus was filled with the Holy Spirit. It says after he got baptized, the Holy Spirit came upon him, and he's filled with the Holy Spirit. And after that he did his miracles. Jesus witnessing, he laid aside his divine prerogatives. Philippians tells us that. And he trusted and depended upon the power of the Holy Spirit to win people to Christ. And that's what you and I need. If I'm going to be an effective soul winner, I need to be filled with the Holy Spirit of God. I need the power of Almighty God's Holy Spirit all my life to be an effective soul winner. I cannot save a soul. I cannot open a heart to the gospel. I cannot change the way a person thinks. Not spiritually. God has to do that. And I need the Holy Spirit in me, filling me and using me. And the second thing I noticed about Jesus Christ, we started with this, he prayed. He prayed, prayed, prayed, prayed, prayed. And so if we're going to be effective soul winners, two things we have got to have. One, we have got to be filled with the Holy Spirit. We need the Holy Spirit's power on us. And number two, we've got to pray. We spend a lot of time, and I think justly so, trying to teach people how to win souls, what to say, what questions to ask. Where to stand, how to open the door, what kind of mints to have when you're talking to them, bad breath when you're talking to them, turn them off, how to deal with distractions We have all these techniques and all these things we teach, and I think justly so, but I'll tell you this, if we don't have if we're not filled with the Holy Spirit, all that's vain. I've gotta have the Holy Spirit. I've got to have the power of the Holy Spirit. I think it's interesting. This woman at the well here, she gets saved. She has no soul-winning training whatsoever. She's never heard a sermon. She's never been around the disciples. She leaves the Lord Jesus Christ, sets her pots down, goes into town, you know what happens? She wins a whole slew of people to Christ You know what? The power of the Holy Spirit. And the Lord Jesus prayed. So let's ask the Lord to help us be soul winning. Let's make the summer of 2016 a summer of personal soul-winning. And every one of us as individuals just say, God, I want to be what they were in the Bible, a personal soul winner. Lord, fill me with your Holy Spirit. Teach me to pray. Help me to be kind and gracious. Help me to go where the people are inconvenience myself if necessary. Take risks if necessary. And get out and find unsaved people on their way to hell. Introduce them to Christ and see them saved. And that'd be one of the most biblical things we could do is share the message of Christ with the unsaved. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask that you would bless us. I pray that you would help us to be submissive to you. God, fill us with your Spirit. Help us to care enough about the lost as you did to go out and confront them and engage them with the message of Christ. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many tonight would say, Preacher, my heart is stirred as a Christian. I want to be a soul winner, as they were in the Bible. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me that I that God would fill me with his Holy Spirit. He would do what's necessary In my life, whatever changes, so that I could be filled with the Holy Spirit and I could share the gospel with power. Is there any like that tonight? That's my prayer constantly. And God bless you all around. The Bible says, ask. It will be given unto you. He says you have not, because you ask not. And why don't we tonight, as we're white in the middle of spring, summer's coming, and just ask God, make this summer a summer of soul winning. As Jesus was following his pattern. Father in heaven, bless us now, I ask, and help us in Jesus' name. Amen