Uh this experience with the woman at the well. I just want to read part of the of the uh this event here as it's recorded. John chapter 4, I want to begin reading in verse number 27 We're going to read down through verse 30, and then we're going to jump over to verse 39 to 42. And what I want to talk about tonight is ingredients, the ingredients of a soul winner. Ingredients of a soul winner. Like I said in the message recently, there are no secrets in the Christian life. The secret to soul winning, there is no secret But there are some ingredients that uh should be in place if we're going to be effective soul winners. How many folks tonight, before we get started, how many folks tonight say, preacher, Uh I have a burden in my heart to see people saved. Anyone like that? Sure. What kind of Christian wouldn't? How many people would say this with me, preacher? I I I sure would like to be a better soul winner, like to have more boldness, be more effective Be more burdened for it, sure. That's all of us. So maybe God can use some thoughts tonight to help us with that. John four, verse number twenty-seven, the Bible says And upon this came his disciples. Now let me stop here. This is Jesus has been witnessing to her. He's been going through his whole conversation with her. And now this event here takes place. Upon this conversation, uh came his disciples and marveled that he talked with the woman Yet no man said, What seekest thou, or why talkest thou with her? The woman then, now this is important, the woman then left her water pot And went away into the city and saith unto the men, Come and see a man which told me all things that ever I did. Is not this the Christ? Now John O'Rice said that she was exaggerating there a little bit. He didn't tell her all the things that he ever did. He says, but since she was a woman, God let her get away with exaggerating, so um never mind that. I didn't say that, Johnna Race said that. It wasn't me Right. Then they went out of the city and came unto him. Now come over if you would to verse 39. And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for the saying of the woman which testified. Now three times we had it mentioned. Back over in verse 28, it says, and She says, He went away into the city and saith unto the men. Then in verse 39, it says, They believed on him for the saying of the woman which testified He told me of all things ever I did. So when the Samaritans were come to him, they besought him that he would tarry with them. And he abode there two days. And many more believed because of his own word, and said unto the woman, Now we believe, not because of thy saying, for we have heard him ourselves. And know that this indeed, this is indeed the Christ, the Savior of the world. What happened to these guys in Samaria? They come out. They got saved. A whole slew of them got saved. And they said it was for the saying of the woman what she said. Now here's What I want to say before we pray, it was her testimony, her words, what she told them, is what drew them to Christ. And isn't that what soul winning is? I'm not trying to draw them to me. I don't want them to believe on Christ for my word. I want them to believe on Christ for his word, what he says. And that's where the assurance is. So let's pray. A couple things about this woman, then ingredients of a soul winner. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our study tonight And Lord, I certainly uh fall so short of uh what I believe a soul winner ought to be. And I ask you to revive my heart and renew my burden and uh reignite my involvement and my actions in soul winning. And uh maybe you could use some thoughts to challenge and help us. I ask that you would speak through me And that it wouldn't be me challenging the church and us, but it would be you challenging us to be the soul winners that you've uh instructed us to be. So again, fill me, I pray, with your spirit And uh help us in Jesus' name. Amen. I don't know about you, but I've studied this woman and she is intriguing to me. This gal is a piece of work. Did anybody ever hear that statement? She is a piece of work. If you notice here, I don't want to do the study on her, but I want to make a few statements about her. First of all, she is uninterested in her soul's well-being. Do you notice she didn't go to Jesus? Jesus came to her. You catch that, we didn't read that in the early part. He goes, he goes, I must needs go Samaria. He sets at the well, he waits for her. He knew she was coming. She wasn't out seeking the Lord. She, as far as I can tell, she had no concern. She was completely uninterested in her soul's well-being. Now she was religious. Look at verse 19. The woman saith to him, I perceive that thou art a prophet. So she knew a few things about the Lord and about the prophets. She says, Our fathers worshiped in this mountain, the Samaritans, and ye say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. And uh so she know she was a little bit religious, but my impression in reading about her event here and what's recorded of her Uh I see she's not very serious about her walk with God. She's not very serious about her spiritual well-being. And you know what I found out when we go out knocking on doors and we go out soul winning, we go out visiting You know what I found out? A lot of people, it's pretty rare when you come across somebody that is really concerned about their spiritual condition. A lot of times you ask them, do you think about it? Well, a little bit. Oh, well, whatever. You know, you say stuff. You go to church. Oh yeah, where do you go? Uh let's see, where's that place at? Uh somewhere You know? But the encouraging thing is this. When we talk to somebody, we confront somebody with the gospel, even though they may not initially be too interested in their soul's well-being If we engage them a little bit, they can become concerned. And by the time the Lord was done talking to her, she was very concerned about her soul salvation. Did you see there? Notice She said verse number 25. The woman saith to him, I now sh now, this is the first time statement that I see here that she's actually being serious. She goes, I know that Messiah cometh, which is called Christ. And when he has come, he will tell us all things Earlier she's kind of smarting the Lord off. She's just kind of giving smart answers and asking smart questions. And she's a little mouthy, I think. But now suddenly she's taking it very seriously. And I tell you, I've seen that in soul winning uh over the years. You talk to somebody a little bit and they're a little mouthy and uh they're not too concerned about it But brother, you give them some scripture and you challenge them with biblical truth, and sometimes that Holy Spirit will start working there, and boy, they sober up pretty quick. I don't generally spend a lot of time witnessing to a drunk person, but I tell you, I learned something in my salvation is a guy can be drunk or stoned out of his head But when Holy Spirit conviction settles in, they sober up pretty quick. And that's the way it was with me. And so she wasn't very interested in her soul's well-being. So if you come across folks who say, oh, they don't care Uh don't worry about it. You just give them the gospel. That that message of Christ, that message of salvation could possibly change their thinking and they become very concerned about it. I had a preacher, a friend of mine, um down in West Virginia. And he had pastored for many years and um he had been there for a long time. And uh we were I was down there preaching for him one time, and we said something about visiting or whatever, I don't remember, but how that came up, but he made this statement. He said, I've knocked on all these doors and I've I've tried to win souls here and nobody in this town cares about getting saved anymore. Nobody in this town wants to get saved anymore And I thought, well, number one, I don't believe that's true. And number two, I think we all still ought to go anyway, whether they care or not. And you know what happened? He moved on. Another preacher came in, started going out, knocking on doors. Guess what? People started getting saved. And it wasn't that they didn't care, or it wasn't the fact that whether they cared or not, it was the fact he quit going And quit getting after it. Number two, I put this down about the woman. Uh she had an attitude. And again, we won't take time, but if you read the first part of the chapter Uh she smarts off the Lord. And and what the way I picked that up a number of years ago, I was reading it out loud and I was kind of play rolling And when the when it was her talking, I'd say what she said, and then when it was the Lord talking, I'd say what the Lord said. And I was reading out loud play acting her, it came out like a smart mouth And I thought, you know what, she's smarting the Lord off a little bit here. Now maybe I was just a smart man, but uh I think she was. I think she had an attitude. Uh I think this woman had been hurt I think she was hurt and bitter. I think some of the stuff she says. Now, how did she get hurt? I think there's two possible reasons this lady might have gotten hurt and be bitter. One is she's living in sin And I'm telling you, it's impossible to sin and not get hurt. There are consequences to sin, and they are always negative And so this woman had been living in sin for a long time. We'll see that here in a little bit. And so that will hurt us. That will have consequences. And the second thing is: what was her nationality? Samaritan. And Jesus was a Jew. Now it is hard for us to comprehend the depth of hatred That the Jews had for the Samaritans. They hated them. Oh, you hear a lot of talk today about racism Racism, racism, racism. And you know the thing is, racism isn't new. It's been around since there was different nationalities. And the Jews absolutely despised them. And so I got thinking about this gal growing up with the dominant people around her absolutely hating her for no other reason than simply what she was born as. She had no say over that. She had no control over being born a Samaritan. And yet she was hated for no other reason than for being the person she was born as. I tell you what, without Christ that can produce some bitterness. That can produce some bitterness And so she had an attitude. She was uninterested in spiritual things, though she was religious. She had an attitude. But, and then the third thing we know about this woman is she was adulterous. Jesus said, go get your husband. And she's a little slick how she uses her words. I kind of see it this way. The Lord says, go get your husband. I can see her looking at him saying, I don't have a husband She actually had what? Five of them. And so she's trying to cover her her tail there a little bit and say, uh, I don't have a husband. And the Lord says, you're right. You've had five, and the fellow you're with now is not your husband. He doesn't put in this way, but he says you're shacking up. You're living in adultery. And I tell you, uh, we get out knocking on doors, you get out witnessing to people, we find people in all kinds of horrific sin. And listen, if we're going to be offended, if we're going to be offended because people are living in sin. Then we're not going to be very effective at soul winning. And if we're gonna if we're gonna if we're gonna uh uh reject people because they're living in sin, we're not gonna win many souls to Christ. In fact, the only people I know that Jesus saves are what? Sinners. He said, they that are holding not a position. They that are sick. Now, does that mean we should run around with sinners? No. You sleep with dogs, you're going to wake up with fleas. Right? I like I've been trying to say that quote for a long time. I like it. But uh we don't necessarily run around, they're not gonna be best buddies with people living in adultery. But um but we need to reach people like that. And so here's this gal, a very unlikely person to become a very effective soul winner She actually the words of Christ get through to her and uh she's converted and the guy the old gal gets saved and goes running into town And an entire town, my impression is, or at least the majority of the town, turns to Christ, trusts Christ, get saved because of this gal's witness, because of what she says to them about what Christ did for her. And that's encouraging to me. And I believe this. I believe God can and will use anybody to bring others to Christ if we will just trust Him and submit ourselves to Him. And just say, Lord, I'm going to trust you. You saved my soul from sin in hell. I'm going to trust you. I'm going to submit myself to you. And God says, I can use that person. And so here you have, she has no soul winning training. She's never been to a first Wednesday night of the month for tips for soul winning. She doesn't have any of that. She's been saved fifteen minutes, perhaps And man, she goes in and a ton of people get saved. Isn't that something? So what are the ingredients of a soul winner? So that's this gal. Now let me kind of shift gears here a little bit. And if you have a pen, I want to encourage you to jot these down The ingredients of a soul winner. Number one, there must be love. We've got to have love in our hearts if we're going to win souls to Christ. There has to be. I wish we had time to turn to 1 Corinthians 13 and do a thorough study of 1 Corinthians 13. But Jesus makes some summary statements. And he says, you can speak with the tongues of angels, and you can have all knowledge. You can be trained in an expert level five, five-star soul-winning training. You can have a doctorate's degree in personal evangelism. You can have the greatest illustrations, the best laid out presentation of the gospel, you can have the greatest personality in the world. But he said if you don't have love in your heart, you're not going to accomplish a thing. You're good for nothing. And so I believe soul winning begins, the very basis, beginning of all of it, there must be the love of God in my heart. Now I put down two things I need to love. Number one, I need to love God. I need to love God. Um if I love the Lord, that is going to motivate me to go. To be honest with you, I'm not a real big fan of most I wouldn't consider a very pleasant thing getting cussed out Not a big fan of that. It's not Thursday night or some Saturday or some afternoon I'm going to go out soul winning and say, oh, you know what? I really feel like getting cussed out and door slammed in my face. I think I'll go out soul winning It's not a big fan. Now it doesn't happen a whole lot around here. In Boulder it happened a lot. Around here people are a little more nice, but um But nevertheless, if it's people that are motivate me to go, my motivation's going to be very unstable. Because to be honest with you, there's some people I'd just rather not be around them. Don't are looking at me like you never feel that way. It's true. But if I love, here's the point, if I love God like I should. Then I'll go to them. I'll go to them. I was one of the missionaries, I don't think it was Hudson Taylor, one of the great missionaries, they made the statement, I'm not going to this country because I love the people in the country. I'm going to this country because I love God and God loves these people And so I need to love God. That will be my motivation to go. That will be my that will keep me going, motivate me to keep going and keep going and keep going. 2 Corinthians 5. 14, and I wanted to turn to all these, but time slips away. It says, the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts. And what we need, and I want to challenge us, I wanted to start out with this, I want to challenge us to ask God to put these ingredients in our hearts and minds. Ask God to put these ingredients in our hearts and minds. And loving God, I am so grateful for a church that loves bus kids. I'm so grateful for that. I'll be honest with you, I've been out of bounds a little bit in a little run, and there are some churches that don't love bus kids And they want their pews clean. And I want them clean. They want everything spotless. They want a museum. Tell you what, you bring bus kids in, you're not going to have a museum. Right, you're gonna have bubblegum, you're gonna have this, that, and the other, unmentionable things. But if we love God, if we love God and the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts, Then we see them the way God sees them. So I put down love, first ingredient, there must be love, love for God, but then I did tack this one on love for others. Love for others. I say this so often. But the ministry, let me make a broader, let me paint with a broader brush than just the ministry. The Christian life is people The Christian life is people. You can't serve God and not interact with people. And so if we don't love people, we say, you know, I say this all the time and it just gets my goat every time I even say it is Oh, I love the ministry. It's people I can't stand. That is such an oxymoron that is impossible. Because the ministry is people. The Christian life is people. And so you say, well, I just I don't like people. Then you need to get on your knees at an altar and say, God, give me love in my heart for people. And by the way, if we love God, ask Chester, if you don't love your neighbor You know that was our theme down at the men's getaway. That song changed tunes 95 times the whole week we were down there, the whole time we were down there. And so love. Do you have that written down? If I'm going to be a soul winner, I've got to have love in my heart. I've got to have love. If that ingredient is missing I will never be an effective soul winner. Number two, put this one down. Oh, by the way, loving others, I had a couple illustrations. Can you think of anyone in the Bible that was effective as a manner of God, and they loved others more than themselves. You think of anyone in the Bible? Paul, he said, I'm willing to be accursed. If I could, I'd be accursed for my brother's sake. He's willing to forfeit his own salvation if it meant others come to Christ. But there's someone in the Old Testament. Moses. Remember when Israel sinned, he said, Lord, blot their sin out. If not, blot mine out, blot my name out, and forgive them. Well, you talk about a love for people. And if anybody had a reason to be ag if anybody had a reason to hate the people he was leading, it was Moses. They gave him fits the whole time. And here he was, loved them so much, he says, I'd be willing to forfeit my relationship with Jehovah if you will restore theirs. Isn't that something? I'm telling you, when we get to that point, I'm preaching it myself, when we get to that point, we're going to have an impact in people's lives when we love them to that extent. And so one is love. The first ingredient is love. If that's not there, then what doesn't matter. The rest don't matter. Number two, now I'm trying to alliterate, so some of these words are bad, Sandy. So I mean they're not bad words, but I mean they're They don't they don't really they're not the best that fit in here. So my number two one is this and I'll have to explain it liability Liability. If you have a liability, what does that mean? Financial liability, that means you are what? You're in debt. You owe something, you have an obligation to someone else. And I think the second ingredient in being effective soul winner is I need to see myself as having a liability, so to speak. I owe a great debt. I have a tremendous obligation. Turn now with me, if you would, over to Romans chapter 1. Paul touches on this. We need to see ourselves as Christians having a tremendous obligation to the unsaved If we're going to be effective in reaching them. Paul said in Romans chapter 1, look at verse 14. He says, I am a what? Debtor. He says, I have an obligation here. I am a debtor both to the Greeks and to the barbarians, both to the wise and the unwise. Paul, what in the world are you in debt to them? What obligation do you have to all these terrible people, the barbarians? And verse 15. So as much as in me is, I'm ready to what? Preach the gospel. What is that? That's soul winning. He's not talking about standing behind a pulpit and giving a formal message. He says, I'm a debtor to these people. I have an obligation. the folks to get out there and give the gospel to them. Verse and he goes on. He says, I'm ready as much as in uh Much as in me is, I'm ready to preach the gospel to you that are at Rome also, not just the Greeks and the barbarians, but you guys up in Rome. I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. It's the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, Jews first, also to the Greek. And so Paul says, listen, I have this tremendous uh liability as a Christian, I am in tremendous debt. I have a tremendous obligation to the unsaved. To take the gospel to them. How many people recognize the name Jonas Sauk? Older folks do. Jonas Sauk, what'd he discover? The vaccine for polio. I was reading about this guy a little bit. PBS, the TV channel PBS, did a documentary on Jonas salt. And apparently there was a survey back in 1952, and they asked Americans, what is the most fearful thing in your life? What are you afraid of the most in 1952? Number one thing that Americans were afraid of on this poll, the number one fear was atom bomb. That was the biggest fear that Russia is going to drop a bomb on us. Nuclear war. Anybody want to guess what the second greatest fear was? Polio. Polio. Can somebody wake up some of the young people back there? I'm glad they're here, but wake them up if you would. Uh so but polio was the greatest fear. And Jonas Stock, he was he wasn't Everything we would hope he would be as far as spiritually wise and all of that. I think he was a bit of an evolutionist from what I understand. But the guy was a genius. He was an amazing, amazing man. And he took upon him and he said that he felt, he said this, this is the quote. He says, I have a moral obligation. to find a cure for this. And when it was found, actually it was after he discovered the the the vaccine, he says, we ha I have a moral obligation to get this to every single person I possibly can. They tried to get him to patent it. He says, I will not patent it. He says, how do you patent the sun? He said, this isn't mine. This is the people's. He says, I have a moral obligation, I have a liability, I have an obligation, a debt, to people that are facing this disease to get this vaccine to them. And um and uh and uh get that uh get a plan. So he me he he sought no patent for it and never as far as I know today is still no patent on it Uh he fat he sought no personal gain. Now people poured it on him when it started working. Man, people just uh almost worshiped him But he sought no personal gain. He kind of tried to hide from the uh uh public eye, and they said that he uh had no desire for f f for publicity. He said, my whole driving force is a moral obligation to get this cure to people. Oh, is that right? He had a cottage on Deep Creek Lake. How about that? Is it still standing? Yeah, that they ought to make something out of it. Registered letter. Oh yeah. Oh you got to meet him? Is that right? They said he was very, very friendly. Yeah. Yeah. Interesting. Well but we digress. Anyway, that's fascinating, I didn't know that. But um here's the thing, here's what I'm trying to illustrate. There is a disease far greater than polio around the world. A person has polio and they know Christ. They're handicapped for the life, they die, they go to heaven. But a person can be perfectly well, but if they don't know Christ, they die in their sins, they're separated from God for all eternity in hell. Now that's a fact. And the fact is, you and I have the cure for sin. Not in ourselves, but in Christ. And would you not agree with me if if Jonas Salk had a vaccine for polio could stop it? And he says, you know, I'm just not real good out talking to people, and I'm just a little afraid to go and give it to others. I've got a lot of stuff to do. And he would not have shared that with others for any reason under the sun. How many people would say that's an awful crime? That's an awful crime. But yet here we are as Christians. A far greater disease, quote unquote. And we have the answer, and we come up with every reason in the world why we can't give it, why we can't do everything we can to give it to others Is that not convicting? And so if I'm going to be a soul winner, I've got to have the love for God. I need to have the love for others, but I need to recognize I have a liability, I have an obligation as a Christian to take what Christ has done for me and share it with others. Don't you see that in the woman at the well, in her reaction? Immediately, I've got to tell others I've got to get into town and tell these people who this is and what he's done for me. And so there has to be a recognition of that liability. Let me give you another one here real quick. Number three, write this down. Again, here's my attempt at alliteration. A loose grip on ourselves. A loose grip on ourselves. Anybody want to guess what I'm trying to get at with that one? A loose grip on ourselves. This is what I'm trying to get at. We've got to die to self. There's something more important than my favorite TV show on a certain night. There's something more important in my own plans, in my own schedule, in my own uh my own uh plans for whatever Can you imagine a fire a fire alarm goes off and the and the firemen, nobody's, none of the firemen show up, and there's people trapped and they're burning and they're going to die. And none of the firemen show up and they do an investigation. Why weren't you guys there? Oh, the Super Bowl was on that night. Right? And we're not going to go. And so we've got to get to the point where I'm willing to die to self and s and just say, listen, it doesn't matter how untreated, it doesn't matter what people do. I've got to get this message to them I was reading about uh Hudson Taylor. This was several weeks ago. I was going to use it in a message, but I never got to it But I was reading about him when when he was training in London did I tell this? He was training in London and he was studying for medical so he could use medicine over in China and he pricked himself with a an infected needle. Did I tell that one recently? I'll tell it again. And uh they said, you know, most people die, and he says, if I die You know, I'm going to heaven. I don't think I will. I think God has plans for him. And then he said later, that was the day that Hudson Taylor died. Not physically, but he died to himself. And I believe we got to let go of ourselves. We hold on so tight to, I want this and I want that, and it's my schedule, and it's my life, and it's my But man, there's people that need the gospel. I noticed this woman here, again, there's so many things about this that are so challenging. But did you notice when she dawned on her who Christ was? When it finally sunk in and she believed this is the Messiah, this is the Savior. And she put her trust in him. She accepted that. What was the first thing she did? Did you catch that? She put her water pots down. Now what was her whole purpose for coming out there to get water? How many people agree she probably had a schedule planned for that day? And get water, take the pots out, get the water, and I've got to go water this and wash that and do whatever. And all that, when it dawned on her, this is the Savior, this is the only hope of sin of the mankind. And she let go of her plan, she let go of her schedule, she let go of her priorities, and she put it all down and said, I've got to go and get others. I've got to go tell others And she let loose, she had a loose grip on herself, that loosened her grip on herself. Did you catch earlier she was going back and forth with the Lord again, kind of being smart smarty pants, I think, a little bit. And the Lord says, if you knew uh who it was, you'd ask uh for water, that um everlasting water. And she goes, Oh yeah, give me that so I don't have to keep coming out here. And all that changed. When she trusted Christ. All that thinking changed. So a loose grip on ourselves, our life, our resources, our time. I tell you, one thing I really appreciate is folks that give so generously to faith promise missions. And just say, you know, I'm not going to have a tight grip on my finances. I'm gonna, man, I I want people to be saved. I want missionaries to get out there, I want the gospel to get out there. And then we have to have that same attitude, not just in our finance, but we need to have that same attitude with our own selves and say, I've got to make a witness, I've got to engage. people. Until I'm willing to let go of myself, I'm going to have little impact on reaching the loss. Number four, let me give you this one. Again, attempt at literation. Uh, you need to be locked in. That doesn't even make sense. I know, but it the only word I could come up with that started with an L. And what I mean by that is this. I need to have some confidence. I've got to be locked in my mind. I need to have this confidence, this assurance in my mind. There's some things, if I'm going to win souls, I've got to be absolutely sure of that have to be locked in in my mind. Number one is my own salvation. I'm going to be very ineffective at reaching others if I'm not saved. If I don't have assurance of my salvation, it's hard to give something to somebody you don't have. Right? But there's another assurance, confidence I need to have, and that is this, that God can save anybody Like God can save anybody. If I have a doubt in the back of my mind whether God can even save this guy, save this gal, I'm not going to be very confident in trying to urge them to trust Christ. And I've got to be able to believe, I've got to believe that no matter how wicked their life is, no matter how far they are, no matter how hard their heart is, the gospel is the power of God unto salvation. And I've got to be sure of that. I've got to be sure of that. How many times did the Bible say, John 3:16, for God sold the world, he gave his only begotten son that whosoever, there's no qualifications that the Calvinists are wrong. Whosoever, uh Romans 10, 13, that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And so I've got to believe that. Every door I knock on, or every person I sit down with, or every person I engage or confront with the gospel I've got to be absolutely locked in my mind. God can. God is able, and God is willing to save this person if they will just trust them. And I have to have that assurance. And let me give you a third area I need to be locked in, and that is this, that God can use me. That God can use me. You say, oh, I'm nothing. Uh that's a good attitude. You're right, we aren't. He's everything. I I'll tell you who I'm worried about, the soul winner. You know who I'm worried about is one that says, Yeah, I can win them all of Christ. Maybe, maybe not. But I tell you, if somebody, I don't know, I'm not much, I'm not very good, but I'm willing to go, I'm willing to talk to people. Ah, that person maybe God can use. And so I need to be sure God can use me. And by the way, let me throw this out. It is God doing it, not us. It's God doing it, not us. I'm just making myself available. Let me give you where we at. Number next. What is it? Number five. I need to be long-suffering. I want you to turn to this verse and I just We're gonna wind down here. Go back to Proverbs. I love this verse in Proverbs. I like Proverbs. And Proverbs chapter number twenty five. We need should have served more coffee before church. Proverbs twenty-five, look at verse fifteen. I love this verse. This is one of the most encouraging verses in my mind in a number of areas. Do you find it there? Look what it says. By what? Long forbearing, a prince is persuaded, and a soft tongue breaketh the bone. By long forbearing, what does long forbearing mean I put in the margin of my Bible, just stay at it. You know how you persuade us, Prince? Just stay at it, just stay at it, just stay at it. Long forbearing. Just keep doing it, keep doing it. I think there's two areas this applies. One is the prayer. I don't think we should quit praying. Keep praying, keep praying, keep praying, keep praying. And number two is soul-winning. Say, oh, we've knocked on all these doors 95 times. Nobody will get saved. Make it 96 times. Just keep on going, keep on going. You say, I've been witnessing that person for 20 years. Don't stop. Just keep hearing. What's that old saying? You keep shooting in a stump. Anybody ever hear that something? Never mind. But just stay at it, stay at it, stay at it. Number, let me give you the next one, number six. Here's my attempt at an L. Allow the Spirit to empower. Allow the Spirit to empower. Acts 1. 8. And ye shall receive Power. After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses. Now, this to me, besides apart from the first point, love, this to me is the second most important. I cannot win souls in and of myself. Jesus was very, very clear, very, very, very, very clear to the disciples. You need the power of the Holy Spirit. And I think we ought to put as much time and effort and preparation into being clean and yielded and empowered by the Holy Spirit in our witnessing as we do in our getting our spiel down. This woman had no training, but there's no doubt God's hand was on her, and an entire town comes to Christ. In the book of Acts, they prayed over and over. And when they had prayed, the place was shaken. They were all filled with the Holy Ghost. And they spake the word of God with boldness. And I need to allow the Holy Spirit of God to empower me. Last one, number seven, put this down. There must be a life and death urgency. 2 Corinthians 6, first couple verses. Behold, today is the day of salvation. Now is the accepted time. Here's a tragic thought. Some of the people you and I are going to meet tonight if we stop by the market or tomorrow sometime. It's a very real possibility some of the people you meet today or tomorrow are not going to be alive on planet Earth next week this time. Very real possibility. How many times have we at a church service on a Sunday morning the next week? Somebody that was in that service was buried, their bodies then buried there out in eternity. It's an urgency about this. There must be an urgency about this. 9-11, two towers hit with hit with planes. People are in there. Things are burning. Little did they know at the time they were about to collapse. You know what they were announcing to the people? Just stay put. Just stay there. We'll come and get you. Just stay put. They did a study after that was all over and all down. They did a study. You know who they found? The greatest number of survivors were the ones that got out there as out of it as fast as they could The ones that lingered, the ones that stayed, were the ones that perished. And what is true in that situation is true in this matter of salvation. It is an urgency. It is an urgency. Now, every situation requires some wisdom. Sometimes we need to give people a little time to work on. But I tell you, there ought to be an urgency in us. in getting the gospel to people. None of us should boast ourselves of tomorrow. We don't know what a day may bring forth. Today is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. Now is uh the accepted time. And so uh one, we need to make sure we're saved. We're not promised tomorrow. Number two, we need to be urgent in getting it out to others and talking to others. I think it was Moody in Chicago. had huge crowds and he preached the gospel. Just power of God was on it. And the story goes one Sunday he preached a powerful message on salvation. And he gave some sort of invitation for people to be saved. And then he made this statement. For whatever reason, he made this statement. He says, tell you what, I don't want you to decide today. Once you go home and think about it and give it thought, and next Sunday you come and uh you get saved. You know what happened that week? The Great Chicago Fire. And many, many, many of those people in that crowd lost their lives in that fire. And Moody said, I will never ever do that again. He says, I'm going to press it. I'm going to press it. I'm going to press it. It is urgent. They need to be saved. So ingredients of a soul winner I hope these help us and challenge us. My suggestion is let's pray tonight as individuals and ask God to give us these ingredients. Let's ask God, Lord, give us these ingredients. And Jen, if you want to play the invitation there, and maybe just finding a place in order and say, Lord, I need this. I want this. I want to be that witness. Let's stand together. Father, I pray you'd bless now our invitation and put this desire, this burden in our heart to have these things to be true. That we can be effective witnesses. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed, as uh Jen plays. Maybe you want to find a place on altar tonight and say, Lord, give me that love that I ought to have. Lord, give me the power of the Holy Spirit I need. Lord, help me to see my obligation and sharing the gospel with others And I'm telling you, this is the dearest thing to God's heart. I'm convinced of that. And I need God a revival in my heart for soul winning. And we certainly need it in our church. We certainly need it, all of us.