Speak to hearts he comes to preach. And that really hurt. I I really I I think I've been nice to him all week. Nicer than normal, you know Well let me just say I I uh I picked a rather unusual mess, and here we got a church visiting, amen. You guys are supposed to visit tomorrow night or Friday night, amen. Not on a Wednesday night So you're just going to have to endure, amen. Let me just say this. This uh it's a little bit of an unusual type of message. Um don't get nervous. And uh Whenever I preach a revival meeting, I always, I always preach one message on soul winning. Always. Without fail. And uh it got to be as a preacher crossed the nation, it got to be as you uh preach the message on soul winning. That it would get the soul winners stirred up. Amen? It would. It'd get the soul winners stirred up. But here is the problem: those who were not soul winners. Would walk out the door unchanged. Come on, help me out here. Don't get some of you are looking at me like, oh no, what the And uh so so I decided to uh at least attempt to try and take a different route And that's what we're going to do tonight. And so if you had your Bibles, turn over to Proverbs chapter 11 and verse 30. Proverbs chapter eleven this is a familiar verse, Proverb chapter eleven and verse thirty The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life. And he that winneth souls is what? Wise. What is it? What does God say here Wise. Here's the title of the message. Hey, real simple, soul winning one oh one Soul winning one oh one. Let's pray. Father. I have no doubt tonight. Not criticizing, not trying to be mean, but I have no doubt tonight that there are dear sweet folks sitting in this auditorium. They've probably never won a soul personally to the Lord in their life. There's some here maybe that are too scared. They think maybe they don't know enough. Lord, whatever the reason, I pray that you would use this simple, basic message. To stir their heart. Show them that it's not as hard as the devil tries to convince them that it is. And then, Lord, for those of us who are soul winners, let this once again be a reminder. And a motivation that we are in the most important spiritual business in the world. Winning souls to our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Lord, again, as we've prayed every night, if there's somebody here, a man, a woman, a young person, and they're not saved, Lord, I pray that through the message, they'd realize they're lost on their way to hell, and that they're in need of a savior. And that when we give the invitation, they would have a desire to trust Christ, gain heaven, and avoid going to hell. Which in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Soul winning 101. Now, what does that mean? Now, let me just put it this way. Anybody that's ever going to high school, anybody that's uh ever going to college, uh, you don't start out by taking senior level courses. Am I not right? You start out by taking basic courses. English 101. Whatever, you know, I never did like English. Amen. But you always start at the beginning and you build up. And by the way, let me just say this. I have found over the years it is always good to go back and review. And that's what I want to do this evening. I want to talk to you tonight about what we might call the basics, the simple stuff. Now I'm going to tell you one very important reason why I decided to do this, especially on a Wednesday night. Some of you will sit here tonight and you'll say, as as we get into this, you'll sit here tonight and you'll say, Well, preacher, this is so simple. This is so basic. If I've heard it once, I've heard it a thousand times. Some of you are going to say that. But here's my response. If it's so simple, if it's so basic, then why aren't more of us doing it? You see, folks, if the truth be known, the vast, vast majority of I'm talking us folks, the vast majority of Christian tonight are not soul winners. That ought to break your heart. I I have preachers constantly asking me In the average church that you go into, how many members in that church are real soul winners? You know what I've come up with? Maybe, maybe five percent of an entire church. Is there something wrong with that figure? Huh? Sitting here tonight. Are good folks. What kind of folks? Good folks that are not soul winners. And you could be. Well you could be. You know why I say that? Because the devil says, oh no, you yes, you could. You could be. Sitting here tonight? Are good folks that that have never personally won a soul to the Lord, and you could You know, it almost seems today that the average Christian has become a pursuer of excuses rather than a pursuer of souls. But God says this He that winneth souls is wise. If you want God to consider you wise, you will be a what? A soul winner. Matthew chapter 28, verse 19. Very first word. Go. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Mark chapter 16, verse 15. Very first word again is what? Go into all the world and preach the gospel. Listen, that's not just talking about preachers. That's us giving the gospel And preach the gospel to every creature. Psalm chapter 126 and verse 6. He that goeth forth and weepeth, having a broken heart, a burden. Bearing precious seed, the Word of God, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing this seed with him. But it just seems today like our problems is that uh Christians never seem to be able to get past that word go. How many ever heard of Robert Schuler? Robert Schuler, Mr. Power of Positive Thinking. He was the guy that was in charge of the Crystal Cathedral until it went bankrupt. A lot of people don't know this. But Robert Schuler, I mean, was adamantly hardcore against witnessing and soul winning. Robert Schuler used to say this all the time: the life you live is enough to make the lost want what you have. That's why he was against soul women. Now folks, I got two problems with that. First problem is this: most Christians live like the world. And so we go and try and invite somebody out or witness to them, the average person looks at us and says, hey, why do I want what you've got? You live just like I do. That's the first problem I have with that. The second problem is God's word over and over and over again tells us to go. And so here's the question: who are you going to believe? God or some of these dumb intellects. Somebody one time asked Lyman Beecher You may not be familiar with the name, but Lyman Beecher was a great old-time preacher. And he was a fantastic soul winner. But they one time came to Lyman Beecher and they said, uh, what do you consider the greatest thing that a human being can do or be? And here's what he said. The greatest thing is not that one should be a scientist, important as that is. Not that one should be a statesman, vastly important as that is, nor even that one should be a theologian. Immeasurably as important as that is. But the greatest thing of all is for one human being to bring another human being to Christ. Well, he hit the nail on the head there, didn't he? Why is that? Matthew chapter 16, verse 26, tells us why this is so important. For where is a man profited? If he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? Folks, one soul. That's it. Think about that. One soul is worth more than all the riches of the world. You know what? Every time I think about it, it amazes me. You take all the diamonds, the rubies, the emeralds, the sapphire, the gold, the silver, the platinum. On the face of the earth, and one soul is worth more than all these riches put together. You say, preacher, why? I'll tell you why. Because that one soul never dies It has to spend somewhere forever. That's why it is so valuable to God. You see, folks, get this. If God, if God used, now we ought to do more than this, but if God used you to bring just one soul to Jesus Christ. You have brought something to Christ that is worth more than all the riches of the world And yet, and yet, we just preached on this last night. And yet, we place more importance tonight on cars and boats and houses and money and sports and hobbies than we do on souls. We do. I'm talking about us. And we forget something. We forget something. Psalm forty-nine, verse seventeen. For he seeth that wise men die. Likewise the fool and the brutish person perish and leave their wealth to others. Psalm 49, verse 17. For when he dieth, he shall carry nothing away. His glory shall not descend after him. What do we forget? Someday when we die, we're leaving all that junk behind. Everything you have, everything you own, the very moment you die, it becomes junk. And God says this, and this is why God says it He that winneth souls is wise. And I believe this is why this is one of the single most important things of the Christian life. See, I I don't I don't understand. If you can ever explain it, you explain it to me. But I don't understand. A person who claims to be saved, and yet they don't care about seeing others get saved. You explain that to me if you can. I don't understand that. I don't understand people that say, well, I'm safe, and they never try and win anybody to the Lord. They allow others to go to hell without a fight. When I was in the Marine Corps, when I was a drill instructor down at Parris Island, South Carolina. My future wife got saved. Now, what does the Bible say? When you get saved, you get changed. When she got saved, what's the first thing she did? She wanted to see me get saved. And then I got saved. I'm going to tell you something. It wasn't 15 minutes after I got saved. You know what I was thinking about? What about my mom and dad? What about my faith? You know what? I believe that's the most natural thing in the world for somebody that we think about others that need to get saved. R. A. Tory one time said this. I would like to know what right any man has to call himself a follower of Christ if he is not a soul winner. Say, well, I I don't like that. Don't get mad at me, get mad at him. He's the one that said it. Charles Spurgeon. One time made this statement: I had rather bring one soul to Jesus Christ than to unpick all the mysteries in the divine word. Now, if you know anything about Charles River, what man, what a scholar he was. What a love for the Bible that he had. But according to Charles Spurgeon, what was most important? Bringing souls to Christ. Now, when I get up tonight, I said this: the title of the message is what? Participation time. Soul winning 101, amen. And you're sitting here and you say, Well, preacher, all you've done so far is blab, amen. Well, you're right. But you see, you need to understand something. I just think before I can maybe help you Maybe I need to get you a little bit excited or give you a reminder of what our responsibility is for being a Christian. And so, with this in mind, here's what we're going to do. With this in mind, I'm going to do something, it is so simple. It is so simple, I am almost embarrassed to do it. But I'm not too embarrassed not to do it. Because I think we need it. Hey, listen to me. In your heart, be honest here, in your heart of heart. She don't have to say anything out loud, but in your heart of heart, would you like to be a soul winner? Huh? Would you like to see fruit? Would you like to avoid living a worthless, wasted spiritual life Now here's what I'm going to do real quick. And I mean I promise you real quick, amen. This is a 10-point sermon. Why did all the smiles go off the faces? Now listen, don't get nervous here. Whenever somebody says ten, well even a he could just turn pale. Listen. I listen. I promise you you will be out of here before you know it. I will guarantee you that. Or I'll give you your money back. Amen? But here's what I want to do. I just think this is important in the day and age we're living in. I want to give you ten things. If you're here tonight and you say, preacher, I want to be a soul, but I've just never done, I've never tried it. I'm going to give you ten things you can do. This is what I call from the Baron School of Theology. Amen. It's ten things, but listen, some of these things we'll we might spend 60 seconds on, two minutes at the most, and then we'll be and then we'll go to the next one. First of all, number one, would you like to be a soul winner? Would you like to see fruit? This is the this is simple, this is the basics. Number one, get yourself a small New Testament. Oh my. Oh, wasn't they wasn't that simple? Get yourself a small new testament. Now those this is just personal opinion. But I care I carry a s I carry one with me. Do you know why? Listen, it's a lot easier carrying this than that. And do you know what I found? It's a lot easier to get into a house when you're carrying this when you're when you got instead of getting this. I I've had I've had uh uh uh years when I used to carry my big body years ago we'd knock on the door, people wouldn't let us in it. Well we thought you were Jehovah's Witnesses But when you knock on the door, and you've got this, and somebody comes to the door, It's a lot easier. It's a lot easier to get invited in. And listen, everything you need is right here. It's right here. I don't know who I'm talking to tonight. But if this simple message stirs you up at all, you know what I'd do? I'd see your preacher right after the service. And I'd say, preacher, where can I get a small New Testament? You see, you know why I start right here? Because this is where it starts. This is where it starts. Secondly, learn the Romans' road. Isn't it simple? Learn the Roman's road. Do you know what you're going to find out, folks? It's not as hard as the devil tries to convince you that it is. I can take I can take five verses. Is that very many? I can take five verses. Out of the book of Romans, and use that to win somebody to the Lord. How hard is that? Some people use set. And by the way, once you get one You'll learn other verses. You know, you'll get over into into uh Ephesians 2 8 and 9 and over in in in in the book of John and over to 1 John chapter 5, people like that. But listen You want you want to start out just debate. All you gotta do is learn five basic things. A lot of people say, well, preacher, you know what? I I just I just have a hard time memor we don't have a hard time memorizing a lot of other stuff. Let me ask you something. Do you believe you have a judgment seat someday? If you believe you have a judgment seat someday, then let me ask you this. When you're standing someday face to face with Jesus, you're looking Jesus eyeball to eyeball at the judgment seat of Christ. What's going to be your excuse? There won't be. But what are you going to tell Jesus as your excuse for you not being able to memorize or learn five basic verses as a starter, as a foundation? Number one. Get a small new testament. Number two Learn the Romans road. It's not that hard. Number three, hey, so far everybody can do this. Am I not right? Number three, here's the third thing. This is an easy one. Underline these verses in your Bible. I thought I'd throw that in because that's real easy, amen. Put a magic marker underline those versions. You know why? Because it's easier as soon as you turn over to it, it's easier for you to float. But I'll tell you something else, it's also that the person you're trying to witness to Automatically I I do mine in yellow magic markers. You know why? Because when I open up my Bible like Romans 3. 10 or Romans 3. 23, Romans 6. 23, somewhere around there When I open up my Bible and uh and uh I begin, where where are their eyes drawn to? Right at that verse. They focus on the color, but then they look, they can see the verse. They don't lose the verse. And they can read it right along with me. Number four. When you memorize the Romans Road, this is real important here. Learn to explain it to them in your own language. In other words, folks, listen, just be yourself. Just be yourself. If you look at some of these verses, you say, Well, I understand this and I understand this, but I'm not sure what this means. Let me tell you something. Let me give you a suggestion. Just go see your preacher. Just go see somebody. And say, preacher, what's that verse mean? What's that word mean? And then take that word, take that explanation. I'm going to explain this a little bit deeper here, and then learn to explain it in your own word. You know what I've done over the years? This is years ago. But when I started learning the Romans Road, you know what I did? I began to listen to preachers and good laypeople that were good soul winners as they explained the Roman's Road. And then as they explained, you know what I did? I stole the best stuff from them. Huh? I'd listen. You know, I'd I'd have it down, I'd have it down, but I'd listen, and they'd they'd say it a different I'd say, man. That's a way better, simpler explanation. I'm going to use that. Hey, just use your own language I I did this Sunday morning, I think I did this Sunday morning, Easter Sunday when we were here. But uh Romans 6. 23. Remember Romans 6. 23? For the wages of sin is death. But the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ. I think I explained that Sunday morning. For the wages, this is how you do it. This is how you learn it. For the wages, you have a job, you earn a wage. When you sin, see people understand this then. We make it so simple, you want to put it right down to the bottom shelf. And so when you sin, you also earn a wage, which is a spiritual death in hell. Or what the Bible calls the second death over in Revelation 20, verse 14. But then we get to that word but I had a heard a guy say that one time and I stole it. What's the word butt? That's the good news after the bad news. But the gift, the gift, remember Sunday? The watch that he tried to steal The gift, to get a gift, what's a gift? It's free. To receive a gift, all you have to do is what? Take it. People understand that. But if you made them give them, if you made them give you a penny for the watch, is it a gift anymore? No, they had to pay something for it. And the Bible says that salvation, heaven, eternal life, is an absolutely free gift. The only thing you've got to do to receive it is take it. But the gift of God is eternal life. That's heaven. Hey, there's only two places you can spend forever. I'm just still explaining it. There's only two places you can spend forever. I'm not real good at math. Would you give me a choice between two places? I'm thinking the bless best place. You give me the choice between St. Thomas and the Virgin Islands or Detroit, I'm going to St. Thomas. Amen. You give me the choice between heaven or hell, I don't have to think about it. And God says, I got a free gift for you. What is it? It's eternal life. It's living forever in heaven. And it's through, because Jesus paid the price on the cross for your sins. That's why it's already paid for. It is through Jesus Christ our Lord. When you came through the door tonight, you had to come through the door to get into this auditorium, right? If you didn't come through the door, you're on the outside looking in. And if you don't go through Jesus Christ, you're also on the outside looking in. You're under. See, that's how it works. You go through the Romans Road, you memorize it, you get it, and then listen, and then you just break it down and you explain it as simply as you can because you're dealing with somebody that's lost. Number five. Hey, we're halfway there, folks. Isn't this simple? This is why I don't understand why more people aren't soul winners. Number five, don't make excuses for not going. Can I be honest with you? We'll be honest with you anyway. I made the same stuff you are. You know what I have to do on occasions? Kick myself in the pants and get myself out. Don't make excuses for not going. Ecclesiastes chapter 11. This is a great verse for excuse makers. Ecclesiastes chapter 11 and verse 4. He that observeth the wind shall not sow. And he that regardeth the clouch shall not reap. You say, preacher, what's God saying? Here's what God's saying. If you wait for just the right conditions to be favorable, if you wait for all the stars to line up just right, you're never going to sew. You will never be a soul winner. You have got to make you got to whip the flesh. You've got to make yourself go. A preacher, I just don't know enough. None of us did when we started. Come on, none of us did. Listen. You know what some of you need to do? You need to do what I did. Go through what you call the school of hard knocks. Come on, that's how you sharpen your teeth on this stuff. Go through the school of hard come on. Of hard knocks. You learn by going. You know, when I got saved, I don't have time to win you. When I got saved, I I preached my testimony here before, but when I got saved, I I got that I got an orange slip of paper. And on that orange slip, the night I got saved, the very night I got saved, I got that orange slip of paper, and on that orange slip of paper, I wrote down the Romans road. The only listen to me, the only book, the only book that I knew of in the entire Bible, I just knew there was a book of Genesis. That was it. I couldn't have found the other books of the Bible to save my life. And so when I got saved, I wrote down the Romans wrote, I wrote down the book, the verse, the chapter, and then I wrote down the page numbers. So I could find them in the Bible. I still have that orange slip of paper taken to the back of my Bible tonight. You see, it reminds me of where I came from. It also reminds me that somebody cared enough about my soul, I better care enough about other souls. I went out, I went out, this is what I used. I went out and I'd say, okay, uh, Romans 3. 10, AJ 186. I still had that big Bible. And I'd read them that. I didn't even know what it meant. And people go Well what about this? And I go. Oh Huh? Yeah, well what about I uh I I don't know You just need to get saved. And I go back home. You know what I'd do? I'd look up that question. That's what I did. I didn't know any better. Sometimes it's good to be stupid. But I didn't know any better. I'd look up the answer. Then I'd go back. Hey, I got the answer for that. Here it is. Yeah, yeah, but what about Huh? Let me tell you something. That's going through the school hard knocks. Listen. By the end of about three, four months, I had most of the answers. You know what we call that? Growing. Spiritually maturing. That's why a lot of Christians tonight are still babies in Christ. Go through the school hard notch. Hey, it it won't hurt you. Well preacher, I'm just hey, listen, here's a good preacher, I'm just scared. Hey, listen That is one of the single greatest tools the devil uses to keep people warm in their pews. Can I clue you in? Listen, we're all scared. We all get nervous before you go out and confront people or talk to people about things they consider a private matter. We all get that way. Well, what will people think about me? Maybe I'm different, but here's my attitude. Who cares? Who cares? Listen, listen, heaven or hell hangs in the balance. Let's quit worrying about feelings. Number six, we gotta get I can I could park here, but we don't have number six, ask for a partner. I believe that's important. Ask for you know what helped me I think more than anything else? Going out with a partner. Uh go out and listen, I I'll guarantee, I'll guarantee it, you you get excited about this and you want to start going, you want to learn, see your preacher. They'll send you out with somebody with some experience. You go out, you be what we call the silent partner. You can go out, listen, you can go out. This this ought to hit your comfort zone. You can go out, you can sit there, you can be quiet, you can pray a little bit while they're witnessing. But but uh you can watch and you can now I'm gonna guarantee you something this would happen to me after about four or five times You know what you want to do? You want to turn to your partner and say, shut up, let me do it. Man, let me, I want to do it. I mean, it will get you excited. Number seven. Number seven. Set a time to go out. Set a time to go out. That time, get this folks, that time you do not violate. If you don't schedule a time, you will always schedule an excuse. That's why it's great to have a partner. You know what we call a partner? Accountability. Accountability. My wife, every single Saturday, I mean without fail, unless we're, you know, out some, but every single Saturday at our home church. My wife is out soul-winning. She's got a soul-winning partner. Sometimes I'll come home and I'll forget about that. And I'll say, honey, why don't you and me do Cracker Barrel this morning? Huh? Bacon, eggs, hash browns. Coffee. Hot, thick, dark, black. Kind of coffee Lester Roloffers drinking in heaven tonight. And my wife, my wife says this. Not no one, but my wife says, honey, I can't And I say, why? I mean, I got soul winning. And then she names her part, but she'll be waiting for me. What is that? Accountability. Accountability. Number eight. Can you handle a hard one right here? Be clean, neat. And friendly. Let me give you another word for that word friendly. Foxy. Clean, neat, and folksy. I have been out with people. I could write a book on this. I've been out with people. Their breath smells so bad, you could kill a boom moose at twenty yards. I'm sorry you ain't winning nobody. They're looking to get you out of the house. Look presentable. Don't go out looking like you just get off the third shift. You need a shave. Your clothes, I mean, you look like you've been in a fight. Friendly, or what's that word? Foxy. Now let me let me explain that to you. Anybody, anybody ever, anybody ever do you I mean now this goes way back I mean this goes way back into the 50s. Anyone ever watched Dragnet? Come on, anybody ever watched Dragnet? Jack Webb Jack Webb. What was he like? Just a fact, ma'am, just a fact. That took you back. Just a fact. Andy Griffith. What was he? He spoke she. Hey, everybody likes Andy Griffith Nobody likes Jack Whip. Huh? Be a Jack or Mr. I like Jack Webb personally, but I being anti-Griffith. He was friendly, he spoke to you. You know what? That's half the battle to winning somebody the Lord. Number nine, hey we're just about done. See, I told you this wouldn't take long. 0. 10 is only an hour and 10 minutes, though. No, I'm only kidding. Number nine, start praying for daily opportunities. If you pray every day, you know what you ought to pray? You ought to pray for an opportunity to Give somebody a track, give some witness to somebody. Do you know what that does? That makes you soul conscious apart from a regular visiting time. Carry tracks and give them out. Tracks are your bullets. Your New Testament is your weapon. Number 10, and we're done. Number ten. Never, never, never give up. This is so basic. It's so simple. And I'm going to tell you something. What we're talking about tonight, there is so much at stake. Folks, life goes by so fast. Come on, old people. Young people don't understand that yet. Life goes by so fast, from the cradle to the grave, like that. It just seems, I don't know about you, but to me, it just seems like yesterday I was a young boy in the Marine Corps. It just seems to me that yesterday I was walking the holes of my high school. And here I am thirty-nine. That didn't fly, did it? Now, what's the point? Here's the point. Life goes by fast. Folks, someday, someday, if people walk by your casket And they say, Well, I'll tell you what, he was the best hunter, he was the best fisherman I ever knew. Walk by your casket and say, Well, I'll tell you what. He sure was a he was the best West Virginia fan I ever met. Yeah. But I'll tell you what, he was quite oh, he was an unbelievable golfer. Well, real men don't golf, but he was an unbelievable golfer. Someday if people walk by your casket and say, Well, I'll tell you what, best farmer I ever met, best salesman I ever met Oh man, she was the best cook I've ever met. Listen, if that's all they think about you, you have wasted your life. You know what your goal ought to be? Not that they'll think of you as a good hunter, cook. They walk by, they'll look at you and say, you know what? He or she, boy, they they sure had a heart for souls. They sure loved to see people get saved. You know, if people come by your cast someday and they think that, in God's sight, you're wise. You want to make your life count? He that wineth souls is wise Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Every head bowed and every eye closed. As far as Christians tonight, I'm gonna I'm I'm gonna I'm gonna address two groups of Christians tonight in this invitation. I really hope you'll be honest. Not with me. But I'm hoping tonight, I'm praying tonight that you'll be honest with God. And by the way, God already knows. So you're not fooling them. First group I'm talking to is those who are so winners. You are so winners. Remember what I said at the beginning of my message? Sometimes it's good to get back to the basics. And when you get back to the basics, I don't know about you, but when you sometimes when I get back to some of the basics. I get motivated, I get excited again, I get reminded that, hey, you know what? I need to get busier about this. There's no doubt in my mind we got soul winners in this crowd tonight. I mean I know we got people here that love souls, and you're soul winners. But maybe maybe through the simple message tonight. God just touched your heart and says, you know what? I need to take this even more seriously. I need to get a little bit more aggressive about this. I need to be handing out more tracks. I need to be looking for more opportunities to be a soul winner. God's dealt with me about that tonight. Preacher, would you pray for me? Would you just slip your hands up tonight all over the auditorium? Thank you. Just many, many, many hands. Thank you. Lots of hands. I won't even count them. Lots of hand. Thank you. I appreciate that. Now let me ask another question here. This one here, now get this. This one here is going to be a little bit harder. I hope you'll be honest with God. But maybe you're sitting here tonight. And in your heart of hearts, you know this. You're not the soul winner that you ought to be, you could be. Maybe you haven't really even tried it. You've been a little bit scared. And the devil's been winning that battle. And as you sit here tonight and you listen to a, I mean, just a very simple, basic foundational message. Maybe somewhere in that heart, God stirred up a little bit of excitement. And in your heart you'd say, you know what? I need to start this. I need to do this. I need to quit wasting my life and my opportunities. And by God's grace, tonight, by God's grace, I'm going to draw a line in the sand. And as a Christian I'm going to start working at being a soul winner. I'm going to learn. I'm going to learn to be a soul winner. Preacher, would you pray for me? Tonight, would you pray for me tonight that God would enable me, that God would help me to be a soul winner? Would you slip your hands up tonight? Just slip them up, hold them up high. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 10, 11, 12, 13, 13 hands. Anybody else? Thirteen that I can see. Fourteen, thank you. Fourteen. Anybody else? Fifteen, thank you. Fifteen hands. Anybody else? Sixteen. Sixteen hands. Anybody else? Good number of hands Folks, listen to me. We're dealing, think about this. What we're deciding, what we're deciding, is where people are going to spend forever tonight. We're deciding that. You're deciding that. Anybody else, real quick? Anybody else? Let me ask one other question Maybe there's somebody here tonight, and you're not saved. You have never trusted Christ as your Savior. Friend, can I just say this? It is easy to get saved. You ever stop and think this? If God can save a child, God could save an adult Acts 2. 21, and it shall come to pass that whosoever, that's anybody, no matter what your background is, that whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. Is there a time and a place where you bowed your head and asked Jesus in your heart as your Savior? Listen, I'm not asking you if you attend church. I'm not asking if you're from if you're a member of a church. I'm not asking you if you're baptized or if you give money I'm asking you, is there a time and a place where you bowed your head and asked Jesus Christ into your heart as your Savior? You're not saved by church membership You're not saved by confirmation or attending church or obeying the Ten Commandments or singing in a choir. You're saved by trusting Christ to save you. If your life is in danger, If you're grounding or something, you want somebody to save you. Now, if you're here tonight and you have never trusted Christ as your Savior, you are in danger of hellfire forever. But here's the good news. There's somebody tonight that can save you. Because he's already paid the price on the cross of Calvary for your sins. All you need to do is say yes. Accept the gift. I'm wondering if we have anybody here tonight. I won't listen. I won't embarrass you. I will not embarrass you You say, why, preacher? Because I can't force you to get saved. But I'd sure like to pray for you. I'm wondering tonight if we have a man, a woman, a young person here tonight that would say, Preacher, you know what? I'm not sure I'm saved. I can't point to a time and a place where I've bowed my head and asked Jesus in my heart as my Savior. I'm not sure if I'm going to heaven. I don't know if I'm going to hell, but I do know this I don't want to go to that place called hell forever. I want to go to heaven forever, and I worry about that. Brother Barons, would you also tonight remember me in prayer? Would you just slip your hand up, put it right back down? I'll acknowledge it and pray for you. Anybody at all Anybody at all? Just slip it up, put it back down, and I'll pray for you. Father, thank you for the time that we've had here this evening. The many, many hands that were raised, and I pray that's an indication. Of broken hearts, of people that are sitting here tonight and burdened Lord, help us, help us tonight to be soul winners. It's not as hard as what the devil would have us to believe. And once we start. We can have the best time in the world winning souls to Jesus. Which in Jesus' name we pray. With heads bowed, eyes closed, let's stand.