First Wednesday of the month. And so I want to take tonight's lesson and give some tips on personal soul winning. And I don't know about you. I hope these are helpful. And that uh you'll take them to heart. What I'd like to encourage you to do tonight is on the back of the prayer list is a little place to take sermon notes. I want to encourage you to jot some of these down. What I'm going to give you tonight and uh maybe even might be worth putting in the fly leaf of your Bible for future reference. I want to talk about characteristics of soul winners, things that are true about that I've observed and that I see in the Bible that are true about people who very effectively win other people to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so I want to look at a bunch of verses. In the meantime, I was really hoping the press would not get a hold of this. Um, let's see, I don't think I'm on here, Dave. I was hoping the press wouldn't get a hold of this, but Brian came across it. There's a headline down in South Carolina. Leatherman resigns post to avoid becoming lieutenant governor. Of South Carolina. And so I was hoping that wouldn't get out, but it did. And uh there's no truth to it. It's fake news. And um so it's not true. Uh one fellow said he that does not Uh he that does not read the newspaper is uninformed, and he that does read the newspaper is misinformed. And there's probably a lot of truth in that. Alright. We have a very exciting and important announcement to make. And I'm going to make it later. So right now, if you would, Acts chapter 4. I'm going to highlight a few verses here. So keep your Bible handy. We're going to kind of uh breeze through the book of Acts just briefly to get us started. Chapter 4, verse number 29. Acts 4 and verse 29. Notice what the Bible says here. It would be good if I got here. Verse 29 says, And now Lord, behold, now they were being threatened, they were being persecuted, they were in jail, they were told not to preach in the Word of God, preach the gospel of Christ. And this is the believers they're praying now. As a result of the persecution. They were out witnessing, they were out telling people about Christ. Persecution came, they got thrown in jail. They were told, please listen, please listen. They were told not to preach in the name of Christ anymore, not to go out and uh uh share the gospel with folks as getting thrown in jail. Now they're praying. Verse 29 And now, Lord, behold their threatenings, and grant unto thy servants, that with all boldness they may speak thy word By stretching forth thine hand to heal, that signs and wonders may be done by the name of the holy child Christ Jesus. Look at this. And when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost. And look what happened. And they spake the word of God with what? Boldness. This is the whole gang. This is the whole church. This isn't the pastor. This is the whole shebang. Look with me at chapter 5. Oh, I want to read verse 33 also. And with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And great grace was upon them all. Chapter five, verse twenty-eight. You would come over there with me Now, this is the Pharisees. These are the authorities. And they went out and they preached the gospel with great boldness. The power of God was on them. People got saved by the scores, hundreds, thousands are getting saved. And now the authorities respond, saying, verse 28, did not we straightway command you that you should not teach in this name? Look at this. And behold, ye have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine. Now, what is the doctrine he's referencing? Jesus Christ, it's the gospel. They filled the whole city with their gospel. I like that statement. Then he goes on, and intend to bring this man's blood upon us. Then Peter and the other apostles answered and said, We ought to obey God rather than men. Now chapter oh verse 41 of chapter 5. And they departed from the presence of the council, look at this, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name. And daily in the temple and in every house, look at this, they cease not to teach and preach Jesus Christ. Anybody want to guess what they're teaching and preaching about Jesus Christ? The gospel of Jesus Christ. Alright, let's go over to chapter 8. This is the new, this is the church, early church, just started. They're going out. We're kind of getting their early history here. Chapter eight. We get to verse number four. Therefore, now persecution is in in getting intense. They're they're paying a price for this. Look at verse 4. Therefore they that were scattered abroad went everywhere doing what? Preaching the word. And Philip went down to the city of Samaria of all places and preached Christ unto them. Look at verse 25. And they, when they had testified and preached the word of the Lord, returned to Jerusalem. Now, while they're coming back to Jerusalem, look what they're doing. And preached the gospel in many villages of the Samaritans. So they're coming back to Jerusalem. As they're traveling, they're hitting these little villages along the way of Samaritans. They're outside the Jewish faith, and they're hitting these, and they're preaching the gospel as they go through. Look at verse number 35. Philip here, he's a deacon. He's out there and uh he comes across this uh eunuch, Ethiopian eunuch, and uh I think it's interesting verse 31, the man's reading the Bible, Isaiah 53. And he says this, verse 31, he says, How can I? Philip asks him, do you understand what you're reading? He says, How can I, except some man should guide me? Huh. And then comes out. Then Preter, verse thirty five, open then Philip opened his mouth and began at the same scripture and preached unto him Jesus. And we know the story, the old boy gets saved And gets baptized. So Peter's witnessing to him. He's a soul winner. Look with me, chapter 11. And I've just pulled a few of these instances out. We could go here all evening working our way through Acts. Chapter 11, verse 19. Now they which were scattered abroad upon the persecution that arose about Stephen traveled as far as Phenus. Venus and Cyprus and Antioch preaching the word. Now this group, they're preaching the word to none but the Jews only. However, look at verse 20. And some of them were men of Cyprus and Cyrene, which when they were come to Antioch, spake unto the Grecians. Preaching the Lord Jesus. And the hand of the Lord was with them, and great, a great number believed and turned to the Lord So do you get the picture? I'm trying to draw out of here a just a little snapshot of what this early church was. And by the way, the church in the book of Acts, in a lot of ways, is to be a pattern for us. We claim to be a Bible-believing church. We call ourselves a New Testament Baptist Church. And so this is a pattern for us. And what I see here, this New Testament church is intensely evangelistic. I mean they are eat up with it. And uh it consumes everything. And I've I've been pointing this out a lot the last couple years and I'll I'll mention it now again The New Testament Church here in the Book of Acts is characterized by two things, and I just see it more and more and more. One is prayer. They prayed, they prayed, they prayed, they prayed, they prayed And the other is preaching. They're going out into little villages. They're going through the city of Jerusalem. They're filling the whole city up with their doctrine. They're going out into other areas. Everybody in the whole church is going out and they're telling folks how to get saved. Telling folks how to get saved. So what I want to do is look at some characteristics of effective soul winners. Characteristics of effective soul winners. Now, what I said, this is observations from 30 years in the ministry, just observing in my own life and others that God has used And then also principles and observations from studying God's Word. So let's pray. I'll give you a list of these. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Bible. And Lord, we believe with all our heart that it will stand throughout all eternity. And we believe that this is your word for us. And you've given us instructions here on what we ought to be doing as a church and as individual believers. Lord, you've given us a pattern and an example here in in throughout these various churches in the New Testament and these believers. And so I'm asking you to help me, Lord, to learn from these. And that uh I would be able to implement these characteristics into my life. They would be true of me as an individual Christian. They would be true of us as a church. And our members also. So please fill me with your Holy Spirit tonight. I pray, dear Lord. I yield myself to you. I present my body anew. And uh ask that you would teach us, challenge us, provoke us, Lord, in this area that it seems just so easy to um uh to perhaps neglect is the word. So help us we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, some characteristics of effective soul winners. These are people are able to get out there, engage people, share the gospel with them, and uh in many cases see people trust the Lord. Number one, I'll encourage you to jot these down maybe on the back of that prayer list there somewhere. I think they'll come in handy at some point down the road. Effective soul winners, number one, are saved. How many people say duh marriage race says that yeah, we uh it's pretty obvious it's saved, but we never want to take that for granted If I'm going to be an effective soul winner, I need to make sure I know the Lord Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. If I'm standing in a fire burning, I'm not going to be much help to somebody else. And so one of the things you notice here, every one of these folks uh in uh The book of Acts that we referenced, every one of them had already trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. They were saved and they knew it. 1 John 5, 13 These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God that ye may know that ye have eternal life We don't have to hope so, we don't have to think so, we don't have to wonder. I've dealt with folks over the years on occasion where they try to witness, but they didn't have assurance of their own salvation, and you know what I found out, they struggled I start with it. It's kind of hard to give someone else something I do not have. And so one thing we need to do, we need to know that we've trusted Christ, and we need to have the assurance of our salvation Uh brother Yates and I were talking, we had lunch together Monday, we were talking about uh folks making professions of faith and that type of thing. It's you know it's a concern. We want to be sure people know and they're genuinely saved. But um uh it's important that not only that we trust Christ as Savior, but we get assurance of our salvation. Now I like to use this illustration in our soul-winning training, and I think it applies here. So some of you have heard this uh probably number of times before. But the way I look at it is like this. When you get on the airplane and you're sitting there and the way uh the steward or stewardess gets up there and they're going through the instructions. Emergency aisles are here and and they're doing all this stuff and they're going through the little life uh uh um Life jacket, no not the mask yet, the life jacket. You have to have it in the right order. The life jacket and uh under the seat and pfft you can blow in it. Everybody knows what I'm talking about. They do all that stuff And uh then they said in the unlikely event of uh uh the pressure losing pressure, uh oxygen mass will fall from the ceiling. And so then they pretend one falls down And they go through that and they always make this statement. They always say, if you have a small child or somebody that is unable to put the oxygen mask on for themselves, they say this. Always put yours on first. Then help the other one that needs help Now why in the world do you think they tell you to do that? Put yours on first before you help the child. We say, oh, the poor little child, you've got to help them first. Anybody want to take a shot? Why would it be important to put yours on first Right. If you're dead, it's hard to put oxygen mask on somebody else. And so what I need to do, I gotta make sure that I've got the oxygen, that I'm secured, that I'm Okay, so that I can help the other person. To me, every time I hear him do that, to me, that reminds me if a soul winner is going to be effective in reaching someone else for Christ They need to know Christ as their Savior themselves. They need to have that assurance themselves so that I can effectively help others. So imagine this happened to me one time. And uh some of you all know the guy that said this to me. He's a good guy. And uh but the first time I met him I didn't know him from Adam and I said, went through a little spiel and talked a little bit as they were sitting down. I said, by the way, I said, um Do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven? Good statement, right? So that's the right approach. You know what his answer was? Do you? That was his right flat. Do you you know for sure when you die your own sins are beginning on your way to heaven? Now, suppose I didn't know that Suppose I wasn't sure about that. Suppose I had some doubts and I was going to be honest. And I'd say, well, I think so. I hope so. I'm not sure. Do you think he'd be interested in anything I had to say to him about him knowing for sure? No. And so it seems incredibly obvious in a lot of us, but Well I need to be able to, I need to know for sure that I've been saved, and I need to have that assurance. I need to know it before I'm able to help someone else. I view it this way. The assurance of my salvation is the platform. upon which I am able to share the assurance of salvation with someone else. Of course it's the Word of God. But if I'm not grounded on the Word of God myself I have no front I have no foundation, I have no platform to be able to present the gospel to another one and give them. So that has to be in place. So having said that, if you're here tonight You don't know for sure, you don't have it settled in your heart that your sins are forgiven. When you die, you go to heaven and not to hell. That is the most important thing in all of life. is that you get that settled and be sure of that. So number one, my observation from ministry and in studying the Word of God, characteristics of effective soul winners, number one, they're saved. Number two, put this one down. They are sensitive. They are sensitive. I put two things that I notice they're sensitive to. First of all, they are sensitive to the plight of the unsaved. Now I've used that word because it starts with a P, and you'll see here in a minute why. But the plight of the unsaved, what are we talking about when we're sensitive to the plight of the unsaved? What am I talking about? Their destiny, their condition, where they're heading, what's happening. And so an affected soul winner is very, very sensitive to the fact that this person in front of me, and I'm in preaching to me as much as anybody, this person standing in line in front of me is lost And if they die, most likely they are lost. If they die in the condition they're in right now, they're going to be separated from God in hell for all eternity. And I need to be sensitive to the plight of the unsaved. It's interesting. There's four times at least in the Gospels where it says that Jesus saw a multitude. He saw people. And it makes this statement. He was moved with compassion. Our Lord Jesus Christ was very, very sensitive. He saw lost people and he was moved with compassion. I got looking at that phrase moved with compassion, it simply means what you think it would mean is his emotions were touched. His emotions were stirred. In other words, it bothered him. It has this idea, his concern for them was stirred up. It really Bothered him that here's a lot of people that are unsaved. He said in one place he was moved with a compassion when he saw that they were like sheep without a what? Shepherd, just lost. They're just out there in laws. So if I want to be an effective soul winner, if I'm going to uh uh uh be an effective soul winner, I have got to be sensitive to the plight of the unsaved. Just put it this way, we have just got to care. About whether people are going to hell heaven or hell or not. If we don't care, then we're not going to be very effective in our witness. Now I hate to say this, and I I I hope and I w I wish I was wrong, I don't think I am. I hate to say this, but I'm afraid the majority of churches in our country really don't care A whole lot, whether people go to heaven or hell or not. If we look at our efforts, if we look at what we're doing and what we're investing in, And you look at your average church, and I'm just talking about churches across the board, and I'm not trying to do, we're not comparing ourselves to me, we're not in competition But I'm simply saying the folks that are very effective in getting other people to Christ and and seeing them saved uh are very sensitive to the plight of the unsaved. Now let me add this on there also, and this is very, very important Regardless of their lifestyle, we ought to be concerned about where they spend eternity. No Christian should ever have this attitude, well, they deserve to go to hell. God forbid we would ever think that way. What's wrong with that statement? Yes, I deserve to go to hell just as much as they do. And so, regardless of the lifestyle, it doesn't necessarily mean, listen, just because we care about whether somebody goes to heaven or hell or not, doesn't mean we approve of how they're living their life. It doesn't mean we approve of their sin. But it does mean we care about their soul. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us He commended his love for us. So we ought to be very sensitive. And there's a real danger. And this is just the flesh. It's just self-righteous pride When we stand somebody, we see somebody in line, they obviously live in some uh a very, very sinful lifestyle and very far from the Word of God, and we start thinking, yeah, yeah Our hearts ought to be stirred. We ought to be moved with compassion. If I'm going to be an effective soul winner, I need to be removed with compassion. And uh as to the plight, their plight, I put their lifestyle, I put their religion. Listen, Islam is a false religion. So is Mormonism, so is Jehovah's Witness, so is Catholicism. Any kind of works-based religion is a false religion. And so, whether it's Islam or what it is, I ought to be moved with compassion on them and that their soul would be saved. Um now some of these, obviously, the Islam religion has a very violent element to it, and I think we are so perfectly within scriptural uh bounds to defend ourselves as individuals and defend our nation and to put safeguards in place to protect our home, that's fine. But they don't deserve hell any more than I do And they have God loves them just as much as I do. And when we see this stuff on TV and we see this horrendous stuff happening, I wonder if maybe our response ought to be, God, stir my heart, they need Christ. They need Christ. So I've found that folks are very effective, are very sensitive to the plight of the unsaved, regardless of their lifestyle, regardless of their religion, regardless of uh of their gender, male or female. Now let me throw this out, and we touch on this in our training on our practical going door to door and visiting homes and stuff. I think men ought to be very, very careful about when approaching women and witnessing in the home I don't think a man should ever go in the home if it's just a lady there. And should never go into the home if it's just the lady there. And when we're witnessing, this is what I teach folks, this is what I do. If I knock on a door and a lady comes to the door And um I introduced myself and she says, Well come on in. It's cold out. Why don't you come on in? My very first question is, is your husband here? Is anybody here? And if she says no, I'll just say, well that's fine. Well let me leave the literature. I'll try and witness to her there. And vice versa with the ladies. I don't think ladies ought to ever go into a home when it's just a man there. That's too dangerous, too risky And so, nevertheless, we want to witness the folks, men and women, regardless of their religion, regardless of their lifestyle, regardless of their race. Regardless of their nationality, they ought to be tender-hearted and sensitive to the unsaved. So number one, uh folks that are effective in witnessing, number one, they're saved Number two, they're sensitive, and I put sensitive to the plight of the unsaved, but I put this one under that also. They're sensitive to the prompting of the Holy Spirit. Think about this with me for a minute. How many folks here are saved and you know it? Say amen. That means inside of your body and my body, right now, inside our body. Is the Holy Spirit of God, God Almighty, that created this whole thing, just spoke it, and the person of the Holy Spirit is inside our bodies. Let me ask you a question: Does God want people to be saved? Yes. How badly does he want people to be saved? A little bit, or really, really, really wants them to be saved? He wants to be saved so badly he was willing to crucify his own son So that people could be saved. That's pretty intense. That Holy Spirit inside me wants those people that I'm around to be saved. You follow you follow what I'm trying to say here? And what that Holy Spirit will do, He will prompt us, He will stir our hearts, He will prompt us to speak to people And I know I've said this a lot, and I know a bunch of you will know exactly what I'm talking about. You're in a situation, in a circumstance, and something down inside your heart and soul Prompts you and says, I need to speak to that person. I need to give a tract to that person. I need to invite that person out. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Something down inside says that person there. You know what that is? That's the Holy Spirit of God Prompting us to witness. Now, I'm guilty of this more often than I care to admit, where that prompting was there, and I immediately come up with all kinds of excuses. And reasons why I can't and and don't. And I'm afraid there's been more often than I'd like to admit, times where I grieved the Holy Spirit of God, where I did not I was not sensitive to that prompting And I went off and did not follow it and obey it, and that's to my shame. I remember we were in Indianapolis one time, we're going up Shelby Street, went north and south. That whole city's laid out and grid like. It's a neat city, very easy to find places. I'm going north on Shelby Street and pretty rough part of town and I don't remember what day it was, the weekday or something, but I'm driving up there making some visits. I'm going along and of course it's a city, there's people everywhere, and this guy walking on the sidewalk Uh just walking up the sidewalk, I just glanced over and all Marine was just driving by. There's other people walking around, just glanced over, and something in my heart and soul said, stop and talk to that guy Now that's kind of odd, right? You know, I'm just going along. It's like, and so I just ignored it and drove. And man, that just got heavy on me and heavy on me. I went about three or four blocks and I could not get that off my chest. I need to stop and go back and talk to that guy. And I'm like, God, please, I got a schedule, you know? And I started arguing with God. You know what I found out? Every time you argue with God, you lose. He always wins. And so I drove around. I figured, oh, he won't be there. He's probably drunk. It's probably a crackhead. It's I don't know. It's not gonna this is dumb And all this stuff. And so we come back, lo and behold, he's still walking there. Uh there won't be a parking spot. There's a parking spot right there. Oh, he won't talk to me. I'll pull over and said, hey, I saw you walking down the road here. I just want to leave a little gospel track with you, invite you to church. And oh thanks, man. He says, I just got out of, I think he said, I just got out of jail. And uh, you know, I'm trying to get things straightened out and I was looking for a church, and uh I said, really? Now I the guy didn't trust Christ, but I talked to him for about an hour Talked to him about the Lord and shared the gospel with him. I think if I remember right, I ended up giving them a ride somewhere, somewhere, uh, somewhere, somewhere, somewhere. And um Went on my way, and when I left, you know what I you know what I said to myself? I'm glad I stopped. That was a good visit. I don't know what the fruit ever it was, I don't know what it was, but I'm convinced to this day, 26 years later, that God wanted me to talk to that guy at that time for whatever reason I'd like to think he eventually got saved. So what I'm trying to say is I'm not trying to promote myself that I'm some great spiritual giant. I'm not, because I have in many just as many stories where I failed in that matter But what I am saying is this: if we're going to be effective in our witness, we need to be sensitive when the Holy Spirit stirs us to speak a word and invite somebody and talk to someone and engage them And it may take various forms. It might be bring them over to lunch or invite them to a couple's banquet or whatever it may be. But when God stirs our heart to engage someone with the gospel I need to be sensitive to that and trust the Lord and let Him do that. By faith, I need to view every interaction as a divine appointment. I view this whenever I get up to preach. I like it when I know there's lost people in the congregation. I like that. And I like to view it. It's not just a coincidence. They're sitting in that service at that time with that message. And that is God working. That is a divine appointment. And when we meet people and engage people and interact with people, it's not just a coincidence. Those are divine appointments, so I need to be sensitive to the plight of the unsaved and the prompting of the Holy Spirit. Number three, put this one down. Effective soul winners are sacrificial. Sacrificial. Convenience Christianity is very ineffective at reaching other people for Christ. If all my witnessing is what's convenient, if all my witnessing is simply that which isn't going to cost me any time Isn't gonna cost me any effort, isn't gonna cost me uh any finances, I don't have to change my schedule, I don't have to do anything And maybe somehow, some way I'll come across someone and I'll be able to share the gospel with them and they'll get saved. That is a very ineffective way of reaching people for Christ. Think about our missions program if the only people that went on the mission field were were the ones that would go if it was convenient. How many missionaries would we have? How many churches would be started if it was just did it if it was convenient? I can guarantee you one thing, there would be no church in Petersburg, West Virginia If it was just convenient. Because that was not convenient. That was a lot of work. That was a lot of sacrifice. That was a deliberate effort to start a church there. There'd be no church up in, where's Mike Clark at? Cannonsburg, somewhere up there, outside of Pittsburgh. There'd be no church there if Mike would have just done it out of convenience. Convenience Christianity is very ineffective at reaching other people with the gospel. And if I'm going to be effective and seeing people saved, snatched out of the fire, saved from going to hell, I've got to be willing to make a sacrifice. Acts chapter 5. Did you notice it there? They made a phenomenal statement. Come back here real quickly and notice this with me. Acts chapter 5 and look at verse 41. This every time I read this, it challenges me. Now they're back, they're under intense persecution. This is, there's no convenience Christianity in the book of Acts whatsoever at all. This is sacrificial, this is commitment, this is time, effort, some cases life. And look what they say in verse 41 of Acts 5. They departed from the presence of the council. They just beat them up and threatened them. Look at this. Rejoicing that they were counted worthy to what? Suffer shame for his name. Now, you know what we do? Oh, I got recognized in the service. Oh, walk out and when rejoicing that I was counted worthy to be honored and recognized. That's the way we look at it. That's not the way they looked at it They're now witnessing it. Man, what a privilege to stand for Christ even in the midst of opposition. God counted me worthy. And make this sacrifice. I had the privilege of making this sacrifice. What an attitude. And I've found that people that are effectively winning people to Christ are willing to sacrifice Sacrifice some time. Uh sacrifice some pleasure. How many people now I'm sure your schedule is as busy as mine or anyone else's and mine's the same. We're all in the same boat How many people would we win to Christ if we only witnessed to him when we had time? How many people would be saved if we only came to Christ because somebody had time? And it wouldn't be a whole lot. So effective soul winners are willing to sacrifice time and and put up the w put aside some pleasure and some put invest some effort and sometimes money into winning lost field. I thought of this when I was putting this together. I knew of a church where they ran like seven or eight buses in Indianapolis on the east side. Every one of those bus drivers had to fill the gas with their own money. Church didn't provide the money. If you want a bus route, you want that ministry, part of your responsibility is to keep the buses filled. And out of their own pocket. They'd go visit Saturdays, they'd go to the gas station. put the gas in the bus, paid it out of their dollars, out of their wallet, and ran the buses and reached people. Wow, you know what that tells me? Those folks care about souls They're willing to invest time and effort and finances into it. Now I'm not suggesting we need to do that, but what I am suggesting that if we're waiting, if we're going to wait until we're comfortable, if we're going to wait until everything is just easy and convenient, it ain't going to happen. And by the way, if you're waiting until I'm no longer nervous to witness, then I'll start witnessing. You ain't never going to witness the nobody, trust me. Been doing it a long time. Ed and I joke about this a lot. Every Thursday night. It's like, ugh, here we go. You know? And uh it's there. It's the flesh, it's the world, whatever. So if I'm waiting until I'm not anxious, I'm not stressed a little bit about it, I'll wait until it's just easy to do, and it's just oh law. Uh it ain't gonna happen. All right, number Or I gotta hurry up. Number four, their studious effective soul winners are always wanting to improve. They're always trying to figure out a way to understand the gospel a little bit clearer. They're reading gospel sermons, they're listening to gospel messages, they're reading books about the gospel. And wanting to understand more about the gospel. I like the old song that they play it for Oliver B. Green a lot. I love to tell the story And that one phrase, it seems that those who know it best are hungering and thirsting to what? Hear it just like the rest. And so I found that folks that are very effective in soul winning and winning others of Christ are always trying to understand the gospel a little clearer Always trying to learn how can I communicate the gospel a little bit clearer to others. Now I'm not suggesting we try and water it down. We don't ever water it down. There are no shortcuts to salvation But what I want to be able to do is to be able to present it in a very clear fashion that people can understand. And I want to grasp it with their own mind. The Bible says the angels are looking into the gospel. Try and understand it. And so they're studious. Number five, I put this down there, steadfast. Effective soul winners are steadfast. Be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know your labor is what? Not in vain in the Lord. It's effective. And so studious, I mean steadfast, just staying at it and staying at it and staying at it. I put a little list here. They're steadfast in their fellowship with the Lord. I found that folks are effective in soul winning. Have a close walk with God. They faithfully walk with God, not on and off, they're living for God, then they're out in the world, then they're living for God, then they're in the world, then they they're right with God, then they're backslid and then they're right with cut. Uh that I found those folks aren't very effective soul winners. But those who are faithful in their walk with the Lord, their fellowship with the Lord, they're reading their Bible, they're praying, they're keeping the garbage out, and they're walking with God. I put faithful uh steadfast in their faithfulness to church I found that folks that miss church 90% of the time generally are not very good soul winners. Generally are not very effective in bringing other people to Christ. And then they're steadfast in their focus on the lost. They just keep going after it. They just keep going after it. It's not, you know, go out a little bit, I'll make a few effort, then it gets old and quit, and then oh yeah, we'll go again, then it gets old and quit. I found the folks that are most effective are just at it, at it, at it, at it. Number six, they're separated from the world. I like the passage in the Sermon on the Mount we studied it probably about a year ago now, but in Matthew chapter 5, verse 13 and 14 He says, you're the salt of the earth, and you're the light of the world. And one thing, if you remember, we pointed out, if salt loses its savor, It's no longer what? It's no longer effective. He casts it out. And that savor is its uniqueness. The fact that it is something distinct from what it's going on. What I'm trying to say is this, nobody sells egg-flavored salt. Salt is fundamentally different from that which is being applied to. Light, you're the light of the world. The more the light becomes like darkness, the less helpful it is. Uh you know, at dusk. You guys go hunting, you know, at dusk is when the animals start putting and that start coming out, getting active, and that light starts fading. And you start every stump looks like a deer Why? Because the light is losing its distinctiveness and it's fading out. And so when more I become like the world The more worldly I am, the more that uh uh I'm like the the lost I'm trying to win. I think I lost power here, Dave. Maybe. And uh but anyway, uh the less effective I become And so I put they are separated from the world. Let me give you the last two, last three here real quick. They are serious about the gospel. It's not a game. The New Testament, they gave their lives to win the lost. It's more than just singing songs about winning the lost. It's more than just preaching sermons about winning the lost. It's more than just Writing poems about winning the lost. It's going out and winning the lost. I found that every person that wins someone to Christ actually went out somehow, one way or another, and shared the gospel with them I've never wanted anybody to Christ that I didn't actually share the gospel with them. So at some point I've got to get serious about it and say, all right, I'm actually going to do this. Number eight, I put this down. They're smart with the gospel. And by that I mean they have a little bit of tact. I got a phone call today called the church, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. This was the immediate, this is as soon as I made that statement, this is what happened blaring loud. Stop what you're doing and listen to this great deal. It's like, ah guess what I did? Like I kept right on doing what I was doing. And I told my wife, I said, who in the world thinks that that is going to get me to want to buy whatever it is they're selling? That is not very tactful Right? And so effective soul winners are very tactful. You don't knock on the door. You're going to hell unless you get saved. You're not going to win many people of the Lord that way You gotta be smart. Everybody with me? Everybody follow what I'm saying? You gotta be a little smart. There has to be some tact. There has to be some timing. Uh uh techniques. Acts 14. 1 says, they so spake that many believed on the Lord. They did it in such a way that it was effective. And then last of all, number nine, I put this up. They're stirred up about the gospel. They're stirred up about the gospel. They're stirred up. It fires them up. The idea of getting somebody saved, reaching people, stirs them up, fires them up. Came across this A little boy named Bud Walker, true story. As far as I can tell, it's a true story. He was a deaf boy. Just a boy. He was deaf. Could not talk, could not hear. He did not come from a Christian family. He did not know sign language, and somehow he ended up, somebody brought him to church, and he started coming to church. The church did not have a deaf ministry So here's a little boy, deaf, dumb, does not know sign language. Nobody around him knows sign language. But they would bring him to church. Bud Walker. Somehow, people, through gestures and drawing little pictures, were able to communicate to him the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And they do this on an ongoing basis. I didn't know if he was getting it, comprehending or not, and they would try the best they could to communicate to him that Jesus loved them, died for sins, buried, rose again They need to call on the Lord and trust them as a Savior. Lo and behold, one Sunday morning when the preacher's done preaching and gives the invitation, little Bud Walker gets out and comes down the aisle. And he kneels at the altar and he's praying and they're trying to communicate with him and he starts doing this What's he saying? He says, he said telling them, I called on the Lord and asked him to come into my heart and be my Savior. I didn't know if he really understood that or not, and they tried to encourage him and tried to show him things. And in the coming weeks, little Bud Walker started doing this. He'd be in the service And if somebody was there during the invitation time, he's looking around. And if he saw somebody that looked like they weren't saved or a visitor or somebody came in, during the invitation, he would go over to them. He'd tap on them Take them and bring them down the option. And that little boy, that little step into the document and that little step. I want to do um yes. How do we have And they said at the end of the thing, it says uh during the invitation, Bud Walker, who could not talk, could walk up to some person in the congregation. And put his arms around them, and he'd press them for a bit. He'd point his hand towards heaven. Then he'd point to his heart. He'd point to their heart. He'd point towards the aisle. They'd go down the aisle and trust Christ as Savior. Listen, if a little deaf boy that can't talk, doesn't know sign language, can do that, what can you and I do? We can talk to people, we can engage people, we can explain to people. Tell you I read that and I thought, man, here I am. I don't want to change it. I'm challenged by this. I want to be somebody that can And that's you're doing other people. Lord, you've done a great thing when you saved our souls, an amazing thing, gave us eternal life. Now, Lord, you've instructed us to go and share that same message with others. I pray you'd help me, Lord, to be the soul winner I ought to be. Help me to engage people and share the gospel and point them to Christ. Pray it'd be something more I just preach about, something more we just sing about and talk about. Lord, it would be real in our life. We'd be active at this. So please bless and help us, we pray. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, we don't have a piano tonight. Maybe some to say, preacher, you know, I really need some of these characteristics in my life. Maybe there's one that stood out that God especially impressed on your heart. How many tonight would say, preacher, pray with me, and we're praying together. I could have these characteristics, as this would be true in my life, that I could be that witness. And I could see others maybe this coming year come to Christ. Any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. That's my heart and soul. Of course. I just can't imagine a Christian not wanting that. So let's just pray as I pray you make that little that little pew altar there, and let's ask the Lord to use us to stir us and give us this boldness and help us. Father, we bow our hearts before you. We make our pews an altar, and we ask that you would stir us in challenges like those New Testament believers, that we would be faithful and bold and earnest. And filled with your spirit as we endeavor to share the gospel with lost around us. And so help us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.