If you would, Ecclesiastes chapter 11, I'd like for to notice two verses to get us started this morning. Verse number one and verse number six. Ecclesiastes chapter eleven. I'd like for us to read these two verses together in unison with me if you would. Verse number one, chapter eleven, Ecclesiastes all together. Here we go. Ready? Cast thy bread upon the waters, for thou shalt find it after many days. Now come over to verse 6. And let's read verse 6 together. Ready? Here we go. In the morning, sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not thine hand. For thou knowest not whether shall prosper, either this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good. I want to preach this morning on casting your bread and sowing your seeds. Casting your bread and sowing your seeds. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven. Sure is good to be in the house of God on this first day of April, first Sunday of April. We ask now that you would bless our time together. We pray, as we have our Bibles open before us, Lord, we ask that you would speak to us from your word. That you would challenge us wherever we're at spiritually, whatever our spiritual condition is, that you would speak to our hearts, teach us something of yourself and your will for our lives. And help us by faith receive that. Help us to agree with you, Lord. And then step out and live for you and serve you as you instruct us to. Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew now in this moment, this hour. I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit, and dear Lord, that you would speak through me, through my lips to each of our hearts and our lives as you know we have need. So have your way now. Teach us. Help us. In Jesus' name we pray Amen. It's a Sunday school teacher teaching her class on verse number one of Ecclesiastes chapter 11, and it says, Cast thy bread upon many waters. And she asked the class. Says, what do you think happens when you cast your uh bread on many waters? The little boy raised his hand without hesitation. He raised his hand. She goes, Yes, Johnny, he says you get soggy bread And um good answer. That is very true. And so I'm not talking about soggy bread this morning, but I want to say a few words about the book of Ecclesiastes. The Book of Ecclesiastes is a fascinating book of the Bible. It's a little difficult. Sometimes folks have a little difficult time understanding what Ecclesiastes is all about. If you read through it very carefully, if you pay attention to some of the statements that Solomon makes, now Solomon is the penman of the book, God's the author. And if you pay attention to some of the statements he makes, they seem to, on the surface, to contradict other teaching in other portions of Scripture. He makes some statements there that don't seem to fit in with other things we're taught in Scripture. The book of Ecclesiastes is actually a sermon that Solomon preached in tru in Jerusalem to the people of Israel. Of course, he was king of Israel, the son of David, very uh uh very uh wealthy, very successful king. God endued Solomon with supernatural wisdom. He was without a doubt the wealthiest king that ever served as king of Israel And towards the end of his life, he called the nation of Israel together there into Jerusalem, and he positioned himself in such a way that the people could hear him, and he delivered this sermon And Ecclesiastes is Solomon. Now, this is inspired of God, and God has preserved it for us, but it is his account of the later years of his life After he had attempted to live life with the exclusion of God, he had gotten to the point where he had pushed the Lord out of his life. He had gotten to the point where he had convinced himself that he could live, he could function, he could live his life without God. That he had the answers, he had the resources, he had the solutions, he had the wisdom to live his life without God Now I don't know about you, but when somebody tries to live their life without God, you mark it down, it's a train wreck coming, and you heard the train just a moment ago. You see a good preacher can take in anything and work it in the message there, you know. He's trying to live life without God. If you'll notice, and we won't take time to to to point them all out, but there's a little phrase that uh he uses throughout the book of Ecclesiastes is the key to understanding what the book is about. And once we see that little phrase and we see the key to the book, then what opens up and we understand why he makes the statements he makes. Now we studied Ecclesiastes a couple years ago, and we emphasize this, so a lot of people are aware, but the little phrase is this, and it's used 29 times in the book of Ecclesiastes, and there's several other variations of it he throws in there, but this is the phrase, under the sun. Under the sun. Twenty-nine times he references to living life under the sun. You say, well, what does that mean? What he's saying is this. He got to the point in his life where he came to the conclusion that he didn't need God. All he needed, what was available under the sun Anything beyond what he could see? Anything beyond what he could touch? Anything beyond what he could feel or hear? Wasn't necessary. He was living for the flesh. He was living in the world. And he was living without God. And that's what the whole book is about, a man's attempt to live his life without God. Now, Solomon was a wise man. You know, I've found something over the years. I've learned something, Wilbur. I've learned that wise men can sometimes be awfully foolish. And great men sometimes can be awfully small. And Solomon got so wise, he became foolish. He leaned on his own understanding. He looked and interpreted this world not through from God's perspective, but from under the sun. See, I wonder how that worked out for him. I wonder how that panned out. Let's look at his conclusion. Come back to chapter 1 of Ecclesiastes. And I do want to point out a little statement he makes repeatedly, and this is his conclusion of trying to live a life without God. Trying to live a life and I don't need the Bible. And I don't need prayer. And I don't need God in my life. And I don't need to listen to what God says. I'll make my own decisions and I'll pursue my own will and I'll live my own life and I don't need God interfering with my plans Look what he says in chapter 1 and verse number 2. Vanity of vanities, saith the preacher. Vanity of vanities. All is vanity. I don't know about you, but that sounds pretty sad. He's saying it's empty. Word vanity means to have no substance. He said it's all been about me. It's all been me. But man has been empty. I don't know how many times over the years have had people who've tried to live their life without God, never paid any attention to the Bible, never considered what God had to say or never decid never followed God's instructions. They just did their thing, their way. I don't know how many times I've had people say this to me, Preacher, my life is empty. My life is empty, vain, vanity of vanities. And Solomon said, living under the sun without God, all is vanity Come with me if you would over to verse number 14 of chapter 1. He said, I've seen all the works that are done under the sun without the Lord And behold, look at this, all is vanity and vexation of spirit Vexation of spirit is just a biblical way of saying this. Total frustration. I've been beating my head against the wall. Everything is just I'm just frustrated. My life is empty and it my heart and soul is empty and And I'm just frustrated with everything in my life, with my home, with my children, with my finances, with my uh mentally and spiritually, emotionally, I'm frustrated Vexation of spirit. Try and live life without God, that's what you'll find. Now, I don't know about you, but I read something like that and I look at the world around me. And I see a description of the world that you and I are living in. Empty. Frustrated. I mentioned in sun, I think it was in Sunday school, or maybe it was last night. Might have been a year ago, I'm not sure. But it seems like everybody in this world is mad. Everybody's on edge. Everybody's angry. The slightest little thing sets them off. In our homes, in our streets, in our markets, in the office, in the churches. People frustrated and on edge and vexation of spirit. Depressed, discouraged. I'll tell you what it is. We live in a world that's trying to function without its creator. We're not designed to function without a Savior. We're not designed to function without the Lord. Every man, woman, and child has a God-shaped vacuum in their soul, and only the Lord can fill that. Solomon tried to live his life under the sun. I don't need God, I don't need the Bible, I don't need church. Look with me if you would at chapter 2 and verse number 11. He says, then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought, and on the labor that I had labored to do. This is without God. Look what he says, his conclusion. And behold, all was vanity and vexation of spirit, and there was no prophet under the sun. What an empty life. A life without God. A life without salvation. A life without the presence of our Lord and Savior. If you would look at verse number 17. Therefore I hated life, because the work that is wrought under the sun is grievous unto me. For all is vanity and vexation of spirit. Verse 23. He says, For all his days are sorrows, his travail grief, yea, his heart is not at rest in the night. This is vanity. Look down the last part of verse 26. This also is vanity and vexation of spirit. And you go on through chapter 3 and verse 19 and chapter 4, verse number 4, and verse 5 and verse 8. Verse 16. It goes all through vanity and vexation of spirit. Vanity and vexation of spirit What I'm trying to say is this, you and I need the Lord Jesus Christ. We need Him in our own personal hearts and lives. We need Him in our homes. We need him in our church, our communities. Solomon's preaching to the nation of Israel, and he's coming to the end of his life. And to summarize his statement, he says, he's saying this, I've been such a fool. And such a fool. I've pushed God out of my life. And I sought to live for the world and for myself and for the temporal things, the material things. And it left me nothing but empty. And it left me frustrated. And it left me in sorrow. And I got to the point where I hated life. I hated life. I meet people, a lot of times they're younger, but not always. And they convince themselves that they don't need God. I can live I don't need the church. I get out and knock on doors, try to, pretty regularly, and uh if it's not 75 below zero, high winds and uh white out blizzard conditions, I try to get out and knock on doors. I meet people sometime and I'll talk to them, introduce them, say, hey, we'd love to have you come out, visit our church. Love to have you come. Oh, I'm not interested in that. So do you ever uh think about God or heaven in the Bible? Do you ever give thought to spiritual things? No, don't have time for that. Not interested. They've convinced themselves that I can live life and I can get through my life and I can function and I can be fulfilled and find purpose and meaning and have a have a happy life. Without God, I'll be my own God. I'll call my own shots. I'll make my own decisions. And they push God out of their life. They convince themselves that they don't need Jesus. They convince themselves they don't need to be saved. They convince themselves they don't need the Bible or they don't need the church. Now listen, maybe, maybe some folks can get through life without the Lord, but I'll tell you this, you'll not get through death and into heaven without the Lord Jesus. You may have convinced yourself you don't need him in your life, but I'm telling you right now, you need Jesus Christ when it comes time for death. By the way, we don't know when that time is. We don't know when that day is. So Solomon is approaching the end of his life. And the things that were so important to him earlier in his life. The things that he valued so highly. Finances. Solomon was unbelievably, he was fantastically wealthy. He had all the money a person could hope to have because of God's blessings. And he looked to that and he valued that higher than his relationship with his God. He says, tells the nation of Israel that uh uh that he had um uh the things that were so important to him, wealth. And the pleasures. And if we had time, we could, he discusses all of this in the book of Ecclesiastes. And he talks about how he pursued pleasures. And he makes a statement that's a little insightful and that's a little disturbing to me, that he said, I withheld no pleasures from myself. Speaking of fleshly pleasures, some have suggested that Solomon actually got to the point, he had pushed God out of his life, and actually got to the point where he was behaving in unspeakable ways. In seeking after pleasure. He said, I pursued all that. It was so important to me that I experienced pleasure, that I have wealth. He goes on, he says, that possessions possessed him, and he had to have more, and it had to be bigger. You know what that's called? It's called materialism. Where my possessions and the things I have and material things replace God in my life. And they become more important to me, more valuable to me than my standing with my creator. They become more important to me than my eternal destiny. Solomon says, I pursued all these, they were so important to me that Things that I valued so highly, my possessions and pleasures and finances. And he says, now I've gotten to the point and I realize That those things were actually a hindrance to the most important things in life and my standing with God. I heard Lester Rowff say, it's been several months ago and it's stuck in my mind. I heard him on the radio. He said this, he says, he said, I feel bad for some people that are so poor. That all they have is money. Think about that. Solomon got to the point where he was so poor. That all we had was finances and stuff and pleasures. And he says I came to the point where I realized that these things are actually a hindrance. To the most important things in life, and having a relationship with my God, and having peace in my heart, and having a clean, clear conscience And having a reason to live and a hope for eternity, they were a hindrance. America's in a mess. You know what I think a big problem is? Our prosperity has become more important to us than our spiritual well-being. And that's crept into the churches. And big budgets and fancy buildings. And the best of this and the fanciest of that. And we miss out on the blessings and the presence and the power of God upon our ministries and our lives. Solomon, it's amazing how foolish a wise man can become. Now we come to chapter 11. He's winding down his sermon. He's coming to some conclusions. And by the way, he starts off giving his testimony, so to speak, his story of his uh endeavor to live life under the sun without God. And as he brings it to a head at the end of the sermon, at the end of the book of Ecclesiastes He makes some right conclusions. He gets his feet back on the ground and he gets his eyes back on the Lord and he gets his values straightened out. And he's concluding some things, and in chapter 11, he gives some advice, things he's learned. through this experience. Now I don't want we're not going to look at all these, but I just want to give you a list of these because I think they're interesting. Verse number one through three, he says, listen, learn to be generous. Learn to be generous. I tell you, you know what I found? I found generous people, generally speaking, are happier than selfish people. Generous. Learn to be generous. Verse number four, and again we're not going to look at all these, but verse number four, he says this: ignore circumstances. In other words, don't allow circumstances to keep you from doing what God has instructed us to do Many obstacles, but there's many opportunities. Ignore circumstances. Verse 5 through 6, he says, operate by faith. He says, Thou knowest not. You go out and sow your seed. You go out and do what should be done. And then you trust God because you don't know what God's going to do. You just trust Him. Verse number six, he says, you keep on sowing. Just keep on giving and keep on sowing. And then verse 9 through 10, he reminds us that we are held accountable. We talked about this in Sunday school this morning a little bit. The fact of the matter is, mankind will be held accountable someday to our Creator. Mankind will give an answer for his actions and his behavior and his decisions. And there is judgment coming to this whole world. And we should never, ever, ever forget that. There is judgment coming. Now what I want to do this morning in the little bit of time we have left is I'd like for us to look at verse number one and verse number six. We're kicking off track month this morning, and with that in mind, there's a few thoughts that I want to bring, I want us to consider from verse 1 and verse number 6. Three principles That apply to what we're trying to do this month. We live in a world that is living life under the sun. We live a world that is, their lives are empty. They're frustrated. They're living in sorrow I read an article the other day. I don't know how reliable these articles are. I'm telling you, I got to the point where I don't trust any media at all. Zero. If it ain't Bible, I'm questioning it. That's where I'm at, sorry. But I did read an article the other day, and they said that suicide is one of the highest rates of death in our country now. You know what that tells me? We've got a lot of people that are living under the sun. They've pushed God out of their life. They've lost any purpose or meaning. Vanity of vanity, vexation of spirit. And you and I, how many folks am I talking to? Say do you know it? Say amen. Now, if that's the case, you and I have something that this world desperately needs. That's the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's assurance of sins forgiven, eternal life, home in heaven. And with that in mind, as we go into track month and we're going to share the gospel in printed form with as many people as we possibly can. I want to give you three thoughts to consider as we start this endeavor. Number one, there must be commitment. There must be commitment. Look with me if you would at verse 1, chapter 11, Ecclesiastes. Cast thy bread upon the waters. Look with me at verse number six. In the morning, sow thy seed. Now I don't know how you see those two statements there, but I see them as a commitment as being made. This fellow in verse number one has bread. And Solomon says, cast it on the waters. Now, there's a big debate about what exactly he means by casting your bread upon the waters. I would venture to say he didn't mean literally take a loaf of bread and throw it out in the river. Or in your swimming pool. We're not getting a bunch of bread and throw it in the baptistry this month. All we would get is what? Soggy bread. I almost named the message soggy bread this morning So I'm fairly confident he's not talking about literally throwing bread in the water. Now some have suggested that bread is made from grain. And that what Solomon was instructing was to take the seeds of grain and cast it into the river, and then when it floods, it washes up on shore, and those seeds take root, and you you know you're planting crops. May be what he was talking about. I came across one explanation, and this kind of connected with me. I have a sneaking suspicion this is what he was talking about. Bread was a very important part of their economy. It was a staple for their meals. It was something you couldn't do without. They needed to sustain themselves Very similar to coffee in our day and age. But bread was a major commodity. And a huge factor in their economy. And this is what I think he was saying. He says, take your bread and invest it They're shipping it off on the waters as ships. And he's sending it out. And one sick one fellow suggests, and I tend to agree with him, is he was saying, don't put all your bread in one boat. That boat sinks. You've lost your whole investment. But cast it on many waters, invest in a lot of different ways, out there, get it all out. Now whatever he meant by that, whatever his literal Uh interpretation of that may or may not be, I you know, I I I don't know. But this I do know. He's talking about making commitment with what you have. Their seed lives in the this was an agricultural society, their seed was very, very valuable, very important And he says, cast your seed. Make a commitment with that which you have which is very valuable, very important. You make a commitment to cast that seed. You make a commitment to invest that bread on the waters. A commitment. Commitment. The Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ made the greatest commitment that could possibly be made. When in the Garden of Gethsemane before God on his knees, he said, Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me, talking about his coming crucifixion. Where he would take the judgment of the world upon himself. He said, Lord, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. And he made a commitment and thanked God for the commitment Jesus made. He said, nevertheless. Not my will, but thy will be done. When Jesus made that commitment, God, I'll put my will aside, I'll do your will. Humanly speaking. That's when our salvation was secured. When he said, not my will, thy will be done, I'm telling you, is done. He went and gave himself on the cross. Listen, there's not one person would ever be accepted into the presence of God. Were it not for the commitment of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ to give his life on that cross, be buried and rise again. What I'm trying to say is this, commitment is vitally important in Christian life and Christian service. Jesus Christ set the precedent. Jesus Christ gave himself, committed himself to do what needed to be done So that you and I could find forgiveness and eternal life. He says, cast thy bread on the water and sow thy seed. That's a commitment of that which is valuable, giving it, committing it. Jesus Christ made the greatest commitment so that you and I can be saved. It is the commitment of God's people. Get this. It is the commitment of God's people that will take the gospel to the unsaved world. God uses ordinary people who commit themselves fully To follow his instructions and carry out the Great Commission. That's who God used. You say, preacher, you know, I'm not that gifted. God's not looking for gifted people, he's looking for committed people. The preacher, I'm not that I'm not educated, I'm not, I don't have that high of an IQ. Well brother, I'll uh you join me. I'm with you there on that one. But God's not looking for highly educated people. God's looking for people who commit themselves to follow his instructions and trust him and give out the word of God. I thank God for our missionaries. I thank God for our missionaries. Young men and women hear the call of God and then commit themselves. Pack that family up, raise up support, and get uh and do what needs to be done and go where God has called them to go. I'm telling you, commitment is vital in the Christian life and in Christian service. Commitment. I believe most Christians fail in Christian service not because of a lack of desire, but because of a lack of commitment. Oh their hearts stir. We'll hear a preacher or we'll read a passage in our devotions We'll hear or listen to Radio 887 and some preacher on there will say or a song will be sung and boy our hearts are stirred and boy I'd like to serve God and I'd like to be a witness and boy that'd be something to do that And the desire is stirred in the heart, but the breakdown is where there's no commitment with the will. To do what God has stirred the heart. You follow what I'm saying? Commitment. Cast thy bread upon the water. Make that decision. Commit it. Sow thy seed. Make that decision. Commit it. Commitment, commitment, commitment. If we had time, 2 Corinthians 8, verse 1 through 5, we don't have time to go there. But Paul in that passage is commending the Macedonian churches. There's a number of churches that were established there in this region of Macedonia. And he's commending them because they had given so generously. They were poverty-stricken churches. I mean poverty. But they had given so generously so that Paul and others could go take the gospel to other parts of the region there. And he's writing and he's commending these churches for being so committed. To getting the gospel to people who were lost. And he makes this statement in verse 5. And I'll just read it for you. He says this. He says, They gave out of their poverty, they gave so generously, then he makes this statement. But they first gave themselves. God instructs us where to give financially, amen. Our tithe, faith promise, we're given a building fund, others. And we give financially, but I'll tell you what God's looking for. He wants to get beyond our wallet and get to our heart. Anybody can throw a bunch of money in a offering plate. And by the way, I'm glad when you do that, honestly, but anybody can do that. But we're really not going to make a difference until we commit ourselves to the Lord and the Lord Jesus Christ. They first gave themselves. You heard the story of the old boy. They were having missions conference. And they were passing the offering plates around, taking up faith promise, and passing the offering plates around. You've probably heard this, I'm sure. One old boy, the plate came by him. He took that plate and laid it out in the aisle. The usher said, What are you doing? What are you doing? And he stepped out and he stepped inside the plate. He said, I want to first give myself. You know what that is? That's commitment. That's commitment. I would have stepped in it, but I'd have squished it. So he says, Cast thy bread upon the water, sow thy seeds. There's a level of commitment. Commitment. I believe the greater we fall in love with the Lord Jesus, the more committed we'll be to him. In Revelation chapter 3, Jesus is rebuking the church there. And he says, you're not hot and you're not cold. But you're lukewarm. And he said, I wish. Jesus is saying this to the church, I wish. I would that thou were either hot, get on fire, do something, or you were cold. He says, but because you're lukewarm, because you're uncommitted I'll spew thee out of my mouth. God's looking for commitment. Commitment Sow thy seed, cast thy bread. Subject of commitment runs all through the Bible. All through the Bible. Having an influence begins with making commitments. How many people here would like to see the gospel of Jesus Christ impact our community? You think we could use some changes? Do you think we could, wouldn't it be something if we had such a sweeping revival, the power of the gospel on such a mighty way through our community, that bars shut down? How about that? Stores quit selling liquor. Drug addicts get saved, turn around, become soul winners. Wouldn't that be something? People living loose, living in sin, fornication, getting things right and making commitment in marriage and their commitment to one. Wouldn't that be something? It only begins. It won't begin until God's people commit ourselves to get the word out and to reach others for Christ. Number one, commitment. Number two, real quickly, I'd like for you to consider this. There must be commitment. Number two, there must be faith. There must be faith. Again, look with me if you would at verse number one. Cast thy bread upon the waters, for thou shalt find it after many days. Chapter verse 6. In the morning, sow thy seed. In the evening withhold not thy hand. That's commitment. But then he says, For thou knowest not, whither shall prosper. You know what he's saying? We do our part, we commit ourselves, we get out, we get doing what God says to do, and then we trust God that he's going to use us. It's faith. Thou shalt find it. Thou knowest not. Every successful child of God has learned to have faith in God. Every successful ministry. Any church, any ministry, you name it, a bus route, a Sunday school class, a children's church, a uh a radio program If it's going to be successful, if it's going to have an impact, if it's going to make a change in people's lives, if there's going to be people saved. That ministry must learn to have faith in God, that He does the saving. He does the work. We're just the channel through which He uses us. It's called faith in God. So, oh preacher, I'm not much. I don't think I could do much for God. I'm here to tell you, God's not looking for much. He's looking for commitment and he's looking for faith He says, you commit yourself and then you trust me, and I'll use you. And I'll use you. 2 Corinthians 5. 7 says, we walk by faith, not by sight. Say, well I I had a lady one time uh visiting, she'd come out, dear lady, uh most of you all know her, but she said this to me privately one time. She said, uh preacher, I will go out visiting And I'm not seeing anybody saved. I'm giving out tracts. I just don't see the results. She says, I'm discouraged. And I said, don't you think that way. You keep giving out those tracks, you keep witnessing, and you leave the results to God. You trust him that he's using you. It's faith. It's faith, commitment, and faith. Faith believes the promises of God. He that showeth in tears shall reap in joy. He that goeth forth weeping shall bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. He says, you trust me You witness to that one. You share the gospel with that one. Last night I don't I think I might have shared it at Sunday school. But last night preached that wild game there. I had a fellow come up to me after I was just got my stuff together, I was just leaving. He came up, he said, Brother Lesman, I just want to tell you something. He said, I had two friends here tonight. He said, they are as hard-hearted as anybody you'll ever know. They don't want nothing to do with God. They don't want nothing to do with the Bible. They don't want nothing to do with Jesus. He said, I've been trying to get them saved for years. He said, but they came tonight to a wild game dinner. He says, while we're preaching, did I say I said this during Sunday school, didn't I? I didn't say it during this hour, did I? Okay. I need y'all to help me here. What sermon am I preaching? I don't know. He said, Dorney, you gave that invitation. He said, I was and he but he's telling me he's weeping. He says, um preacher, during that invitation, I was praying that at least a seed would be sown in their hearts. At least a seed. They would think about it maybe. And he said, I peeked my eyes open during the invitation. And he said both of them had their hands up that they had prayed and called on the Lord to be their Savior. And he was crying. And he said, God saved my friends. You know what that is? That's sowing by faith. He didn't know. He invited them to wild game dinner. He hoped they would maybe just get a seed. But he was trusting God and God saved their soul. Isn't that something? Commitment. Faith. We have a missionary with support down in Brazil, Sean Lundy, we support his son now also said. Sean Lundy was a teenage boy out in Oklahoma City. And he went into a Walmart or somewhere, some market. He went in there and he came out, and somebody stuck a gospel track on the windshield of his car. He pulled it off and said, What in the world is this? He looked at it and stuck it in his back pocket, went home, then today cleaned his pockets out and laid it on his dresser and forgot about it. Some time went by, he got it out and got looking at that, and he read that gospel tract. God convicted his heart and he bowed his head and prayed the prayer that had to trust Christ on that gospel tract. Had the church name on there and so he thought you needed to bring this ticket to church there to go to church. Like, you know, you're going to So he went to the church there and um uh he came to the ushers in the back and says, Here's my ticket That's not a ticket. He came in, preacher preached, gave the invitation, he went forward and says, I prayed this prayer, I trusted Christ. Got baptized, got involved. They had a Bible college there. Went to the college. God called him to go to be a missionary to go to Brazil. He's been down there nearly 30 years now. Starting churches all over Brazil, radio programs. Thousands and thousands of people come to Christ. All because someone made a commitment. To give out some gospel tracts. They trusted God with the fruit. Now here's the thing about this story. This is what gets me. That fella that put that track on that windshield to this day has no idea how God used that gospel track. John told me, he says, I don't know who the fellow was. I have no idea. There's no way in the world he would know that that was me. Somebody just got stirred up. About sharing the message of the gospel in track form and went to a Walmart and stuck it on all the cars And God saved the young man, sent him down to Brazil, leading thousands and thousands to Christ starting churches. You know what our job is to do, commit ourselves to share the gospel, and then trust God. For the results. My wife, when I was traveling in evangelism years ago, before we were married, and uh was in youth evangelism, she would send me letters every week. And um the she'd put perfume on 'em, I'd get bacon, cheeseburgers It was great. And I got one letter from her, I never forget it. I don't remember what the other everything else she wrote in it. She would write stuff like, You are so intelligent You're so good looking. And um but the one letter at the end she put this. She said, Don't believe in miracles. Depend on them. I tell you, that challenged me. I want to serve God. I believe in miracles, but I tell you, we're giving those tracks out We're sharing the gospel with people. We need to start depending that God is going to do amazing things in lives, whether we know about it or not. Amen. Let me give you my last thought real quick and I quit. Number one, there must be commitment. Sow thy seed, cast thy bread, that's commitment. Thou knowest not. It'll come again. But then look at verse 1. Look what he says there at the end of the verse. Cast thy bread upon the waters, for thou shalt find it. There's faith. And look what he says: after many days. Huh. That's interesting. After many days, you know what the third command thought I want to leave with us is patience. Patience. After many days. You know what? We live in we ha we we want a microwave Christianity, don't we? I want to pray and I want to answer before I say amen. I want to give a track and I want to see them saved right away. I want it here, now, instant, boom. Here, I've learned something early on in my Christian life, and it's stuck with me all these years. God almost never works on my schedule. I never had God contact me and say, what's your schedule like? Let's see what we can do. You know what I learned? I learned I gotta wait on God. I learned that I gotta be patient if I'm gonna be the Christian God wants me to be. And that's true in ministry. Bella said, patience is a patience is bitter, but its fruit is awfully sweet A lot of ministries fail because of lack of patience. A lot of soul-winning efforts fail because of lack of patience. We just need to get we just need to get at it and then stay at it. Tell you one I had a preacher up in New York called me, this is years ago. He called me up and said, Preacher, I'm about to quit. He said, I heard you preach in Erie And um he said, I'm about to quit. And he said, um, he listed all these things going on. He says, What do you think I should do? Now, if you know me, you know what I didn't tell him. I didn't tell him, well, well yay, might as well go ahead and quit. That's what he wanted to hear, I think. He wanted wanted me to put a stamp of approval on him quitting. He said, What do you think I should do, Brother Leatherman? I said, I'll tell you what I think you should do. I think you ought to stay the course I said, I think you ought to get up next Sunday and preach your heart out. You've got to go out that week and knock on doors. You go love people, you go help them, and you just keep doing it and leave the results to God And just stay at it. It takes patience. Patience. Patience. Patience. Robert Maffitt. Anybody recognize the name Robert Maffitt? Brian, recognize that you will in a moment here. He was a missionary out of Scot uh out of Scotland down to South Amer uh South Africa And the account goes, he gives in his biography, he gives an account of where he had been down there for years and had won souls to Christ. And he came back home on what we would call a furlough, and he was reporting back to the churches, and I think in this case he was in London And South Africa, you know, is hot. Uh it there's their winters are our summers, and there's our summers are their winters And um he left there in the hot summer, South Africa. He came, got to England, and it was winter time. And he was scheduled to speak at a church and give a report on his work down in South Africa. The message that God laid on his heart, the text that God laid on his heart, was from Proverbs 8:4. It says this: Unto you, O man I call, my voice is to the sons of men. And he felt like God had laid on his heart to preach a message where men would answer the call to Africa. as missionaries. Well he got there and it was a Sunday a lot like last Sunday. Bitter cold, white out snowstorms. And he got to the church and there was a handful, get this, a handful of women. And his message is, I call to you, O men. And he thought, God messed up. God told me to challenge the men to give themselves a missionaries, and I got five ladies here. You know what he did? He preached the message God laid on his heart. And he just preached his heart out. Lo and behold. There had been a little boy that had snuck in the back of the church and they had big they had a balcony and he had snuck up and he was sitting behind a pew up in the balcony listening to him. The little boy got out of the weather. And God smoked that little boy's heart, unbeknownst to Robert Moffat. And he preached this challenge of men to give themselves to be missionaries to Africa Some time later that little boy found Robert Maffick and came up to him and said, God's called me to go to Africa. He said, What's your name? The little boy said, David Livingston. is my name. David Livingston was the greatest missionary pioneer in the history of the church, perhaps. And God used a message that Robert Moffat thought nobody even heard to call one of the greatest missionaries in the history of the church. Now listen, you and I need to give out gospel tracts, confident that God can and will use that to do great things that you and I may never know about. That you and I may never know about. Commitment, faith, patience. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to stir our hearts. And Lord, I pray that when you do stir our hearts, I pray you'd provoke us to make a commitment that, yes, Lord, I'll serve you. Yes, Lord, I'm going to be involved in this thing called the Great Commission. And Lord, I'll trust you to use even me. And then I'll put the results in your hands. I wonder, with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many this morning say, Preacher, my heart is stirred. I want to serve God. But you'll say, preacher, I'll do more than that. I'll commit myself to do what I can. I'll commit myself to put myself in the Lord's hands, not my will. But God's will be done with my life. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, commitment. Now you're not going to get a lot of churches preach and challenge people to commitment, but that's a Bible challenge. Commitment to serve God in whatever capacity. I don't know. That's between you and God. This case, we're talking about giving out tracts Maybe there's some here this morning say, preacher, I'm trying to serve the Lord. I really am. I've committed, I'm involved, I'm trying to do my best. But I've been leaning on my own abilities and I've been trusting on my own understanding, and I need to just take what I'm doing and put it in the Lord's hands and trust Him to do what I can't do. Is there any like that? I need to start serving by faith And just letting God do it. And get the eyes off myself and me and just put it in the Lord's hands. God bless you, hands all around. I wonder if there's some here who would join me in saying, preacher, I could use a good dose of patience. I just need to learn to wait on God. Let him, any like that? Uplifted hand. My hand's raised on that one. One last question. Maybe there's someone here you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven. You're on your way to heaven. I believe down inside your heart there's a desire to have that assurance. That God accepts me and I'm forgiven. We can have that through faith in Jesus Christ. Maybe you say, preacher, pray with me also. That God would help me settle that in my heart and life. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. And I need that settled in my heart and life. Any at all, by the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. Pray for me. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. Have your way in Jesus' name