Um most of us are very familiar with our faith pr Faith Promise card is in our bulletins. Of course last Sunday we had the grand finale to our annual missions conference and that sets our year uh Missions Up. It begins the third Sunday of May, goes through next year that same time. And uh based on the commitments of God's people towards missions is uh how we determine how many missionaries to take on, uh at what amounts we can support them. And so we just want to give opportunity, just this last week, just today, is the last time we'll say anything about it to our mid mid year emphasis. But if you're not involved in faith promise, what we do is simply this is we ask you to pray, ask God what He would have you to do. Not what I think you should or or the church or deacons or anything, but what does God want you to give weekly to uh missions and then write that on there, turn that in, and that will help us uh budget out our money, who who we're gonna send it to. how much we're gonna send. We would like to get all of our missionary, the individuals in particular, up to one hundred and twenty five dollars a month is what we want to. We're at a hundred dollars Now with the cost of uh living and the dollar overseas dropping, we'd like to s uh increase that. We started last week the two new missionaries we took on at one point. one twenty five. So pray about it and uh drop it in the offering plate there. You won't get a bill. That's between you and God. We do ask that you indicate on your check or the envelope when you put your giving what goes to mission so we can make Thank you so much. If you want to take your Bibles and turn with me back to First Samuel chapter three, and uh I think we might need a little more volume on the monitors up here, fellas. if we could a little more on the monitors. Alright, 1 Samuel chapter 3. And I'd like for us to read together. Verse number ten. There was a uh before we do it, there's a young boy went in a barbershop. I know you some of you'd be disappointed if I didn't do this. Uh the barber shop and the barber saw the boy come in and he whispered to his customers, he said uh that kid there he he ain't all there. So the barber pulls out a dollar bill in one hand and he puts two quarters in the other hand, calls the boy over, says, Which one of these do you want Son. The boy looks at it, takes the two quarters, and leaves the dollar. The barber said quietly, said, See, what did I tell you? That kid never learns. So later the customer's leaving, little boys out on the street corner at the ice cream thing there, and he says, Son, let me ask you a question, he goes, why did you take the quarter? instead of the dollar bill. The boy licked his ice cream cone and said, because the day I take the dollar, the game's over. And so People aren't as dumb as we think sometimes. First Samuel chapter three, I'd like for us to read together in unison verse ten, if you would. Read it together with me. And the Lord came and stood and called as at other times, Samuel, Samuel. Then Samuel answered, Speak, for thy servant heareth. I want to use that last phrase of the title of our message. Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would uh speak our hearts now in this air, in this uh hour. Lord, uh my prayer, and I trust is the prayer of all of us assembled here is Samuel's prayer. Speak, Lord, for we hear. We want to hear what you I present my body anew to you this hour, Lord. I yield my will to your will. I ask you, Lord, with all my heart, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. That you would be the preacher. I would just be the channel. You'd speak through me. Use my hands, my mouth, my tongue, my body as a conduit for the Word of God to get to our hearts. Open our hearts and minds, I pray, in Jesus' name. I believe this portion of Scripture here, this whole section of 1 Samuel, the several chapters here, for various reasons, are some of my favorite passages in Scripture. Samuel in the Bible here is one of my favorite characters in Scripture. He is amazing. And in 1 Samuel chapter 3, what we just read, what Brother Tom read earlier, and we highlighted here, is really Samuel's call to the ministry. As a young man. What you notice in verse number one, the Bible says the child Samuel ministered unto the Lord before Eli. Now I think most of us are familiar with Samuel's story. His mother's name was Hannah. And she was childless, and each year her and her husband and his other wife, which is not recommended, uh would come to Jerusalem for the feast. They were faithful Jews. They loved Jehovah, and I believe they sought to live for the most part by the teachings of Moses and the revelation that had been given them up to that point. Hannah, as I said, was childless. The one year they came to Jerusalem and she goes to the temple and she begins to pray. And you remember the story. She was So broken in her heart that she could not have a child. She prayed in her heart, but her lips moved, and Eli, the high priest, seeing her moving her lips but not speaking out. immediately accuses her of being drunk. You remember the story. Now that tells me several things about Eli. One, it looks how many folks here ever prayed but didn't pray out loud? You just Prayed in your heart. Anybody here? That's not a strange thing. And it makes me wonder why would the high priest not understand what was taking place? Perhaps he himself was a strange to prayer. For whatever the case is, he misunderstood her and he assigned evil motives to Hannah Of course, she explains to him. She goes, uh I'm not drunken as uh you're accusing, but I'm a broken-hearted woman. I'm praying God for a child. And to make a long story short, she makes a vow that if God gives her a child, she will lend that child to the Lord for his entire life. Well, lo and behold, she is expecting. God answers her prayer. And she keeps her word, and as soon as the child is weaned, she brings the child to the temple and gives the child to Eli. And Eli raises that child there in the temple. Now we come to verse 1, and the child Samuel ministered unto the Lord before Eli. He's still a very young child. But look at that next statement. And the word of the Lord was precious in those days. There was no open vision What does it mean that the word of the Lord was precious in those days? I would like to think to all of us that God's word is precious every day. So what is God saying when he records here that the word of the Lord was precious in those days? Well, you need to understand the word precious. This word precious here has the idea of being very rare, not common. And because of its rarity, it was very, very valuable. Much like some of the precious metals that we have are very rare, and because of their rarity, they are very increased in value Well the word of God was precious. In other words, there was not much of God's word being shared in that day and age Very few revelations were being given by God. You understand? They did not have the complex Complete Bible at this point. They had the Pentateuch, the what they called the writings of Moses, the first five books of the Bible, Perhaps there may have been a few other books available at that time, but they were not copied like we have today. And God would speak through prophets through vi revelations and visions and that type of thing. And what he's saying here is, is that didn't happen very often God was not speaking to his people very much. And Because of that, when God did speak, boy, that was something precious. What did God say? What has He revealed to us? Now, here we are in 2009. God's word is not rare in our And in our world, am I correct? Uh how many people here are in you own a Bible. How many people here own a Bible? Somewhere in your possession you have a Bible. Alright. How many people here would say you have probably Two or three Bibles in your house somewhere. How many of you would say, preacher, I've probably got a dozen or more Bibles in my house. Anything like that? Uh some of us have many more than that. God's word is not rare, but I'm telling you, it is just as precious today as it has ever been And we ought to value God's word. We ought to get to the place where God's word is precious to us. And so The word of the Lord was precious in those days. There was no open vision. God was not, for whatever reason, God was not communicating. Now look down at verse number four. The Bible says verse 4 that the Lord called Samuel, and he answered, Here am I. I got thinking about that. Samuel's problem, and this is not the message, but Samuel's problem was not that God wasn't speaking to him. God was speaking to him. Let's read on here. It says, the Lord came to Samuel said, and he said, Here am I. And he ran to Eli and said, Here am I, for thou callest me. Let me ask you a question. Did God speak to Samuel? Yes or no? Yes. Problem wasn't God wasn't speaking to him. Question. Did Samuel hear God speaking to him? Yes or no? Sure. So here's the young child. God is speaking to him. That's not the problem. Samuel is hearing God speaking to him, so that's not the problem. But the problem is Samuel doesn't understand that it is God who is speaking to him Let me ask you a question. Does God speak to peoples today? Yes or no? Absolutely. God is speaking. I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but God is speaking to people today. He is speaking through his word. God is speaking through his creation. God is speaking to people. Let me ask you a question. Can people today hear God's word Absolutely. They can hear it on the radio. They can come to church. They can go on the internet. We got an email here, it's been a couple months ago. There's a family in Australia that listens to all of our messages. on uh on the internet down in Australia. He says we're on the same page. We have a kindred spirit. He says I believe what you guys believe and appreciate the spirit by which you are serving the Lord there. Can people hear God's word? Yes. Here's the problem. A lot of people don't see it as God's word. They don't understand. That's God speaking to them How many people saw that beautiful sunset last night? Anybody out said, man, that thing was beautiful. Red over the mountains, just a little some clouds, the rain kind of scattered in there. You know what that was? That was the heavens declaring the glory of God. That was God speaking to mankind, saying, I am your creator. I made this. I'm the one that designed this and created this for you to bring glory to me. God speaking. But you know what man says? Oh, it just happened by an accident. Um God speaks through his word, radio radio stations Preachers, soul winners out knocking on doors. You know what people often say? I'll share the gospel with them. They'll say something like this. Um just man just wrote that book. You know what that is? That's man going to Eli, saying, What do you want, Eli? And Eli finally had to tell him, no, it's not me. It's not evolution. It's not man's book. It's God trying to get a hold of you. It's God speaking to your heart. Listen, the breakdown in the spirit in religion, in the world, the breakdown of man spiritually is not because God doesn't speak to you. It's not because we are unable to comprehend what God is saying. It is because we will not understand what God is trying to say to us. That it's God who is speaking. So are you following what I'm saying? But look here in verse 4. What a privilege Samuel had. That God would speak to him. Eli is the high priest. But God doesn't come and approach Eli. Looks like he'd be the one that God would speak to. If he had instruction, if he had a revelation, he would go to the big genie, Eli. But he doesn't do that. Did you know that the temple had hundreds of priests and a priest Assistance. They would live around the outside of the temple. There was hundreds of them to carry out the sacrifices that would take place. Hundreds of priests. How many of those priests did God speak to? Zero. God didn't approach the priest. He didn't approach the high priest. But there was a small child living in the temple. A child given up by his mother and his parents to be raised in the temple by what they believed to be a man of God. And that child, God spoke to. A child, he was young. He was inexperienced. Now, listen, think with me. God speaks to this child. Six, seven years old, ten maybe? God speaks to this child. The child has little experience in life. Really, none to speak of. The child is uneducated, as far as you would consider an educated man to be. Some would say this child is insignificant. Just the child. What influence does he have in the temple, in the city of Jerusalem, in the nation of Israel? Insignificant. Uh now this is Dennis Leatherman speculating here, so you can take it or leave it. I would think that child perhaps would be very insecure. Now think about it, his mother gave him up. He has not the security of a loving father, a loving mother, and the security of a good home. He's living in a temple, being raised by a bunch of priests. I would imagine that would put some insecurities there. There would be perhaps there would be uh maybe he would be troubled, maybe lay in bed and say, I wonder where my mother is. I wonder what my father is doing. Yet God chooses that little child. You're here this morning. You may be thinking, preacher, I've not been a Christian very long. I'm young. Spirit. Say, preacher, I don't have a lot of experience in the Christian life in serving God. Um I'm not educated as far as you think of people with uh degrees in Bible study and all of that. In fact you may say, preacher, you know, in the grand scheme of things, I'm not very significant. I'm just another person. I'm just uh I'm just somebody sitting on a pew in a church. Perhaps because of your situation or your history, your background, you may feel uh insecure. You may find yourself second-guessing yourself in a lot of things, and you would say, How could God use me? What would God speak to me about? Why would God there's others out there that have much more experience There's others out there who are educated in the things of God. There's others out there that have great influence over thousands of people. What would God have to say to somebody like me? What would God call me to do? I come from a broken home. I come from a difficult background. I was saved out of drugs and drunkenness. What could God do for me? I'm nothing significant. I'd like you to keep your place here in 1 Samuel chapter 3, and if you would quickly turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 1. This to me is one of the most encouraging chap uh passages of scripture in the Bible I really like to determine there. I'd really like to put your have you put your attention. 1 Corinthians chapter 1. If you have a pen, I'd highly recommend you underscore these verses. Insignificant. Little or no experience. Perhaps uneducated. Not very influential Man, I got so much baggage from my past just to deal with uh the home situation. What could God do with me? How could God use me? Why would God speak to me or call me to do anything? Look with me if you would. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, and I'll begin reading in verse 26. 1 Corinthians 1 verse 26. For ye see your calling, brethren. Look at this. How that not many what? Wise men after the flesh. Not many mighty. Now that's talking about people who have great influence. Not many noble are called. Here's where it starts getting good. But God hath chosen the what? Foolish things. Ooh, I can qualify for that. That wasn't the best time to say amen for a bit. Foolish things, wow, uh, Lord, he Look at this. And God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. God hath chosen the what? Weak things of the world. Anybody qualify there? Do you ever feel weak? Ever feel like, man, I just I can't handle this. This is more than I can deal with. I'm weak. Maybe my personality, my sp spiritually, I feel weak. It's chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are Mighty. Base things of the world. Now you need to understand the English language a little bit. The word base means lowly, just common. We would use the term blue collar, or even less than that, lower class. Brother, anybody here feel like that sounds like me? Just coal miners I'm teasing. Chuck drivers. Just common folk. Those lowly scum-of-the-art truck drivers Run you off the road and scare you half to death. Um the base things of the world. Wow. I can I I can qualify for that. Foolish. Weak, base. Look what it says. And things which are despised hath God chosen. Yea, and things which are not. I'm nothing. What do I have to offer? What am I in God? And there's great people out there, and he can do great things. What am I on nothing? God said, that's what I'm looking for. I'm weak for exactly what I want. Ah, this is such a my mom called it dumb bunny. I'm a dumb bunny. God says I'm looking for dumb bunnies. Why in the world would God call weak, base, foolish things? Well, explains Verse 28, the base things of the world, things are despised, things work to naught. Why? To bring to naught things that are, that no flesh should glory in his presence But of him are ye in Christ, who is of God, made unto us wisdom and righteousness, sanctification and redemption. That's all Christ does for us. That according to us is written, he that glorieth, let him glory in what? The Lord! You know why God chooses people, little children like Samuel? You know why God chooses people like some of you and I would say we feel like base and weak and foolish and just nothing because when God uses someone like that, he gets all the glory and not the one being used Be very if you had an incredible IQ, there's nothing wrong with that. You're a very powerful, influential personality, and all that, people might say, yeah. He accomplished all that. But when it's some weak, base, inexperienced, uneducated, insignificant, troubled, unsecure person, and God says, I want to use you, then who gets all the glory? God gets all the glory. So it encourages me. He didn't call Eli the high priest. He didn't come in the night and speak to any of the other priests that were serving the temple. He came to little Samuel. And he called him for a great, great work. God often uses the least of men to do his greatest works. No one is too small for God. But there are many folk who are too big for God. Whenever I preach on a subject like this or along these lines, I always think, and I like to share, and you've heard me say it often about when I was in Indiana. And uh we were there this was years ago, and one big Sunday there was a fellow in the church and he thought he was somebody. He's about the only one that did, but uh He thought he was somebody. And the preacher had done something and he didn't agree with it. And that's fine. It happens all the time. But uh He got in the lobby Sunday morning. This is a pretty good sized church. Sunday morning, people coming in, there's visitors, the lobby's packed, folks are coming in. This guy's standing there griping and going on and on out loud about how he disagreed with something the preacher did. It was just a preference. And uh just going on and on, running his mouth, running his mouth, and finally, loud so everyone here, he makes this statement I am the best Christian in this church. Oh, brother I've told everyone in the sound of his voice immediately that he was probably the worst Christian in that church. That's not the people God uses. It's not the big high I'm the high priest. No, it's a little child. Not perfect. He has insecurities. I think some of them come out later on in his life. You can see some of them. Has a little baggage. I mean, the situation growing up, that would be difficult emotionally The development of them doesn't have any experience, but God can use him So God gets the glory. I think of Joseph. Joseph is one of the greatest types of Christ in the Old Testament. He is a tremendous picture of the Lord Jesus Christ. But Joseph comes from a home, he was at the time the youngest, despised. Yet God comes and gives him the dream. Not Reuben, who is a strong leader and talented and gifted, not Judah. Who later is described as the lion of the tribe of Israel? None of those brothers, but Joseph, the one they all hated The one that was the least experienced, and God come and speaks to him. All Joseph was, really, was a kid who was determined to do right. And God blessed them and used them. So, look at verse 10. Let's get into this here. It says in verse 10: And the Lord came and stood and called as at other times. Samuel, Samuel! And then Samuel answered, this is after he spoke to Eli found out this is God speaking. Then Samuel answered, Speak, for thy servant heareth. Speak, Lord. I believe that's a prayer that every believer should take to heart. Speak, Lord, for thy servant Aaron. I believe that's a prayer that every one of his believers should make our own prayer. That's a good prayer to pray when we come to church. Speak, Lord, for your servant heareth. My greatest burden as preacher, my greatest concern when I stand behind this pulpit, that it not be Dennis Leatherman speaking to you, but it be God Almighty using his word through the Holy Spirit speaking to us. Preacher, you stepped on my toes today. Well, praise the Lord. Two things wrong with that. One, I was aiming for your heart. And two, I was hoping it wasn't me. I was hoping it was the Lord. Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. It's kind of hard to pray that prayer and mean it if people are texting while the preacher is preaching. Or do you love me? Check one, yes or no? Maybe. little shots in there, but speak Lord. What a prayer. What a prayer. By the way, even the unsaved should pray that prayer God wants to speak to the unsaved. Perhaps, perhaps. I'm talking to someone this morning. You've never trusted Christ as savior. Perhaps you don't have the assurance in your heart and soul that God has forgiven your sins and that when you die you're going to heaven. And you don't have that peace, you don't have that settled assurance in your heart. Good prayer for you this morning would be, Lord, speak to me. I want to hear what you have to say for me a sinner. Lord, tell me how to be saved. If anybody gets saved, they get saved God's way, not their way. Lord, speak to me Number one, my outline quickly go through it. I noticed the desire of Samuel. Eli told him Samuel came over and says, Eli, what do you want? He says, It wasn't me. Goes back, Samuel, Samuel. Eli, what do you want? It wasn't me. Go back to bed. Goes back, Samuel, Samuel. Eli, what do you Hmm. You know what? I think God's Speaking to you. Now I know if it had been some folks I know they'd have said, God, are you crazy? Tell them I'm not home. Then you got her there. Samuel, Samuel. Mm-hmm. But he did. When Samuel realized it was God speaking, he said, Speak, Lord. You know what that tells me? He wanted to hear from God. He wanted God to speak to him. He had a desire, a longing for God to speak to him. And it's interesting that word speak. Speak, Lord, that word speak means to. What he's saying is, Lord, communicate with me. Tell me, God, what your thoughts are. Tell me what your will is, what your plan is. Instruct me. Speak to me, Lord. I want to be taught from you. I want you to direct my life. I want you to instruct me. Boy, what a desire for a young child. I believe that somewhere, somewhere in the heart and soul of a genuine believer, there is a desire to hear from God. Somewhere, deep down in the heart of the most backslidden carnal believers, somewhere there is a longing in the heart and soul. For God, my Father, to communicate with me, a longing for God to speak to me I have a serious problem, and God knows, and I would I do not seek to stand in the place of God, but I'll be very honest with you, my heart is very troubled. When you have someone who claims to be a believer, claims to be saved, but they never read their Bible. They very seldom, if ever, go to church. They have no interest in hearing anything God has to say to them. I have a problem with that. Samuel wanted God to speak to him. He wanted God to instruct him and reveal God's plan and thoughts and will for his life. We must not be satisfied. Now, understand the terms I'm using here. We must not be satisfied with a dumb God. And I mean dumb in the sense of not speaking. I want to know that God is speaking to me. I do not want my God to be silent. Neither did Samuel. Speak, Lord, communicate. Tell me, reveal yourself to me. Help me to know what I should do. Help me to understand what your will is for me. Speak to me, Lord. I think we ought to desire to speak, desire God to speak to us because we want God, we want to know that God's aware of us. I don't want to just be a face in the crowd to my God. There's six point, what figure did Brother Baker use? Six point seven billion people in the world? Something like that? Like that. I don't want to just be a number to God. I'd like to know that God is speaking to me personally. And get a witness. Anyone feel that way? God speaking to me, he's aware of me. I remember When I first started coming under conviction of my need to be saved, it was early January of 1979. I would come home, particularly on the weekends. I'd come home late at night and I would cry out, God help me. My life was such a mess. Such a disaster, so empty. God help me. I wanted to hear from God I wanted God to communicate and tell me what I needed to do. And it wasn't an audible voice by any stretch of the imagination, but it was One of those first times I cried out, God help me, laying in my bed, crying, an 18-year-old crying like a baby. It wasn't an audible voice, but something down in my heart said, Get your Bible. Four, three, four o'clock in the morning, I'm digging through my dressing drawers, found a Bible a Sunday school teacher give me as a child. And God began speaking to me. And I would open that Bible, and some of you could testify the same thing. I would open that Bible, and it was like God wrote it that day to me. I would read that and it's like, man, this is talking about me. This is talking to me. God speaking. When God speaks to hearts, when God speaks, I learned something as an unsaved 18-year-old boy. I learned that God was aware of me. And I cried out, help me! God heard me! And he gave me his attention. And then several months later, May shows up and May 7th, I get on my knees and I called out Christ, come in my life and forgive me and save me. And God heard me as aware, and God spoke to my heart and He saved my soul I want God to speak to us so we know that He's aware of us. My heart goes out, and as I said, I'm very concerned about someone who claims to be saved, and God never speaks to their heart. Heart. They can sit through a sermon, they'll go weeks, months, sometimes years without cracking the Bible open. And no message from heaven, no stirring of the heart from heaven. Something's not right. He desired that God would speak to him. We desire God to speak to us so we know that God's aware of us. We want God to speak to us so we know that God has a plan and purpose for our lives. We all want to know that we're here for a reason, right? I don't want my life just to be meaningless. That's the thing that's so cruel about evolutionary teaching. It takes away all purpose and meaning for life. I don't want to think that I'm here just by an accident. I don't want to think that I was born and been through trials and had the experiences of life all for no reason. I want God to speak to my heart and tell me He has a plan for my life. There's a reason I'm here. There's a reason God is allowing things to happen. He has something he's trying to accomplish. My life has purpose. My life has meaning. I want to know that. And when God speaks to us, speak To us through his word, we get direction. We understand that God does have a plan. Our life and our trials all have a purpose. So we want God to speak to us so that we know He's aware of us. We want God to speak to us so we know what His plan and purpose for our life is. We want God to speak to us so that He can direct us. I remember when I first came here as pastor, the church was small and been through some trials and just struggled along And I got here and I'd never pastored before. I was thirty some thirty three years old and uh was unique pastor and worked with kids some and um we got here and one of the fellows we were he was take me, drive me around and uh he said, um he said, Now Pastor Leatherman, I know you got a plan for all of this, how to get this thing going. I thought, yeah right. I had no idea what I was gonna do. I was saying, Lord, we got a plan, right? You know what I need to do? I need to get a hold of God, say God show me what to do. And by the way, that's what you need in your life also. Honestly, we raise our kids. We never raised kids before. God, what do you do with this thing? We need God to speak to us and show us what to do. Robbie gave a testimony one time. Thank God he gave us the Bible so we know what to do as Christians. I said, Amen. So we want God to speak to us, to direct us. We have no idea what tomorrow holds How many people have some plans for tomorrow? Anybody? I do. You know what? We have no idea what tomorrow holds. Did you ever get up one morning, thought things were one way by the time you went to bed that night, everything was completely different We have no idea. Hey, but God does. God knows perfectly what tomorrow holds. And the day after that, and the day after that. Only a fool, only a fool would not seek God for direction in life. Only a fool would say, oh yeah, I've got it all planned out. I've got it all under control. I know exactly how it's all going to happen. You're a fool! We need to come to God and say, God, show me and direct me. I don't know what tomorrow holds. I don't know what next week holds. I have no idea what next year holds. God, show me now, because you know Want God to speak to our hearts to direct us. Even the unsaved need to hear from God. So God can tell them what the future holds if they die in that condition. To die lost and spend eternity in hell. So I see, first of all. The desire of Samuel. I don't have time for the rest. The dialogue of the Lord. What an honor it is for God to speak to us. Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth, and God does. Imagine if the president, whatever you think of him, imagine if the president called you up and says, Hey, I have some information I want to give you. Man, what an honor that the president on the phone. God speaks to us. We open our Bible, it's God speaking to us. What a great impact it has. You go through the Bible, when God spoke to people, it changed their lives. Saul on the way to Damascus, the bright light, the Lord spake, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? His life was changed. Moses at the burning bush, take the shoes off thy feet, for the place where thou standest is holy ground, and his life is changed. How many people foc how many times folks have come to a church service and the word of God was preached and God spoke to a heart and it was received and they were saved or their life was changed or they were called to the ministry. Sometimes God may have spoken to your heart years ago, and you pushed it off. As a child, God may have spoken your heart about salvation. He said, Not now, someday Maybe as a young person, after you were saved, God spoke your heart about serving him, about a ministry. And you said, No, I have my own plans, and you push that off. What an honor it is for God to speak to us and God to give us direction. Listen, we must not push it off. We need to come back and say, All right, Lord, speak. I'm willing to hear what you say. What an honor. For you to speak to my heart. Then last point I had here was the discernment of Samuel. I said before, it wasn't the problem he couldn't hear God, it wasn't that God wasn't speaking. He just didn't understand it was God. Once he knew it was God, boy then he figured Some things out. Matthew Henry, a great Bible commentator in the 1700s, said, There is none so deaf as those who will not hear. And there is none so blind as those who will not see. When Samuel said, Speak, Lord! He was implying that he was willing to listen. This wasn't just curiosity. Wow, God, I wonder what God sounds like. What does he say? I wonder what it wasn't I wonder anything. Notice what he said. Speak, Lord, for thy servant what? Heareth. That word heareth means this. We'll agree with you. I like that. Speak, Lord, and I'll agree with whatever you say. You know what God's looking for? Yes, men. I say it. Yes. I agree with it. Or whatever it is, I agree with it. I agree. I agree. Speak, Lord. My servant ears. I'll be. I agree with what you say. What you say is true. Samuel's cry, speak, Lord, implies he will commit to himself. Lord, will you speak to me about it? I'll do it. That's why we have invitation at the end of preaching. Not to pack it out or for anything for me. I'll tell you, if it's me getting folks at the altar, then it's meaningless But if God is speaking to hearts and we're responding by agreeing with God and saying, yes, Lord, what you dealt with my heart about is right. I agree, I obey you, I hear you. Then that's a powerful thing. I'll commit to that. I'll follow through. Years ago, back when they had telegraphs, they were hiring, they wanted to hire a Morris code Tapper whatever they're called. So they put an ad. We need Morris code tapper outers. So the people came in and the the waiting area was packed full and they're in the background and this one young man came in, he sat down, he's sitting there, and he got listening, he heard a little ta-t-tat You think it if you can read here no you can understand this come in the door you are hired. So everybody's sitting there waiting for their turn to be interviewed. The boy gets up. He walks in, says, That Morse code tapping just told me if I understand it correctly. He said, Congratulations, you're hired. He came out, said everybody else, said uh, y'all can go on home now. We hired our guy. Wait a minute, wait, we didn't have a chance. Nope, it's been tailing me the whole time. If you understood this, come on in, you're hired You know what? God's speaking to everybody all around. Right now, in their homes, laying in their beds, out on the lake. God's trying to speak to them. But you know some here. Some people have ears to hear. And they say, Speak, Lord. Tell me what you want. Father, bless us, I pray. Help us to hear you. Help us to agree with you When you speak to us through your word and have your way in our lives, our heads bowed, eyes closed. Maybe this morning God spoke to your heart about an area in your Christian life, some issue of your Christian life that is not what it ought to be. God's trying to lead you and direct you. God's trying to help you. This morning you say, preacher, God did speak to my heart about Samaria, my spirit of life. I don't want to block my ears.