1 Peter chapter 2 verse number 5. We're just going to look at this verse. Peter is writing to believers that are under intense persecution. That's the immediate context. The book of 1 Peter. Of course, this is inspired by God Preserver. It's God's Word. But Peter is writing to these believers. They've been scattered all over the region there for no other reason than their faith in Christ. Many of them have lost loved ones that were killed, martyred, because of their faith in Christ. No other reason than they were disciples of Jesus Christ. They were followers of Jesus Christ. No doubt many of them lost their jobs. Family runs them out, disowns them, tortured. Many of them were tortured severely. Read the book of Acts. You see how they were treated Um and so he's writing to them, he's trying to encourage them, the first chapter there, he's encouraging them to have their faith in Christ, their sealed, God's got their back, they're going to be okay Uh and he tries to encourage them a bit, and then he's challenging them. And we get here in chapter two, in verse number five, he makes an interesting statement, and this is what we've been looking at the last several weeks In verse 5, he says, Ye also as lively stones are built up a spiritual house. And then he makes this next statement, which we've kind of parked on this here a little bit. He says, a holy priesthood And writing to these believers, he says, you as a believer, because you're in Christ, because of your relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ, you have a role, you stand in a position as a holy priesthood. And then you come down to verse number nine and he states it again a little differently. There he says, You are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood. Now we know, we've studied, we looked at this in previous messages and from reading the Old Testament, a priest in God's economy, a priest was one who offered up sacrifices to God on behalf of the people. Now in the Old Testament, they would offer physical sacrifices, lambs, sheep, goats, whatever. There was various things. They would offer up as a sacrifice. Uh some were sacrificed to express their gratitude to God, some were uh to cover sins, and there was various uh uh reasons for the ceremony of offering up these sacrifices. But that was the priest's responsibility was to offer up these physical sacrifices in the Old Testament. Now look at verse 5. He says you're a holy priest And he says, you offer up not physical sacrifices, but what? Spiritual sacrifices. Now that captured my attention We don't offer up the ceremonial sacrifices of the Old Testament anymore because Christ fulfilled all that. They were all symbolic, object lessons of the coming Messiah, who would be the Lamb of God, would give himself for the sins of the world. And of course he rose again. So Christ fulfilled all those Old Testament ceremonial physical sacrifices, but he says now we are in Christ, who is our high priest. We are in Christ, and we are a priesthood, and we offer up to God not physical sacrifices, but these spiritual sacrifices Now here's the thing. He doesn't tell us in the passage here what these spiritual sacrifices are. He says our holy priesthood offer up spiritual sacrifices, which is uh how's it in with it which are acceptable to God, something like that. I think he says Um, uh, verse five, uh which uh sacrifice acceptable to God by Jesus Christ And so we're considering what these spiritual sacrifices are. We already looked at a few of them. I went through the New Testament, and I perhaps overlooked some, but I I found a list of A spiritual sacrifice that the Bible says things that you and I do, spiritual things that you and I do, are considered a sacrifice to God. And so let's pray, and uh we'll mention the ones we already looked at, and I want to look at one more, just one tonight. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Word of God, and I thank you for all that we have In Christ, as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, are standing before you, the inheritance that we have as a child of God Lord, the security of our salvation, the indwelling of your Holy Spirit, the assurance that you will provide for us and take care of us. And then a reserved place in heaven where you will accept us into your presence when this whole body dies. Lord, we we have so much to rejoice in. We have so much To be thankful for. And now you've given us some responsibilities as a priest. And as we look at these, I pray you'd help me and all of us take these very seriously. Help us take it as serious as you do, Lord. And so, Holy Spirit, stir us and help us and challenge us. I pray that you would fill me With your Holy Spirit, and you would communicate what these sacrifices are to each of our heart and lives. I pray you would apply them. Show us how to carry these out. And I need you to do that through me, Lord. So I yield my will, present my body anew. With all my heart, I pray you'd fill me with your spirit. In Jesus' name we pray Amen. Does anybody remember what the first spiritual sacrifice that I suggested I found in Scripture? Anybody remember what that was? Our bodies. Romans chapter 12, verse 1 and 2. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that you present your bodies a what? Living sacrifice, holy, acceptable God, which is your reasonable service. So one of the sacrifices, spiritual sacrifices, I offer up to God as a priest before God. I have direct access to God and is my own body, my life. I believe it's a dedication of my body and my life and everything I am. I just give myself to you. I dedicate myself to you, Lord Now here's my question, just as we buzz by these, have you ever come to the point in your life as a believer that you say, Lord, you've done so much for me, you've been so merciful to me by the mercies of God Lord, I want to present my body. Have you ever dedicated your body, your life, everything you have in our? Have you ever come to a point where you dedicated everything to Christ? I'm yours, I'm Christ. Just because a person's saved doesn't necessarily mean they've done that. For me, it was uh it was August 25th, 1985, an old altar down in Tennessee. I said, Lord, I'm yours. I present my body, everything I am, to you, Lord. And so the first sacrifice we notice was this spirit, the spiritual sacrifice was our bodies. Does anybody remember the second one? Our praise. And we got that from Hebrews chapter 13, verse 15, as we offer up to God our praise. Praising God is easy when everything's going good, right? Praising God's easy when the bills are paid and there's no pandemics, nobody's rioting, uh, you know, and uh and uh the health is good and everything's wonderful. Oh praise the Lord, it's wonderful. I tell you, it becomes a sacrifice. When maybe things are all going wrong, and I'm still able to praise the Lord and rejoice in Him. And so we talked about that. So we present our bodies as one of these spiritual sacrifices offering up to God our praise even when things maybe aren't going our way, but we still praise the Lord for all He is. And then we uh mentioned, I believe it was last week, we mentioned a third one, and that one was what? Anybody remember? Our good works. Hebrews chapter 13. Doing good, even to those when it's not so easy to do good. Now I want you to turn back to Hebrews chapter 13, verse number 16, and we're going to look at the fourth. um uh sacrifice, spiritual sacrifice that I found in the Bible we can offer up to the Lord Our good works was the third one, and offering up to the Lord. If you remember, I made a statement, I think it's an important statement. I said this: it's more important to be a blessing than it is to get a blessing Right? And that's a good that's a good policy to live by. I'm just going to be a blessing, whether I get anything back or not, I'm just going to be a blessing. And sometimes that is a bit of a sacrifice. Sometimes it costs us To do good things and help others. But now look at Hebrews chapter 13, verse 16. He says, but to do good, that was the one sacrifice we looked at last week And to then he mentions another one, to do good and to what? Communicate. Forget not, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased. So he uses a plural term there, sacrifices. So that tells me doing good works, being a blessing to others, helping others. Maybe they don't deserve it, maybe Uh, you know, it's just uh uh they're hateful, whatever, but I'm gonna do good, I'm gonna do good works, and try and be a blessing to them. Offer that up to God. God, I'm doing this for your glory. Because you've been so good to me, I do that for you. Then he says, and communicate, forget forget not, uh, for such sacrifices, each one of these that tells me they're two separate is well pleasing. God is well pleased. So I put it this way. This is the fourth sacrifice, is this, our generosity I read that word communicate. When you hear the word communicate, you think what? Talking, interacting with each other, communicating, uh means of communication. We got email, text, phone, um, uh, what else? Just talking to each other. That's w rare. And then one-on-one. So we think of communicating as sharing ideas, sharing messages, sharing thoughts back and forth. That's really not what the word here has in mind. That's not really I mean it would include that. But the word here communicate has this idea, and it's used throughout the Bible this way, particularly in the New Testament, has this idea to contribute. To another person's needs. To communicate, to contribute to another person's needs. It has the idea of this: sharing my blessings with another person. God has blessed me. God has been so good to me. I want to share that blessing. I want to communicate those blessings to others that have need. It has the idea of a I like this definition because the word communicate there is some places in the New Testament translated fellowship. In sharing in the fellowship. And so I like this definition for the word communicate there, this idea: to bring others into the fellowship of my blessings. Does that make sense? Here's somebody that's has a need, somebody that's struggling, somebody that uh uh isn't doesn't have maybe things God's blessed me with and and they're lacking that So I bring them into the fellowship of the blessings God has blessed me with. That's the idea. And he says this is a sacrifice. That you and I as a believer, we can offer up to God this communication, this bringing others into the fellowship of the blessings that God has blessed me with. And they can enjoy those blessings. They can share in those blessings. It is the idea. Now remember, let's just stop here a little bit. Who is he writing to? I just introduction, I mentioned it. Who is he writing to? He's writing to believers or non-believers? Believers. But what is their condition? What's the what's they're being intensely persecuted? Uh they have lost homes, no doubt. They've lost possessions, maybe life investments Maybe, maybe um trades that have been in the family for generations, it's been destroyed and they've been run out And now they have, I think it's safe to assume that the people he's writing to have very little as far as this world's possessions are concerned And he's writing, and he's saying, we offer up these spiritual sacrifices, and we look at other parts of the Bible, we find out one of those sacrifices is sharing my blessings with others. You say, preacher, I'm just barely getting by myself. I'm just paying my bills week by week. And God uh that's called a sacrifice Sacrifice. And so he's offering up this sacrifice. I put it this way, putting others' needs over my own needs. Now, how many people agree with me? It's nice to help somebody when you know they'll help you back. That's not a problem. You know, somebody, yeah, I'll help them out. They were nice to me. I'll help them out. That's not what he, I don't think that's necessarily what he's talking about. I think he's talking about helping somebody, being a blessing someone, helping meet the needs of someone that could never ever pay you back. That could never ever return that. That's a sacrifice. Remember, we said a sacrifice generally is something that costs me something. The Old Testament, they had an oxen. They'd get the best they had. No, they'd go through no blemishes, no ticks hanging on that thing. They'd go through and clean that up and uh Boy, they give it to God, and uh that was quite an investment, especially beef prices today. Man, they offer that. That costs them something But they loved the Lord. Their faith was in God. And so he says, this offer, this communicate, forget not With such sacrifices, God is well pleased. Sometimes, this is what I'm getting at, sometimes being a blessing to somebody will cost us something. Cost us something. Ah some person there uh they're having a rough time. You get you got you got two seven hundred and fifty dollars in cash in your wallet. Now I'm just going by folks like Ed and people that have a lot of money like that. But um Now you're gonna get hit up after church tonight, you know. And uh you walk by and oh they can't they're having a rough time, you see that? And you got 750 bucks and you pull out a $5 bill and say, here you go, that'll help you. Would that be much of a sacrifice? No Did you ever sit in church sometime, I've done this over the years, and you got some money, you got money in your pocket and there's a special need, maybe we're taking up an offering to help somebody, and God lays on your heart to put everything you have in your wallet into that. You ever been there? I've been there. And you know how it usually goes? What? Are you nuts? I need that money. And God says, I want you to do it. I want you to do it. It's like, ah. I know none of you were this way, but It's like, ugh, all right, Lord, I love you. I want to please you. Here you go. Wife says, we need ice cream. Says, sorry, we're broke. Costs you something. Cost you something. You know, the Bible says God's pleased. God's pleased When I lay aside my own things, take my own blessings and share it with someone else. I just thought of this while I was speaking here, and I've used this before. It's not original with me. I heard a preacher years ago, well I didn't hear, I saw a preacher years ago do this. He said he called it his silent message, his silent sermon. And this is what he did. And you've seen me do this before. But he says he goes, it's this is how it goes. You get the picture? You know why God blesses us? So we can be a blessing to others. God doesn't bless us and provide for us so we can stockpile stuff up. Read James. You have not because you ask not, you ask and receive not, because you ask amiss that you may consume it upon your own lust. God says, I'll bless you, but I want you to offer that blessing up as a sacrifice to others. Now it's not to say we shouldn't meet our needs. God says he that doesn't provide for his household is worse than an infidel. But what he does say is, listen, I've been so good to you. For your sakes, Jesus says, for your sakes, I became poor, so you can be rich. He says, I want you to offer that same sacrifice. Be a blessing. Be a help to others. Take your Bible if you would. Turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 8. Second Corinthians chapter 8. Now we use this passage in 2 Corinthians chapter 8. We use that often at Faith Promise Missions Conference. We're talking about Faith Promise, and I think that is what is being talked about here. But there's a principle. And actually, faith promise for many folks is really a sacrifice, a communicating for the good of others. How many people think it's good for people to get saved? And people think they're better off after they're saved than they were before they were saved. Sure. And so we want to give, and he says, we give so that others can in uh can appreciate and And experience his salvation, have opportunity to be saved, just like we were. And he's writing to the church here at Corinth and he's addressing the Macedonian believers. And look what he says in verse 1 of 2 Corinthians chapter 8 Moreover, brethren, now he's writing to the church at Corinth, we do you to wit of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia And he's saying, listen, I want you to pay attention. I want you to notice what these churches over in Macedonia are doing. That's what he's saying there. Now look at verse 2. How that in a great trial of affliction. They're going through it. They're being persecuted. They are being run out of town. In their great trial of affliction, the abundance of their joy And let me read again, how that in a great trial of affliction the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded unto the riches of their liberality. Now stop and think what he's saying there. He's saying these people are in tense, intense affliction. They're being persecuted for their faith. Severely. But they're joyful in the midst of all of that. They have an abundance of joy. And look, he says, and in their deep poverty They abounded to the riches of their liberality. In other words, these folks have been through it, they have been persecuted, they have been robbed, they're in deep poverty, but they're being very rich and being liberal. Not liberal as in philosophy, but liberal in their giving, giving very liberally. Look what he goes on. For to their power, and the word power there has the idea of ability. To their power, their ability, I bear record, yea, and beyond their power, more than they were even able to do, beyond their power, they were willing of themselves Praying with us, praying us with much entreaty that we would receive the gift and take upon us, what's that next word? Anybody want to guess what word that comes from? The same word as communicate in Hebrews 13-16. They're sharing, bringing others into the fellowship of their blessings, upon the fellowship of the ministering to the saints, and this they did not as we had hoped. But first gave their own selves to the Lord and unto us by the will of God. Then he goes on and he expounds on that. And what he's saying here, he's saying, but he's writing to the church at Corinth, and he says, Hey Church at Corinth, I want you to notice what these churches over in Macedonia are doing. They've been through it, they're in the midst of affliction, they're rejoicing in the Lord, they're happy as can be And in their poverty, they are giving very deliberately, very generously to help meet the needs of others. You know what they were doing? They were offering up a sacrifice of giving, of generosity, spiritual sacrifice. What a testimony. What a testimony. And so one of the sa one of the spiritual sacrifice we give is to help and give of ourselves to be a help and blessing to others. I want to show you another one here, if you would. Take your Bibles and turn with me to Luke chapter number 10. And this is probably the classic example of what the Lord is talking about, about spiritual sacrifice. Here is a perfect object lesson, a living object lesson. Of offering up the spiritual sacrifice of generosity. Luke chapter 10. And look with me if you would. At uh verse number, let me get my text here, verse 25 And behold, this is Jesus speaking. He's interacting with people. And behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tempted him, Jesus. Saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? What do we find out about this guy's motive for asking this question? It's what? What's his motive? Yeah, he's trying to look trap the Lord. He has uh his motive is not good. Alright, so he's trying to trick the Lord. What do I have to do to get eternal life? Well, the Lord knew what he was up to And uh Jesus, uh verse 26, and he, Jesus, answered unto him, What's written in the law? How readest thou? And he answered and said, I can just hear cockiness in his voice. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy might, and thy neighbor as thyself. Alright, he thinks he got the Lord here. Oh, this is what you do to get eternal life. Look what the Lord says. And he, the Lord, said unto him, Thou hast answered right, this do, and thou shalt live. But he, verse 29, willing to what? See, he's not he's not trying to information from the Lord. Willing to justify himself. By the way, that desire to justify himself is the motive for most debates. Get in a debate with somebody, you're not trying to help them, not trying to win them. I just want to justify myself, my position. So anyway, willing to justify himself, he said to Jesus, And who is my neighbor? Well, Jesus answering said, Now here's I think a class Perfect picture of what the Lord's talking about in communicating the sacrifice of generosity A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. And by chance there came down a certain priest. Hmm. That way. And when he what? Solom, he passed by on the other side. He saw the situation. This priest saw the guy laying there. He's a Samaritan hated by Jews. Saw him laying there beat up, left for dead. Huh. The guy walks by. He saw all the facts. He saw exactly what happened And he passes by on the other side. Then verse 32, likewise a Levite. Oh, here's somebody else in the min in the ministry, quote unquote When he was at the place, came and looked on him. Now he comes over, looks down. Good night. This is terrible. What happened to this guy? That's a crying shame. Somebody ought to do something about this. And what'd he do? Passed by on the other side. They saw it. They knew what the situation was. They knew what the need was. Now we're not told what their reasoning was. Maybe they said, I don't got enough to do. I don't know how to take care of that. I'm broke myself. I'm trying to get by. I get down into town, I'll call 911, we'll get somebody up here and help them They just went on. No effort, no investment, no sacrifice made to help this guy. But then things changed. But a certain Samaritan, this is the guy that's hated, the Samaritan, a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came to where he was. And when he saw him, he went compassion on him The root, the root of our generosity, if it's going to be an acceptable sacrifice to God, has to be compassion. Compassion. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, we are hurting for compassion. This whole world is hurting for compassion. Let me bring it home. Our churches need compassion for others. Amen or not. I've said this before. That is the missing ingredient in our churches and in our ministry is compassion for others. We are so wrapped up in our own rights and our own desires and what I want and the way I want it to be. And we have little compassion for other people. So this guy looks on him and he is, he had compassion on him. Something stirred in his heart. And he went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn. And what's those next few words? He took care of them. Now I don't see anywhere that this guy is any kind of doctor. He's any training in medical care. But he did what he could. He used what he had to try and help this man and be a blessing to him. Then it doesn't end there. And on the morrow, when he departed from the inn where he dropped this guy off, he took out two pence. And gave them to the host and said unto him, Take care of him, and whatsoever thou spendest more when I come again. He's going to come back and check on the guy. He's going the second mile. He doesn't know him. This guy's a Samaritan. The Jews hate the Samaritans. There's bitterness. You talk about racial tension. These guys had racial tension But the Samaritan didn't matter what his background was, didn't what it matter what his nationality was, it didn't matter anything what he was, he was a human being in need And his heart was stirred with compassion, he helped him. When I come again I will repay thee. Then look what the Lord says Which now of these three thinkest thou was a neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves? And he, the lawyer, the shady lawyer here, he that showed mercy on him, then said Jesus unto him, Go thou and do likewise. You know what the Lord wants us to do? He wants to have compassion on others. He wants us to be merciful to other people. And help other people. How many people agree with me? That kind of stands out in contrast to our world today. And lie, my way, or you're get out of my way, or I'm plowing you over. And the amazing thing is, here you had two of God's people, a priest and a Levite, people that are supposedly committed to the ministry of Jehovah. And because of this man, because uh for whatever reasons, they walk by and don't help him. But here this Samaritan, hated by the Jews. He has compassion. You know what that was? I don't know this Samaritan's spiritual standing, but this is the way I see it. I say, and he's offering up to God a sacrifice that's well pre-pleasing. You and I are going to walk by people. We're going to meet and we're going to interact with people this week that are hurting. Maybe not physically beat up, but emotionally hurting. Spiritually hurting folks that need Christ. Folks that are absolutely been left for dead spiritually by sin and and uh unbelief You know, we need to have compassion. We need to have I appreciate what Dale said. I was at the nurse I was not the nursing home, the uh laundromat today. A couple ladies there got talking to them about the Lord. Isn't that something? Well, is that the park and there's somebody there talk to them about the Lord? That's offering up spiritual sacrifice, just trying to help people, just trying to be a blessing to people. Amen. And by the way, that's not for us to be saved. We're already we're in Christ. We're already saved. If we trust Christ's Savior, this isn't to be saved. This is because God's been so good to me. I want to help and be a blessing to others. What a difference it would make. I believe the folks at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Now I'm not answering for any other churches. I'm saying I believe folks at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we ought to be the most compassionate people they are there is in town You say, yeah, but uh she's such so hateful. Hey, do they have a need? Try and be a blessing. He's such a knucklehead. No, no, no, no. Just be a blessing. Just be a blessing. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to offer up spiritual sacrifices. A lot of times these are things we wouldn't think. Oh give a, I'll do this, I'll do that. No. Just be a blessing to others. Help us, Lord. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many people with me How many people will join me tonight as we finish out the Lord's Day with our heads bowed, eyes closed? How many people join me tonight and say, preacher, I'm going to look for that one that needs help this week? I'm going to look for the one that has a need and seek how I can be a blessing. I'm going to look for someone that I can communicate with. In the biblical sense, I can bring into the fellowship of God's blessing. How many people will join me in that? I'm just going to look for someone. I can be a blessing May just be a word of encouragement, maybe offer them a ride, maybe give them a gospel tract, share the message, maybe help them with the bill. I don't know. Communicate, forget not, for with such sacrifices, God is well pleased. Any others, preacher, I want to be a blessing to others. I want to try and let God use me to help others. God bless you. Hands all around. Now if you're not saved, if you're not saved, you need to come to Christ, trust Christ. You can do good works all you want. You can be as generous as you can be. It's not going to save your soul. You need to accept Jesus as your Savior. Father, bless our invitation now. Help us, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How about find a place to alter tonight and just say maybe