He says, Ye also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house. And we talked about that, the spiritual building we call the church, a spiritual building. And then he said, a holy priesthood And he says that the New Testament believers, he's telling them, he's instructing them, that they are a priesthood. And then he goes on and says, holy priesthood, to offer up what kind of sacrifices? spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Then you come down to verse 9 and he makes a statement very similar. He says, But ye are a chosen generation, and there he says, a royal priesthood. And he is telling us that we you and I as believers, a moment ago I asked how many were saved, and you know it's amen. Great course, amens went up. Those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, the Bible declares that you and I are priests before God And so uh and as priest we have a responsibility, he tells us, to offer up to God these spiritual sacrifices We started looking at some of them last week. Let's have a word of prayer, and uh we'll pick up where we uh left off. Father, I ask now you bless our time in your word today Lord, sure was a good day today, and just be with your people and the beautiful weather, fellowshipping, singing together, and uh we're so grateful for that. And um I just pray now as we finish out the Lord's Day and we go into a new week. I pray that you would prepare our hearts for this week, that we'd be a good witness. that we'd be filled with your spirit. We would function as a priest and be able throughout this week offer up these sacrifices and bring glory to you. So please fill me with your spirit I yield my will again now, present my body anew at this time, and pray with all my heart, Lord, you'd fill me and speak through me, Lord, and help us. Twice he says that we are as believers a spiritual priesthood. Now last week we began looking at the character of these sacrifices. The first thing if you remember, we said they are to be offered up. And that word offered up there, if you'll remember I pointed out it has literally this meaning to pick something up to carry it and set it up on an altar. And the point we had there was is that this is a free will decision on my part. As a priest before God, I have access to God Part of my responsibility is to offer up, free of my own decision, free will, offer them up to God. And then it was spiritual sacrifices And we pointed out that uh in the Old Testament they offered up physical sacrifice. They brought blood, they brought bulls and goats and oxen and dove and um and uh they brought um uh uh wheat, sometimes they brought grain, uh, other sacrifice. They would bring this up in all these Old Testament ceremonies, they would offer them up to God Let me ask you a question. The Old Testament priests, when they offered something up to God, did that save their soul, the slaughter of that lamb or that oxen, did that save their soul? Did that wash away their sins? No, it was a object lesson, it was a ceremonial object lesson of a coming Messiah that would one day Give himself, the Lamb of God, and give himself, not to cover our sins, not just to temporary uh get-by, but to cleanse away our sins and give us direct access to God. And so it's significant that when Jesus Christ died, when Jesus Christ cried, it is finished Something very significant happened in the temple in Jerusalem. When he said, It is finished. Something happened in the temple. What tell me The veil that separated the Holy of Holies tore from where? The top down. That's significant. Know what God was saying? All right, no more coverings for sin. They're cleansed. They're gone. You have access directly to me. Now that's an amazing thing that you and I as sinners would have direct access to God. And so those physical sacrifices, the lambs, goats, all that, that were temporal, uh just a expression of a Faith in a coming Messiah, then those were all fulfilled. Now he says, Hey, hey you guys, you're s you're a high priest And you can come directly to God, not offering up physical animals, but spiritual sacrifices Not to be saved. By the way, Jesus Christ is the only one that can offer the sacrifice that saves a soul from hell. There's nothing you and I offer up, we don't do that. By the way, uh the priest down to Catholic Church, he can't forgive our sins Any more than I can forgive your sins or you or I. Only God can forgive sins. Jesus Christ offered himself up and provided salvation for us So all these sacrifices we're bringing to God, we're going to look at them, all these sacrifices we bring to God are not to save us, but they're in response out of gratitude and devotion to the Lord. Because of what he's done for us. Alright? So we covered that ground last week. Now, these spiritual sacrifices, if you look here in verse number five, how many are mentioned there in verse number five of these spiritual sacrifices? In verse 5, how many spiritual sacrifices are mentioned? It's a little bit of a trick question. There aren't any. He doesn't tell us what they are. He says offer up spiritual sacrifices. And so I look at it some several weeks ago working on this, and I look at it and I scratch my head and I part my hair. And I said, what in the world? Well, what are they? I'm a priest, I have access to God. One of the responsibilities of the priest is to uh uh stand before God on behalf of others. All right, I'm gonna come to God. And I want to offer these sacrifices. I'm supposed to. What in the world are they? And so I got looking through the New Testament, and I found seven. Seven times offering up a sacrifice on the part of the believer is mentioned in the New Testament. And so that's where we started looking. Does anybody remember? Last week I gave two. Does anybody remember what the first one was? Our bodies. Romans 12, 1 and 2. What a gold medal passage that is. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a what Living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God. Say, God, here I am. I offer myself up to you. If you remember, we pointed out, I learned this in Bible college. uh uh Dr. Price uh pointed this out to us. He said that word uh present your bodies, that word present, I'm not a Greek scholar, I don't know. I know a little Greek. He sold burgers down there back home. But uh I don't I don't other than that I don't know a whole lot. But um he did. He there's a Greek deli there. And um gyros, he sold gyros. Everybody have a gyro? It's good. Don't give me a hard time. So anyway, he said that word present means this. A one-time decision with eternally lasting results. Now you've got to think that through a little bit. What's that mean? What he's saying there in Romans 12, this spiritual sacrifice, this living sacrifice, I offer my body up to Christ. It's a one-time decision I make that's lasting results. In other words, it's not something I'm doing over and over and over again. And this is the way I understand it. Is as a Christian, Christ died for me. He showed me mercy, forgave my sin, saved me. And at some point in my life, I come to that point And I say, you know, Jesus Christ deserves everything I am, everything about me. And I make a conscious, free will decision. But Lord, I'm just dedicating my life to you. I'm presenting my body to you. I am yours. Now you can be saved and not do that, but what he's Paul is saying, I'm beseeching you because of the mercy God showed me, uh God has shown you, because of the mercy of God Present your bodies. Just put yourself up on that altar. God, I'm no longer mine. I'm not I'm not my own anymore. These aren't my eyes. These aren't my ears. These aren't my hands. These are not my feet. This isn't my heart. I just put it all on you All to Jesus I surrender. All to him I freely give. That's the idea. That's a spiritual sacrifice. As a priest, I come to God and I give myself fully to him for his glory, for the advancement of the gospel, for him to lead and direct me however he sees fit. And present my body to. Here's my question: Have you ever done that? You're saved. Have you come to that point? Say, I presented myself fully, completely. Say if I do that, then I'll end up a missionary in Guam. No, not necessarily Uh God wants dedicated God wants dedicated um uh uh pharmacists God wants God needs some people that uh God needs some people that work on the streets, drive uh state trucks and spread salt in the winter from September to May That are that have presented him, are dedicated, have given themselves, offered themselves up, you name it, whatever. And so it's not necessarily a surrender to ministry, quote unquote, vocational type ministry It's just I'm God's. Whatever he wants to do with me. And so that's one sacrifice. Who remembers what the second one we said? Our praise. Our praise. And if you remember we pointed out, it's easy to praise God when the sun's shining. We're at church. And uh, you know, everybody's uh happy the bills are paid and there's food in the fridge. And um he went fishing and caught a slew of trout that week And uh, you know, boy, you can that's praise God. Uh that's not much of a sacrifice. The sacrifice something costs me a little bit. I tell you when it's I tell you when that uh praise becomes a sacrifice is when things are going rough The bills aren't paid and the fridge's pretty empty and the cupboards are bare and I didn't go fishing and uh you know and then to say, you know, God's good God's good. I after I preached that last week, I was going back over my notes for tonight. And you know who I thought of? And I don't think I mentioned last week. You know who I thought of as somebody that offers a sacrifice of praise Even when things are terrible. You know who I thought of? Most of us here know him. Old Charlie Ross. If you've ever visited him in the hospital, I don't know if Ed, if you ever got down, I tell you what That guy, I've never seen anybody, praise God. He had one leg amputated. I drove it was down in um Bethesda, I think. I drove all the way down there. Uh this was the second leg when I first went when I went in the first time, he was in um Uh he was in uh w Winchester. Walter Reed, yeah, but before that he's in Winchester, I think. And he f lost the first leg. And I'm driving down there. And I thought, oh, I gotta be a blessing to him. I this is gonna be terrible. He's losing a leg. And uh I tell you, I walked in there, I pushed the door open, brother Ross Pushed the door open. Preacher, praise God and uh oh he was so happy. And he's laughing and going on, he's about to have his leg cut off in less than ten hours And uh he's just going on about how God praise. You know, remember when he sits here, he'd go, Praise the Lord. And uh I walked out of there just floating on the cloud. I wasn't a blessing to him. He was a blessing to me. You know what that is? That's the sacrifice of praise. He wasn't something he was it just became natural for him. So you have the one of the sacrifices, the sacrifice is uh of our bodies, the other one is our praise. Let's pick up a new one. Go to Hebrews chapter number 13 And verse number 16. In Peter, go backwards there a little bit. Last chapter of the book of Hebrews. I keep reaching down here, get a drink of water, and I keep pulling this up. Hand sanitizer. Don't drink that. Although s some of the liquor stores uh liquor places are making hand sanitizer now, so I don't know what that has to do with anything. Hebrews chapter 13, look at verse number 16. 15 we notice the sacrifice of praise. Then look at verse 16. But to do good, he lists two things here But to do good and to communicate, two things, do good and communicate, forget not, look at this, for which such what for with such what? Sacrifices. God is well pleased. He's writing the believers, and he says, here's two sacrifices. Doing good and communicating. So the first one I want to look at, that first one there is doing good. Our good works, the things we do that are good in the eyes of God, good things is a sacrifice that we as priests bring to God. That word, that phrase there, do good. But to do good, it means this. Do things that are doing things that are beneficial to others. That's the whole idea. But to do good. Something that is beneficial to someone else. And so one sacrifice is a believer that as a priest That I offer up to God, it's not a lamb or a goat or a bull or or anything like that, but one thing I offer up to God out of Praise and rejoicing for what he's done for me. Lord, you've been so good. I'm going to offer up. And that is doing something, doing things that are beneficial to other people. Now, sometimes that's easy to do, right? There are some people that some people are just so nice that you just want to do nice things for them. Uh Kathy mentioned her mother. Uh we call her Mama Donna. The boys grew up calling her Mama Donna. She is the sweetest thing in the world. Every anytime I went down there, I'd just buy all kinds of stuff. I'd want to give her anything because she's so nice and She's so sweet and flowers and get her uh different things and buy stuff and give it to her. And uh and that's easy to do because she's very nice and she'll she cooks me stuff and she tells me how wonderful I am and And uh she tells me how w that her daughter married such a good looking fella and um and smart and uh she I think she was talking about her other daughter, but um Some people would you agree with me? Some people it's easy to do good things for. They're just annoying. That's not much of a sacrifice. It doesn't cost much. I tell you when it's tough. It's when you do good and you do things that are beneficial to people that aren't so nice. And you do good things and you do things that benefit others and maybe get nothing in return. That is when it becomes a sacrifice. With such sacrifices God is well pleased. It's a oh look at that I just want to be sure. It's easy to do good things to kind people, but when that that neighbor that's not very kind And you go and do something beneficial for them. Then it becomes a sacrifice. Then it becomes a sacrifice. This is the idea as I study this Uh it uh I got this idea. It means dying to my own will or my own comfort for the benefits of others. I'm going to die to myself. I'm going to die to my own will, all that, because I want to be a blessing to others Let me give you a statement. Will you write this down? It's very simple. It's over you're going to say, well, that's simplistic. I know it, but I think it's it's profound. I think it's important. This is the statement. It's more important to be a blessing than it is to get a blessing. It's more important to be a blessing to people than worry about getting a blessing from people. Been doing this, pastoring and preaching since 19, uh I count it, 1985 is when I consider going into quote unquote full-time ministry. I've been preaching and running buses and soul winning before that, but that's kind of when it became a quote unquote vocab vocation for me. And inevitably you come across folks like this. They'll come into church. They don't say this, but everything exudes it. They'll walk in and say, all right, bless me. Right? This place better be a blessing to me. Now, um we want to t you agree with me? We want to try and be a blessing to folk, right? I want folks to come get a blessing But that's not a spiritual sacrifice. Spiritual sacrifice says, you know, I want to try and be a blessing. I'll try and help us. I want to try and encourage and lift others up. I want to be a blessing. It's easy to be a blessing. The people are nice and kind, but sometimes it's whether I get a blessing back or not. I want to be a blessing. I want to be a blessing. Let me give you some scriptures. Now keep your place in Hebrews, because there's another one here we're going to look at if we have time. Go over to Philippians chapter number two. Philippians 2. I tell you, it sure is nice preaching and hearing those pages turning. For eight weeks, I'd say, turn in your Bible to this. You know what I heard? Bam spinning. That sure is nice to hear that. Look at Philippians chapter two. And uh Beginning in verse number 3. Notice what he says here. Let how many things be done through strife and vainglory? Nothing. Let no thing, not one thing, be done through strife or vainglory. Now look at this next statement. I think we as Christians miss this. But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem other what? Better than themselves. How many people agree with me? That's not always easy. That's not always easy. Yeah, but I No, it's not I. In fact, I looked up that word better. I got looking at that. It has this idea uh let others uh esteem other better. And it has this idea, higher on the list than myself. In other words, let others esteem others, value, honor, value others as a higher priority than myself. That's the idea of do good. Uh boy, it's more important that I benefit them, it's more important that I'm a help to them, it's more important that I edify them, it's more important I strengthen and lift them up than anything I get out of it. They're higher on my list of priorities, a lowliness of mind. I move myself down the list and put them higher up on the list and uh seek to be a blessing and be beneficial to them. How many people agree with me? This would be a different world if Christians would practice that. My word, how different our homes and our communities and our society would be of just Christians Did that. And let each esteem other better themselves. Let them look on. Look at verse 4. Look not every man on his own things. But every man also on the things of others. Think about others. Think about. Let this mind be in you. That word mind has the idea of attitude. Let this mind be in you This way of thinking, this attitude, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God. For Jesus to say I'm God, that's not robbery, he's his God. Who being the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal to God, book of verse seven seven, but made himself of no reputation and took upon him the form of a what? What do servants do? Who do they serve? Others. Others. Servant doesn't serve himself. Servant serves other. He says, hey, let each esteem other better themselves, put others higher on the list, and just like Jesus, have the same attitude, the same mind The same way of thinking that Jesus had, who left the riches of heaven and became poor so that we could be rich You know what Jesus did? He placed us higher up on the list than himself. He put himself at the bottom and suffered death, even the death of the cross. For our benefit. And so he's saying, hey, be a blessing to others. This is a sacrifice as a priest that we can offer up to God And uh you say, oh, uh, what do I get out of it? It's not what I get out of it. It's because I'm doing it for the Lord. He's been so good to me. He's he did this for me. And as a uh spiritual sacrifice, I want to do that to him I'd venture to say some of us are thinking about somebody. They're not real nice. They're pretty sour. I said, oh I'm not going to help in. Good grief. I ain't doing that for her. What do you think I am? Well, if we're a priest and we're going to offer up spiritual sacrifices, one of them is, you know, I'm going to try and be a blessing to her. I know she's a grouch and No, not you, I'm looking over here somewhere. I just want to be a blessing. I just want to help. I just want to be benefit. Maybe they'll be better off. That's a spiritual sacrifice That we can offer up. Go to 1 Corinthians, if you would. 1 Corinthians. I said last week this list would be a good series. Guess what it's turning into? First Corinthians chapter nine I tell you, if any the Lord Jesus Christ is the ultimate example of what this doing good is. No nobody tops him. I mean, he gave it all to be a benefit to others. But I tell you, coming in behind him is the Apostle Paul. What amazing man. Look at 1 Corinthians 9. He's writing, Paul is writing, again, under the inspiration of God, to uh the church there at Corinth that he started, of course the Lord, but God used Paul to start this thing And he's writing back to them, and they're fussing, and they're fuming, they're divided, they're all mad at each other. Sin is rampant in the church. I mean, it is awful And Paul's challenging them to die to self and just try and live your life to be a help and a blessing to others. And in chapter 9 and verse number 19, Notice what he says here. He says, for though I be free from all men, yet have I made myself what? Servant unto all. That word servant's a good word to underscore. I made myself a servant unto all. Why? That I might gain the more. Now what does he mean gain the more? It's all about winning unto Christ. See more people saved. Would you agree with me somebody getting saved, that's a benefit for them? Yeah, that's pretty good We were giving out tracts in the Atlas one time, and Dan Hindsley is a deacon there in the church. We're giving out tracts, and I don't know why, I just started saying this. I'll say, here's a little gospel tract, be a blessing to you. And uh later on he says, Why do you say that? Why do you say it'd be a blessing to them? I said, Well, if they get saved, that would be a blessing to them. He goes, Yeah, I guess it would be. Get saved, out of hell, go to heaven? Yeah, it'd be a blessing. And so he says, hey, I've become a servant to all. I've just laid a self- I laid aside my own rights, my own will, all that. I'm just a servant to people. Why? So I can point them to Christ. So I can benefit them. Then he goes on, he expands on it. To the Jews, I became a Jew, that I might gain the Jews. To them that are under the law, as under the law, that I might gain them that are under the law He lived as under the law. He followed the law there while he's with the Jews, just so he wouldn't offend them or anything, so he could win them to Christ. To them that were without the law, he's talking about the Gentiles, the barbarians without the law. But then he he qualifies what being not without the law to God, he said, I'm not living in sin, but under the law to Christ, as He qualifies it there, clarifies a little. Then he says that I might gain them that are without the law. To the weak I became as weak, that I might gain the weak. I am made all things to all men that I might by all means save some. And this I do for the gospel's sake. And he goes on down. You know what Paul's doing? He says, I'm offering up spiritual sacrifice. I'll lay aside my will. I'll fit into that. Missionaries have to do that sometimes. Joe up. Where's Walmart? We don't have any Walmarts here in Papua New Guinea. Oh, brother, I ain't stick around if there ain't no Walmart. And uh how many people would they win? They'd never win any. And so they lay aside their Their customs, they lay aside their will, they die to self, become a servant, so they can win people to Christ. A spiritual sacrifice, doing good to the benefit of others. Did you write that down? It's more important to be a blessing than it is to get a blessing. That's a spiritual sacrifice. Twenty-one years ago, this coming month, June, tomorrow starts June, 21 years ago, 20 One year ago, we put a tower up in the backyard. We put a satellite dish up, a little building there. We got out CNN metals Dave Dave uh um Dave uh Robinson came up from FBN, got everything set up, and that Saturday night, I forget the date, the Saturday night we went on the air And we began broadcasting the gospel all around southern Garrett County 21 years ago. When we first put it up, one of the issues Was that we would interfere with radios and TVs in the area here. That that was an issue. Now they changed the frequencies in the country a little bit and it's not an issue now. But at the time it was. We had filters. When the radio was on it was coming through our sound system. We had filters on all the the little cables there it worked a little bit. Uh down here the church, the Methodist church, every Sunday morning our preaching was coming through their sound system there. revival broke out and uh souls were getting saved and uh and uh we we are coming We were coming through down there and uh there and and um there was a house back here on Alexander Lane, just across here, it's not far from where you guys live, another house down And uh there was a coup I got a phone call one day from this lady, I mean a woman, and uh man Your radio's coming through our stereo system. And she used words I hadn't heard in a long, long time. She just teared into me. I said, Well, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Listen, we we'll make that right And uh I I went and got some of our filters, you know, these little things. They I don't think they did a thing, but we had 'em all. And I went over there, I knocked on the door, I'm past the leather man. She's laying into me and um it wasn't Shannon, it was another lady. But uh she's tearing into me and so I said, Here, try these And now we ain't trying to, I said, Well they'll work. Uh we ain't putting them on, we uh we want that thing I said, tell you what, I said um Uh tell me what kind of stereo have and all of that, what all it has, we'll buy you a high quality stereo, we'll buy a whole new stereo for ya We get a little higher quality, they have filters built in, and you shouldn't have any problem. I called down the day and he goes, Yeah, you can get these certain I mean they're very, very expensive, a couple thousand bucks or a thousand dollars or whatever. And uh I said, listen, we'll get that for you, we'll replace it, and um, so that you we don't interfere your thing. And that caught her a little off guard She goes, well, I don't know. I'll talk to Ray. I said, all right, well let us know. I said, we we want to make right. We want to do right Didn't hear anything back. They never called me back. I thought, well, okay, whatever. Never heard anything. About six months, about a year later, not quite a year later, our next wild game dinner Her boyfriend showed up at the wild game dinner. We got to talk a little bit. Um, kinda won him over, and uh I mean he's living there with her, they're living together. He came to church when Bill Barrens was preaching revival meeting. And I notice afterward we dismiss and him he's back there, Bill's talking to him, and I I wouldn't interfere, they were just talking, and they went back in the fellowship hall and sat down. Dr. Barron's and this fellow They came out. He told Aaron said, tell Pastor Letterman what you did. He said, I got saved. And he came out, he came to the wild game dinner, set up stuff there, and he's moved on. I lost track with him there. He came for a while. You know what I think? I could have went over and told that lady, you ain't talking to no preacher that way. I'll tell you right now, you ain't talking to me like that. I'm a man of God. You ain't talking to me You think that would have been a blessing to her? No. I mean, I knew those words she was using from years ago. I could have thrown them right back at her. But the Bible says we're priests. We're to offer up spiritual sacrifices, and one of those spiritual sacrifices Is doing good, doing things that benefit others, even people that aren't nice, even people we get no benefit back from. You do, and that's a sacrifice to God. That's a sacrifice to God. There's somebody that gets under your skin. There's somebody you think, oh Listen, I'm a high priest. A sacrifice costs something. I say, you know what? I'm just going to be a blessing to them. I'm just going to do and say whatever I can that helps them and blesses them. It turns around. You know what I found? I found out doing good turns hearts more than being hateful. Being loving and kind. I wish we had time. We're going to have to end here. But I'll give you this reference, Matthew chapter 7, verse 43 and 44. And we're going to look at that for another spiritual sacrifice later. But in Matthew chapter 7, verse 43 and 44, it's a sermon on the mount, and Jesus says this, do good to them that hate you. You know what he's saying? Offer up a spiritual sacrifice. Do good to them that hate you. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I ask, Lord, you'd help us to take our role as priests very seriously. You do. And I pray you'd help us on a daily basis, a regular basis, offer up these sacrifices, our bodies to begin with. Just give ourselves over to you. Then our praise. And then our good works. And just in this old hateful, sinful world, so violent, so self-centered, so vicious Lord help us to just offer up these sacrifices, just do good, just be a blessing. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need to work on that goodness. Any like that? I really need to work on that. My hands raised. We want to strike back. We want to fight fire with fire. That's no sacrifice. Offer up good deeds. Good works. Father, bless our invitation, I ask, in Jesus' name