First Peter chapter three, verse eighteen, we preached on the other week, a week or so ago. First Peter three eighteen is one of the great, great verses in the Bible about the atonement of our Lord Jesus Christ what Jesus Christ did in dying for us and rising again. I'm going to read verse 18 because verse 18 leads in to verse number 19 and 20, which is our text for this evening Verse 18 says, For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, being put to death in the flesh. but quickened by the Spirit. Now note the punctuation there. There is not a period. It's a colon there. So the the idea is not finished It carries on into the next verse. Being put to death in the splesh, but quickened by the spirit, by which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison. Which sometimes were disobedient when once the long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah While the ark that was preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls, were saved by water. Now, what I want to look at tonight are the spirits in prison. Spirits in prison. Let's pray and ask the Holy Spirit to help us understand what Peter's talking about here. Let's pray. Father in heaven Again, it's been a good day, and we're very grateful. My heart's full and rejoicing tonight in your goodness. Lord, anytime a soul is saved. It's a blessing. We rejoice, especially a young child. And so now as we finish out the day with your word opened on our laps and in front of us here, I ask that you would give us another challenge for the week, challenge our faith, challenge our heart, speak to us. We pray for direction and for understanding that our Christian life would be what you intend for it to be, and our witness would be effective. So Lord, I yield my will to you, I present my body anew, and I pray with all my heart that you please fill me with your Holy Spirit and empower me. Put your hand upon the preaching and teaching here this evening. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. It's actually more of a teaching tonight. here as we look at this passage. But before we get looking at this, I want to point out there are some passages in Scripture that are very disturbing I don't know if you've ever come across any passages you read them and it bothers you. Anyone know what I'm talking about? If you've read your Bible, and I really encourage this, if you've read your Bible from cover to cover, if you've read from Genesis to Revelation, you're going to get some parts of the Bible that are very enjoyable. Right? You follow what I'm saying, man. You get in some of the Psalms, and man, I love to read them. What a blessing. I read them over and over. You get in Isaiah, and there's some passages there that are just very enjoyable and pleasant and courage You know, wait on the Lord. Be of good courage. He shall strengthen thy heart. You get into the gospels. John 14 we referenced this morning. I go to repair a place for you, Mark just sang about it. And uh come again, receive you unto myself. Some portions of scripture are very, very pleasant, are are very enjoyable. But I tell you there's some portions of scripture, you read them. And it makes you cringe. Anyone know what I'm talking about? You get back in the in the judges And some of those things that took place, I mean, they're cutting off guys' thumbs and their big toes and hanging them up. There's a couple there, Jephthah and his vow with his daughter. Anybody ever read that? And every time I read that, I just cringe. And by the way, God doesn't give his approval on this, he's recording what happened, so we can learn from it. That one place in Judges where the fella takes his concubine and cuts her up. Anyone remember reading that? Man alive. Don't you cringe? You see that and you think, man, that's tough. There's some parts of the Bible that are unpleasant, that are disturbing. Some parts of the Bible are very easy to understand. Well, you can read it as clear as a bell. I'm glad the gospel is so simple that a five, six-year-old Not Bentley. Brantley, a five or six-year-old Brantley, can understand clearly the gospel of Jesus Christ and with all his heart call on the Lord and be saved. There's some portions of scripture that are so clear. How about this one? The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. Now, if you have a hard time understanding that, you need to um, you got problems. I mean, just clear as a bell. But there are some portions of Scripture that are really hard to understand. You follow me? There's some parts you read it and you read it and you read it and you say, What in the world is he talking about? The Bible's like uh it's been illustrated this way many times. The Bible is kind of like the ocean you get in. Some parts are very shallow. And you can get, and then other parts are so deep, so far over your head, you can you can you have a hard time swimming in it. You follow what I'm saying? Take your Bible if you would. Now keep your place here and come over to 2 Peter. We're in 1 Peter, but I want you to notice what Peter says about portions of the Bible that are hard to understand. 2 Peter chapter number 3, all the way at the end of 2 Peter. Now we're in 1 Peter, so 2 Peter would be the next book. And look with me, if you would, at verse 15. He's finishing out his letter again to these persecuted Christians, his second letter. And he says, Account that the long-suffering our Lord is salvation. Now look at this. Even as our beloved brother Paul also, according to the wisdom given unto him So Paul wrote to these people also. Now look what he says in verse 16. As also in all his epistles Speaking of them, in them, of these things, which Peter had referenced previously, now he makes this statement, in which some things are what Hard to be understood. Which they that are unlearned and unstable. Now that next word is an important word, they rest as they do also other scriptures unto their own destruction. Now what's Peter saying here? He's saying, listen, and he's particularly referencing some of Paul's writings under the inspiration of God. And by the way, he calls Paul's writings here scripture, so he recognized the inspiration of Paul's writings in the in the Bible. And he says some of what Paul writes is hard to be understood. Now I don't know about you. But if Peter, a disciple of Christ, a penman of a couple books in the Bible, if he has a hard time understanding some of these scriptures, you and I are going to have a hard time. I know I'm going to have a hard time. You follow me? And he gives a caution, and this is what I want I'm building up to get to our text. He puts a caution in here. When you get to a portion of Scripture that's hard to be understood, There's a tendency sometimes, or a temptation to sometimes, to rest that scripture into fit my understanding. The word rest there means to twist or pervert The idea is this: changing what it's saying so it fits my preconceived conclusion about what's being said. He says there's a real danger of doing that. Sometimes you come to a difficult portion of scripture and you think, I've got to figure this out. And so you twist it around and give it meanings to come to what I had, my preconceived idea of what he's saying. And that's the wrong thing to do. That's a dangerous thing. Now I said all that to say this. Our text back in 1 Peter 3, 19 and 20, I believe is a difficult portion of Scripture to understand, or it can be at least. Now, before we look at it, I want to try and answer this. I want to give a little suggestion. You might want to jot this down if you're a student of the Bible, and I hope you are. You might want to jot these down. And here's what I want to address before we actually look at this: what do you do with difficult passages of Scripture? How do you deal with difficult passage of scripture? How do you interpret or understand a passage of scripture? It's very, very difficult. It's not clear. I want to give you a few suggestions. And again, maybe jot these down. They might be helpful. When you come to a difficult portion of Scripture, number one, I put this down, pray. Pray. Ask God to help me understand this. God, I don't understand what you're saying here. I don't know what this means And come and pray and ask God to teach you. We preached this morning on the comforter of the Holy Spirit in John 14. He mentioned several times He says that the Spirit of God, this comforter, the Spirit of God, which will come from the Father, he will teach you all things. And part of the ministry of the indwelling Holy Spirit, part of his work in my life, is to enable me to understand the Word of God. And so the first thing we do when we come to a portion of Scripture is and you read it, and you read it, you look at it, and say, I don't understand what this means. I think the first thing to do is go to the author God's the author of Scripture, amen. So go to Him. God, what do you mean by this What are you teaching here? And so the first thing when I come to a difficult portion of scripture, number one, is pray. Number two, now this is my approach to it, and I approach to all scripture, especially if it's difficult to understand, is this. Define the words. Look up the words. Find out what they mean. Sometimes there's a meaning there that has a little flair to it, a little insight, helps me grasp what's being said here. The way you define the words, I have the three steps I use. Number one, I look up the root word meaning. What does that word come from And how is that word used? So I find the meaning of the root word that it comes from. Then, second of all, I look up the literal definition of the word in my English dictionary. The best one I know of is Webster's, 1828. It's probably the greatest dictionary ever put together. And what does it mean? What's the literal definition of the meaning? And then how's it used other places in the Bible All right, everybody with me tonight? Everybody doing okay? This is a little teachy tonight, so bear with me. It's Labor Day. And so we're doing a little teaching here But look how it's used other places in the Bible. Did you know that sometimes the context will change the meaning of a word just ever so slightly? The way it means literally and how it's used in context may have some different nuances to its definition And so number one, pray. Ask the Lord, Lord, teach me what this means. Number two, define the words. Number three, look carefully at the context. Again, that may affect the meanings of the words and how they're used. It may clarify answers and questions. And I think that's going to be the case with our passage tonight. So look carefully at the context. What's being said before and after, and what the whole passage, the topic is being discussed. Number four, put this down: compare other scriptures, find a parallel passage. Particularly in the Gospels, you have something you don't understand what's taking place, what's being said, go see if the Gospels address that same event. Go to other places that talk about that topic. Look for parallel passages and look for um other verses on the topic that's being said. Number five, here's one. Now don't do this first. Sometimes a Bible student or a teacher, Bible teacher, somebody Does this first. Don't do this first. Do this later on in your efforts to understand a difficult passage. Number five, seek good counsel. Seek good counsel. Go to maybe a trusted preacher that's been studying and preaching the Bible a long time. Go and say, how do you understand this passage? Get some good counsel or good trusted commentaries. Somebody that you know and trust, they're true to the Word of God, and see what they have to say. Sometimes that helps us Don't overlook, don't overthink or overcomplicate a passage. You know, sometimes we see something we don't understand, man, we start reading stuff into it, and we start making it out to be something that's not Generally, the old acrostic is a good thing to follow. Keep it simple What the I forget the last word there. Yeah, that one right there. Just keep it simple. Sometimes we get read into so much and we get it meaning stuff. And usually if you just keep it simple, a lot of times you'll figure it out. Seek good counsel. Don't overthink or overcomplicate. And last of all, give the Bible the benefit of the doubt. And by that I mean this. It is the Bible is not wrong. Now here's what some yardbirds do, and I think they ought to be fired on the spot. Is they come to a portion of Scripture that they don't understand or they can't figure out what it means, and they'll the first thing they'll say is this, well, this must be mistranslated. You knucklehead, that's the word of God And so give the Bible the benefit of the doubt. By that I mean the Bible's true, the Bible's right, there is a meaning to this, even though I may not understand it. And I found the best thing to do, if I do all my research and I pray, and I cannot come to a clear, definite understanding of what that verse is saying or what that passage is teaching, I'll just let it be, say, okay, I don't understand it. You know what I found? That over years, so I read that over and over, and I grow in my faith and I grow in my understanding. One of these times I come across and read and say, ah Aha. I see what he's saying here. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And so just give it a little time Give the Bible the benefit of the doubt. Say, all right, I'm the one that is limited in my understanding. That is not limited in its ability to explain itself. And just give it time. And sometimes you'll come across something and you'll see it in a different light and you'll understand it. So I said I'll have to say this very quickly. Our text for a lot of people has been, and for me in years going by, it's been a difficult passage to understand. Who in the world are these spirits in prison and Jesus going to preach to them? And there are about as many different understandings and interpretations of this passage as there are preachers and Bible scholars. You ask 20 different people what this means, you'll get 20 different explanations. And I don't consider myself a Bible scholar, but I do consider myself a Bible student. And I do study the Bible, and I want to tell you what I believe this passage is teaching. And to me it's pretty clear It's not difficult. So let's look at it here. Verse number, the last part of verse 18 says, being put to death in the spirit in the flesh, referring to Jesus Christ, but quickened by the what? Spirit. Now look at the next statement in verse 19. Quickened by the Spirit, by which also He went and preached unto the spirits in prison. What is that phrase by which also? What is that referring to? Back to the Spirit, back to the Holy Ghost. He says he was quickened by the Spirit, by which he went and preached to these spirits in prison. So my first point is a question. How did Jesus preach to these spirits in prison? Well, he did it by the Spirit, by the Holy Spirit. Wherever these prison is that these spirits are, and wherever it is that Jesus went and preached to them, he didn't do it physically He did it spiritually. He did it by the Holy Spirit. He preached, communicated, declared the Word of God to these spirits in prison. He did it by the Holy Spirit. Now whoever they are and wherever they're at, it was by the Holy Spirit that Jesus preached to them. How many people got that so far? Alright, that's not difficult. That's not hard to understand. Alright, Jesus, by the Holy Spirit, preached to these spirits. Number two, my second point is a question. Who are these spirits in prison? Who are these guys? Well, let's look at verse 20, it tells us. By which also, verse 19, he went by the Holy Spirit, he went and preached unto the spirits in prison. Now he describes, he tells us who they are. Which sometime, these spirits in prison, sometime, at some point in the past, is what that word sometime there means, at some point in the past. Sometime when uh when sometime we're disobedient. So whoever these spirits are, at some point in the past they've been disobedient. Everybody got that. Alright? We're just breaking this bite-sized things. We're working our way through. They were sometime disobedient, and then he tells us at what point in time they were disobedient, what the circumstances were. When once the long suffering of God waited in the when? Days of Noah. So whoever these spirits in prison are, they are spirits, quote unquote, that were disobedient at some time in the past. And then he says it was during God's long suffering when God was being patient with the world while Noah was building the ark. Well that narrows it down. That tells us, okay, well that who are these spirits in prison? So it was disobedient, unsaved folks during the time of the Ark's preservation when God was being patient. Alright, everybody so far? Alright? Go along along. We're getting this All right, Jesus preached to these guys by the Holy Spirit. They are disobedient, unsaved people. You say, well, how do you got they were unsaved? Well, he says at the bottom, only eight were saved. That were actually were saved. These were disobedient to the Word of God. So my third and third question is, third point, when did Jesus preach to these spirits in prison? Now, it's a very specific group of people. It's a very specific crowd. It's not just all lost people. It's a crowd of folks that were there when Noah was preparing the ark. They were disobedient, obviously meaning disobedient to God. When God was being very patient. That's the crowd. And so when did Jesus go and preach to them? Ah, now that becomes a hard question. I think he tells us. And there's a key word in verse 20. Now we're doing Bible study tonight. This isn't preaching really, this is Bible study. Notice verse 20, there's a key word here. Jesus went, preached to these spirits in prison, which sometimes were disobedient, describing them. Then he tells us when Jesus preached to them. When once the long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah. When did Jesus preach to them? In the days of Noah. You say, wait a minute. The days of Noah were a long time before Jesus was born. I read Genesis. It didn't say nothing about Jesus showing up and preaching, standing on the arch. preaching to these unsaved while God's being very patient. No, it doesn't say that. And it was a long time before Jesus was incarnated. But what was our first point? How did Jesus preach to these spirits? By the Holy Spirit. He wasn't physically there. By the Spirit. He preached to these spirits that are now in prison, hell When the long suffering of God was being shown to this world as Noah was building the ark. And here's what I believe he's saying. Oh, oh, by the way, I want to give you another verse here real quick. If you would, come with me to Preacher of Righteousness. For 120 years, I didn't write the reference down, 2 Peter I think it is. Let's go turn there. Go to 2 Peter chapter 2. This is where it tests your Bible knowledge when you forgot to write the reference down. 2 Peter chapter 2 and look at verse 5. Everybody there? And God, speaking of God, he spared not the old world, the world before the flood. But saved Noah, the eighth person. Now look how Noah is described here. It says, who saved Noah, the builder of arts. Is that what he's described at? No. A what A preacher of righteousness. What was what was what was Noah's occupation? He's a preacher He's a preacher of righteousness bringing in the flood upon the world of the ungodly. Can I suggest to you the ungodly are the spirits that are now in prison? Folks that rejected Noah's message, drowned in the flood, died, and went to hell. So what's he saying here? Here's my conclusion, and my message is about over. For 120 years, while Noah was building the ark, he wasn't just building the ark, he was a preacher of righteousness. He was preaching the word of God. He was preaching the holiness of God. He was preaching the standard that is required of God to be accepted by God. And these spirits were disobedient to Noah's message. And they died in their sins, and they died in their rebellion, and they died in their disobedience. And now they are spirits in prison, in hell. And while, here's the point, while Noah was preaching, it was Jesus Christ Through the person of the Holy Spirit who was speaking through Noah to their hearts and their minds, trying to bring them to salvation. This text is telling us that Jesus was preaching through Noah by the Holy Spirit to these folks who rejected the truth, the righteousness, the word of God that Noah was preaching. I want you to take your Bible, and this kind of helps support my understanding this, go to 2 Corinthians chapter 5. And then I want to make an application, then we'll give the invitation. 2 Corinthians chapter 5 And look with me if you would at verse number 20. Paul makes an interesting statement. It's not difficult to understand. It's pretty clear. 2 Corinthians 5 verse 20. Speaking to believers, he says, now then we are what? Ambassadors for who? For Christ. What is an ambassador? Ambassador is someone who speaks on behalf of the authority behind them, right? We send an ambassador, they represent our country, they speak on behalf of our government. He says, You and I are ambassadors, not for a government, but for Christ. And we are in this world and we are speaking on behalf of Christ. In fact, he goes on and expands on that. Look what he says. We are ambassadors for Christ as though, look at this, as though God did beseech you by us. Be ye uh as go God did beseech you by us. We pray you, look at this next statement, in Christ's stead Be ye reconciled to God. What's he saying? He's saying when you and I stand up and we preach the Word of God, or we teach the Word of God in a Sunday school class or on a bus or some setting, Bible club Or we're standing on a door at a door on a porch at someone's door and we're sharing with them. We have an open Bible and we are sharing with them the Word of God and uh can't get my Bible. My pants are shrinking. And we're standing there and we got a Bible open. You know what he's saying? You know what I think Peter's saying? I think when we're given the Word of God, whatever the setting is, when we're given the Word of God in sincerity and earnestness, it is God Almighty speaking his word through us. To those that are hearing us. Say, preacher, I'd go soul winning, but uh I I just don't think I can do it. Ah, perfect Perfect setting. You know why? Because when you and I are witnessing, it's really not us speaking to their heart. It's Christ through the Holy Spirit speaking to their heart. It's Christ preaching to spirits. It's Christ preaching. We're in Christ's head. We're his ambassadors. When that ambassador stands in Moscow and represents the United States And he speaks on behalf of the American government. It's not his message. It's not him speaking. He's just the conduit through which our government is communicating the message. You with me? And when Noah stood there, wherever he stood, on the ark, wherever he was at, wherever he was preaching righteousness, the Word of God, it was Christ speaking through him to folks who eventually died Drowned the flood, now are in prison, hell. But Christ speak to them. Now you've got to take the context of what's being said. Paul Peter is writing to believers who are being what? Persecuted. And they're preaching to the folks persecuting them. And I think he's trying to encourage them: listen, it's not you, but it's Christ speaking through you to them. And just like those people rejected Noah's message They may be rejecting yours, but it's not you, it's Christ that's speaking. You follow what I'm saying? You follow what I'm saying? I don't know about you, but I could finish studying this. I thought, praise the Lord, I can go soul-winning I can go and talk to people and tell people what the Bible says, and it's not my slick presentation, it's not my tremendous illustrations, it's not how my great personality that's going to Win them to Christ or speak to their heart or bring conviction, it's Christ in me speaking through me You follow what I think he how many people would be much bolder in your witness if you had Jesus right there right there with you witnessing the people right there. How many people would be more bold? Sure. Bring it all, Jesus, right here with me Well, I'm here to tell you when we're given the Word of God, the Holy Spirit, and us Christ, through the Spirit of God, is speaking through us. Speaking through us, speaking through us. So let's be bold this week in our witness. Amen. Let's give out the Word of God. Let's tell people what the Bible says. And let's understand it's not my power. It's not my wisdom. It's my great intellect. Noah's a preacher righteousness, but it was Christ speaking through him. That was speaking to these. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to understand it's not us, but it's you We just trust you. We just do what you tell us to do. We just say what you've instructed us to say. If we're yielded to you and filled with your Spirit, you'll use us and you'll speak through us. And there's these dear folks rejected it, were disobedient to Noah's message, and are now in prison for all eternity, separated from God. Lord, I pray you'd help us to be faithful as Noah was faithful, and to be patient, just stay at it and stay at it and stay at it. And regardless of the outcome, we'd be faithful to you. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many say, preacher, I want to be more bold in my witness. I want to be more bold in sharing the gospel. I want that. God bless you. My hands raised And maybe we can come and think about this. Wait a minute. If I'm given the word of God, Christ is the one that's speaking to that heart. I can't convict anybody. I can't open their mind to their understanding. Only God can do that. He does it through me. Father in heaven, bless our invitation now. Help us to be bright light shining this whole world. Help us to be conduits. For the Spirit, Holy Spirit of God, and the Word of Christ go working through us to the unsaved. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together