Chapter 1, 2 Peter Chapter 1, a lot of material, and I'm going to try to squeeze it in an abbreviated amount of time. We'll see how that works. Hope I don't lose anybody. But I also want to keep everybody awake tonight, alright? So it's just usually the way that I I preach is keep things moving. Second Peter chapter number one. I'm going to give a little bit of context because I think it's appropriate. And then it fits right into the challenge tonight. I'm just going to go ahead and say what the challenge is, and then I'll explain it as time goes on a little bit. It's uh the title of the challenge tonight is Spiritual Math Class. Spiritual math class. How many of you actually like math? Okay, maybe back in school you liked math. Once upon a time you liked math. Okay. How many of you absolutely hate math? Okay. All right, well, I think I'm a little outnumbered I'm the weird one that likes math, okay, and I just tend to think this way, and uh maybe hopefully you'll see it in this text. Hopefully it'll help you remember. With the truths of God's Word tonight. Second Peter chapter number one. Hopefully you found that there. Let's peer down verse number three three, just to get a bit of context, and then we'll go from there. Second Peter chapter one, verse three, all the way through verse nine, Peter writes this, according as his divine power hath given unto us, that is Christians. All things that pertain unto life and godliness through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory and virtue, talking about Christ. whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises that by these you might be partakers of the divine nature that is in the world through lust, and having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. First number five, our main text, and beside this, giving all diligence and to your faith virtue, and a virtue, knowledge and to knowledge temperance and to temperance patience and to patience godliness and to godliness brotherly kindness and to brotherly kindness charity for if these things be in you and abound they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. Verse 9, but he that lacketh these things is blind and cannot see afar off. And have forgotten that he was purged from his old sins. The challenge tonight is spiritual math class. I'll explain that momentarily. God in heaven, we pray that you would bless the preaching of your word, honor your word, the seed that goes forth, and may it germinate, may it bring forth life. uh in the heart of maybe someone who doesn't know you personally tonight. And I pray for believers that do know you personally, some quite intimately. that that intimacy would grow deeper just as a result of you honoring your word as it goes forth preached. Help me to preach and help folks to listen in Christ's name Amen. Alright, I told you I was going to give you just a little bit of context. Look at verse number three. It says it talks about according as divine power hath given us all things that pertain unto life and godliness. Reminds you and I as believers that we've got divine power in us, but also a divine promise afforded to all of us. You see both a power and a promise given to us. But uh Peter lays it out plain and clear as he gives the command to give diligence to add to your faith. Okay, so we're talking about spiritual math class, but some of you said I absolutely cannot stand mathematics. Okay? Well take for example something like the quadratic formula. How many of you have ever heard of the quadratic formula, okay? It's a univariant polynomial equation of the fourth degree to solve three variables at a time. In terms of x, it's expressed opposite of b plus or minus the square root of b squared minus 4a c divided by 2a. Okay? So it's not really that big of a deal, but some of you say, Whoa, what was what was that? Alright? Uh well that's just m mathematics in its basic form, is it not? You say that is absolutely crazy. How about the Pythagorean theorem, a squared plus b squared equals C squared. Okay, so you guys got some of that. Even work can be expressed as a mathematical formula, but as complex as some of these formulas you've studied in school can be It's really broken down into a few mathematical processes. Adding, subtracting, multiplying, dividing. I'm thankful Peter takes puts the brakes on in our spiritual life and he says, listen, life may get a little complex, hairy canary, you know what I'm saying? He said, but it really can be boiled down to a few basic spiritual mathematic processes. Adding, subtracting, multiplying, and dividing. We're going to go through those things and I'll explain what I mean. But first of all, it's very obvious. Adding to your faith. Are you actively adding to your faith or taking away? I've heard described by a lot of preachers before my time that you cannot stay stagnant in your Christian life. It's like being in a boat on a uh river flowing down the river. If you're not actively fighting the current, then that means you're flowing down. If you're doing nothing, it means you're moving, okay? So as a Christian, we cannot remain to I'm just asking the question, are you actively adding to your faith? Notice verse number five But here's the instruction. Here's the thrust of the message. By the way, if you're not saved here tonight, you know that, and God knows that Maybe nobody else does, but those two people for sure know that. I'm not talking about adding things to your life that will equate to salvation. That nor is that what you see in this text, that's not a million miles from this text. He's not saying, add to your faith and somehow you'll gain favor. No, no, no. He's saying to that faith in Christ, there's got to be that foundation. But he says Give all diligence believers to add to your faith. What does that word diligence mean? The command to give diligence. So I looked it up and it actually means three things to make haste to give earnest care Or to interest oneself. Haste is the idea like if I told you that there's a diamond hidden somewhere in this auditorium room worth over ten thousand dollars. How many of you be frantically searching for that diamond? diamond that I love. Okay, yeah, we wouldn't have a sermon left uh tonight because he would be making haste to find that diamond because that's worth a lot of value. So that gives you an idea of what he's saying. Give diligence. You've got to make haste. Ernest here like Some of you ladies perhaps take to get ready in the morning, okay? If you don't, well well, you know, even some guys, all right. I've been to Bible college and some guys, oh boy Alright, so how about interest like when a man is interested in a lady? I could tell you the love story between Jen and I It's only about an hour long. No, I'm just saying I won't do that. But when a man is interested in a lady, you can see that there's definite uh it's it's very obvious. So this word holds a lot of a lot of application for you and I as believers. When he's saying give diligence to your Christian life and to your faith, he's he's not saying it passe He's saying this is a big deal. You need to make haste. You need to interest yourself. You need to have some earnest care about what you're doing. But I I want to point out something before I even get started into this long list of things that we add. Is it in sequence, Pastor Brett? Is one more important than the other? Why does it end with this and start with this? We'll get to that in a moment. But first I want you to notice that there is a clear line in uh in Scripture between giving diligence and dependence. I've heard it said that a Christian needs to act as if the whole Christian life depends on them realizing that it really all depends on God. So but I'm talking about the determination and dependence. This balance that you've got to form in scripture. Once upon a time when I first started going back to church, our family started going when I was kids, I was very frustrated with this because I was a determined young man And it felt like when it came to the Christian life and to grow past a certain calf, I was just pounding my head against a brick wall because I did not realize as determined as I was to live godly as determined as you are through these years, folks, to add to your faith. Maybe you're kind of that proverbial pounding your head. against a a a brick wall because there's got to be a mixture of dependence. Notice verse number three that I read It talks about that God has given unto us all things. That's God's part. That's dependence. God is the one that equips you. God is the one that's gonna do it. God is the one that's gonna overcome the situation in your life. God is gonna want be the one to trump some sin in your life that's been uh there for years. But then notice verse number five, he says, give all diligence. That's our So I call it the uh some dependence and some determination. And where those meet, you need the Holy Spirit to figure that out. You really do. Alright? And I I'm still doing that. So we're talking about Giving all diligence. This is really not God's part. This is really your part. This is what God expects out of you and I as earnest disciples of Christ. You see, I'm not interested in being a disciple of Christ. Well then you're going to find that this is very contrary to you This isn't going to make a lot of sense. And uh you'll not have a whole lot of interest in what's going on here. But if you are an earnest disciple seeking to grow in your walk with God You'll give diligence to add to your faith. So what are we adding? Adding is actually the only imperative command given in this passage. If I tell you go, that's an imperative. It means it's a command. This is strictly the only command given in this whole passage that we read is add to your faith. Here's what I find sometimes we do as Christians, though we treat this clear-cut command of God as a suggestion We've got several in here that are military. Quick raise your hands. Military experience. Okay, yeah, I thought quite a few my day I was military. I was gonna do but if you are in military, you know they don't treat very well in subordination, do they Okay, you learn very quickly that's snuffed out in what they call boot camp that that that has no place in military. Well here we're following a commander in chief in the spiritual Christ. We're in the spiritual math class and and we're somehow treating this command like a form of suggestion, like, uh, you know, I'll get to it. That's kind of for the crazy Christian. No This is for, this is the command written to all believers from then all the way till now into the future. So add, add to your faith. What are we supposed to add? Okay, yes, we're going to go through all these very quickly. Virtue Virtue and it goes on through a long list. I don't believe these are in sequential order necessarily. I don't believe they grow in their importance. I don't think one's more important than the other. That doesn't quite make sense because all of these attributes describe God. So I don't know necessarily why one would be more than the other. Some commentaries disagree, but First of all, we do know we are to add to our faith virtue. Virtue can be defined as thus excellence, moral goodness, not just in action like you're thinking right now, but also in your thoughts and in your feelings. Actions, it's easy to see, right? If I'm going to be virtuous, I've got to spend time with God. I've got to physically do my devotions every day. I'm thankful for Pastor keeping us accountable. You say that kind of annoys me. Sometimes I forget, sometimes I you know, that's good. We need that. Iron sharpeneth iron, but it uh things well the mechanics, yes, the outside, be virtuous. And what you do on the outside, adhering to the law, having a good testimony. But how about in your thoughts? I I challenged near the Fourth of July about that war for your mind. But thoughts, the older I get, the more I realize there's a bumper sticker that's in my mind right now in Bible college. Someone had it on the back of their car. It said thoughts become things. That's so true. You know, Proverbs 20, 23, 7 says, For as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. He's uh the sum of his thoughts. Matthew chapter 5, the Sermon on the Mount, pastor's been preaching through that, that whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her in his mind, in his heart. He's already sinned. Paul writes to believers in Philippi. He says, Finally, brother, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just. Whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue, there be any praise, you've got to start thinking on those things and start mixing stuff that doesn't match up with that. Second Corinthians 10 5, casting down imaginations You've got to learn to bring every thought to the obedience of Christ. Virtue on the outside sometimes may be easy to master. Getting a handle on those thoughts can be something different. Maybe something that's been slipping by you as of late. How about feelings? Feelings can be a good thing, but you've got to have a master over your feelings. I'm glad the Christian life doesn't depend on our feelings. It's like a roller coaster. I am the biggest fan of extreme anything that you can do, okay? You can just go ahead and just see it all written all over me. I love extreme stuff Roller coasters are absolutely fun. The tall the faster they are, the taller they are, the steeper the incline, the more my lips and cheeks flap in the air, the better that it is, okay? I just I love roller coasters, but you know I'm thankful the roller coasters are so much fun because you get on and you enjoy it and there's thrill and then you get off and touch ground and kiss the ground and sort of pray to God again that you're alive, you know, that sort of thing. But it's nice because of the thr temporary thrill. And feelings are kind of that way. They can go up and down. And they can be quite enjoyable. Nothing in the world wrong with that whatsoever. But I've got news for you. The more you learn to live your life by faith rather than feelings, the more mature. You're going to be the more virtuous. You're going to be, I'm thankful that just because I don't feel safe or going to church doesn't mean that I've got to obey those feelings. virtue in your actions, in your thoughts, in your feelings. How about knowledge? Do you know this word is genosis? It may not mean a lot to you, but Peter thought it was important enough to include it three times in the passage we read. Look at verse three He says in the latter end, through the knowledge, so we we are able to live godly only because through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory to ver um uh from uh called us to glory and virtue. Verse five. Beside this giving all diligence add to your faith, virtue, and the virtue knowledge. There it is again. And uh also in verse number um two, grace and peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge. He uses this word over and over again. And it's not just a factual knowledge. We're we're good at it uh accrueling a bunch of facts about God, uh that's wonderful, but this is an experiential getting to know your God. I like what Paul writes in Philippians 3 8, he says Yea, doubtless I count all things but loss for the excellency of the, here's the word, knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, that I may, here it is, know him. Paul said, listen, I can count everything else, but you know the word dung. Uh uh I counted all but loss But when I can get to know my God, that I count as something very, very important. Getting to know. Many in this room are married, engaged, recently married. I knew I would pick on you sometime or another, you too. Um but congratulations by the way. But um that uh you you know what it's like to need to get to know the partner. In fact, the Bible instructs us husbands. Dwell with our wives according to knowledge. Trust me, it'll be a whole lot happier if you do that, okay? But same thing with God. When we learn to dwell with Him according to knowledge, wow What an impact um that makes on our lives. The more you know, the more you change and you act accordingly. Knowledge is s sort of like facts with feet. Alright, so we've got to add to our faith virtue, to virtue, knowledge. And then to knowledge, temperance. Temperance sounds like an English word. If someone's really uh is known as a hothead, they probably have a bad what Temper, right? Uh maybe you know someone with a bad temper. Gets a little hot under the collar, but the word actually in English is the uh is is it's almost the idea of uh what he's saying is self-control. You need to have control over your faculties. Thomas Akinis said of temperance, it is simply a disposition of the mind that binds the passions. You've got to have control over your faculties. One of the qualifications for me and for Pastor Leatherman is that we Be temperate. We've got to be temperate in all things. And same thing with serious believers. If you're gonna be serious about your walk with God, about actually growing Then that means you need to learn to control those passions, those things that can sometimes get way, way out of whack, and we need to learn to bring those things under. But it could be just being temperate and practical things like being on time It can be not oversleeping, not overeating. It can be all sorts of things we need to learn temperance in and get a control over. How about patience? Add of your faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience. Patience I find is a little bit of a misunderstood word. It actually is the idea of steadfast. A man who is not swerved by even the greatest of trials. It's been said that a man's character is determined by what it takes to stop him. You may not know this necessarily just from reading our context. I try to bring out the context what is actually going on here. But Peter, if you read the first verse there, um in 1 Peter as well, he he says that He's writing to the 12 tribes which are scattered abroad, and he's talking to believers. You say, why are they scattered abroad? Oh, they're going to preach the gospel all of them. Well, they were actually scattered abroad because of persecution Not too many people on the face of this earth need more patience than a Christian who's undergoing persecution. I don't know if necessarily uh what would qualify in America, we've kind of got uh we're very blessed, not kind of, we are definitely blessed as a nation, but what it takes to stop Sometimes you may even think of friends that just absolutely can't stand you talking about Christ as a form of persecution. And in a way that's antagonistic. And in a way that that kind of is, but we need to have patience and allow nothing to swerve us. That uh we need we need to live godly um and and not uh so easily give up, get a little bit more of a uh backbone. Uh so it kind of begs the question though uh for us as believers, what would it take to stop you? from living godly. Our election, past election, could have easily taken a direction in a different way, and we could have had very different laws governing our nations. We could have had legalized many wrong things contrary to the Word of God. And we could have illegal many things that should be upheld in our land. What what would it take to stop you in the days ahead when elections don't go the way that we want? When there is judgment that's coming, how are how are you gonna fare in that? Are you gonna kind of be weeded out a little bit? But patience, we all need Patience. And there's a is that element of the way we deal with one another as well. What gets underneath our collar? What what upsets us? What makes us mad? What gets us so offended? You know, as Christians, we really should not be that easily offended. We shouldn't wear our emotions on our sleeves. And I met a lot of people like that, met a lot of teams like that. I just mentioned that because I work a lot with the young people, but S for all ages. We need Patience. Patience to uh brotherly kindness. Brotherly kindness is very simple. It's uh we skip one godliness. Godliness is simply God like character, very self-explanatory. Um but uh I I I bring this out. I don't know how many of you know it's some uh Israeli history, some uh Jewish history, but if you do, you know that when the a young Jewish boy was studying to become a priest One of the first things that he would do is memorize, yes I said memorize, the entire book of Leviticus. How many have ever memorized the book of Leviticus? Okay. Yeah, I didn't think so. That's that's pretty intense, if you ask me. Why Leviticus? That's the third book in the Bible. I mean, do they pick something out of a hat? No, because Leviticus, the theme of the book of Leviticus is really all about God's holiness. See here these young boys were getting it. They were soaking it up. They were memorizing. They were letting it get in them and and them get in the word. And they were They just allowed it to become a part of them. And the same thing that we need is that we need that form of holiness. We need to uh live holy lives, god-like lives. It's very uh self-explanatory, but Hebrews 1214 makes that a little more practical. Of course, Hebrews talking specifically in reference to the Jewish people that had the oracles of God. They had all these things of God and they knew so much about God. Hebrews 12, 14 it says, declares that without holiness, no man can see the Lord. How about a believer as uh tonight? Just do a simple examination. Are you seeing God work in your life? Or in the past week, couple weeks, month, year, few years Just be honest with yourself. Have you seen God work and move in your life? It could be something's not right. God's been putting on his finger up. Not the first time either. You know what it is. Holiness. Godliness. It seems so simple, but it seems like God's turned his back, his favor on you in your life. That may be exactly what's happening. And we need to give diligence, add to your faith godliness. How about brotherly kindness? It's brotherly love. It's the type of love not necessarily um any less of love. I know some people will say, some commentaries will uh comment that adopte love a sacrificial love in the supreme form of love I I don't necessarily view Agape as as a higher form of love, but simply follow this brotherly love as a form of love. That's the love we have for one another And the reason I don't say that that's necessarily one mo is more important than the other because the Bible says this, by this shall you know that you are my disciples. They'll look at your life and why is that? Because you have love or philetho for the brother. You love, you have brotherly love. That is a trademark of believers that we get along, that we love one another. They don't believe the way that I do. They go to church down there. That doesn't matter. Brotherly love Well, they don't really deserve it. They've rejected me over and over again. Do you he know the way that they it doesn't matter. Brotherly love Give all diligence to add to your faith brotherly love. Christ said that by this again that you shall know that you're my disciples. Do people know that you're a disciple of Christ by your love? Are you giving diligence to add to your faith brotherly kindness? How about last what we're supposed to add to our faith, we're talking about adding, is charity. The words often translated um charity because it often speaks of love manifested in action. Okay, nothing quite speaks as loud as it um So your your words may say one thing, but it's your actions, charity. Um just love what? Love savior, love your love souls, love um uh uh spiritual things, uh just uh cherishing having uh biblical Christ-like love. But uh then we'll move on to so these are things that we're supposed to Add, give all diligence to add to your faith. But then we're going to talk about subtraction. Subtract. You say, where do you get the word subtract from? Well, uh notice verse number four. It says, whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises. And then it says drop down at the at the end there that we can be partakers of the divine nature, escaping the corruption that's in the world through lust. That means getting rid of it. That means Avoiding it. That means taking it out of our lives. That means once it was there, we we are able to escape that now. Bible talks about there's no temptation taking you, but such is coming. But God's gonna make a way for you to escape that you've got to begin subtracting the former things. So we're adding to our faith, but we've also got to subtract some of the four things. Look at verse number nine. It says he that lacketh these things is blind and cannot see if our office And he this is the problem. He's forgotten that he was even purged from his, what's the next two words? Old sin. Old Almost like Peter's taking for granted that that's the things I used to do, I don't do them anymore. How about you? Is that true? Are you actively subtracting things that don't belong? Simple mathematical illustration, if you will, what happens when you subtract a negative number? Ah, you increase. What's one minus negative one? It's two. It's not zero. It's two. See, when we subtract a negative number, we go up. As a believer, I find the same parallel When you subtract things that God says, uh-uh, that doesn't belong. That doesn't match up with the Word of God. You forgot that you were purged from old sins. Those old things that are passed, those things that I died for, those things that are stopping you. You know that's building you know that doesn't belong. When you begin subtracting, you say, Oh, I don't know if I can live without that though. Man, I I don't know. Uh maybe I could just put it away from Um it we think that we can't live without it when in reality we can't live the Christian life with it. And when we learn to subtract that just trusting God, to deal with that area of our lives. It's amazing how we actually find ourselves going, how we God seems to replace that and we we increase. And of course that's that's very simple and elementary. But sometimes that's not very true in a Christian's life. Second Corinthians five seventeen, therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature Old things are passed away. Romans 6. 6, knowing this that our old man is crucified with him. Ephesians 4. 22, that ye put off concerning the former or the old conversation, the old man which is corrupt according to the deceitful lust. Lusts are just empty desires, uh passions that go absolutely nowhere And you get caught up with all these things. And again, I mentioned this way. You almost seem to feel like you cannot live without them. But Christ is gently saying, listen, you cannot live with them. You've forgotten that you were purged from those old things. You've escaped the corruption. Now we've just got to start act acting like it. In the spiritual manifest, are you adding to your faith and subtracting some of those former things? Starting as a teenager, I saw my oldest brother make some disastrous decisions. They may not have seemed that way on the outside. But they were on the inside. They started off small as he looked longingly at the crowd that did the naughty thing. No big deal. Goofed off, passed notes, maybe uh said something that they shouldn't, maybe looked at something that they shouldn't, maybe messed around with some uh unfortunate individual or something like that. But it began to escalate as he thought it was no big deal to just try cigarettes and you know, then as they got older some people had some of these other drugs that He said, you know what, I'll just try it a little bit. And eventually he saw that he could sell something. And he said, you know what, I'll just I'll I'll deal it and I'll not do it. Well, that didn't last long. He started doing what he was doing. To this day, I don't know if I can name a drug that my oldest brother has not tried. I um every time I went back from Bible college, he'd tell me a story that would start off, oh you remember this one time I almost died actually. I was trying to get my leg straddled over the bridge chasing or trying to run away from these crazy visions that I had and I was like, you know, I I don't remember you telling me that story. That happened over and over again. And you know what my brother would tell you is that he dn he said, I never thought that those simple decisions I made back then would lead me to where I'm at now. He just shortly got out of jail And his life is not what it should be. And with some of the drugs that he's done, he doesn't even remember some of the things that we did. I would share with him. Hey Sonny, you remember the the game that we used to play when we were younger? And he'd look at me blank faced I I don't remember that, Brett. I think how sad. Giving into s lust, uh uh not actively subtracting things that don't belong, it's dangerous. You think you can play around with it. There's a warning in this passage otherwise. Give diligence to add to your faith and then also subtract the things Uh but now we're getting to a little bit of the results of some of this. And uh number three is the idea of multiplication of faithful efforts. You see, where do you see that? Look at verse number 8. For if these things be in you and abound. That's the word abound. Abound literally means superabound. It means greatly increase. It literally means multiply. Again, it almost seems like a spiritual math class, doesn't it? That uh Baron is the opposite of it. In verse number nine, he says that Uh verse number eight rather that it'll make you that you shall neither be barren nor unfruitful. Barren means it's the opposite of work, it means plain and simple, lazy, unfruitful. Means the net gain of zero. It means that you have nothing to show for yourself. It means that there's nothing really going, nothing increasing, nothing going on. Whereas believers, God wants to multiply our faithful effort. And that's very interesting because there is a huge dichotomy between where I am today, and this is all glory to God, because it's God that works in us. We realize this. and between some of my siblings where you say someone would say, Wow, how did you grow up even in the same home? That that it I that doesn't even make sense in my mind. It's unfathomable how someone maybe uh they uh maybe you know somebody who's grown up in the same family and boy one sibling will make some certain decisions and another certain decisions that seemingly aren't that different or maybe harmless, but boy, by the time that those efforts are multiplied. It's scary where those people end up. It's almost like an exponential equation that just goes crazy up in some sort of direction. And that's that plays true in the spiritual life. Sowing and reaping, whatever you want to call Peter's saying here that listen, believer, if you're actively adding to your faith, God promises you you will not be barren, you will not be unfruitful. He's going to make you abound. He's going to honor that effort and I've seen that happen in amazing ways in my life. The law of sowing and reaping. Um when I was a teenager my parents took my brothers and I out on a long extended vacation. It was a three-week vacation. It actually kind of changed my life in uh not a weird way, but it was just, it was a really neat experience. I loved every bit of it. because we would go to national parks all around the country. One of my favorite by far, if you ask me what my favorite national park was, was Sequoia National Park in California. Not many people know this, but by volume, sequoias are the largest living organism in the world. These things will take a approximately twenty-five full grown men to just wrap with their arms completely spread out like so all the way around these trees. And actually the park was quite nifty because it's situated very, very high up where they grow naturally and they thrive. uh very well and um the the the bark on these uh cone trees that it's real soft. You can almost hug some of these trees and it falls down on some of the turf down below. You feel like you're in a land of giants. But as you walk around, it's actually real cushy. The whole place to me was just magical. I thought maybe I might see a giant kind of just step through those huge trees. It was like a land of giants. It was very impressive, but these trees are uh can tower in the sky nearly 300 feet. Some of them even more than 300 feet in the air. But all these tr trees start off as a basic little cone that will fit in any one of your the palm of your hand. And then of course as a forest fire to germinate it, and then it begins to grow, and after several hundred years, it amounts to this huge sequoia tree. But it all starts off here. You know the law of sowing and reaping because it happens over and over again every season. How about as a Christian? Are you sowing? Are you adding to your faith? Are you sowing that seed is? Are you seeing God multiply faithful effort in your life? If not, this last may be true of you, and we'll close with this division. Division caused by failure to do those things. We've we've looked at what we're supposed to add. We're looking at some of the things we're supposed to subtract. We look at how God is able to multiply our efforts, but also just by our neglect, some of us are divided in our mind, in our hearts, and in our lives. Our Christian Look at verse number nine. But he that lacketh these things is blind. The word blind is a idea of blind to God's working leading feeling lost, not sure where to go, not clear direction, uh darkness maybe, that is true kind of where you're at right now. Now you wouldn't dare say that on the outside And I'm not dare picking on anybody here. I want to encourage and uplift God's people here tonight. But it may very well be that you have not actively done this if you did a fair assessment. If you took a spiritual math test that you would kind of not do have that great of a score and you say, I'm willing to be honest and fess up to that, and you're seeing this division that you're blind. And you just cannot seem to get a handle on what God's doing. I'm not saying you need all the answers and only the spiritual ones are have insight and have all the answers. What I'm saying is you don't really see God working in your life. Young person, you may see God kind of resisting you and everything's against you, and and maybe you you found some Circumstances that happen in your life that are contrary and they're not what you signed up for. And man, life's been kind of, if you could just say uh as of late, kind of terrible. That may be true, but are you blind and not seeing God in these things, in your situation? It takes a little bit of introspection, doesn't it? It takes a little bit of God sort of slipping us across the desk, the test to see how we're doing. Do you notice that you're A little blind to God's leading. I'm not only blind, but you can't see afar off. That's like being broadsided. You're tossed about. You're up and down and all around, and you just can't make focus on things Um I remembered that uh we're talking about focusing on something that's uh really close and everything else just kind of blurs out. I remember I did some basketball. I didn't go very far, I wasn't all that great or anything, but I remember in high school that um I I when we were down a lot, I just ended up getting this tunnel vision and my coach would yell at me all the time because I was point guard, I'd take the ball down and I'd just get this tunnel vision and felt like I I I gotta do this myself and so what and inevitably what I do is I'd penetrate as hard as I could and they saw it coming. I do the same thing every time. Eventually I learned to use a different hand. But it it was all the same. I just tried to go headstrong, just looking at the basket, and I never noticed any of the defenders for some reason after the million times that I did it My coach yelled, I never noticed the defenders that were right at me because I just wanted to score a basket and and get ahead and and stop from being down so much. I was getting frustrated and boom I hit a defender. Well, you know, if a defender is planted and not moving, then you get a charge as offensive. foul against you. You lose possession of the ball. And man, my coach would get mad. But why? Because I I I just I I couldn't see. I I was so focused on something in particular. that everything else blurred out. And the it's kind of true of us too that we can um we're we get our focus off of God and we we don't see a far off. We don't have real vision. We're we're getting bombarded, we're getting tossed, and nothing just seems to be adding right. And I I I think of this too that is so often true We forget that we are purged from our old sins. I may be talking to a crew here tonight, somewhere in the midst. You've got you've begin to doubt the fact that God has saved you based on the promises He's given you. You've entertained doubts. Do you know when a teen came to me at camp the couple years we worked on staff? In fact it happened, I would say, 10, 20 times every week came doubting that God had saved them. They came doubting that they really meant it. They came doubting. And you know what I'd usually turn to? 2 Peter chapter 1 verse 9. If you're not actively adding to your faith, subtracting things, seeing God multiply that effort, chances are going to be, you're going to soon forget that God even saved you from your sins. You're going to be doubting. There may be teen, there may be a young person, there may be an older individual in here tonight that has been doubting, and it could just simply be that we're not obeying clear instruction to add to our faith. So how about it? Are you adding to your faith? So when you come to a passage like this, I think this, and we'll conclude with this. It ought to demand of us a little bit of introspection. So let me ask you a question. If we gave you a spiritual math test, if God slipped across the proverbial desk to you and gave you a spiritual test. Math test, how would you be doing? Are you adding to your faith? Are you subtracting former things? Are you seeing God multiply that? Or are you divided? Because you're not obeying those things. You're going back when you should be pressing on. God, I thank you for your word. I thank you for folks' attentiveness and help us to be changed into your image. We realize from this very passage, you've given us all things that allow us to live godly. It's just up to us to give diligence to our Christian walk. to take care of it, to be passionate about it. Help us to do that and make some changes, some tweaks tonight for your glory, we ask in Christ's name. With your eyes closed, headbound, I just want to ask uh two quick questions. Question number one is Ms. Jennifer explain is I love to offer, is there anybody here before you say, Pastor Brah, I need to add to my faith, before I can add to my faith, I need to first be in the faith. Is there anybody here tonight that is unsure about their salvation? Would you slip your hand up so that I can pray for you? I promise I'm not. Yeah, interested in embarrassing you. That's that's the farthest thing. But um I'll be the only one that'll see it, but I could be praying for you, of course God'll see it. Anybody like that? I'm assuming that everyone here knows the Lord and is honest about the previous question. So let me ask question number two. How many of you'd say, Pastor Bryant, well, God Um if I were to take the spiritual math test tonight, this evening, I'm not sure what my grade would be, but I think I can do a little better. If God has spoken to your heart, it could be one area, it can be two areas, it can be several, whether adding or maybe even subtracting. Would you just be honest, slip your hand up? I give me an indication of how to pray. Very good. I appreciate you folks being honest. As uh Miss Jennifer Place, what I'd encourage you to do is not in a showy fashion, but just say, God, I'd I'd like to do better on the spiritual math class and and uh make some of these changes. I'd encourage you to do that in your seat or up front here as Ms. J.