1 Peter 2, verse number 5. Peter's writing to these believers, scattered because of persecution, under intense persecution. We think we got it rough Uh brother, we we've got it made in the shade compared to what these dear folks were going through. And so um, wherefore, verse uh five, ye also As lively stones are built up a spiritual house. How many people remember a couple weeks ago you watched online, I guess, or listened, we preached on that spiritual house. Anybody remember that Yeah, that's an important thing. The church isn't a physical building, but it is a building. It's a spiritual building. And then last week we noticed he said, and holy priesthood. He's telling them, listen, you're a spiritual house. He said, You're a holy priesthood. And we tried to look at that, and we preached on that last week that every believer, now this is great, every believer is considered a priest before God. Isn't that something? We have direct access to God. We don't have to go any uh go through anybody. Hey, I'm telling you, I'm not trying to be unkind, but I'm just trying to be honest, the Catholics are wrong when they have people going through a human priest. That is unscriptural, that is ungodly. Only God can forgive sins. But as a priest, you and I have direct access. Now, I want to pick up on that. He makes another statement about this holy priesthood. A holy priesthood, why? To offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Spiritual sacrifices. That's what I want to look at this week. Last week, I buzzed through them. I want to look at them tonight. Let's pray. Father, we bow now before you with very grateful hearts for a good day. What a blessing to be together. Lord, we're glad for the folks that came out this morning, for the young lady who was concerned about her standing with you, her spiritual well-being, responded, and Lord, we trust we are able to help her there We pray for others. I believe a good decision is made. And now, Lord, as we finish out this Lord's Day, this uh new day, uh the first day of a new week I pray you'd stir our hearts and prepare us for the coming week to be a good witness, to walk in faith And to be this priest that you've called us to be as believers. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew with all my heart. I pray, Lord, you fill me with your spirit. And that you speak through me and challenge and help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Peter actually mentions twice here in this passage about the priesthood of the believer. Here in verse number five, he says that we are a holy priesthood. If you look down at verse number nine, He brings that up again. He words it a little differently. He says, but you're a chosen generation. And here he says that we as believers, and these believers he's writing to, he says they are what kind of priesthood? A royal priesthood, so a holy priesthood and a royal priesthood. We'll look at that royal priesthood in the future sometime. But uh we're priests, the priesthood of the believer. That's one of the Baptist distinctives, is the priesthood of the believer. What that simply means, as I kind of said there uh at the beginning of the message, is it simply means this, that you and I as believers uh stand can come directly to before God, and the role of a priest was to offer up prayers and sacrifices on behalf of others. That was the role of the priest. See, remember we pointed a we pointed out the difference between a prophet and the priest Remember, the prophet stands before who? Anyone remember last week? The prophet stands before the people on behalf of God. The priest comes before God. Now in the Old Testament, into the tabernacle, and once a year on the Day of Atonement, the Holy of Holies, the high priest would go in there, and they would come before God on behalf of the People. And so you and I are a priesthood. Uh and we we have direct access to God and the role of the priests, particularly Old Testament. uh was to offer up prayers and sacrifices on behalf of the people. Now here's my question. I want to get right into my outline. What are these sacrifices that you and I as us priests are are uh instructed to offer up to God. What are these sacrifices that we offer to God? And by the way, every one of us here, how many folks here are saved in the know it? Say amen To the fr from the youngest child of God, from the youngest saved person to the um the yeah. I was trying to say it nicely, but um to the oldest saved person, we are all priests of God. These teenagers down here, y'all are priests. How about that You need to know that. And back there, the kids back there over here, you know the Lord, we're priests. And we're to offer up spiritual sacrifice. What in the world are these sacrifices? Number one Here's my first point. I want us to consider the character of these sacrifices. What do they consist of? What are they? Well, let's look at the text here, the passage And let's look at some of the words used here and see what these are. First thing he says here, to offer up spiritual sacrifices. I got looking at that little statement, offer up. Those two words. I looked up what that means, how it's used. And it has a very specific meaning. Interesting enough, it has a very specific meaning It has this idea, and this was the definition from the word it's translated from. This was the definition to pick something up, to carry it, and place it onto an altar Well, you talk about specific definitions. Offering up, picking up something and taking it and placing it on the altar. It reflects back to the Old Testament where the Old Testament priest, someone, let's say, Mark, you're at a bad spot. I'm going to pick on you. Let's say Mark sinned this week. I know that's hard to believe Let's say Mark said or did something he's not supposed to do this week. In the Old Testament, and he would come to the priest and he would bring a lamb or a sacrifice. He'd look it over, make sure there's no blemishes. uh pull all the ticks off, make sure there's uh make sure the things all clean and good and ready to go, wash it up. And he'd bring it to the priest, and uh the priest would take that lamb, he would pick it up, he would carry it in And then he would offer it up. He'd go through the process. That's the word offering up. That's the idea, what it's carrying it from. And so I got to think, all right, well, we and I, you know, we're we're uh priests And we have these sacrifices, these spiritual sacrifices that we're supposed to offer up. I thought, how in the world do you pick up and carry a spiritual sacrifice and put it on the altar? I think what I think the idea, at least this is what I'm getting from it, is this. This is a voluntary decision. This is something I am choosing, and that'll become significant here in a bit. I think you'll see what I what I mean by this This is the decision I make as a believer. I voluntarily decide that I am going to offer up this spiritual sacrifice to God It's not something I am being driven to do. Not something my arm is being twisted to do. It's something That I choose of my own free will, the motivation we'll see here in a little bit, is to take this, and I want to offer this spiritual sacrifice to God. And so I think the idea that it is a voluntary decision, a free will decision on my part to do this, I think that's significant. And I think you'll see that here in a bit. So the first thing I notice here about these spiritual sacrifices is that we're to offer them up. A voluntarily free will of our own free will, offer these things up. And then what kind of sacrifices are they? I've said it several times. They are what? Spiritual sacrifices. So if something is spiritual, that at least in my mind means it's non-physical. Alright? How many people would buy that? If it's a spiritual sacrifice, it's non-physical. Spiritual sacrifice, it means it has to do things with the spiritual aspect of life. Whether it's my own spirit, my own being. Or the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of God, but it has to do with the spiritual realm, the spiritual aspect of life Um, as opposed to the Old Testament priests, what kind of sacrifices did the Old Testament priests offer up? Were they physical or spiritual? They were physical. I mean they were offering up sheep and goats and uh I guess it's not sheep's Sheep and goats and oxen and uh what else? Uh doves in certain circumstances. They had meal offerings They had um uh various uh types of grain they would offer up, but it was all physical. Every one of those things was a physical uh sacrifice. It was a physical altar they put it on. Peter is saying, under the inspiration of God, for you and I, for all believers, that the sacrifices we offer up are not necessarily physical. How many people noticed we don't bring sheep and goats to church and offer them up as sacrifice? Anybody? We touched on that last week Our our sacrifices are not physical. Now sometimes we bring animals for kids down in children's church or ride did we ever do ride the sheep, the little mutton busting? That's a great idea. We ought to do that And a Greek pig, anybody ever see that? Yeah, we ought to do all that. But we don't bring them in to offer up sacrifices, right? You with me? Our sacrifices are not physical. They're spiritual. The Old Testament, they were not, they were physical sacrifices. By the way, some of the Old Testament priests weren't very spiritual, were they? Did we read back through the uh the king uh the judges and the kings and uh uh Samuel, uh his boys weren't so hot, and some of those priests were pretty wicked men But yet they were fulfilling the responsibility they were doing. It was all physical, it wasn't spiritual. Now for you and I, these are spiritual sacrifices we offer up. Then the next word we notice, sorry, offer up A voluntary free will. Voluntarily I offer these. They're not physical, they're spiritual. And then they are sacrifices. Now, if you were trying to explain to somebody what a sacrifice is, what would you say to them? How would you define to somebody what a sacrifice would be? Anyone want to take a shot? Uh something that costs you something. Man, they're really sacrificing to put him through college, I'll tell you right now. Cost them something. What else? Anybody? What Somebody else say something? I'm sorry. Giving something up? You had it, you no longer? What did you say, Joe? All right, substituting would be part of that, uh particularly in Christ, offering up in my place. Um the sacrifice Is is what you all said pretty pretty good. And uh if you say the same thing I say, then obviously you're right. So Sacrifice is something given up or surrendered in order to obtain something, or done as an act of devotion. I'm giving something up. It's costing me something. I had it. I'm offering it up either to obtain something or to as an act of devotion. Some of the Old Testament sacrifices were Thanksgiving. uh sacrifices. God blessed them. They would come, they'd want to offer it up just out of appreciation, devotion to the Lord. So a sacrifice is something costly in many cases, given up Or surrendered in order to obtain something or an act of devotion. In the Old Testament, much of their sacrifices, most of the sacrifices, were done in order to obtain forgiveness. To obtain forgiveness. Back to Mark. He um he uh he uh what what was what's something I can't even think of anything wrong that Mark would do. Um Well I wasn't gonna say that. I thought of that. I was uh but uh anyway, Mark does some sim. I'm trying to remember why I'm even talking about him right now. Um Oh, he's uh yeah, so he sins and uh he goes, Dad, what should I do? I sinned and Wilbur says, You need to go this is Old Testament. You need to go get the lamb, get the spotless lamb, take it to the priest, he's got to offer it up so that you can be forgiven. He's obtaining something So these sacrifices are often given to obtain something or an act of devotion. Now we're going to come back to that here in a minute. Now, these sacrifices, these spiritual sacrifices we're going to look at, are our responsibility as New Testament priests The Old Testament priest, he had his responsibilities, how he and what he was supposed to, and how and when and where. The process was all laid out, how he was to offer that sacrifice up. You and I as a priest, hey You and I, as the priests, have a responsibility before God to offer up, voluntarily, freely, of our own free will, offer up these spiritual sacrifices. Now, we do not, I'm getting a little ahead, but I want to clarify this right now. We do not offer up these sacrifices to obtain something. The forgiveness of our sins and the salvation of our soul is not something we can obtain by anything we offer up or sacrifice. Are you with me? Only Jesus Christ could make the adequate sacrifice for the forgiveness, the forever forgiveness of my sins and the salvation of my soul. Amen? Are you on board with me? Only Jesus Christ could do that. In fact, I would like for you, just quickly, turn with me to Hebrews chapter 10. And we're going to go back to Hebrews a little bit. We're going to use our Bibles a bit tonight. How many people are glad a church uses the Bible? Amen for that. Hebrews chapter 10, and look with me at verse 11. We touched on this last week. I want to look at it again And the point I'm trying to make here, only Jesus can offer up a sacrifice adequate to cleanse us from our sin and provide salvation. Look at verse 11, Hebrews chapter 10. And every priest, Old Testament Every priest standeth daily ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifice, sheep after sheep after sheep, goat after goat. uh dove after dove, uh same sacrifices, which can never do what? Take away their sins. Did the Old Testament blood of bulls and goats, did that take away the Old Testament believers' sin No, it didn't take it away. The blood of bulls and goats can't take away our sin. All that did, and I don't want to get off track here, all that did was cover their sins. Until the blood of Christ came and then that cleansed them. Then they're gone. Then from that point on, man, we can go right to God. We have full access. We die. We go right into the presence of God. Why? Because the blood of Jesus has cleansed us from all sin. Takes it away. Bulls and goats was just temporary. Now let's look on. But this man, Jesus, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever sat down on the right hand of God, from henceforth, expecting to his enemies be made uh be made his footstool, and uh for by one offering he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified. Whereof the Holy Ghost also is witness to us, for after that he has said before, this is the covenant that I will make with them. After those days, say the Lord, I will put my laws into their hearts And in their minds will I write them, and their sins and iniquities I will what? Remember no more. So only Jesus Christ could make the sacrifice That would completely remove our sins off the record in heaven. Old Testament blood bullshit ghosts, it just covered it, just temporary. Alright, uh yeah, that'll satisfy, that'll satisfy. Uh get by until Jesus comes, boom, they're dealt with, they're gone, paid in full. And now we have direct access to God. Alright, everybody with me? So these sacrifices cannot save my soul. that can save me and make me acceptable to God. So we need to clarify that. Any sacrifice we offer as a New Testament priest is in response to Jesus' sacrifice Because he did that for me, then I want to come and do this. Alright, so here's the question. What in the world are these sacrifices? You say, preacher, what in the world am I supposed to offer up to God? What in the world Well, I study the New Testament. I come up with seven. Real quickly. Seven. I think these would be a great series. to preach on some time. But let me give them to you real quick here. What are these spiritual sacrifices? Number one, go to Romans chapter number 12 with me. And uh I'll try to buzz through here. If it gets nine, ten o'clock, I'll just quit where I'm at. Romans chapter twelve, how many people are familiar with verses one and two? Aha. How many folks when I was talking You got thinking about that verse. Anybody get ahead? I mentioned these a little bit last week. Look at Romans chapter 12. I love this uh this this passage. I end up coming back here so often He's writing to believers in Rome, saved people, and he says, I beseech you, therefore, brethren, saved people, by the mercies of God, because of all that God has done for you, all the mercy he's shown you. That ye present your bodies a what? Living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service A living sacrifice. The first sacrifice, spiritual sacrifice we offer as priests, is our bodies. Present your bodies a living sacrifice. That word present, and I learned this in Bible college. We had a class, we studied Romans, and the pre- and the teacher brought this out, and it's just stuck in my mind all these years. It means this, the present your bodies, it means this, a one-time action with continuing results. It's something I do one time, and the results of that continue on. Continue on indefinitely. So with that in mind, this is what he's saying. I voluntarily, of my own free will, as a believer, forgiven, saved. Home in heaven, sealed by the Holy Spirit, indwelt by the Spirit of God, saved from hell, not condemned. I have eternal life. I come of my own free will as a priest of a holy priesthood And I say, God, I present to you because of all you've done for me, because of all you did in saving me and forgiving me and giving me eternal life, suffering hell in my place. Lord, I present to you a one-time presentation, and it is yours for the rest of eternity. I present to you my body. Living sacrifice. A living sacrifice It's a one-time voluntary dedication, my body, for God's glory. Out of every part of my being, my hands, my eyes, my ears, my heart, my soul, every aspect of me, I present to you to be used for your glory. Let me ask you a question. Have you got to that point yet in your Christian life? Have you got to the point you say God has been so good to me, and He has done so much for me and saving me and giving me eternal light. You know what I want to do? I want to put myself on that altar. I just dedicate to him once and for all, my body, my soul, my being, everything I am, I give myself to. It's a dedication. It's a voluntary, deliberate, premeditated decision on my part to dedicate my life to Christ for his glory and for the advancement of the gospel. Paul's writing to the Romans. They're believers. They're priests. They're a holy priesthood. He says, I beseech you. He doesn't say I command you. He says I beseech you. I'm pleading with you. God has been so merciful to you. Here's a spiritual sacrifice. Just dedicate yourself to Christ. To live for Him. You say, preacher, if I do that, does that mean I have to be a preacher? No. Not necessarily a dedication to the ministry, quote unquote. See, that means I'll be a missionary in uh China. Uh no, it doesn't necessarily mean that. It does mean this, that I'm no longer my own, I'm his. I take my hands off my life. I take my hands off of my future. I just give it to God. You know what God wants? God's looking for some dedicated truck drivers. God's looking for some dedicated, sold-out Christian farmers that have presented themselves to God. Factory workers, secretaries, teachers, preachers. Whatever vocation God may lead and call you, and I too. Now it may be, preacher, but it's saying, Lord, I'm putting myself on the altar, my hands are off for once and forever. I present my body, a living sacrifice to you. It's a spiritual sacrifice. You say, well, that might cost something. You know what that might mean? That might mean that my plans are sacrificed, my plans are put on the altar and God's plans take over. Right? God's direction in my life, God's standards, God's values. It's possible to be saved and not be dedicated to Christ. You know what? That's called carnal Christian. Living for myself. I'm in charge. I'm calling the shots. I'm doing it. But Paul's writing, he says, as a as a spiritual, as a holy priesthood. One of the sacrifices that we have to offer to Christ because of the sacrifice he made is my body, my life, and total dedication to Christ. I got saved. Did I ever tell you? May 7, 1979. And um I was living for God. God changed my life. I'm telling you, I sincerely love the Lord deeply. And I just I just w I wasn't looking to go in the ministry. I'm just no different than any how many people here have been around me long enough you figured out I'm really not a whole lot different than other guys in the church, right? Anybody? Somebody said, you're different than everybody, preacher. But um I don't see myself any different. I tell you one of the great compliments I get as a preacher from folks, somebody just recently Chip just recently said, he said, Pastor, you've been more, you haven't just been my pastor, you've been my friend. To me, that's a great thing. That's a great compliment. And um uh so I got saved and God changed my life. I was just trying to live for him, you know, I was just trying to do right. And I I never grasped what Romans 12, one was saying. I was just about, it was my senior year of Bible college. I was studying to be a school teacher, one teacher elementary grade. And I was preaching everywhere. I had a bus ride. I was in charge of an afternoon Sunday school. We had about uh four or five hundred inner city kids. It was crazy. And uh I mean I was doing all these ministries, but that wasn't where my head was at. As far as the future of my and uh and this verse started ringing in my ear, and God started using this. I traveled Bible time for a summer, and I I still remember on August 25th, 1985. I mean I was trying to do right, I was preaching, I'd win people to Christ, I was uh preaching in chapels down there in Tennessee, I was I mean, all this stuff I was doing, I was just doing it because it was that's what that's what I wanted to do. I wanted to serve God. Man, God pierced my heart that week, and that Sunday night at Highland Park Baptist Church, I went to the altar. It was over on this side. I knelt at that altar and I said, God, I present to you my body My life, everything. Whatever you want to do with me, I give it to you. August 1985. I give it to you. Not much changed really. Doing the same thing. I was already living. And in October, God impressed on my heart that He was calling me to go into the ministry to preach. And eventually to pastor. And same place. It was on October. I think it was October 5th or something. I forget the exact date. But I knelt the same place at that altar. I said, God, here I am. I surrender to preach. I surrender to pastor. Now that doesn't always happen for everybody. That's how it happened to me. But as a priest, the priesthood of the believer was to come to that point And just give all to Christ, sell out completely to Christ. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, present your body a living sacrifice. That's one of these sacrifices. And again, it's not necessarily to go into the ministry It's just say, Lord, you gave all for me, I'm giving all to you back. And by the way, God's not an Indian giver. When we present our bodies to God, they're his. He keeps it It's his from there on out. So the one sacrifice, and I tell you right now we're not going to get all seven right here. I'll see that. Let me give you one more. Number one is our sa uh is our bodies. How many people got the how many people got the message here on that one? Got that? Our bodies. Number two, go to Hebrews chapter 13, and I'll end with this one. Hebrews chapter 13 I was visiting with Phil Sherman yesterday. He's listening now, Phil. Hey, Phil. And uh he listens to all of them. And he said, Preacher, I could tell when you were preaching to people in the audience and when you were preaching to an uh empty audience. Phil's blind, he just listens. And he picked that up. I said, what was the difference? How could you tell? He said you were longer. And um Thanks, Phil. Hebrews thirteen, look with me if you would. At verse number 15, last chapter of the book of Hebrews, look at verse 15. By him therefore, that him is Jesus, he's referring to. By him, therefore, let us offer the what? Sacrifice of praise. You know what another sacrifice we offer up as a holy priesthood? We come of our own free will, we deliberately decide, I'm going to take my praise. And going to offer it up to God. A sacrifice of praise. Now, sometimes praising God is easy, right? And you get that, I got my stimulus checked. Praise the Lord. I'm buying a new Chainsaw. I'm buying a new shotgun. You know? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Yeah. Um you didn't seem real thrilled about that, but uh We paid off the mortgage. How many people could praise God if the mortgage paid off? Yeah. Woo! Praise the Lord for that. Got the stimulus like woo you go to work and the boss says, you know what, we're in all this craziness. I'm going to double your pay. How many people could praise God if that happened? Yeah. Uh you're real sick, you worry, you go to the doctor, oh no, what is it, doc? Oh, everything's good and clear. You just um You just had indigestion. You're fine. There's nothing wrong. Huh, praise the Lord. My point is, sometimes it's easy to praise God, right? Right or wrong? Oh yeah. But you know, sometimes Sometimes praising God is costly. Sometimes, let me put it this way: sometimes praising God hurts a little bit There are times when we are to praise God where it is a real sacrifice to praise God. Sometimes praising God is easy. It doesn't cost me nothing. It just kind of comes naturally, really. I just praise the Lord. Oh, praise God. But sometimes I need to pay a price and say, God, I don't understand what you're doing. Hurts. Confused. But God, I'm just going to offer to you my praise. You're a good God. You shave me and you love me. I'm going to lift my praise up to you. You don't know everything's going crazy around me. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's the sacrifice of praise Sometimes praise is costly. Somebody loses their job in the midst of everything, and I got a house payment, I got a car payment, I got a family to feed, and the job they say, I'm sorry, we're folding, we're going out of business, bankrupt. I tell you when praise becomes a sacrifice and you come home, you kneel beside your bed, and you say, God, thank you. For trusting me with this trial. God, thank you for testing my faith. God, thank you for being good to me. How many people agree with me? That's a bit of a sacrifice I mean sincerely, genuinely, praise God in a situation like that. Doctor, you go to doctors say, man, I just something's something don't feel right, feel right. You go to the doctor, he does tests, x-rays, cat scan. Comes back and say we found a big tumor right in here and said doesn't look good. I wonder how many should be able to come before God God, I don't understand. This isn't what I wanted. This wasn't my plan. God, thank you. I praise your goodness. Praise your mercy if shown me. Your love for me. That's a sacrifice of praise. Sacrifice of praise. Child goes astray, goes off in the world, tried your best, loved him, taught him. He goes off and lives some life. Just come and say, God, you've been awfully good to me. I don't deserve anything you've done for me. I ought to be in hell. God, in the midst of this, in my broken heart, I bring to you my praise. I rejoice in your love for me, and I rejoice in your power and your goodness. Tears streaming, hot tears streaming down our cheeks. We're praising God. Praising God Come home and find out. Spouse has been unfaithful. Heart is shattered, crushed. You go and get along. Say, Lord, I feel like I'm gonna die. God, you've been so good to me Saved me and suffered hell. And God, I just offer up to you my praise in the midst of this. It's called rejoicing in the Lord what? Always. That's a sacrifice of praise. Does it mean I'm praising God for what happened? Does it mean I'm rejoicing in what happened? No. For what happened? No. But it means in the midst of my heartache, in the midst of my my uh uh my world falling and around me be in the midst of my chaos I look above it and I see there's a God in heaven that still loves me and is good to me and saved me And is able to take whatever situation I'm in, and he can use it for his glory, he can bring good out of it. God, I just praise you, I just praise you. I'm telling you, life is full of heartaches. And God says, you're a priest. And the sacrifice of a priest is a sacrifice of praise. Sometimes it's so easy to praise God. I'm telling you, last Sunday night, when we met together for the first time in over eight weeks, I was praising God. That was easy. I tell you when it was hard was eight weeks earlier. When we had to say, no, no church this Sunday, we're going to do it online. That was tough. That was tough. And Matt Matt and I met each week. We we tried to keep our schedule and do what we did. We prayed. And we tried. We tried. We'd say, God, thank you. We know you're in control. You've allowed this for a purpose. You've got a reason. We're just going to trust you. We'll do our best. Sacrifice of praise. The spiritual sacrifice. The spiritual sacrifice. And notice he says there, well, I'll end with this. Come back and notice he says there in Hebrews. Verse 15, let me get back there. Notice what he says. By him, therefore, let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God for how long? Continually. You know, it's one thing to come to church and the preacher preaches on the sacrifice of praise and the Spirit of God stirs your heart and says, oh, it's hard, that's hard. I know it is. But it's a sacrifice. That's what that's it's a sacrifice. And you come and say, God, I praise you. I praise you, God. That's one thing to do it there, but then the next day to to keep it up, and then the next day to keep it up, and then the next day to keep it up, and then the next day to keep it Up, how people agree with me, that's that's not easy. It's not easy But God says, with those sacrifices, I'm well pleased. There are several others I found in the Bible. Sacrifice. Spiritual sacrifices. Let's pray together. Father in heaven. Lord, we study this and look at it, and I'm preaching it. And Lord, sometimes the Christian life isn't easy. Sometimes it costs us. But Lord, you always bless. You always bless faith. You always honor faith. Lord, you have promised. You have promised that you would honor our faith. And so, Lord, I pray you'd stir us, if we haven't already, to present our bodies to you, a living sacrifice. Yours Yours, Lord, to use, direct, however you see fit. Hands off, on the altar, present my body a living sacrifice. Lord, help us to offer the sacrifice of praise when our heart's broken. We're scared. Our plans are turned upside down. Help us, Lord, to not get our eyes off of you, not to lose our praise. And trust you and see what you'll do. I wonder with our heads bow and eyes close. How many would say, Preacher, God save me and I thank God for that. And I rejoice in this mercy he showed me. But you say, I've never really come to the point in my Christian life where I just gave it all to Christ as a Christian. Just present him my body, my all, everything is his. Whatever he does, it's his. And just dedicate my life completely to Christ. Is there anything, preacher, I've not come to that point in my Christian life where I've made that decision and I've made the and I've taken that action? Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? And you'd say, maybe tonight Maybe you'd be between you and God tonight and say, Lord, I'm just presenting my body everything. I'm just giving it over all to you. All to you There's some here tonight say, Preacher, you know it's easy. I agree it's easy to praise God when things are going good, but you say, Preacher, that sacrifice of praise is tough. I wonder how many would say, preacher, I'm just going to trust God to help me and fill me with his Spirit and enable me to rejoice and praise Him, even When it's a sacrifice, when it costs me something, when it's tough. But he's going to that cross for Christ was tough. Say, I want to learn to do that. I want to be able to offer up that sacrifice. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Or my hands raised. I want to be able to do that. Sacrifice of praise. Father, I pray you bless now our invitation in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed