First Peter chapter number two, I want us to notice verse five, and then we're going to just get a little phrase down in verse number nine. And I need to get my Notice there, first Peter two and verse number five, he says, but ye also, Peter of course, writing to these believers, scattered all over, being persecuted. He says, ye also as lively stones are built up a spiritual house. And we talked about that. Then he makes this statement that we've kind of parked here on this for the last month or two. And that is this. He says, um uh spiritual house and holy priesthood And he's writing to these New Testament believers, New Testament believers, all of them, and he says, ye are a holy priesthood. Come down to verse 9. And he says, you are a chosen generation, and notice what he says there, a royal priesthood. Now that's an interesting statement that he says that you and I as believers that we hold the office and we have the privilege and the responsibility of being priests, holy priests, royal priests before God. Now we already went back and looked at the role that the Old Testament priests had, and we pointed out, if you want to just boil down their responsibility as priests, was simply this To come before God on behalf of the people to offer up sacrifices to God, offer up uh sacrifices. Now come back to verse 5 and notice he says this a holy priesthood, and then he references that responsibility that the Old Testament priest has to offer up what kind of sacrifices Spiritual sacrifices, not lambs and sheep and goats and oxen and grain and those types of things. Those were physical sacrifices. Christ fulfilled all of that. Christ fulfilled all those pictures, those types that they were. And now in response to what Christ has done for us, now as priests we offer up these spiritual sacrifices. And we've been looking at those. So let's pray. And we'll pick up again here on these spiritual sacrifices. Father, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. Lord, it's sure been a good day to be in the house of God. I just so enjoy being around your people. In person. And I pray you'd help us go forward now. I pray that now you would help us to put aside all cares and concerns. And I pray you'd speak to our hearts and challenge us. And as we consider these spiritual sacrifices that we have a responsibility to offer up to you, I pray you'd fill me with your spirit. I yield my will to you. Present my body anew. Please be the preacher tonight. Please speak through me. I ask with all my heart. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Now we notice here he doesn't list what these spiritual sacrifices are. He doesn't tell us in the context here. And so what we have to do is we have to go through the New Testament and see if we can't determine what these spiritual sacrifices are we offer up. And I came up with seven, and I'm perhaps folks have different numbers they come up with. I find seven in the New Testament that uh uh sacrifices that we would refer to as spiritual sacrifices. Now those that were in on this help me out a little bit. Let's review We said the first sacrifice as a believer that I would offer up to God in response to saving, may you not to save me, but in response to my salvation is what? What did we say the first one was Our bodies. Romans chapter 12, 1 and 2. What a powerful passage of scripture that is. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies. A living sacrifice. If you've not done that, if you've not come to that point in your life, I want to challenge you. I would urge you to really pray And just say, Lord, you know, show me, help me to just give my body, my life, everything I am, offered up to you as a living sacrifice to be lived for you. It's a one-time event with continuing results So we already looked at that. Anybody remember what the second one was we suggested? Do you got it there? Our praise. And we got that from Hebrews 13, 15. Sometimes praising God is a real sacrifice, isn't it? Hearts broken, things are tough, gone through a storm. But God says as a believer we can stop in the midst of the storm and just lift our voice and heart up to God in praise. I've had more people say to me in recent weeks that they wake up in the morning with a hymn of praise on their heart. Anybody ever, has that ever happened to you? Just wake up in the morning and there's that There's a song there, a hymn of praise to God. Oh, what a wonderful thing that is. Then uh we had uh uh our bodies, our praise, and then what was the other one? Next one Good works. We got that from Hebrews chapter 13. Offering good works. And we said that simply means to do things that benefit others Uh it's easy to do a good work for somebody that does work for me, right? Oh boy, they they scratch my back, I'll scratch theirs. But that's not much of a sacrifice. How about when we do something that's a blessing and encouragement to someone that's not meant much of a blessing to us? Someone that our flesh would want to curse But God says as a disciple of mine, bless and curse not. And bless those that curse you. Do good to them that disciples Then we suggested last time, uh what, two weeks ago, we had the fourth sacrifice we looked at, and what was that? Anybody remember Generosity. Communicate in Hebrews chapter 13, verse 6. And we said that word communicate has this idea to contribute to other people's needs to invite others in to share the blessings that God has shared with me. And to put other people's needs over our own. And we considered the good Samaritan. What an example. He wondered how to do that. This was an enemy of his uh the Jews, hated the Samaritans But yet he offered that up as a spiritual sacrifice. Now tonight we want to look at the fifth one. I didn't intend to make this a series, but it it just got looking at it. I thought it'd be a good series. Here's our Fifth, uh spiritual sacrifice that we as believers offer up to God in the response to all the mercy and grace he showed us, the goodness he showed us. Write this down. Number five, soul winning So winning, turn with me if you would, to Romans chapter number fifteen. Romans chapter fifteen And you've got to look at this a little carefully, but Paul makes an interesting statement here, and he says that the winning of the Gentiles, winning unsaved people to Christ was a offering up that he made. Those that he had won to Christ, he offered up to God as a spiritual sacrifice. Now, that doesn't mean he put them on an altar and cut their throat, obviously. It's a spiritual sacrifice. He won these people to Christ. The teens were out this afternoon, and one of the young ladies led a lady to the Lord, I believe. And she trusted Christ. You know what that was? That was a type of spiritual sacrifice. And so we want to talk about that. Look at Romans chapter 15, and look with me at verse number 16. And we're going to look at the verses around this But verse 16 says this: that I should be the minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles, ministering the gospel of God, that the what's the next two words? Offering up, that's the idea of offering up the sacrifice. The offering up of the Gentiles might be acceptable. That wording is very similar to Peter. Spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God. Might be acceptable, being sanctified by the Spirit. Look at verse 17. I am therefore whereof I may glory through Christ Jesus Christ in those things which pertain to God. For I will not dare speak of anything, any of those things which Christ hath not wrought by me to make the Gentiles obedient by word indeed This matter of offering up a sacrifice of soul winning, Paul says, I offer up these Gentiles that I had won to Christ. Now, first thing we want to do is we want to determine uh what soul winning is not We want to be very, very clear what soul winning is, and we're going to start by beginning what soul winning is not. What we do not mean by soul winning is getting, is, uh, let's see if you know what I mean by this, is proselylizing people from other churches. How many people follow what I'm saying? Proselyzing people from other churches is simply saying, Oh, our church is better than your church. You need to leave your church and come over here. Alright? Now if they're in a liberal church that doesn't preach the Bible, doesn't preach the gospel, then I'm uh you know say, yeah, come on over. But that's not soul-winning. Soul winning isn't getting somebody out of a liberal church and into a Bible preaching church. We're not here to get people out of other churches. That's not soul winning. How many of you agree with me? That's not soul winning. That's not soul-winning getting people out of those churches. We have a lot of people here. Churches I went to didn't preach the gospel, didn't believe the Bible. And uh by the way, if a church doesn't preach the Bible, doesn't believe the gos doesn't believe the Bible, doesn't preach the Gospel doesn't go by the word of God. You ought to get out of it My opinion. But uh that's not soul winning. That is not soul winning, getting people from one church into another. Uh another thing that's soul winning is not, I put this down, it's uh not just getting church members. No, we just want people to come and uh uh join our church. Uh Pastor Matt and I were talking just a couple weeks ago about folks being members of the church and this is just I don't know it's deliberate, it's just been my mindset I never put a lot of pressure on folks to join our church. I don't twist their arm, try and talk them into joining our church. Question, do I want people to join our church? Sure, absolutely. When people join our church, I'd be fine with folks joining the church every Sunday. You know, have folks added to the church. I'd be for that. But I don't press people to do that. I want them to be sure that this is the decision they want to make. How many people agree with me? We don't want church members that get talked into it and don't really want to be here. That's not what we're about. We don't want that. I want God to speak to their heart, challenge them. convinced the in their heart that this is where we ought to be. Now I think they ought to be everybody I meet I think they ought to be a member of this church. But uh that's not soul winning, getting church members. How how many folks follow what I'm saying? You with me That's not soul winning. That's not soul winning. Getting people from one church to another church, that's not soul winning. Getting people to join a church, that's Not so winning. Uh let me now wanna be careful, miss Tricking people into saying a prayer is not soul winning. I call that used car salesman soul winning And you have to be careful about that. Now I I'm all for it. We have methods, we have techniques we use, but if we're not careful, we can simply use techniques And salesman tactics they'd talk somebody into saying a prayer or signing a card. That's not soul winning. That's not soul winning Um now I wanna I said I don't twist anyone's arm to join the church, but brother, I'll break their arm off trying to get them saved Right? I don't want them to go to hell. And so we'll put the pressure on. We'll do you know we'll uh persuade men, Paul said. Uh we'll do that to persuade them, but I don't want to just use tricks To get them to mouth a prayer with me. Anybody follow what I'm saying? But to be very, very careful about that. Sometimes we get so aggressive. We get so served up. We want to get them saved. and uh um and just say this prayer. And no, no, no. Paul uh Dr. Smith, uh Dr. Sheldon Smith calls it sloppy soul winning. Well we're not very very careful. So soul winning when this gift of this sac this uh sa uh uh uh s spiritual sacrifice we offer up to God of soul winning It's not just getting people to join the church or leave some other church and come to ours or uh say this little quick say this little trick them into saying this little prayer, no, no, no. Soul winning is bringing people to Jesus Christ where they put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. That is soul winning When a person realizes I'm a sinner, I'm under the judgment of God, the only hope of escaping the judgment of God is in the person of Jesus Christ and we point them to Christ and they trust Jesus Christ as Savior. Now I don't want to get too far off on a rabbit trail here But it is possible for a person to trust in the prayer they said and not in the Savior they should have been praying to. So sometimes they hear that. Well, I said this prayer, I said this prayer, I said this prayer. Well, saying a prayer is good, and that's sometimes part of trusting Christ. But I'm not, my faith isn't in the prayer I said. My faith needs to be in the Savior Has to be in the Savior. Has to be in the Savior. I trusted Jesus as my Savior. The night I got saved, I have no idea what prayer I prayed, but I know this. I called out to God to have mercy and save my sorry soul I know that. So it wasn't the prayer. It was the Savior that I came to and trusted. So soul winning is simply this It's simply finding a meeting, a poor old sinner, somebody that's unsaved, they're under the judgment of God, they're under the wrath of God, they're condemned already. And they're outside the family of God. And I simply take them and I use the Bible and I show them from the Bible their true condition, where they are, and I show them what the Bible says about Jesus Christ on the cross. and that he's alive now, and they can come and they can put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ and Jesus will save them That's soul winning. You follow me? And I'm just doing that. I'm just doing that. And so this spiritual sacrifice, the Lord Jesus Christ, saved me He forgave me for all my sins. He gave me eternal life. And here's somebody that doesn't have that. Here's somebody that's in the same condition I was in before I trusted Christ. And the Lord's been so good to me. And God says, you're a priest, and you're to offer up sacrifices. Why don't you take that person and introduce them to Jesus Christ? Show them the Bible way. to come and trust Jesus Christ as Savior. And when they trust Jesus as Savior, oh, that's a beautiful sacrifice to God. That's an offer that up to God. Paul said there in Romans, did you notice it? Offering up the Gentiles that He's one to Christ. Those days one, that's all done for the Lord. Now let me give you a few quick little outline I put together on this. By the way, Paul was the ideal soul winner. You want to find a pattern for being a soul winner. You study the life of Paul. I think every missionary, Paul was the ideal missionary. Good heavens. And uh study the life of Paul. You say, Preacher, I'd like to be a soul winner. Study the life of Paul. Read what he how he interacted. Paul was fantastic. So I notice a few things here about Saul. Let me give them to you real quickly. First of all, number one, this soul winning he did, this winning of the Gentiles to Christ, introducing them to the Savior. Number one, he did it for the Lord. He did it for the Lord. Notice with me, if you would, verse number 16. There's an interesting word in here. Look at verse 16. That I should be the minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles. Now I looked up that word minister Anybody want to take a guess what the word minister means? Talk to me now. Come on now. Servant, we usually think of that, servant, and that's yes. Any others? I thought I'd get one word I thought might come. It's along the line serving. A some what is it? Ah. Now you got ahead of me there, Zach. Hold up, hold that thought. Let me see if I can get some other people to give the wrong answer first. We generally when I first looked at that and started studying it out, I thought, well that problem I I I thought best. Now I'm not a betting man, but I bet myself five bucks. You're gonna bet, bet yourself, that way it's alright. I thought I'll bet that that means deacon Because the word deacon means serve, and so that's what I thought. And I was I wanted to point that out to our deacons so they know that that's what that word means. No, not really. Um a little bit, but uh It doesn't mean deacon. It doesn't mean serve in that sense. It actually means to be a representative of the state. Did you ever hear some uh in, I don't know if we call it that in our government, but in some governments they'll talk about the Minister of Education. Anybody ever hear that? It's a title. Or the Minister of Finances. Or the Minister of Something else. And that's the idea here. Paul is using this as a title. He is a minister of what? What's the verse say? Jesus Christ. To who? Look at the verse there. To the Gentiles. He is referring to himself in very similar, this is a very similar concept of what he says in Corinthians, where he says, we are ambassadors of Christ. In other words, Paul is saying, my winning of the un these Gentiles, my uh bringing the gospel of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles and introducing them to the Savior and seeing their souls saved and lives changed and born in the family of God, He says, I'm all doing that not as not for me or because of who I am or what I am This is all being done. I'm a minister of Jesus Christ. I'm simply a representative, an ambassador of the Lord Jesus Christ. This isn't done for myself. And I tell you, it's very important. When we win souls, it is never for our own credit I've been around a little bit, and I've been in circles, and uh I probably got caught up probably earlier on. I hope I've gotten it out of my system, but I got caught up a little bit. Yeah, I'm quite the soul winner Yeah, I've won this and I did that, and pretty much it gets to the point where it's not being done for the Lord, but it's being done for my reputation, it's being done for my uh credit and uh my recognition. And uh listen, I'm all for recognizing soul winners. I know Pastor Matt's got a good program. We give him a pin for that, but we must always understand That we are doing it not for ourselves, not for our name, but we're doing it all for the name of the Lord Jesus Christ And that's what that sacrifice, that spiritual sacrifice is. I'm winning these people to Jesus Christ for him. I'm simply a minister. I'm just somebody representing heaven, representing the Lord Jesus Christ to these people I'm here as an ambassador. I'm just bringing it and it's all done for the Lord Jesus Christ. And so number one, I put this down, it needs to be done for the Lord, offering up souls one to the Lord for his credit and his glory. Um and then number two, I put this down. If it's going to be a s winning souls to Christ be a sacrif a spiritual sacrifice, accept the Lord Number two, and it goes along similar to the first one, is it needs to be done in humility. In humility. In verse 17 and 18, Paul says, I'm not taking credit for any soul saved. I'm not taking credit for any one of these Gentiles that comes to Christ. It is not taking credit for it all. It is uh I am just a tool in the hands of God. I am just a uh uh uh an instrument that God is using. I'm simply the telephone lock uh how many people remember back when the phones used to have a cord on them? Remember that? That was so you wouldn't lose them Had that on there, and you wouldn't lose it. And uh but all I am is that telephone cord that God works through. I'm the conduit that God works through. How many people like our little mini grand piano here? Baby Grand. How many people like this? I like it. Looks nice, doesn't it? Looks pretty good. How many people think it looks nice? Raise your hand. Eight people. Alright. No. We praise God for this. Further Fred Schindler, our dear friend, years ago, made this available to us. We got a steal And this piano, boy, it looks nice. It looks fancy setting up here. Good heavens. But you know what? During the week, when Jane, or Jennifer, is not behind that, not at that seat at the thing, you know what this piano does? Nothing. Nothing. Just sits there and looks nice. But I tell you, you put Jane behind that or you put Jennifer behind it, boy, it's beautiful music coming out. You and I are like this piano. Without the Lord Jesus Christ, if God isn't doing it, we just look good. Some look better than others, but uh uh we just we just look good. We just sat there We need to understand. Here's what I'm trying to get at. We need to understand. I can't save a soul. I can't. It's God does the saving. And the minute I get proud, and the minute I start thinking, boy, I'm quite a witness, brother, I have just shot myself in the foot. We have got to maintain humility. Let me say this. We have got to keep humility in every aspect of the Christian life. I believe our biggest enemy, apart from Satan, but our biggest enemy we fight as far as attitude is concerned, is pride. That will kill the grace of God. God resisteth the proud, but what? Giveth grace to the humble. And I tell you, if we're going to win souls, if we're going to bring people to Christ, we need grace. And the way we get grace is by keeping, being humble, being humble. Oh, boy, you sure are a soul winner. You're something else. You're really, you're amazing. I don't know. It's not me at all. I'm just an empty piano setting there. It's God does it all. Amen? And so Paul says, I can't take credit for any of this that the Lord has done. I can't take all this amazing stuff that was accomplished through the ministry of Paul. Paul says God did it all. Whether you eat or drink or whatsoever you do, do what All for the glory of God, not for myself, not to lift my name up. I tell you, I think we're going to get to the judgment seat of Christ. We were studying this in Bible Institute, I had all the students make a timeline and I told them they had to be accurate and creative. Some were very accurate, some were very creative Uh one of them had parachutes coming down during the tribulation out of heaven. But uh anyway, uh uh trying to think what I was talking about, uh humility Oh, uh I think we get to the judgment seat of Christ, we're going to be amazed there are going to be some people way up in the front of the line, getting all kinds of rewards from God that that we never heard of them Just people didn't do it for self, didn't do it for their own glory. They just quietly, being a witness, just quietly sharing the gospel, pointing people to Christ, winning people to Christ, no fanfare. They're not in the store of the Lord. They're not in the big news, uh headline news, but they're getting headlines in heaven, just humbly going about it, just humbly doing their thing I tell you, that's the exciting thing about the track month when we get the tracks out, which we couldn't do this year, but online, I tell you, I think God's doing stuff out there that we have no idea what God is doing. All these hundreds of thousands of gospel tracts we've distributed over the years, I believe souls have been saved and lives have been impacted that you and I will know nothing about to the judgment seat of Christ. And you know what I think? I think that's the way it ought to be. God gets the glory. Humility. So, number one, it needs to be done for the Lord. Number two, it needs to be done in humility. And let me give you the last one here, real quick. It needs to be done out of a heart of compassion. A heart of compassion. A genuine concern for the spiritual and eternal well-being of others. I really care whether that person, I'm standing on their porch, maybe I knocked on their door, standing on that porch, that person comes before me. They may be rough looking, they may be uh, you know, just uh uh drinking and carrying on a party lifestyle, or they may be very wealthy and very self-righteous, but something down inside my heart ought to care whether that person goes to heaven or hell I mean, really care about him. Again, and and maybe this is just my thinking I have to watch out for. But again, we're not doing this just to get a notch in our Bible. Or be able to come and say, Yeah, I won five to the Lord this week. That's not what it's about. It's about people who are on their way to hell and I care enough about it, introduce them to Christ so they can be saved. I put people's names. When I lead people to Christ, I put their name in the Bible here. And I pray for them. I get their address. I went by the other day, visit a fellow that trusted Christ back on May 4th. this year, just a month or two ago, month or so ago. Went by and visited them, talked to them a little bit, and uh I put their name in the Bible. But I tell ya, if I ever get where I'm trying to win people to Christ just so I can put a name in the Bible I've lost my compassion. I've lost my compassion. Well, we're going to train people to win souls. I'm all for it. Train people to win souls. I'm all for it. But I tell you, if you just get somebody that cares For souls to be saved, they'll be a better soul winner than the one that's highly trained and doesn't really care about souls. Having compassion. I thought of the woman at the well She had no training. She was a rough gal, married five times, living with a guy, smarting off the Lord. And the old gal gets saved. She puts down her water pot and runs back into town. She wins the whole town to Christ. No training, no experience, no have only been saved an hour maybe. She cared about other people. And when you and I get to the point we start caring about the salvation of the lost, brother, then we can start offering up those spiritual sacrifices. Coach bought the got the football team together, high school coach got the team together. He says, all right boys, he says, here's the situation. We're on the we're on the two-yard line. It's uh fourth quarter. We got we got twenty seconds left in the game. We're down by three points. And uh what are we gonna do? We're on the two-yard line. Fourth down, fourth quarter. Uh two twenty seconds left in the game. What play are we gonna what are we gonna do? And the one fellow raised his hand. He says, yes. He says, I'm gonna slide down to the end of the bench and watch and see what happens out there on the field And uh he wasn't involved at all. He was just sitting on the bench. I thought it was funnier than that, but um But I don't want to be the guy sitting on a bench when it comes to soul winning. I want to be the one out there engaging people and sharing the gospel. You know what that is? Spiritual sacrifice. I offer up the Gentiles. To the Lord. Won't it be wonderful by the end of this year our church say, Lord, your souls we won to you? Lord, this is our sacrifice to you. You've been so good to us. We've we've we've won these people to Christ. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us this matter of spiritual sacrifice and this matter of soul winning. Or it's been a bit of challenge the last months. We understand that Lord, I believe you can still use us if we just have a heart. We humble ourselves, really care for others. Lord, I pray you'd make us a soul-winning church, make us soul-winning individual Christians. Put that in our hearts to offer up that sacrifice. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I really want to be able to offer that soul-winning sacrifice up to the Lord, to be a witness. It'll cost something. Cost me time and effort. Maybe folks will give me a hard time. The Lord's been so good to me, and I don't want people to go to hell. I want to I just want to be able to offer that to the Lord. Any like that by the uplifted hand, old preacher, I want to be that soul winner. I want that. How about it? Any others? God bless you, hands all around. And maybe what we ought to do on a Sunday night, we go into a new week. Just kneel on an old altar and say, Lord, stir my heart to be that witness. Stir my heart to win others to Christ as best I can, humbly, knowing, Lord, it's all for you, not me But Lord, I really care. I believe God will use us. We ask Him to put that compassion in our heart, put that tear back in our eye for the loss. I believe God would do it. If you're not saved, we invite you to come. We'd like to show you how to be saved. If you're online, contact us. We'll show you how to be saved. Let's just ask God to do that in our hearts. Let's stand together. Heads bowed, eyes closed. James play the invitation.