2 Peter 2, verse number 13. The Bible says, and shall and shall receive the reward of unrighteousness. We preached on that a few weeks ago. The reward of unrighteousness. As they count, as they that count it a pleasure to riot in the daytime. We preached on that last week, rioting in the daytime. Now he goes on, he says, this, spots they are, and blemishes, sporting themselves with their own deceivings while they feast with you Having eyes full of adultery, and that cannot cease from sin, beguiling unstable souls A heart they have exercised with covetous practices, cursed children, which have forsaken the right way. And are gone astray following the way of Baal. Then he goes on. I want to look at verse 13 and 14. And three words stuck out as I was studying this, looking at this. Spots blemishes and adultery. Spots, blemishes, and adultery. So let's pray and we'll look at this passage tonight. Father, we thank you for a good day. It's been a blessing to sing together as a body of believers in fellowship, talk and laugh and Lord, you spoke to our hearts through your word, and it's just been a joy, it's just been a blessing. These testimonies tonight are a blessing And I pray now as we finish out the day with an open Bible before us, I ask you to speak to our hearts from this passage. I pray you'd use these statements here that are made about these false teachers that are pretty negative, pretty dark. Lord, maybe we could learn something from Him. Maybe we could be cautioned. So please fill me with your Spirit is my always my prayer I yield my will, my mind, I present my body anew, that you would take me and use me now in this moment to teach us your word, your principles from your word, warnings and promises. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. This whole passage here, this chapter two, all the way into, and just about all the way through chapter three, Peter is giving some very severe, sober, important warnings to the believers that he's addressing. He's warning them about these apostates These folks that have deliberately, knowingly, willfully rejected the Word of God, the teachings of the Word of God. They've rejected it. They're not ignorant of it. I keep saying that They're rejecting it. They say, I know the Bible teaches that. I know that's what God says, but I don't care. So they're apostates. And he's warning these believers, and he and these apostates are an existential threat, a very real and present threat to their churches. If these if these fellas are gonna be allowed to be in the church and have influence And hold positions of influence, then the church is going to change, and it's not going to change for the better. Right? You follow me? It's gonna have an effect. Um and so it's a threat to their churches. And it's a threat to them personally. If you'll notice as he goes through here, he's talking about them as individual believers. It's not just a threat to the body of Christ It's a threat to every individual that makes up the body of Christ, our holes, how we live our lives. And so this is very serious what he's talking about here, and I think we've picked that up But the thing to keep in mind is this isn't just a first century issue. This wasn't just an issue for the early church. This has been an issue all through church history up to our day today. False teaching and uh ungodly philosophies and and uh world views being introduced, not and the thing to keep in mind, I mentioned this last week, I want to reiterate it. He's not talking about these people's influence in society Are out in government. These are people who are infiltrating the church of all places. We would expect At least to some degree we would expect this type of thinking, this type of behavior from those outside the family of God, from the unsaved world. But they're coming in the church and they're influencing the body of Christ. And we must never underestimate the importance of the church to our God. The church is God's idea. He established it. Christ bought it with his blood. It's the body of Christ. The church is vital. The church is precious. The church is the pillar and ground of the truth. And if that pillar can be cracked with false doctrine, if that truth can be distorted, With false doctrine, then that church no longer holds the position and influence that one did. So what he's talking about here is very, very serious. And is as I said it's uh still a uh a threat for us today. It was a twofold threat that they faced. One was false doctrine, false teaching. If you look there in verse 1, and I know I'm being a little repetitious, but Peter is being somewhat repetitious as he goes through here But look back there in verse 1 of chapter 2, he says there were false prophets also among the people. He's talking in the Old Testament, among God's people Even as there shall be false teachers among you, who privily shall bring in what? Damnable heresies He doesn't just say heresies, he says damnable heresies. And so there was a very, very, this threat was uh involved uh false doctrine, false teaching, damnable heresies. And by the way, any teaching that's contrary to the Word of God is damnable. It's condemned of God and ought to be condemned by us. So false doctrine was one uh it's a twofold threat, one false doctrine. But along with that false doctrine and and And this is the idea I want to get to in the message tonight. As that false doctrine comes and infiltrates the church And it begins to influence the thinking of the church, the teaching of what the church body believes, behind that follows, following behind that is ungodly living. Ungodly living. That's what he's getting to here. Um perverse living, perverse lifestyles. And verse ten, all the way through the end of the chapter, he's talking about these fellows, what their lifestyles are, what kind of people they are, and it's a result of what kind of thinking they had. I put down here false doctrine inevitably leads to ungodly living. As the as the teaching and the preaching of the Word of God, Bible doctrine, as that uh uh in our churches diminishes as pe as teaching and preaching Bible doctrine diminishes in our churches, we see ungodliness and perverse living increasing In our society and our churches. It all it always goes that way. It always follows that. False doctrine, false teaching, unscriptural philosophies, unscriptural teaching, unscriptural beliefs that are if it's unscriptural, it's untrue. And when we adopt that, we take something that is inherently false and we accept as truth something that is a lie, it's going to affect how we live our lives. It's going to affect our behavior, our lifestyles. And so it's not surprising to notice in our society And increased ungodliness and increased perversion in the lifestyles of our society people in our society, it's interesting to notice as the Word of God's teaching and preaching diminishes. That type of thinking and living increases. You follow what I'm saying? The farther we get from the Bible, the worse our morals become And these fellows come in, are creeping in the church, they've got the false doctrine, and right behind that false teaching is flooding in right behind it this ungodly living. This ungodly living I'm convinced that the solution to the wickedness and the perversion in our society is getting the teaching and the preaching of God's Word back into our churches and our homes. Well, my wife and I were talking the other day. Um the the communists and the criminals are taking over our government. The perverts are infiltrating our schools. And the devil possessed have already taken over the entertainment industry. I don't know how, and I'm just griping here a little bit, I'm venting a little bit, but I don't know how in the world some of these people come up with these movies and these songs without being possessed of the devil. They're unbelievably perverse, unbelievably satanic And I lay the blame, in our country I lay the blame on the failure of the churches to take the teaching of the Word of God. to have it powerfully preached in our churches and then spread throughout our communities. And as the Word of God As the preaching and teaching of Bible, Bible doctrine, as that diminishes, we look around and we see all this corruption and wickedness increasing. So Peter's warning these believers, you're letting these fellows come in and teach stuff as truth that is a lie. They're teaching that that which is good is evil and that which is evil is good. And he says behind that they're coming in with their ungodly lifestyles, their ungodly living. In Proverbs chapter 23, verse 7, the Solomon speaking about the evil man, he said, For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he. It's from the heart that this ungodliness comes in. It's from the heart that these spots and these blemishes and this adultery Is coming into church. It's because of the heart. The doctrine and the teaching affected the thinking and the condition of the heart, which produced this type of lifestyle. You follow my reasoning The word of God's not being fed into my heart and mind. My heart is naturally corrupt. And so is that Word of God, that buffer, that salt of the Word of God, that influence of the Word of God, that washing of the water of the Word of God, as that diminishes, that corrupt heart takes over and corrupt living increases. In Matthew 12, 34, Jesus said this. He said, out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. I would add to that, I'm not adding or change the word of God, but I could say also it would be out of the abundance of the heart, the life liveth. The life that I live, the lifestyle I live, is a result of the condition of my heart. If we want our church, and we do, if we want our church living right How many people want our church to live right? I mean pure and godly, pleasing to the Lord, humble. If we want our church living right, then we have to keep our hearts with all diligence. And we do that by the teaching and the preaching and the meditation on the Word of God. I put this down. It is the Spirit of God using the Word of God. That changes our hearts and keeps our hearts pure and clean and right. That is right doctrine. That is correct doctrine. That is biblical doctrine is what's going to keep our hearts and lives clean and pure. Are you with me tonight? You with me? David wanted a clean life. David wanted his life to be pure. He messed up, bad, severely. He wanted to get back. He wanted his life to be right. He wanted his life to please God. And he prayed this powerful prayer, and it just sticks with me all the time in Psalm 51. Of course, the whole thing is a prayer, but he makes this statement. In the midst of that powerful prayer, he makes this statement, create in me a clean heart, oh God. How do we get a clean heart? We get a clean heart of the Spirit of God, applying the Word of God to our heart, the washing of the water of the Word. And so Peter's warning them, saying, You're allowing these guys to come in. It's not Bible teaching, it's not Bible preaching, it's not Bible doctrine. It's false, it's heretical, it's damnable. And with that coming in, these guys are perverse. They're wicked men. And they're affecting how the church is living, how God's people are living. Peter points out the apostate's objective. They had a twofold objective. Number one, they wanted to convert the church to their false doctrine. They weren't concerned about the well-being of the church. They weren't concerned about pleasing God. They had their philosophies, they had their ungodly thinking and worldviews and and teaching and they wanted to convert the church over to that. Did you know there are people in the world that would like to change the doctrine of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church Would like to alter it, corrupt it, pervert it, the teaching of this church. And um I tell you part of my responsibility as pastor, and I take this incredibly seriously is to protect this church from false doctrine. And but we have to stand together on that. And that means, if we're going to stand together, that means all of us as members of the body of Christ have to know what this book teaches. We have to be aware, and when it comes in, we aware and say, wait a minute, that's not scriptural So they wanted to convert the church to their false, heretical, damnable heresies. They wanted to change what the church believed. And that's still true today. There are people like that today. We had years ago, this hadn't happened for a long time. I'm hoping that how we responded to it nipped it in the bud And this was a little bit extreme maybe, but we had Mormons coming in here. Some of y'all remember that, coming in on Sunday nights. Trying to convince me and no doubt others in the church that we're the same. There's no difference, being we know. He he he he slightly says, Oh, we believe the same thing. I said, No, we don't And we s and then later on a couple others came by. We sat back in the fellowship hall back here and uh for an hour, hour and a half. And hashed it out. They say, what do you got against Mormons? I said, I don't have anything against Mormon people. I said, I've got everything against Mormon doctrine. He said, well sh well what? What do you have again? I said, where do you want me to start? So my point I'm trying to make is there are people And Satan himself would like to change, desires to change the Bible doctrine of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. We have to be sober. We have to be vigilant. We cannot allow that to happen. Amen? Their second objective was to satisfy their own lust. They were coming in, and you're going to see this here in a bit, and Jude talks about it. We noticed it in Sunday school. They were coming into church not just to alter the teaching and preaching and and doctrine of the church, they wanted to use the church to satisfy their own ungodly desires. They saw the church people as an opportunity to gratify the lust of the flesh. I don't know if they viewed the church folk as naive, as easy pickings. They win them over to themselves and they give these great speeches and they're very, very gifted at speaking. They can make the lie sound so true. And they can make the truth sound just like a lie and win people over and then use them for their own gratification. There's nothing godly about these people, there's nothing sincere about them. And Peter's warning them very, very strongly here about this. He's exposing their corrupt nature. Not just their wrong teaching, but their corrupt nature. And he points out three things, and this is what I want us to see here just quickly tonight. Number one, in verse 13, and he does this over and over in various ways throughout the chapter, throughout the book. But here in our text, he says, number one, that they are spots. They are spots. Now, he says there, look, see verse 13, spots they are. Now what is that what is he talking about? They're a spot. The word spot means uh a soil stain. Like yeah, uh any any of you uh any any you when you had kids and they're young they they wore blue jeans or whatever, they get out, run around, they slide in the grass, and they come back with grass stains on their knees Anybody ever have the anybody know what I'm talking about? Or does anybody know what I'm talking about? Oh, three people. Good. Kim knows what I'm talking about. Or you had when I was young, we had shorts on and we came back, not with grass stains on the shorts, we had grass stains on our knees themselves. But that's the idea of the word spot there, a stain on some type of garment to disfigure something. To ruin something. Do you ever uh eat um what's something ru oh I know what it here's a here's a great When I was in Bible college down at Tennessee Temple University, on Wednesday nights, now they had the meals family style. They changed it later on to cafeteria type thing, but it was family style. Everybody had to be there at 555 and uh everybody had all the tables set up. I mean there's thousands they had tables set up. Kathy remembers this They had all these tables, and then at a certain time they'd have prayer, and then they'd come out and serve us. There was probably eight, ten people at a table, and they serve us all together, family style. Now here's the thing, on Wednesday nights, of course we had church Wednesday night, and you had to wear a shirt and tie on Wednesday nights. Which is fine, you know. But for some reason, somebody thought it was a really good idea to serve spaghetti every Wednesday night Anybody here ever wear a white shirt when you're eating spaghetti? What do you get on it? Spots You get stains and then you walk up to somebody and they got that white shirt on and there's this huge spot right there and you're trying not to look at it, you know. Peter says, these guys coming in that bringing this damnable heresy and the lifestyles they're leaving, there's spots in your church. They defile it. They ruin, they're ruining your testimony of your church, their behavior, their lifestyle. Their selfishness. He said it's hurting you. Their spots. They were staining The church's testimony. They were staining the believer's testimony. And I think he's telling them here: listen, there is nothing honorable about tolerating ungodliness In your life and in your church. There's nothing respectful about tolerating wicked lifestyle and wickedness. We have denominations now are very proud of the fact that they accept all lifestyles. That everything's fine, anything goes, and it's the it's pre being presented as something that we should celebrate, that's somehow something we should honor and respect Because even the most perverse lifestyle, oh, we accept it. I tell you, it's not something honorable. It's something to be ashamed about. It's a stain It's a spot on the testimony of those churches and those believers that tolerate that. Take your Bible, if you would, and go with me to 2 Corinthians chapter 6. Now keep your place here. This is an important passage. It always has been, but I think especially I always say, and I've said for years, that this what I'm going to talk about here just now is probably the most neglected teaching in Scripture. Or at least one of them. 2 Corinthians chapter 6. I want to begin reading in verse 14. I have this underscored in my Bible. I believe it's important for Christians, young and old, to get a hold of this. Now, this is not easy. What he's telling us here is not easy. It takes conviction. It takes some courage. It takes some backbone. It takes intestinal fortitude. Does anybody know what intestinal fortitude is? Guts. Look what it says. Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers? For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? And the answer to that question is what? None. And what communion hath light with darkness? None And what concord, that has the idea of agreement, making an agreement together. What concord has Christ with Belial? Who's he referring to in Belial? False God, ultimately the devil. What concord? What agreement do they have? None. What part has he that believeth? That's us in in Peter's context. That's the churches he's talking to. He that believeth with a what? Infidel. What do infidels have? Damnable heresies. He says, what part do they have together? The answer is what? Nine, they don't have any part together. What agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God. As God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them. I will be their God and they shall be my people. Look at this, 17. Wherefore come out from among them and be ye what? Separate, saith the Lord. Touch not the unclean thing Now we'll receive you. You know what he's saying? Peter's telling them, he said, these guys, you're tolerating them coming in, not just their false doctrine, but their wicked living, their spots, their stains, they're ruining your testimony, they're hurting you. Separation from ungodliness is a Bible doctrine. In Ephesians chapter 5, verse 27, Paul writing to the church at Ephesus, he says, the church is to be without spot or wrinkle. We're not to have things that stain our testimony or hurt our witness or ruin our our our our witness and respect in the community. Listen, the the community doesn't have to agree with us and they m they they they never will totally, but I tell you, we ought to be at least respectable in our consistency and our sincerity. And by the way, separation is not the it doesn't doesn't involve hatefulness. You can be separate from the ungodly and yet still be kind and gracious. Not no wait a let me restate that. We must separate from the ungodliness and we must, not just can, we must be kind and gracious. Follow me? I think some some circles they got this idea that being separated from the wicked means being hateful to the wicked. It's not It's just saying, I'm not going to let you influence. I'm not going to let that wickedness be a part of the body of Christ. And I'm not going to let it influence me. Spots are to be removed, not covered. What do you do when you get a spot on your shirt or your garment? Well you you just paint it over? No, what do you do? Put it in the washing machine and get that spot out of there. Get that I tell ya, we need I just thought it this is good right here. I just thought it was What we need is a spiritual washing machine for some Christians and churches. Get the spots out. Get this ungodliness out. And so he says their spots. Now come back here to Peter. He's exposing their these guys. He's exposing their character. He says, spots are they, and then he adds this, and blemishes Sporting themselves with their own deceivings while they feast with you. Oh, they're mixing it up with you. And they're just playing a game. They're sporting themselves. It's just a game for them But their blemishes. Now, the word blemish is similar to the word spot, but it's a little different. The word blemish means a disgraceful blot. It's not just a spot, it's a blot. In other words These are not just lost let me say this. These are not just lost people coming into church services. Alright? We want lost people to come into church services. Want them here. Want the unsaved. And not just coming in, we go out after 'em. We're not just gonna wait till they show up. We're gonna go after them. But he's not saying, and I'm not suggesting even remotely that we should not allow unsaved people into our services. We want them to get under the Word of God, and I try my best. Preach the gospel, invite them to trust Christ, put the squeeze on under the power of the Holy Spirit. We want unsaved. And sometimes unsaved people come in pretty rough packages. Right? Sometimes they might look a little rough. They might look, well we we don't want their type in our church. Oh stop it Yes, we want them to come in. We want to love them. We want to love them and we want to point them to Christ, introduce them to Christ. Amen? That's not what he's talking about. He's talking about people who are coming in privily. In other words, with an agenda, sneaking in deceptively with an agenda. And he says, those are the blemishes, these blots, these disgraceful blots that you must not tolerate. These are ungodly heretics Trying to influence the church. And apparently they had already gained positions of influence in the church. I made this statement earlier, but I want to make it again. The pastor's responsibility, which I take very seriously, is to hold the leadership in the church to biblical standards. Myself included. And by the way, I just want to take this opportunity to make a couple statements here. The Bible has qualifications for a pastor. How many people understand that? Timothy, Titus gives very clear a list of almost a bullet list of qualifications for the pastor. The Bible has qualifications for the deacons. Just following right with the list of pastor, then it goes right to Deacons, a bullet list there in Timothy. I do not believe that God has a double standard. Amen? In other words, the standard that God requires of the pastor is the same for everybody Everybody ought to live up God expects and and uh of hi all his people The standards, the qualification the qualifications that he gives the pastor. Well, you're the pastor, you're held to a higher standard. No, we're all It's all the same standard. Do you say, well, well then what's the why is it listed there like that? Because if you're going to hold some of these positions, you're not only given that standard, you have to meet that standard Now everybody ought to meet that standard, but if you're going to hold a position, you have to meet that standard. You follow what I'm saying? Wouldn't it be ideal if everybody lived by that standard? Yeah. And I think I can speak for Pastor Matt. We sincerely seek to live that standard. It's simply living a good, godly Christian life. Now, of course, we fall short. I think we would agree we'd try. We want, two, seek that, and nobody fulfills it perfectly. You follow what I'm saying? And apparently what was happening is there was no accountability. They weren't holding to this, and these fellows coming in, living these ungodly lives with unscriptural teaching, were coming in and holding positions. And influencing the church. And Peter's saying, listen, you need to understand not just that what they're teaching is damnable heresies, but how they're living. There's a stain and a blood and a blemish and embarrassment, a shame on the church, how they're living their lives. You say, I thought that was just in 2024. I'm telling you, this has been throughout church history. Has been an issue. Has been an issue. These characters were the exact opposite of everything Jesus was. Now look here. Are you here in 2 Peter 2? Look what it says. In the middle of verse 13, spots are they and blemishes. Now keep your place and come with me over to 1 Peter chapter number 1. I want you to notice something. What are these what are these birds? They are what? Spots and what? Say it with me, they are spots They are. That's what they are. Look at 1 Peter 1 and verse number 19. It's talking about us being redeemed, not with Corruptible things, but look at verse 19. We're redeemed with the precious blood of Christ as of a lamb without what? Blemish or He's saying these guys are the exact opposite of everything Jesus was. Jesus' blood was spotless and blemishless. These guys are spots. They are blemishes. He's exposing their character. They are unchristlike. And then last of all He says they are spots, they are blemishes, sporting themselves with their own deceivings while they feast, oh, they're coming to your dinners and they're Coming to your fellowships and they're coming, and oh, it's just a game to them. Just get what they can out of it. Then he says, verse 14, having eyes full of adultery. Their eyes are full of adultery. What Peter is saying here, I believe, is their hearts and their minds were consumed with adulterous lust. Their eyes are full of adultery. I think what he's saying here is every woman that these guys saw was a potential adulteress to them. Now, I don't know what their thinking was, we're not told. I've got a sneaking suspicion that they viewed the church as a fertile ground to satisfy their lusts. Maybe they viewed God's people as vulnerable and naive and ignorant and they could take advantage of them. I tell you, I think a Christian woman ought to be strong in her character, in her convictions, and in her conduct Amen? Spiritually strong. There ought to be no listen, if some fella thinks that a Christian woman is naive and vulnerable, he ought to be shut down on the spot. You ought to be proven wrong on the spot. When I was youth pastor, I used to tell the young ladies in the youth group, I said if some guy Tries to touch you or talk in correctly, do you have my written permission to slap him upside the head Boy, they like that. But these guys, their eyes were full of adultery. They saw every woman in the church there as a potential adulteress. They saw every woman as a source of gratification for their wicked lust. It's on their mind. Their eyes were full of that. Now you say, Well, that's kind of extreme, that's pretty crazy. Oh, it's more common than you think 2 Timothy 3, verse 6, Paul writing to Timothy, this young preacher, listen to what he said to them. He's warning him about these same type of people. And he said this, for of this sort are they which creep into houses, and I would add, and churches. Creep into houses and lead, they lead captives, silly women, laden with sins, led away with diverse lusts. Paul was telling Timothy the same thing, basically that Peter was telling these believers, these guys are wicked. Their eyes are full of adulteries. That's all they can see. That's all they focus on. Vulnerability and gratification of their lust. Ladies, don't be silly women. Now listen, it's the the men hold responsible are held responsible. He's getting after the men, but but Paul said these silly women are led away. Listen, you let a man, listen, you let a man use you, you let a man take advantage of you, you're being foolish. Don't be naive. Pay attention. Be aware. These are ungodly, deceptive men, and there's only one thing that they care about, and that is themselves getting what they want. And they're coming in the church. They're creeping in the church. Don't be foolish. Don't be naive. Um I've been talking with Lee Bowman uh years ago. I th I did how many times did we do it? We had a ladies defense uh defense class. How many people how many ladies remember that? I think we did it twice. Twice. Three times. Who give me four? We did it numerous times. And I was talking to him several months ago about bringing it back in. But what we were trying to do, and the idea behind that is, isn't so women can beat up their husbands. That's not the point. But so women can be can somehow have some knowledge and some awareness of how to defend themselves. And the interesting, I'm a little off topic here, but the interesting thing was a big portion of that training wasn't after the guys there, it was how to avoid it in the first place. How to avoid it in the first place. And Peter is saying, listen, there are people, these guys, their eyes are full of adultery So there's great danger. He's warning them. And he's going to go on. He goes for another 10, 12, 15 verses. And then into chapter 3, he talks about their false doctrine concerning the second coming. But he's warning us that these guys want to change the church and they want to corrupt our living, our lifestyle They want to influence us to live ungodly lives. They want to gratify their own desires, their own selfish will. Now here's the answer. This is what I want to leave us with. And I and I started it off with this. The way to guard our heart The way to guard our church is to keep this book here front and center. In other words, we get in this thing and we saturate our heart and mind with the Word of God. On a daily basis, we get our nose in this book and we let God speak to our hearts and teach us and feed our soul and strengthen our spirit. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. And I'm able to defend myself personally from these influences that come in. Tell you, you get to know this book, and that yard bird on the TV that's preaching deceptive doctrine, you say, bingo, that don't line up with this. Amen? You're not reading this book, you don't know what it teaches. Oh, that sounds pretty good. And Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we need to keep this book front and center. We need to preach it and teach it as it is to men as they are. As Andy Bloom used to say. Preach this book, preach this book, preach it in home, read it in home, teach it at home Teach it and preach it in church, in the Sunday school, on the buses, when we're bringing the kids here, when you're taking them home. Give the word of God to them. In the classrooms, give the word of God to them. In activities, give the word of God to them Because that's how we protect. That's how it protects our heart. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to help us to be aware of this very real threat, this very real danger. It's been around as long as the church has been around. I pray you give us wisdom. I pray you'll give us conviction. To stand for what is right. Help us not to be naive or foolish or simple. Help us to be alert and aware. Help us to think things through and pay attention Be sober and vigilant. Pray you protect our church. Pray you protect our homes. Pray protect our hearts of the young and old alike, myself included. I wonder, with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I've got to get in that book. I need to learn it and study it and memorize it and saturate my heart and life. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, I need that. I know I hound this all the time and I'm going to keep on. But we've got to get that book. How about Family Altar? Family altar, personal time. I want to challenge this. Why don't you make a commitment tonight to the Lord? I'm going to spend time in God's Word every day the next seven days until next Sunday. How about that I'm just going to commit. I'm going to spend time every day for the next seven days till next Sunday in God's Word, letting Him speak to me. And then in the church here, I want our Sunday school teachers, our bus workers, our choir. every aspect to commit ourselves to holding to that book, God's Word, in every way. And I'll do it, and we'll do it together. Father, bless our invitation, I ask now in Jesus' name. Amen.