Timothy chapter three. Second Timothy chapter three. I hope you brought a pen with you this evening and brought your Bible and um I'm just curious how many folks I'm going to get a little bit of your feedback here at the beginning of the service tonight, but how many folks here You have what I would call a study bible, and by that I mean a Bible where you take notes in, you you use it to study the Word of God. Maybe you'll write jot something in the margin or you'll underline I I'm curious, how many folks have something like that? Alright, very good. Um that's a good thing. I highly encourage that. Sometimes folks have what they call the reading Bible They'll just use that to read. Then they got their study Bible, and then they got their church Bible, and they got their devotion bible, you know, for having their devotions. But uh I think it's good. I use them all one in the same And uh jot things down. So if you don't have your study bible with you tonight, I hope what you got in your hands you'll make it that And uh I want you to write some things in your Bible this evening. Now before I read the passage, and I've never done anything like I'm doing tonight before. So uh we'll see how this plays out. I've been praying the Lord would direct in this. But um how many folks we uh let's say within the last how many folks this year, 2012 God has dealt with your heart about something and uh you've made some sort of spiritual decision in the last four months uh in some service in one way or another. God's dealt with your heart, you made some sort of spiritual decision. Raise your hands around. Look at that. That's the vast majority of the people. Now let me narrow it down. How many folks would um as of this past week in the revival Through one of the services, God spoke to your heart and you made a spiritual decision. Something in your relationship, your walk with the Lord, you made some decision. God dealt with your heart, made some decisions. How many folks would say that was true? All right. Good number right there. Now here's the problem that I've found over the years and and true with myself as much as anybody. We have a week, uh we have a great preacher, he brings powerful messages, God deals with our heart. And in what I'm going to call the heat of the moment. I mean we're just God's dealing and you're thinking, man, you know, this I need to do this, this needs to change this. And we we're heart is stirred, and we go to the altar and we say, God, you've dealt with my heart, God, I want to do this, and this is what I'm doing. Help me to do this, Lord. I'm making this decision. And we make these commitments to the Lord And then we get up, we go home, we go to work, another day goes by, a few days go by, and that intensity of the moment dissipates And we find ourselves right back to where we started from. Can I get a witness? Anyone know what I'm talking about? Sometimes it's the drive home. You know, from when I get up off the elder, by the time I get home, I feel like I'm back. Now with that in mind, that's what we're trying to counter. We always pray, God do a lasting work and a decision made. Help us to be different from here on out. Help me to be more spiritual, more godly, more separated from the world, more burdened for the loss, whatever. From here on out. That's what we fight against. With that in mind, notice verse 13 of 2 Timothy chapter 3. I'm sorry, verse 14, 2 Timothy chapter 3, verse 14. Look what it says here. He says, but what's that next word? Continue. Continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. Now here's the question. Before I pray here in a moment, here's the question. Was it God speaking to my heart, confronting me? Challenging me to respond in faith, or was it just the speaker? If it was God Then we need to make take that decision seriously, correct? I have a lot of people challenge me as pastor, other preachers and literature and stuff, and they challenge this, challenge that. And uh some I'll listen to, some I won't. But I tell you, when God deals with our heart, God confronts us, and we know it was God dealing with my heart, then we need to continue. And we need to act on that and make that a part of our life and go on from there. So what this is what I'm going to do. I'm going to have a word of prayer. I'm going to point a few thoughts out here in this verse. And then I'm going to go back and this is what I'm going to do. I'm going to go through each message he preached this week. And just reiterate the f the idea of that message. And I want us to recall to our minds what decisions we made What God confronts us about, and then if we made a decision right in our Bibles, maybe in the front, in the fly leaf somewhere, right in our Bibles, on this state I made this decision, God confronted me, I made this decision. I have it in my Bible one night when he was done. God just worked me over And uh convicted me so much. And I put in the front of my Bible, I put the date and the decision I made, and uh I got it there. And so that's what I want to challenge us. So let's have a word of prayer. We'll see how this goes tonight. Father I do pray that what you begin in our hearts you would carry through, and that we would do our part to continue and see fruit and genuine life changes. in the coming months and years. In Jesus' name I pray. Fill me with your spirit, I ask Lord. In Jesus' name. Amen. Now that word continue there is an interesting word We understand it means to just keep on doing whatever, but there's a little bit more to it. It actually has the idea of endurance, of enduring. Now, we're not a huge crowd tonight. Let me get you to talk to me a little bit. What comes along with the idea of enduring something, as opposed to just continuing doing the same? Enduring. What comes along with that? What does that imply? Alright, the perseverance, there's determination there. But if you're in what if you're enduring something. Okay, uh I'm hearing what I'm I'm listening for now. It implies opposition. It implies obstacles to overcome. It implies friction. But continue thou, press on this matter. Don't let this fade out. Continue in the things that thou hast learned and hast been assured of. knowing whom thou hast learned them from. If God spoke to your heart, if this was God teaching you and confronting this, now listen, it needs to continue, it needs to endure, it needs to overcome those natural obstacles. That would hinder it and hold you back from going on for the decision you made. Now, there are three things the Bible tells us that oppose our Obedience to the Lord, us going on, continuing on the things the Lord deals with about. Three enemies we have in our spiritual growth and our obedience to God. What would those three enemies be? The world, the flesh, and the devil. And we have, some of us who made decisions this week, have already Faced one, maybe two, or perhaps even three of those enemies of doing what God dealt with our hearts this week about. Now I can only speak for myself. But I believe what's true for me is no doubt true for many, if not all of us as believers. The world I tell you one thing, the world does not the world is not for us being completely sold out for Christ. The world will tolerate a little bit of religion, right? I don't mind you talking about church or whatever and that. But you get to the point where you say, you know, I'm I'm sold out for Christ. I'm going to obey God no matter what. The world has a problem with that No put the pressure on. Oh come on. You know that don't be extreme. Don't go overboard. Don't be radical. So we got the flesh. The flesh just naturally wants to put the decisions we make out of our mind. Now let's be honest, and we're we're not we're we're it's uh between us and God, so this is between you and the Lord. I I guess it's alright to ask this. How many folks how many folks here would with me say, you know, since I made a decision this past week or this past year, there's been some times where I completely forgot about it and I had to come back and remember, oh yeah, wait a minute. Anybody uh along with me on that? I know I did the other night, gosh my heart, and then a few days, and I thought, man. And uh I had to come back. You know what that is? I believe that's the flesh. Just trying to push it out of mind. Push it out of mind. And then of course we have the spiritual warfare of the devil. And he just fights it and fights it and fights it. And so he says, continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of. You know it's of God. I know. There's no doubt in my mind. The other night God dealt with my heart. And that was God dealing with Dennis Leatherman's heart. Bill Barron's had nothing to do with it. It was God. Challenging me and convicting me. And I have a feeling there's many folks here, you say the same thing, you you agree, you you're in the same shoes I am. God dealt with my heart. Now, here's where I'm not sure how this works out, but I just want to go back. And some of you here were for all of it. Some of you here missed some of it and whatnot. Maybe some folks here you weren't in on any of it, but God can still use it here, I believe. Now if you remember, last Sunday morning He spoke about the matter of guaranteed. Remember, the redemption is guaranteed. Christ saved us. And that was a salvation message. At the end of that message, if we remember, I believe we had three folks trust Christ up here, is about five down in children's church So this matter of our salvation. So I trust most of us that's not an issue for us. We know we've been saved. As Carol shared a testimony, a friend, we're saved. God keeps us saved And then we need to live for him. But this is one that struck a chord on Sunday night. See how many remember this one. If you is what you was, you ain't. Folks remember that message. And the challenge there was, now this might be where God may have dealt with your heart, the challenge there was, is there a change in my life? Am I living like a Christian supposed to live? And he pointed out the fact that we're supposed to examine ourselves as a Christian. What is my Christian life like? Evaluate. If any man be in Christ, he's a. New creature. Is there a change take place in my life since I've been saved? Not that we are supposed to try and change ourselves, but has God changed me? Has God done something in my life and brought around? Then he gave the evidence of a new believer, new accomplishments, new appetites, new affections, new attitude, a new adversary And I thought, man, this sounds like he's challenging us that if we're not living a certain way, then we're not saved. And I was a little concerned as he was preaching. Then he brought it to the end. He says, Listen, if you are saved, then we need to live like it. Remember that? If we are saved, then let's live like it. Let God have his way. Cooperate with God. Let him bring about these changes. And I'm wondering how many folks last Sunday night. Uh-uh. How many folks last Sunday night you say God spoke to my heart in that message? I remember it. Now as you call it back to mine, I remember it. And uh I need to make some decisions about my Christian life. Does there any anybody give testimony to that? Yeah, God spoke to my heart. A number of hands are around. You know what I would recommend? Your Marger Bible put down. April 8, 2012, I made a decision, I'm going to live like Christ. You want to put that in your Bible somewhere where you see it and you call wait a minute, I'm going to live I'm going to live live like a Christian should. Then Monday night, if you remember, he preached the message entitled Three great days we must all face. It was a soul winning message. He made this statement. 95% of all believers never win a soul to Christ. And that's something. He said there's a day of reaping, a day when we're going to have to give an account to God for how we shared the gospel with others. How faithful we were. Brother Dave gave testimony tonight about witnessing and winning his parents the Lord. You know what? Winning the f sharing the gospel with family members is some of the hardest people you'll ever have. At least it is for me People close to me. I can go to a total stranger, knock on their door, man, I can preach the devil out of 'em. But you get my brother in law there and it suddenly it's like, oh man, can I get a witness? But here's the thing: we're going to have to answer to God for our witness. That I share the gospel with others. A day of reaping. He pointed out the fact that there's going to be a day of regret. He didn't mention this, but it came to my mind, and we talked about it afterward, when we were fellowshipping together afterward. I said, Did you know in the Bible It talks about God wiping away all tears from our eyes in heaven. Did you know when you get in the Bible that never takes place until after the great white throne judgment? And he says, yeah, he says, I meant to bring that out, and I did The fact of the matter is, as believers, we stand at the great white throne judgment, we will see unsaved people that we had influence and contact with. If I understand my Bible right, we're going to see them Books open, their name not there, and them cast in a lake of fire. And it's not until after that event that the Bible says that God wipes all tears from their eyes. It's a very real possibility there'll be tears in heaven. Um day of regret Uh he pointed out not only a day of reaping, day of regret, but a day of reunion. And we do win people, Lord, and then someday we'll be together with them in heaven. I'm curious. Now this is I'm your pastor, so I feel I have uh legitimate claim to ask this question. Uh how many folks here that night you say God really dealt with my heart? About my witness and sharing the gospel with others. And I made a decision to be a more effective witness, more urgent witness. How many people? Look at that. You know what I think, you know what I advise you as your pastor, I'd write that in the Bible, margin of my Bible, or fly lead somewhere. April 9th, 2012, I made, God dealt with my heart, I made a decision, I'm going to share the gospel with people. That may include getting involved in the soul winning class. I wouldn't care if everyone left the auditorium, went back fellowship hall, and took this soul winning class. And I learned how to share the gospel with others. Real quickly, Tuesday night, a ministry that everyone can do, but few have, a ministry of encouragement. Now, here's my testimony. That was the most convicting message I heard all week long. God worked me over. Did you ever get this way? Did you ever get where you feel like you have something under control? Yeah, I've got a handle on that part of my Christian life. I feel like I do all right there. And then you hear a Bible message and it absolutely wipes you out and you say, I'm a total failure in that area. Can I get a witness? Anybody at you all look at me pious like you never felt that way. Sure. That was me Tuesday night. I thought man alive, I this is I'm just sharing my heart with you a little bit. I thought, man alive, how many people are not in this church now because I wasn't an encouragement to them? Maybe I could have made a phone call. I could have sent a little note. Could have made a visit. Just said a word of encouragement. Might have changed things. He made this statement that convicted me. He said um He said this, we can salvage people with words of encouragement. Boy, isn't that the truth? People start getting away from the Lord or whatever and and and I don't, you know, I guess it's just our mindset, but it's like, eh, you know, why don't they live right? Why don't they do right? Well maybe my mindset should be what can I do to help them do right? How can I reach out to them? He says, when's the last time you I I wrote this down, when's the last time I went out of my way to encourage someone? Here's a statement he made that really pricked my heart. The test of my character is how I treat people who I do not need. Or how do I treat people who can't or won't do anything for me in return? How do I treat them? Everybody ought to have somebody to encourage them. He said, remember in the beginning of the message, he said we could re we could double the size of our church in two years if we just get a hold of this one thing. I believe that If people knew they could come to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and when they left they were encouraged, I believe they'd come back. I believe they'd want to be around that. Then he said, and I wrote that in my Bible. How many folks remember that message that night? You made a decision concerning being encouragement to folks. Look at that, hands all around. The next night he says, No excuses for a wasted life. And he pointed out that God can use every one of us, regardless of how foolish or base, or the things which are not. That's what God chooses to use. We don't have to have some great resume to be used of God. We're just who we are And God can use us. And uh tell you one of the great encouraging things, remember the story of how he went through that D. L. Moody, the guy that won D. L. Moody to the Lord, and then his influence and then his influence and his influence and just millions and millions of people come to Christ because one Sunday school teacher that hardly anybody's ever heard of faithfully did what he should have done and won a a seventeen year old boy in a Sunday school class to the Lord. And uh just God using us. Uh God using uh someone to give a gospel tract to a backslidden Christian thought they lost their salvation, able to take some verses and show them, and they got assurance of their salvation. It's God using us. How many folks that night, God spoke to your heart and you made a decision, you say, yeah, I'm gonna let God use me just as I am, whoever I am. Anybody make a decision that night? That stirred my heart. And then uh that was what Thursday n uh Wednesday night, Thursday night, and he preached on the five ingredients of nest uh uh of successful prayer from Daniel. I always get convicted when I read or hear any message or preach on prayer. I always get convicted about that. God's challenged my heart. I have tried since Thursday night to be more faithful and earnest in my praying specifically for all the folks on our prayer list, not missing it. How many folks that night made a decision about prayer? Look at that, hands all around. We ought to write that in our Bibles. That night, God dealt with my heart. I made that decision. And then Friday night, he said, why not now? Listen, God's been doing hard. Let's get it settled. Let's take care of it now. And many of us made decisions. You know, I'm not going to put this off. I'm going to take care of it right now. Now these are the decisions we this is what God dealt with our heart about. I think it's good to go back and review that and continue that in those things. I would venture to say for some of us the conviction about being a soul winner probably faded off a little bit. The intensity we felt at the altar of Tatu in souls by Friday, Saturday probably was, well, you know. Let's ask God to keep that fire burning, keep that stirred up. Listen to Romans chapter 12, verse 1 and 2. I beseech you therefore, brethren. By the mercies of God, God's mercy in dying for us and confronting us and dealing with us, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. Do not conform to this world, but be transformed. By the renewing of your mind, you may prove that which is good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Christ paid an incredible price for our salvation. We remember that with the broken body, the shed blood of our Lord Jesus Christ. He does that to save us from hell. And then he loves us enough to intervene in our lives and confront us through a meeting like a revival meeting and say, hey. Dennis, this here needs to be dealt with. This here needs to be changed. This here needs to be added. This attitude here needs to be altered. And he loves me enough to do that. What we need to do is just say, God, I want to continue on. I want to be what you want me to be. And I think it's appropriate before we come to the Lord's Supper, remembering what Christ did for us, we determine. That we're going to respond and do for him what he challenged our hearts about. Father, bless us tonight as we come to the Lord's Supper. Lord, I feel like there's been many significant decisions made this week. There was a work of God in many of our hearts. I pray you not let that that we would not allow that to die off. It's our responsibility to continue in these things. Don't let the world and our own flesh and the devil keep us from enduring and pressing forward with this and making this part of our lives. We know it was you that spoke to us, Lord. We have no doubt about it. For others, perhaps it was earlier in the year and other services and other messages and devotions or whatnot, but decisions have been made. We need you to help us. Before I finish my prayer, we're going to stand in a moment. I want to challenge you. Whatever decision you made this week, before we come to the Lord's Supper, let's come to an old-fashioned order one more time. Just say, God, yes, I want to follow up on this. I want this to carry through in my life. I want it to be more than just a one-night thing, but a part of my life and ask the Lord to help us and renew our our dedication to Him as we come and take part of the Lord's Supper. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. This is between you and the Lord as we come to the Lord's tables. Kathy plays a few verse of invitation.