Here I I want to tell you my wife and I were s talking about this and thank you for your concern and and asking about my wife. We were talking about this at the hotel room. this evening. And uh by the way, thank you so much for uh church and Brother Leatherman for providing us a comfortable place to stay. It was very comfortable. There wasn't any wild parties going on. Amen. I slept like a baby. I sucked my thumb and cried all night Okay, didn't keep my wife up. But no, it was so comfortable and and it's a really a nice place. Very close to the church. I like that too. And uh so thank you very much, church, for taking care of people like myself and my wife that are constant travelers But why my wife and I were talking about the fact that we travel uh fifty about fifty out of the fifty-two weeks in the year. So we're always gone on the weekends. Okay? We're there at our church uh most times on Wednesday nights Uh but uh during the weekends we're gone because we just believe that God has called us to help uh pastors and their people to understand some things about our government. But when we come here to your church, we feel like we've come home. And so I just want to thank you so much for loving on us. And we want you to know that we love you as well. And your pastor and his wife are very dear friends of ours. And many of you folks, uh, when I think about it, and I do pray your for your pastor every day and his family and uh and you folks and the my mind goes to many of your faces and and I I'm just so very thankful uh for what you're doing and the teenagers here And I mean testimonies. That was great. And Brother Matt, uh tremendous job that you're doing with the young people. And you know what? I really appreciate this about Brother Matt. We talked about this. He gave me ride over to the hotel after afterwards. What he said resonated so much with me and what young people need to understand, you know, some young people in in youth sometimes people mess up. But the fact is we serve the God of the second chance. Amen. And so because you mess up, um, Charlie Clark was talking about David. That he killed Goliath, he also had a man killed. That was the husband of a woman. You understand? So David messed up too, but God continued to use him because he went and repented. who is restored, you see. And what a wonderful thing that we can see young people that when they repent, they can be restored and uh and then revitalized and God can use them in a mighty way. I'm so thankful, aren't you, that we serve a God of great grace, a grace that is greater than all our sin. And so thank you for for uh everything that you've uh uh always done for us and just by loving on us a little bit and and uh and thank you for the goody basket. I mean I I like the goody basket. I like a fruit basket when there's very little fruit And there was only three oranges and the rest was all goodies. I love that. Okay. That's wonderful. Amen. But no, thank you for the for the goodie basket. And then uh Your uh pastor's wife, your dear pastor's wife, went over and visited my wife and gave her some uh goodies uh beyond that as well, and some peptobizmo and some other things and so, you know, and I'm glad about Pepto Bismo because I when I went to the to the room she, you know, hadn't lost her cookies and that's always good, a good thing, you know. Uh but um I in any case we are always so happy to be here. And and by the way, I told you one of the things that I was going to share with you that God's done because my heart is now in the next phase of this ministry. We we're talking about the hearting, well for seven years I crisscrossed this nation. Helping pastors to understand the biblical aspect to our country. You realize first for the first three years, boy, it was very sparse. Because most people didn't understand what I was doing. And they didn't get it. And I even had some of our brethren that said to me, We don't need this kind of ministry. And I said, We don't think we need our country? I I think we do in our country to preach the gospel. And uh but now those same men that said we don't need this kind of ministry are thanking me and writing me letters and Appreciating, you know, the fact that I just stayed with it and uh look, uh I give all the glory to God because it's Him. If it wasn't for Him, uh I would have quit the first three or four weeks, okay? But God showed me and he called me and I just remained faithful to him. Isn't it wonderful to know as long as we're faithful to God, we follow him. It doesn't make any difference where he leads us. Amen? Because he's going to provide, and behind every one of his call, he backs up his calls with his omnipotence. Okay? With his power and all the resources that God gives. Well and then we started the big event where we were having guys come and connecting with their senators and congressmen. Then we had the State Capital Initiative. And uh and I encouraged men to do that and and we're over in over thirty states now and uh and so God just laid that upon my my heart to do the State Capital Initiative and and then beyond that was uh And basically what we're going to do now, and that is getting pastors to come to Washington, D. C. Pastors, their wives, some of their church people, because now we've been invited to the Vice President's Bible study. We have an amazing Bible museum there I mean the Biomuseum is just, I mean, it's over the top. It's been done in such a miraculous way. It's as good as any of the Smithsonians. It's better because it's about the Bible. Amen. And so that's there. And and then uh so in any case uh uh I you know I want to pick pastors up if there are some pastors that come in and they're bi vocational. And maybe they can't afford, you know, to get a rental uh from the airport, pick them up in the airport, and I wanted to get a uh an eight passenger uh SUV, you know, uh because uh a big ban they're stopped a lot of times, and God has provided. an SUV that I really couldn't have provided. He has provided that. And that's just an answer to prayer. Amen. And it's not just any SUV, it's a very nice SUV. And so we're going forward because I want to be able to show these pastors a little bit more about our country and take them on a Christian heritage tour. I've talked to some pastors. They've been to every single one of the Capitol Connections and they've never seen Washington DC. So I said, Well, why don't you come and and we'll s pray with your senators and congressmen and and then I'll take you on a Christian heritage tour, I'll take you to the Bible Museum, I'll take you to the Vice President's Bible study. And they said, Wow, yeah. Can I be first? Talking to one guy in in Arkansas. He said, can I be first? I said, well your state does begin with A, but I can't make any promises, okay? But see, you're real close and so, you know, you could just uh scoot on down and so I want you to think about that, Brother Leatherman, bring some of you people with you. And uh we'll have a good time, amen. But hey, you know, it's a blessing, just as Brother Leatherman said, to be in our country. You understand for most of our history as Baptists, we would preach and then we'd run. For most of the history of Baptistic people, we would preach and we'd be burned at the stake. We would be preached and we'd be whipped to death. In fact, some of it went on right here in America. We would preach and we would be drawn and quartered. I mean our arms and our legs tied to four different mules or horses and pulled in different directions and they cut those off and then boil our bodies. Till there was nothing and scatters. For most of our history as Baptistic people, we would preach and be jailed or tortured or killed. And now we preach and we go out eating. Amen. It's great, isn't it? Amen. Big difference. What's the difference? Well, God has given us a unique nation, and we need to understand what God's done for us. And be appreciative of it. Amen. And I like that one thing that I think it was, Sandra, you said about the be glad. You said be be glad. I want to be glad. I want to be appreciative uh of the fact that oh and young young man hit his head. Is he okay over there? Boy that was I heard that all the way up up here. The heart it uh yeah's got a hard head. That's that's a good thing, amen. It's a good thing. I mean, praise the Lord for that. But hey, we need to be glad that we need to be appreciative that we live in this nation and that we have it so good. And in doing so, we need to realize something. Uh we need to be preparing the next generation to stand strong. Because, by the way, standing ourselves needs to be sometimes standing alone with truth. They're gonna have to stand stronger than we did. Because it's going to get worse and worse. The last days, perilous times shall come. And so I want to speak on standing alone with truth this evening. If you would take your Bibles to 1 Kings 22, 1 Kings 22. Sir? How's that? Are we good? Is that good? Okay, great. Amen. So First Kings twenty-two, and it's been said that wisdom and knowledge as well as virtue and has been instilled among nations as necessary for the preservation of their rights and liberties. Thomas Jefferson said, the God who gave us life, gave us liberty God's desire for each of us to have spiritual liberty and civil liberty here in America. But where does knowledge and wisdom and virtue come from? Well the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. We know that, right? And knowledge of the holy is understanding. So the more that we know God and the holiness of God The more knowledge we have as well. It says in the Bible also in First Peter chapter one and verse five and six. Don't turn there. Just you just stay if you would, please, and First Kings twenty two, it says, besides this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue, and virtue knowledge, and knowledge temperance, and temperance patience, patience godliness, and to godliness brotherly kindness, and brotherly kindness charity. That's love. But it's talking about the fact that you have to have virtue first before you have knowledge. Amen. And by the way, that's at one time what our public education was based upon. It was r establishing a relationship between the young people and God. Okay? Virtue. Get the virtue first and then after the virtue uh excuse me af after the faith, virtue. Okay? So we get faith going on with the young people and then from that faith they're protected with virtue. That protects them, you see. And then from virtue and only then do you add knowledge. That was supposed to be our public education. And now there's no faith that it basically is being proclaimed. And by the way, I agree with the people that have lost loved ones in these shootings. But it's not the gun that's done that. It's our society taking God out of our public education, taking God out of our culture and taking the accountability that we have or should have to God. out of our society in which we live. And God says this, hold that and hate me, love death. So that's why we have death in America like this, because The video games want to ban something? Ban some of these violent video games. Then the height of hypocrisy are these actors That say, oh, we need to ban the guns and they're the ones that are basically filming these violent movies where they're shooting everyone with a gun. You know what they used to call actors and during the colonial days they called them hypocrites. I mean that's what literally the actor wasn't even a phrase back then. It was here comes the hypocrites because they were pretending to be someone that they weren't. And by the way, that's exactly what they're still doing today. The Academy Award? That's a hypocrite's award. Hello? You watch Hollywood movie, you're watching a bunch of hypocrites. We don't want to be hypocrites, do we? That's why, you know, we need to be focusing upon the knowledge of the holy because that is going to serve us well. So young people hear this now and and everyone in here as well. We're gonna have to be standing stronger and stronger as time goes on. And look, our faith in Jesus Christ will be more posed in the coming days than we've ever seen it before. And when that happens, you might be afraid. You might fear men what they're going to say when you stand up for truth. But may I say this and I want you to understand in Proverbs 29 and verse 25 it says, The fear of man bringeth a snare. Okay? But whosoever Whoso putteth his trust in the Lord shall be safe. And then it says this also in 2 Timothy chapter 1 and verse 7, for God hath not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. So follow me now. If the fear of man bringeth a snare, And God doesn't give us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of sound mind. To whatever percentage you are, afraid of man, to that same percentage. You are diminished in your power and your love and in your sound mind. That's why some people, when they get afraid, they just lose it. They don't know how to think And many people actually die from shock. They don't die from their wound, they die from shock because the fear of what's going on clouds their minds and shuts everything down, you see. It shouldn't shut us down. We need to understand some things and hold on to some things and realize there may be sometimes we're getting criticized, and maybe sometimes that people don't understand us, but hey folks, may I say this? And I've said this before, but it merits repetition over and over and over again. Young people, listen to this. Great people can do great things. And extraordinary people can do extraordinary things. But anyone, young people, let no man despise thy youth Anyone, David was just a boy when he slew Goliath. Anyone putting their hand, excuse me, their life in the hand of God. Can do miraculous things. I don't know about you. I want to see God do miraculous things. And He can through you. Oh, He can't through me, Brother Hardy. Yes, He can. If you simply put your life in his hands, God can do the miraculous with anyone. You know why? Because the greatest ability, some people say, well, I just don't have the ability. The greatest ability is availability. You avail yourself to God, young people, if you give 100% to God, God is going to use you in a powerful and mighty way. He will pull you up and do things with your life that you have no idea what God can do through and by you. If you just basically follow him and then give him all the honor and all the glory, amen. Because that's where it belongs And so time and time again we see individuals down through history standing alone with truth. We have a constant, ever-changing world. But the truth is never changing. Amen? So we need to stand in an ever-changing world with the never-changing truth, and these people in the past that have stood with truth Sometimes unpopular, sometimes mocked, sometimes ridiculed, sometimes attacked, but These people stand out in history, and sometimes single people have literally changed the course of humanity. There was a doctor in 1846, a 28-year-old doctor, that said people aren't dying. from these operations. They're dying from diseases, from germs that we cannot see. They laughed him to scorn The other doctors in the medical profession said you're crazy, and actually had him committed to an insane asylum where he was beaten and badly wounded and died from a disease. We see down through history, time and time again, men that simply stood out from the humdrum of history and they said, I'm going to avail myself to God, and I'm going to stand along with truth, and I'm going to let God do whatever He wants to with my life. No matter who says what, one of those men was a man by the name of Eliezer Ben Yehuda. He was a Jewish man who said God was going to use him to do something that had never been done in history. You say, what are you talking about, Brother Harding? I'm talking about when the great diaspora, when the people of Israel were scattered over all the world, and they started coming back to Israel, making the Aliyah back to Israel after they were established once again as a nation. They didn't have their original tongue. They were speaking German and French and and a Yiddish which was like a guttural language of some of the uh places they had been. And this man, Eliezer Ben Yehuda, said, I'm going to take the Hebrew language, I'm going to learn it, and I'm going to speak it to my wife, and I'm not going to let my kids go out and play with other kids because I want their first language to be Hebrew. They laughed him to scorn. They made songs up about him. They mocked him. Crazy Ben Yehuda. You know why? Because no language in the history of linguistics had ever laid dormant for over 2,000 years, was ever revived, given back to a people. But you know what he saw? He saw in Jeremiah 31 and in Zephaniah 2. 9 that God had promised a pure language back to the people of Israel. So he stood and he claimed that promise. He said, I'm going to be the one that God uses. And by the way, He was. In a decade later, just one decade, there were so many young people speaking Hebrew. You say, how did they get there? Don't take away any jot or tittle. You know what they were? They were punctuation marks. So he starts Speaking Hebrew and young people started speaking Hebrew. So many young people spoke Hebrew that they were in the university and they were went on strike because they didn't want to be taught in the English or the German. And their professor said, look, there's not even Hebrew names to describe a locomotive, the parts of a locomotive, which was one of the more technological advances of that day. They said, that's fine. We will establish an institute and we'll start making up Hebrew names And they did. And by the way, it's still going in progress today. I've gone over to Israel five times. When I go over to Israel, you know what I hear? I hear everyone speaking Hebrew. That's never been done in history. That's the only time in history before or after that look, Pointe Greek's still a dead language Latin is still a dead language, but Hebrew has been given back to a people for conversation, for commerce, for education, and it's an amazing thing because when I'm When I'm hearing these people speak Hebrew, I know what that is. That's a miracle because one man stood alone with truth. And he changed the course of history. He followed God's word and he claimed a promise and gave these people back their language. Elijah, right here, stood against the 400 false prophets of Baal just a few chapters before this. And basically the priests of Baal called the nation to try to sway them to the false religion, but Elijah stood up and called down fire from heaven. and ask the people how long ye halt between two opinions. But here is another story that I want to draw your attention to that we're going to use for our text this evening, and that is this. It is One of Elijah's men that he trained. His name is Micaiah. 1 Kings 22. Are you with me tonight? Say amen. And they continued three years without war between Syria and Israel. And it came to pass in the third year that Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, came down to the king of Israel. Now, who is the king of Israel, church? It was Ahab, wicked King Ahab. As R. J. Lee used to describe him, the toad that squatted on the throne of Israel. And the king of Israel said unto his servants, Know ye that ra and that Ramath in Gilead is ours, and we be still, and take it not out of the hand of the king of Syria. And he said unto Jehoshaphat, Wilt thou go with me to battle, to Ramath Gilead? And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, I am as thou art, and my people as thy people, my horses as thy horses. And Jehoshaphat said unto the king of Israel, Inquire, I pray thee, at the word of the Lord today. Then the king of Israel, verse 6, gathered the prophets together, about 400 men, and said unto them, Shall I go up against Ramath Gilead? Now these were not, by the way, prophets of Baal. These were prophets of the Lord. And he goes on to say, or shall I forbear? Shall I go up or shall I forbear? Shall I go to battle or shall I forbear? And they said, go up! For the Lord shall deliver it into unto the hand of the king. And Jehoshaphat said, Is there not Hear a prophet of the Lord besides that we might inquire of him. Jehoshaphat kind of saw that he was listening to the ministerial association. Okay? And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man, Micah, the son of Imlah, by whom we may inquire of the Lord, but I hate him. Reeth doth not prophesy good concerning me but evil. And Jehoshaphat said, Let not the king say so Then the king of Israel called an officer and said, Hasten thither, Micah, the son of Imlah, and the king of Israel said Excuse me. And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, sat on his throne, having put on their robes in the void place in the entrance of the gate of Samaria, and all the prophets prophesied before them It goes on to say that when of course this man went and asked Micaiah, he said, now look at verse 13, for sake of time, and the messenger that was gone to call, Micaiah, spake unto him, saying, Behold now, the words of the prophets, declare good unto the king with one mouth. Let thy word, I pray thee, be like the word of them, and speak that which is good And Micaiah said, As the Lord liveth, and as the Lord saith unto me, that will I speak. So he came to the king And the king said unto him, Micah, shall we go up to Rabbit Gilead to battle, or shall we forbear? And he answered him, Go and prosper. For the Lord shall deliver it into the hand of the king. And the king said unto him, How many times shall I adjure thee that thou tell me nothing but that which is true in the name of the Lord? And now Micaiah, sensing the moment, and he said, I saw all Israel scattered upon the hills as sheep That have not a shepherd. And the Lord said, These have no master. Let them return every man to his throne in peace. Heavenly Father. Now, once again, we come before you and we thank you so much for the freedom that we have in this country to celebrate the freedom from sin that we have found in thy Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And those here tonight that know you as Savior, Father, we thank you that we have been liberated from the penalty and from the power, and one day even from the presence of sin Oh God, we thank you that we live in a free nation. And Father, there are those people that are trying to war against this liberty The civil liberty that so many have bled and died over as your son bled and died over, the spiritual liberty that we share when we accept him as Savior So now, Lord, we ask at this moment in this service that you would enter in and Father create and maintain a head of protection around this assembly, bind off the wicked and the evil one, and help our hearts and minds just to be stayed for these next few minutes. And your dear God, we ask, Lord, that You would once again allow the holy unction of your blessed Holy Spirit to have free reign. And dear God, might we truly sense his presence and Father we ask That the presence of the Holy Spirit visit each and every one of us in our minds and our hearts. Oh God, we are in a very pivotal time in our nation's history. We have young people here and we have older folks here as well, but we all need to do one thing, and that is number one, know the truth and then stand for it. And that needs be standalone. So Father, we ask, Lord, as I step back, that you would step forward, articulate my speech, clarify my thoughts, that your words and thoughts might flow through me and through and by the power of the Holy Spirit of God, infuse them into our minds and our hearts. We'll be very careful to give you all the praise and glory for what you are about to do Well we ask this in the precious name of your Son and our Savior, by the power and the merit and the authority, that is in the precious name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. And so I want to just give you a few things tonight about standing alone with truth. And number one is this: I think it's very important that we see something here. It's better to be divided by truth than to be united in falsehood. Okay? It's better to be united by truth than divided in falsehood. Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 3 says, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. And look, I love unity. I'm one of those people, I'm not like President Trump. Okay? He loves to mix it up. Okay? And if nothing's going on, he'll throw a rock out there just to stir it up a little bit. Okay? People have asked me, is it gonna be alright? I say, are you kidding? He loves it. He'd be bored if he wasn't being attacked. Okay? I'm not him. Okay? I like peace. I like everyone get along, you know. I don't like attacks, but hey, sometimes attacks come. And when they do, we need to know, number one, the truth and be able to realize that, hey, truth is worth standing for even if we have to stand alone. And when we look at the Bible, we realize something I think that's very important that we need to realize, realize and and and come in in into our minds and our hearts. Never allow truth to be sacrificed on the altar of unity. What's going on here? You have 400 prophets of the Lord that are telling Ahab and Jehoshaphat to go up to battle, and you have one man that stands alone and says, Nope. Ahab, if you do, God's going to take you out. And he said that very clearly. Now, Jesus Christ is the great unifier. He's all about Basically, unifying us in the Spirit. But he's also a great dividing force. Why? Because light divides from darkness, and salt divides from decay of falsehood And although Jesus Christ came to bring us together, he also said, I came not to send peace but a sword. He also said, Suppose that I am come to give peace on earth. I tell you, nay, but rather division. Young people, may I say this? You may Have to stand alone all by yourself with truth and that may not be popular But it it's much rac, I would much rather be divided over truth than united in falsehood. Amen. Look, you go to work, someone says, come here, I got a good joke for you And you know it's going to be off color, or it starts down the hill, you need to back away from that and say, you know what, I can't listen to that. Oh, oh, what what are you some holier than thou? No, I'm not holier than thou, but I need to keep my mind clear because I do follow God. Hey, when someone curses in front of you and they they say the Lord's name in vain in front of me, I say, where? I didn't see him anywhere. Huh? I said, you just took the the name of my Lord in vain. Now I don't I don't try to get in fights or anything, but but you know every once in a while we need to just stand up for the truth and and realize that, hey, if we're going to be divided, I'd much rather be divided. By the truth and united in falsehood. Going with the flow. Hey, sometimes it's real easy. Have you ever exited a sporting, a professional sports game, and then Realize you forgot something and try to go against the crowd? Not real easy, is it? Amen. But still, if you want to go get what you need to get, you'll be willing to do so. Number two It's better to speak the truth that hurts and then heals than to speak a lie that comforts and then kills. Four hundred prophets prophesied falsehood Micaia stood along with truth. Ecclesiastes chapter 5, verse 7 says, For in the multitude of dreams and many words, there are also divers vanities, but fear thou God I don't want to give people dreams. I don't want to give people fairy tales and fantasy stories. It's not going to be all right. If you don't get saved, you're going to go to hell and split hell wide open And that's what we need to tell people. Maybe not in that tone. Say it a little more palatable than that. But people have to realize there is a hell Well, Brother Harding, that's just not loving. Jesus Christ, when he was here, when the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us, he spoke a lot more in hell than he did in heaven You know why? Because the fear of God is the beginning of wisdom. Well, when I realized that there's a place called hell that I was going to go to forever. And there's no way out, no hope. Do you understand that some people think, well, there's going to be, you know, there's there's no bars in hell. Huh? There's no friends in hell. Your best friend here on earth will be your worst enemy in hell. Understand that right? Constant sense of falling, constant sense of burning We need to understand to speak the truth that hurts and then heals is better to speak a lie that comforts and then kills. Open rebuke is better than secret love. Faithful, the wounds of a friend But the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. A friend will tell you not what you want to hear, but what you need to hear. Your pastor also will do that. He'll do it as lovingly as he can, but he'll say, brother, if you don't stop doing this, I I'm my brother-in-law. He was a good kid. His name was Gordon. My wife's heard me tell this story. My brother-in-law came out to visit us, and he got saved at a camp. And if your phone's ringing, pick it up or at least silence it one one of the two. Okay? But he got saved, then stayed with us, and then went back home. And uh the world kind of pulled him back in. He was good kid. And God started warning him because he started going back towards the world. He was saved. He started doing some of the same things that he that uh all the rest of the teenagers were doing And and first of all, he had an appendix the size of a grapefruit, and if they hadn't operated in it at burst, he would have died. Then he became inebriated one night and ran his car through the front living room of a house. and fortunately lived through it. I I told him, Gordon, God is warning you And he's not going to let you get away with sin because you're his now. And if you are not careful, God is going to kick up his judgment and may even take you out. He was twenty-one years old. Walking along a highway after, I mean, much after he should have been home at two o'clock in the morning It was a foggy night. Someone came out of the fog and hit him. He's gone Into eternity. Not one mark on his body. His friend ran over because he didn't think that the card hit him that that hard and said, Gordon, come on. He was laughing. Come on, we're on, let's go. And that was it for Gordon See, he's in heaven now, thankfully, but his life was cut short. Faithful are the wounds of a friend. And folks, we have to understand something about truth. Truth, look, if I went to a doctor, I would want the doctor to tell me Then I had a problem, wouldn't you? I I would want the doctor to say, oh you you need to take care of this. Okay? And I've heard of people going to doctors and I mean it was so grievous that if they hadn't gone in just a few weeks they'd be dead Okay, remember the doctor, uh the story of the doctor, and and the guy said, you have ten to live. He said what ten months, ten weeks, ten days? He said ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five. That wouldn't be very good news, would it But what I'm saying is you would much rather have the doctor to say, well, everything's good. Everything's good. And then you walk out and you realize a month later you have cancer. And it's inoperable. You understand what I'm saying? So sometimes the truth is, you know, something that we don't want to hear. But I would much rather speak the truth that hurts and then heals And speak a lie that comforts and then kills. Billy Sunday, everyone's heard of it, Billy Sunday. Someone said, Billy Sunday, you are too harsh when you preach the gospel. People don't like it. You are rubbing the cat's fur the wrong way. He said the old cat is on its way to hell. If he turned around, I'd be rubbing it in the right way. Number three, better to be hated for telling the truth than loved for telling a lie. Better to be hated. I hate that guy. than to be loved for telling a lie. Oh everything's no no you yes use some discretion. But anyone in the Bible, I I I knew someone That said this one time. A man is not only known by his friends, he's also known by his enemies. Huh? You understand why we got here, right? We got here because there were 56 men that stood up against the culture. Understand that? I mean 56 men signed a document that by man's estimation was going to make them guilty of treason. You understand? No one in the world had any other type of government than a tyrannical monarchy. We had 56 men that not only stood up against What was going on here in America, but the most powerful nation on earth, and in the entire ideology of the world And by the way, against two-thirds of the population that was here, because only one-third was with them. But they stood up all the same and they made that declaration. Amazing to me that those men were willing to do that What do what you think we would be and who it would be if those men would say, well, I don't know if we could we should do this because someone, you know, someone may uh get angry at us. King might come after us. Well they knew exactly what they were doing. But they didn't fear the culture. Too many times what's going on today is people are bowing to the culture. And they're not bowing to biblical principles. We need to continue to bow to principles and not the culture, not be afraid of what's going to happen here and there. When have we gotten to a point where we are afraid of what the culture is going to do? Amazing to me. Man is known by his friends. He's also known by his enemies. You have some enemies? Well, the ultimate Alternative courage spear Abraham Lincoln said, because no one likes to be criticized, I'm like to be criticized, you'd like to be criticized. I'd rather not, but sometimes I am You know what Abraham Lincoln said? He was attacked too. This is what he said. Criticism is something we can avoid easily by saying nothing and doing nothing and being nothing. So if you don't want to be criticized, then never hand out a tract at work. If you want to be criticized, then you know, just go ahead and go with the flow. And you won't be criticized. But if you stand with the truth, there are going to be people that you associate with that will basically be put under conviction just by you coming, but it'll be worth it. You know why? Because when they get to a point where they need someone's counsel, guess who they're going to come to? They may jeer you and mock you, but when they get in trouble, they're going to come to you because they're going to know that you're sincere and that you know the Lord and that you have some answers. Seeing that happen? Listen to Teddy Roosevelt. This is amazing to me. Teddy was rather criticized and and but listen to this. I love this quote. It is not the critic who counts. Not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The critic and the critic, excuse me, the credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood, who strives valiantly, who errs, who comes up short again and again because there is no effort without error Or shortcoming. But who actually strives to do the deeds, who knows great enthusiasms, great devotions, who spends himself in a worthy cause, who at best at the end is triumphant in achievement. Who at the worst, if he fails, at least he fails, daring greatly, so that his place is never with those cold and timid souls who neither know victory nor defeat, end quote. Gettysburg happened not too far from here. Guys, in battle Literally giving their last drop of blood. And people from Gettysburg packed picnic baskets and went up on the hill and had a picnic and watched the battle That's what some Christians are like today. Just watching the battle. Hey, get in the battle. Get into battle! Take some tracks with you and do something maybe you haven't done in a while. Give some tracks out So let me let me give you something to read. This will tell you how you can know for sure when you die, you're going to heaven. So Bill Hardy, I'm not comfortable doing that. Well, that's my point exactly. Get out of your comfort zone. Let me ask you this. Were you comfortable when you walked up and gave profession of faith the first time you got saved? The only time you got saved, but you're not saying the first time. But when you came forward, were you comfortable when you got into the baptistry? And everyone looking at you? You're about to take a little dunk. You weren't comfortable, were you? Were you comfortable the first time that you were called upon to give a testimony? That's your first time? Have you given a testimony before the second time? Were you nervous? No. Were you nervous the first time? Yeah. Were you out of your comfort zone? Then? And you were out of your comfort zone tonight, too. Yeah, you were He agrees with me. He's he's trying to be, you know, no, I was I was very comfortable, you know. No, I could tell he was nervous. But that's okay. That's okay. You know why? Because God will use that. You keep on getting out of your comfort zone You you keep hey I'll guarantee you when you went forward and said I'm called a full-time Christian service, when you went forward and said I'm called a full-time Christian service, kind of uncomfortable? Yeah If young people can do it, why can't we adults do it more often? Get out of our comfort zone. You know, I've invited several people to this church. Just been here. Hey, come to this church. It's wonderful. They're lovely people. They'll just level on you, make you feel right at home. I wonder how many times you've invited people in these last weeks. Talk about the Lord. Give someone attract. Talk to them about Jesus Christ. That's getting out of our comfort zone. But what that is, you see, it's standing with truth Some people might criticize me. Yeah? Some people may judge me. Let me read you something. I'm going to send this to President Trump. I'm going to send this scripture to President Trump. Listen to this because he is being judged left and right. You know he is. Even I mean they're f they're they're blaming him for these shootings. Okay? I mean how crazy is that? Listen to this, 1 Corinthians chapter 4, 3 and 5. But with me is a very small thing that I should be judged of you, or of man's judgment. Yea, I judge not my own self. For I know nothing by myself, yet I am not hereby justified. But he that judgeth me is the Lord. Therefore, judge nothing before the time until the Lord come. Who both will bring to light the hidden things of darkness and will make manifest the counsels of the hearts, and then shall every man have praise of God. I'm going to send that to the president. I'm going to say, Mr. President, don't be worried about people judging you. Because, hey, you're going to be standing before the great judge one day, and that's the only judgment that's going to count. So what do we do? Take on the whole armor of God. You understand Abel was killed by his brother. He was he slew his brother. Cain slew his brother. He didn't want to kill a sheep. And this kind of goes along with our society today. Amen. Oh, they don't want you to spank a child, but you can kill it. In its mother's womb. Huh? Yeah. They don't care about all the violence going on. Talk about hypocritical. Cain didn't want to slay an animal by cutting its throat. But when you look at the word slew in the Hebrew, it's slitting the throat. Didn't want to kill an animal to sacrifice, but he slipped the throat of his brother. That's the hypocrisy. Of man, even today. Elijah was chased by Jezebel. John the Baptist lost his head over what he said to Herod. Peter was crucified upside down. Stephen was stoned outside the gates. While Paul looked on, and I'll guarantee you, Paul saw Stephen with his eyes focused, his face focused toward God, I'll guarantee you that he never got away from that. Because Stephen was standing alone with truth and he was Waxing eloquent in the power of the Holy Spirit of God. And those men, as they stoned him, it was Paul who was holding their coats. Paul, in my opinion, never got away from that. And then Paul himself. was stoned and left for dead outside the gates of Lystra. And then had his head cut off. James was martyred. Our Lord and Savior was crucified. Why? Because when you stand along with truth, sometimes You have to take some criticism, but it is always better to be hated for telling the truth than love for telling a lie. Number four, and I'm almost done. Better to stand alone with the truth than to stand with the majority in the lie. My chaos are against 400. They were all wrong. Many times, young people, listen to this. Many times the majority is wrong. Many, many times it's not easy going when the crowd is yelling. Noah, if he had been interviewed during the 120 years when he was building the ark, they would have called him a rhanophobe Did you hear me? Come on, work with me here, folks, okay? They would have called him a fundamentalist. They called him a bigot. Well, you think you're just gonna build this and and and people are gonna come? Look, but Noah, get this now. Listen, he went into the ark, a minority, he came out a majority. Let me say that again. He we went to the arch minority came out of the majority. Did you get that son? I love it. Amen. You know why? Because when you stand with the truth, even if you have to stand alone with the truth, you're always in the majority. Because you're standing with eternal truth. You're standing with God. Truth has a name. His name is Jesus Christ. Amen? So, hey, we should we should relish the fact that we can stand alone with the truth. God's arrow, you see, found its mark. Because number five, it's better to ultimately succeed with the truth. Than to temporarily succeed with a lie. It's all it look. It's better to ultimately succeed with the truth than to temporarily succeed with a lie. Time We'll tell the story on all of us. As who was right, who is wrong? I don't care About that. All I care about is what God thinks. Your character is what man thinks, excuse me, your reputation, excuse me, is what man thinks you are. Your character is what God knows you are. Your reputation might be besmirched a little bit. Don't worry about that. Because when you gave your life to the Lord, you gave him everything. You gave him your name. You gave him your reputation. You gave him your life. So your reputation is what men just think you are, but your character is what God. If God knows who you are and what you're doing, hey, that's fine. I'll go with it. Young people, don't worry about what people say about you. You will be criticized, but I'll guarantee you, you'll be the one that will stand up, and they'll be coming to you later on. I realize this. The Bible is the precepts of truth. Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. The Holy Spirit is a power of truth. Howbeit, when the Holy Spirit will come, he will guide you into all truth. God the Father, he's the perpetuator of truth. He is The one that continues, Jesus Christ is a person of truth. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. John Adams. How many ever heard of John Adams? Second president of the United States. I'm almost done, okay? Everyone alright? I'm almost done. Okay? We okay? Everyone okay? You okay, Matt? We can go through a green door. Green Gloucester. See. He is a jokester. How many know that? How many of you young enough people know he's a joke he's a jokester? You know Okay. You have some children over here? You don't know? If if you do. They're all your children. John Adams, second president of the United States. Very interesting guy. Very biblical. In fact, you know the reason why he didn't win the bid for his re-election in Thomas Jefferson? Because he told the truth about something. And so they didn't elect him, didn't like what he said. But he has gone down in history as someone very unique. Because during the Boston Massacre Everyone remember that, right? Where the British opened fire on the mob or the the precious little innocent colonists? Because they were throwing snowballs? Guess who defended the British? John Adams did One of our founding fathers. And do you know what the rest of the founding fathers to be were doing? In the gallery, looking at them like this. Giving him the cross eyed, you know. He got them off. He got the British off Because he proved to the court that the colonists were not just throwing snowballs, but rocks in the snowballs, and then these little short bats that they would beat the ropes when they fashioned the ropes on the long shore. They were throwing bats and rocks encased in ice. And one of the young British soldiers got hit in the head and by a knee jerk reaction he shot. And when he shot, the other men thought that they gave him the command to shoot and they started shooting. And then he found out and had testimony that that's exactly what the colonists wanted them to do. They wanted them to open fire on them to cause. a kind of precursor to rebellion. Well the founding fathers. And they were looking at him and if looks would kill John Adams would have been dead. Never been a signer or the editor of the Declaration of Independence. But this is what he said. Listen to what he says to the Founding Fathers and the rest of the people that are there after he gets the British off of the Boston Massacre, he says this, quote, facts are stubborn things. And whatever may be our wishes, our inclinations, or the dictates of our passions, they cannot alter the state of the facts and evidence. You know what he was saying? He was basically putting into context one of The scriptures where it says in Romans 3. 4, God forbid, yea, let God be true and every man a liar. Doesn't make a difference when anyone else says, what's the truth? Will you, are you going to stand alone with truth? Or will you go along because someone criticizes you a little bit Young people, you know the most powerful thing in young people's lives is peer pressure. I can't do this because you don't know what they would think. Even when we get older sometimes, there are people here this morning that weren't saved, didn't know Jesus Christ, and because of peer pressure, they didn't want to be embarrassed, they didn't want to get out of their comfort zone And walk down here and get saved today. We need to learn as time goes on that we need to stand with truth and if necessary, stand alone with truth. The truth will always bear us out. Now there's something coming. Say, what is it? It's what you call the 2020 election. Brother Harding, what does that have to do with this? Because the devil's gonna say, yeah, just go ahead, Christians, just stay at home because everything's gonna be fine. But if we're going to stand alone with truth And we need to get to the polls, and not only do we need to get to the polls, we need to pray and ask God to get his people to the polls as well, so that we stand together with truth. Because if we don't get this president elected again, then we're gonna have a crazy putting the office. of the precedent. Chief Bill Harding, why do we have President Trump in office well, as I told you this morning? Historical numbers of people showed up and voted in the 2016 presidential election. Say why that happened. You know why? Right here. Because I was here. And you know what I remember? I remember just about every one of you that could actually walk down to an old-fashioned altar and bend their body. We're down here at the altars and you were weeping. You know why? Because you had a sense of urgency and a sense of danger. And if we had someone elected that was going to bring Madame Hillary, is who I'm talking about, she would have brought our nation down to its demise. And I truly believe that that is still, could still happen today. But we saw that we sensed that, and you folks responded to an old-fashioned invitation. And the reason why we have who we have and that space of grace that God's allowed us to achieve Is because you folks got serious and you came down to an old-fashioned altar and you put everything into your prayer that night and God heard your prayers. And God stirred the hearts of his people. And they got to voting booths and voted. There's some people that don't even want to wear one of those Trump Make America great again because of all the violence that's going on. And I'm not saying go out of your way to go find a red hat. What I'm saying is standing alone with truth. We're going to be more and more persecuted as the day comes, but we need to be preparing for that now and realize The arrow found the mark in Ahab's heart, but Micaiah received the blessings of God. He was actually persecuted at first, but in the end, God blessed him. In an amazing way. I'd much rather be persecuted now and blessed later than to be just go along with the flow now and lose the blessings of God. What about you? Because these young people, they deserve a nation, don't they? That they can actually do some of the things that they're being touched to do? That called as Full-time Christian service calls a missionary, just want to have a desire to work for God. It's going to be up to us and what we do for our country because folks, may I say this? If we don't stand with the truth, who else is going to? If it's not us, who? And we must be the ones that, no fear of coming down to an old-fashioned altar. Humble ourselves Pray and seek look, I don't care where I am. What kind of a conference? I've been in national conferences and and when no one's going down the altar, I'll go down the altar because Because I want to pray for our country. Why? Because I want to see something unique, miraculous happen. I want to see a revival in our nation. You heard your pastor today. He truly believes that we can have a national revival. Hey, young people, you want to know something very unique? Two teenage girls, two teenage girls got together and they prayed and the great Welsh Revival started Because two teenage girls took God seriously. And they said, we're going to stand with truth and we're going to start praying that the Holy Spirit of God sends a rain. And the you know the Welsh revival is that they sang Great God of Wonders, the chorus to the song Great God of Wonders for three hours while hundreds of people continued to Flow down, walk into the church and right to the altar. They'd walk in and they'd go right to the altar simply because they got under the power of the Holy Spirit. The Hebride Islands, it was two old ladies, two matronly ladies that got together and prayed for that revival You see the revivals, it's normally just two people that get together. What would happen if we got real serious tonight about something in our nation called a revival and then ask God to bring it to a point? Where the whole world would be saying, what is going on over in America? And you know exactly it's God showing up. And the reason why God shows up is because we decide to stand with the truth truth. Sometimes it takes humility, sometimes it takes the fact that we can stand for critici, you know, stand against criticism, but whatever it is. Folks, we need to hold on to the truth. And to do that, you need to be getting in your Bible and reading your Bible and praying and asking God to do something Something so different for you and your life that he's never done before. You say, Brother Hardy, what are you doing? I'm asking God for miracles. I mean, we were given a 2019 Suburban. That just happened a couple days ago. What a blessing that is How I didn't I didn't understand what was going on and God just orchestrated all of that. You know, that's just the beginning. Said, Brother Harding, I'd love to see some miracles in my life. I'm not saying you're gonna get a new car or anything, okay? But What I'm saying is, can we just get together and say, we're gonna stand with the truth? You know how to stand with the truth? You get on your knees. Get up and get on your knees. And once that happens, then you can stand the truth. See, we're in that point where it's pivoting. Where our nation can literally pivot right back to God and we can see something miraculous before we're taken out of here. I want to be in on it. How about you? If there's any chance at all, don't you want to be wanna you want to be in on it? I I do. So I'm not going to have you music play. But if you really believe that God can do something so over the top, a miraculous Thing that you could be a part of. When you want to get on on that, I I want to get in on it. That's you. I want you to stand right now and join me. at this old-fashioned altar. As we did in 2016, let's do it right now, coming up to 2020. And let's just do something that we don't normally do. Let's get out of our comfort zone. And not just tonight as we come to an altar. But get some tracks before we leave tonight. Talk to someone about Jesus this week. You say, Lord, I'm going to do something for America. I'm going to talk to someone about Jesus this week. Give them the tract Lord, I'm going to ask you to start stirring your people. Lord, at work, my friends, I'm not going to listen to those dirty jokes anymore. I'm not going to watch those things on TV that get my mind going in the wrong direction. I'm not going to listen to the music that gets my heart beating in the wrong way. I'm not going to think those thoughts. I'm going to stand alone with truth. I don't want anything between me and you, Lord Oh God, so move our nation to A point where you can just send the reign of your Holy Spirit's power. We can have revival for our young people. For our families, for even people that don't know the Lord, so we can reach them with the gospel. Be a Micaia. No matter what the majority says, stand humbly but tall with the truth Oh God. Help me to put on my prayer list. A national revival, Lord. Begin with me. Begin with me every day. Help me to turn off that television and open up your word. Help me to turn off that radio station that may appeal to my flesh and start listening to something that glorifies you. I mean you have a radio station here. It's an easy fix right there. I'm not gonna think those thoughts. Yeah, the devil trots them through my mind, but I'm not going to entertain those thoughts anymore. I'm going to confess them and forsake them and start thinking good thoughts. I'm going to start praying more, Lord. Get a prayer list. I want to start reading my Bible. Knowing that at one time it was a death sentence. To have a Bible. Oh, God, help me to read it with more fervency and to live it with more sincerity. Oh God, please help my nation. And Lord, each and every day as I go through my day and reach out to people, I'm going to pray that you start praying Bringing people into my path that I can witness to them, invite them to church, and give them a track, talk to them about Jesus. And I know every single soul. That comes to know you, that comes closer to you, will be helping my country. And I would ask you to pray for my wife and I, as we represent you on Capitol Hill, that more open doors would be given, and we'll walk through them, we promise you. Speaking the truth to power. Where could a revival begin? Right here. Right now, we could see something supernatural begin right here at these altars. But ask your pastor to come and pray. Why don't you stay right there at the altar for a moment and let your pastor come and pray for us? And then we'll dismiss. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, we bow.