Ephesians, what did I say? Chapter six. Ephesians six. And uh look I'd like for us to read together verse thirteen. This is our memory verse for the month of August. I hope you'll work on memorizing this verse and uh get it. Committed in your heart and mind. I believe it will help us in our Christian life. But I'd like for us to read together. Ephesians chapter 6, verse 13. You got it in your Bibles there. Let's all read together. Ready? Here we go Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand If you notice there towards the end of verse number 11, it says that ye may be able to stand. The verse we just read, it says that ye may be able to withstand. Then the last word of verse 13, having done all to stand, the first word of verse 14, stand, stand, withstand, stand, stand. I want to speak this morning on stand. Just stand your ground. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our study of your word. We're grateful for everybody that's assembled together, joined us. Now, Lord, as we have our Bibles open, we're asking you, through the person of the Holy Spirit, to speak our hearts. I ask, dear Lord, you challenge us. I pray that you would convict us. I pray you'd encourage those that need some encourage this morning. Give us direction in our Christian lives. And Lord, I ask that by chance there be some that do not know Jesus Christ as Savior, do not have assurance. Of a home in heaven, I pray that your Holy Spirit would bring great conviction and would see that need and trust Christ as Savior. I pray again, as always, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. Present my body anew as a tool in your hand. Pray that you would speak through me your word to each of our hearts and minds. I ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. If you would notice with me in verse number 11, he begins this passage Paul had been speaking about the family and about uh home in chapter five. Chapter six, he addresses the children and Then he talks about servants and their masters in an art context that would be employers, employees with principles would apply. And then you get to verse number 11, and he makes this statement. He says, and finally He's winding this book up, this letter he's writing to the church at Ephesus, of course under the inspiration of God And uh he's bringing this thing together and he says, finally. Now, I don't know how it was when Paul was preaching, but when a preacher says, and finally Ladies, don't put your shoes on at that point yet. You ain't going nowhere for a while, all right. And so uh but Paul says finally, and he uses that term To kind of bring everything he's been saying. He kind of brings it to a head. And he makes perhaps the most prof, he gives us perhaps the most profound teaching On spiritual warfare in anywhere in Scripture. Now it's all through Scripture, but Paul makes some very significant statements, again, under the inspiration of God About the warfare that you and I find ourselves in as Christians. He says, finally, now before we get into the warfare part itself, I want to notice here, verse 10, finally, my brethren. Now, anytime, just about every time in the Bible, you find that term addressing the brethren Just about every time he's talking about saved people. Saved people, the family of God. I put down here several ways the Bible describes the Christian. The Bible describes a Christian with various terms. One way the Bible describes a Christian is as a son of God. the sons of God. In John chapter 1 and verse 12, the Bible says this, and as many as received him As many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen I mean you're saved and you don't hope so, you don't think so, but you know you're saved. Say amen. The moment a person trusts Jesus Christ as Savior, the moment they recognize the fact that they are a sinner, their only hope Of eternal life is through trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. The only hope of escaping hell and being in the presence of the Lord in heaven for eternity is through trusting Christ. The moment a person makes that decision They are born into the family of God. They are the sons of God, the children of God. Jesus told the disciples, when you pray, pray this way: Our Father, which art in heaven. Isn't it an exciting thing to know as a believer that the God that spoke this universe into existence is my heavenly Father? Man. We're born in the family of God. The Bible refers to believers as sons of God, children of God, members. Of the family of God. By the way, if you've never trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, I hate to say this, but it's true, you are outside of the family of God. Earlier in chapter 2 in Ephesians, he says that those who do not know Jesus Christ as Savior, those that have never trusted Christ, are without God and without hope in this world. Isn't that an awful condition? I am so glad Jesus saved me in 1979. I was born into the family of God, and God has been my father all these years. Before I was saved, Satan was my father. In John 8. 44, Jesus told the unbelievers, he says, you are of your father, the devil. I tell you, I was Satan's child for many years. I've been God's child now for 42 years. I tell you, God's a better daddy than Satan is. And so sometimes the Bible refers to believers as sons of God and the family of God Take your Bible. Now keep your place here. We're going to look at a number of passages. I'd like you to turn with me to them. Go to 1 John chapter 3. Just real quickly. 1 John chapter 3 Now if you're in Ephesians, work your way towards the back of your Bible. You get to John. If you hit 2 John, you're going too far. Now this is for some of our folk. 1 John is before 2 John. This is Trying to make it as clear as I can here, as simple. First John chapter 3. Look at the first couple verses here. These are exciting verses in my mind. As a believer in Jesus Christ. Verse 1 of chapter 3 says this: Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us. Look at this. That we should be called the sons of God. Therefore, the world knoweth us not because it knew him not. Look at verse 2. Beloved, now are we the sons of God. Man, what a statement. Be a child of God. And uh it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he, Jesus, shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself even as he is pure. A son of God. Now I wish we had time to look at it. We had preached a series on this, but Jocus down, Romans chapter 8, verse 15, and verse 8 uh verse uh 15 through 17, uh God tells us there that because we're sons of God, because we're born into the family of God, because God is our Father. That makes us joint heirs with Jesus Christ. Now think about that. You hear that term. You've been in church. Yeah, joint heirs, sometimes in a song. But we don't stop and think about what that means That means whatever Jesus Christ inherits as God's Son, the Son of God, you and I inherit also. How about that? We're joint heirs with Christ. What an amazing thing. How many people are glad you're saved? Glad you're a child of God. God loves us and He calls us the sons of God, and we're join heirs with Jesus Christ. What a blessing. Sometimes the Bible refers to believers as sons of God. Sometimes the Bible refers to believers as saints of God. Come back to Ephesians with me, if you would, and look with me in chapter number one. Ephesians chapter one and verse one. Ephesians one one Paul, he says there in verse one of Ephesians 1, Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, look at this, who he's writing to, to the what? Saints, which are at Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ Jesus. Say, oh, saints, he's writing to these super spiritual, extra special, uh super calophrazistic, espialidosis Christians. He's writing to these Christians who are really something else. Wrong. You know what he's writing to? He's writing to Christians. You know what? You and I, the moment we trust Christ as Savior, in God's eyes, we become saints. Did you ever hear somebody say this? Oh, Carolyn Davis, she's such a saint. Now I've never heard that, but um Oh, he's such a saint What do we mean by that? Well, oh, they're so special, they're super nice, they're just extra good. Fact of the matter is, every person that trusts Christ as Savior is a saint in the eyes of God. I'm not trying to be disrespectful, but you don't need the Catholic Church to determine whether you're a saint or not. The moment you trust Christ, God already says you are. Set apart in the eyes of God is what the word saint means. Set apart, sanctified. I'm telling you, we are no better than the world, but as a believer, we're different than the world. God sees us set apart his own children. How many people here when your kids are small, you took them to a park or somewhere and you had your eye on the kids. You looked at all the kids and you loved them, they were fine. But your kids were set apart in your eyes, in your focus. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's the way it is as a child of God. Isn't that something? Saints of God. When I got saved, there was a I was just growing, I worked in a meat packing plant, and it was a rough crowd there And um there was two other fellows, uh two another fellow and another lady got saved about the same time I did. They all independent of each other just happened to get saved about the same time we're witnessing Now one fellow was saved out of the Catholic Church, and um I didn't know hardly anything about God, about Bible or Christianity, learning. I'm so excited. He came over and he says, um, he said, uh, do you know I'm a saint? I said, no way, I know you. I've been working with you. Ain't no saint. And uh he showed me in the Bible that as a believer, I'm a s he's a saint of God. He says, I want you to call me Saint David. His name was David. He said, I want you to call me Saint David. I said, I will if you call me Saint Dennis. And so that's what we would call each other. A saint set apart in the eyes of God. How many people are glad you're a saint in the eyes of God? Isn't that something? You say, preacher, I know me. I ain't no saint. No, neither is any of us. But God sets us apart in Christ Jesus and He sees us with the righteousness of Jesus Christ Sometimes the Bible refers to a believer as a saint. Sometimes the Bible refers to a believer as a son of God. Number three, here's a third way the Bible refers to believers sometimes as stewards of God Now come over to Peter, 1 Peter chapter 4, if you would, just quickly. And I'm going somewhere with this, so follow along with me. 1 Peter chapter 4. Back there before John. And notice with me, if you would, 1 Peter chapter 4, and notice with me verse number 10. As every man hath received the gift. Now he's talking about the different gifts, the abilities God gives people, believers As every man hath received a gift, even so minister the same one to another. Now here's what he's saying. He's saying, God has entrusted every believer, every person when they get saved, God gives to us, God bestows upon us. particular gifts or abilities, talents you might say. And every one of us here, let me ask, I know I may ask you this several times. I'm going to probably ask it a few more times. How many folks here save you know it? Say amen. Everyone that said amen. If that's true, that's true, God's given you abilities, gifts to be used to minister one to another, to help the church grow, help us reach our world with the gospel. So God gives us this gift. You say, preacher, I don't have no gifts. Don't call God a liar. God says he did give you a gift. And he wants us to use it. He expects us to use it. And that's where he uses a term that emphasizes the fact that we are to use the abilities God has given to us. To help build the church and help us reach the world with the gospel. Look what he says there. As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another. Now look at this next statement. As good what? Stewards. He's talking about believers. And he refers to us as stewards. Now, what is a steward? The word itself means this: the manager of perhaps a household. or a vineyard, a farm, any type of property or possession. A steward is somebody that is entrusted, get this is entrusted by the owner of that property, entrusts the steward to take care of it and use it for the purpose it is designed. You follow with me? At the lake here, we have a lot of vacation homes and things like that. And they'll have property managers. Anyone familiar with that term? And their responsibility is to make sure that property is managed, it's taken care of, the pipes don't leak, and the grass is watered, and the trees are trimmed, and the keep the red squirrels out of the attic And uh you do all these things. They manage, they're stewards of that property. They don't own it, but they're to be use it and take care of it. God says you and I As Christians are stewards of God. He's given us abilities, He's given us talents, these gifts, and we are to use them as God for the purpose God has given them to us. So we're stewards. We're stewards of the gospel. God has entrusted Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church with the greatest, most important message this world has ever had, and that is the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's called the Great Commission. And we've been given the responsibility. It's not our gospel, it's the gospel of Christ, but we've been given the responsibility to get back to every single person in our community, in our country, on our continent, on our planet Every single person. We're stewards. So sometimes the Bible refers to a believer as a son of God, the family of God, join heir with Christ. Sometimes we're referred to the believer, uh, the believer, he refers to the believer as a saint. Of God, set apart in the eyes of God, sometimes we're referred to as stewards. By the way, 1 Corinthians 4, verse 2 says, It is required in stewards that a man be found faithful And God looks for faithfulness on our part. Number four, sometimes the Bible will refer to a believer as a citizen of Ebon. You would look with me in chapter 4 of Ephesians. Come on back here. Chapter four and verse number nineteen. Chapter four Ephesians, verse nineteen I don't think that's the verse I want. How about 4-9? Nope. I mean, I hate it when that happens. He says there somewhere in Ephesians. He says that we are citizens of Randy usually f did you find it for me, Randy? No, okay. He's no help. He says that we are citizens of heaven. Citizens of heaven. How many people are looking for that word right now? I can see y'all looking around Citizens of heaven. And sometimes we're referred to as citizens. We are in this world, but we are not of this world. We're just the pastor. This world is not my home. I'm just what? Passing through. My citizenship is in heaven. Now, we're citizens of the country we're in now, and uh of course for us here in America, and we have responsibilities, temporal responsibilities here as citizens But our great citizenship is in heaven with the Lord Jesus Christ. Isn't that a blessing? How many folks are glad you're a citizen of heaven? Man, what a wonderful thing that is. And someday we'll be in our home country. The Bible says of Abraham, he sought for a city whose foundation and maker was God. Looking for a city, looking for that heavenly city and citizenship. Now, here's where I let said all that to get to this. Sometimes we're referred to as sons of God, sometimes saints, sometimes stewards, sometimes citizens. But here in our text, the Bible refers to us as soldiers of God. Soldiers of God. The Bible gives, the Bible reveals to us that there is a military aspect to the Christian life. There is a military role that you and I play as believers I like Lester Olof, if you ever listen to Lester Olof, he's on our radio station at 10. 30 on the weekdays. And oh Lester Olof, that guy's something else. He'd been with the Lord now 1982. He was killed. I got to hear him preach about three weeks before he was killed in a plane wreck. I still remember the message. But he used to sing a song, and sometimes you'll hear him on the radio. The song would go like this Run if you want to, run if you will, but I came here to stay If I fall down, I'm going to get right up because I didn't start out to play. Now listen to this. It's a battlefield, brother, not a recreation room. It's a fight and not a game. So run if you want to, run if you will, but I came here to stay. You know what he's singing about? He's singing about that military aspect. of the Christian life. And I think that song is capturing what our verse 13 is teaching us. Look with me again here. Chapter 6, verse 13. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God. That ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand, stand therefore. And then he goes down and talks about this armor. I want us, number one, here's my outline real quick. Number one, I want us to consider the reality. of spiritual warfare. The reality of spiritual warfare. In Matthew chapter 16 and verse number 18, the first time the name church is mentioned In the Bible. And Jesus, speaking to Peter, says this, Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church. And then he made this statement. Thou art Peter upon this rock, and I believe the rock was the testimony, Peter, thou art the Son of God. Upon this rock I will build my church. Then listen to the very next statement Jesus made. And the gates of hell. Shall not prevail against it. The very first time the word church is used in the Bible, it's in a conflict context It's in a battle type conflict. The hell, the church versus hell. And he says the gates of hell will not prevail against the church. The reality Of the spiritual warfare that you and I are in. Turn with me, boy. Now we're going to go through a whole slew of verses here real quick. Go to 2 Corinthians chapter 10. And I want you to see this, 2 Corinthians I told you we're going to use our Bibles this morning. I hope you don't walk out and say, good grief, we had to look up all these verses. Thank God for a church that uses the Bible. Amen? I wouldn't attend a church. They didn't open the Bible. And by the way, I think you ought I don't put anybody spot, but I think you ought to bring a church bring a Bible to church. And I encourage you, bring your Bible to church. I think you get more out of it. Nothing else, your fingers will get exercised turning pages Look at verse 2 Corinthians chapter 10. Look with me at verse number 4. I hope I got the verse. I'm in 1 Corinthians. Alright. Listen, I just got off vacation. Y'all bear with me, alright? Chapter 10 verse 4 for the what's the word? What does that sound like? That sounds like a mil uh warfare type thing, doesn't it? Weapons. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, bringing into captivity every thought and uh to the obedience of Christ. Listen, the reality of the spiritual warfare, you and I are in the midst of a war Spiritual war. Come over if you would to 1 Timothy. Turn back there a little bit. First Timothy, right? If you get the Hebrews, you went too far. 1 Timothy, now Paul is writing under the inspiration of God to this young preacher boy, Timothy. And all through 1 Timothy and 2 Timothy, he is telling them: son, you are in a spiritual warfare. Look with me in chapter 1 and verse number 18. This charge I commit to thee, Son Timothy. According to the promise which went before thee, that thou by them mightest war a good warfare. Verse 19: Holding faith in good conscience. Which some, having put away concerning faith, have made a shipwreck. They got in this warfare, and they didn't war a good warfare, and brother, they were ruined, they were destroyed. Come over, if you would, to chapter 6 of 1 Timothy and notice with me verse 12. Chapter 6 and verse 12. Fight the good fight of faith. Lay hold of eternal life, wherefore thou art so also called, and hast professed a good profession before many witnesses. Fight the good fight of faith. Come over to 2 Timothy chapter 2, just a page over. And notice verse number 1, chapter 2 and verse 1. Therefore, thou therefore, my son Speaking to Timothy, Paul, under the inspiration of God, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus, and the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses The same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also there. Now look at this. Thou therefore endure hardness as a good what? Soldier of Jesus Christ, no man that wareth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life That he may please him who has chosen him to be a soldier. You know, there's some things in this whole world you and I ought not to get caught up in because we are a soldier of Christ. We're in a warfare. You don't horse around with the things of the world. Turn with me to chapter 4, just a page over, 2 Timothy, chapter 4, and look with me, if you would, at verse number 6. Paul is realized he's coming to the end of his life. Time is winding down. Not long after he pens this, Paul is beheaded. For his faith in Christ. He's martyred for Christ. He saw it coming. He knew it was coming. And notice what he says in verse number 6. For I am now ready to be offered. That's his death. And the time of my departure is at hand. Now notice what he says here. I have fought a good fight. I've finished my course. I've kept the faith. I've fought a good fight. I've fought a good fight. Listen, whether we're aware of it or not, you and I are in the midst of a spiritual warfare. Whether we like it or not, you say, Preacher, I'm kind of a pacifist. I'm not big on warfare. Listen, whether you like it, you can be a pacifist all you want. The devil is not one, and you and I are in the midst of a spiritual warfare Now we may be ignorant of that, we may be uncomfortable with that, but truth is we are in the midst of spiritual warfare. Um the moment we got saved, we entered a spiritual war. The moment we got saved, the moment May 7, 1979, 1030 at night, I knelt beside my bed up in the attic of our house I called out on Jesus Christ to be my Savior. Spirit of God took up residence. I was born again. I became a new creature. And I became the target of Satan's hatred. And when you got saved, you did too. Last week we had some young people, trust Christ, you know what? The moment they got saved, they became the targets of Satan. You mark it down, our young people are in the midst of spiritual warfare. Our young couples, spiritual warfare, parents, spiritual warfare, middle-aged spiritual warfare, old um senior citizens Spiritual warfare. It's for real. It's for real. The Bible teaches us there is a reality, spiritual warfare. I was reading about a preacher who wrote a little thing, and he He he affirms that this is true, that this happens. I don't know the guy personally, but he says this absolutely happened. He's flying on a plane, it was kind of a little bit empty. And uh across the aisle there was a fellow sitting, a middle-aged man, he said, clean-cut, just sharp-looking guy, and he had a pack of uh cards in his hand, and he'd flip them, and he said his lips would move And it looked like he thought he's memorizing verses. And so he leaned over and he says, Are you a Christian memorizing verses? He goes, Oh no, I'm not a Christian. I'm praying. He goes, well, I believe in prayer. What are you praying? He goes, I'm a Satanist, and I'm praying for the downfall of specific Christians who have an influence in our world for the gospel. And he said, sure enough, the guy had names. And he was praying to Satan to bring the downfall of these people. Now the preacher he asked him, he says, Is my name on that list? And he said, No, you're not on my list. Here's the reality of the the fact is, the reality of the matter is this. You and I are in a spiritual warfare, and Satan is out to destroy every single one of us. Whether we like it or not, we are in the midst of a spiritual warfare. Do you know there are people now who have sided with the enemy of God and are out to destroy Christianity and Christians? I mean, we're seeing the world. We're seeing it. We're at a point almost in our country, in some people's minds, that believers of Jesus Christ are enemies of the state. And I'm telling you, brother, we are in the midst of a spiritual warfare that began the moment God created Adam and Eve. And that warfare continues to the day when God brings, destroys this old earth, creates a new heaven, new earth. Now, whether we like it or not, we are in it. Whether we're comfortable with that or not, or whether we're aware of it or not, we are in a spiritual warfare. The Bible clearly teaches that. It's not a physical warfare. The weapons are of our warfare, not N sixteens and AR-47s and grenades and tanks and uh um what else Uh air air uh what's the what's the plate? F sixteen's what is it? These military people get on my nerves. The weapons of our warfare. You say, Preacher, you think peop uh Christians ought to have guns? Yeah You think it's all right to have AR forty sevens? Yeah. Uh fifteens. Um them two Listen, I think you ought to be allowed to have a tank if you want one, mine personally. You say, preacher, you got any of that stuff? It's none of your business Now we're in a warfare, but it's not physical. uh munitions here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. We're not in a physical war with anybody. This is a spiritual war. With devils and principalities and powers in high places. And the spiritual God of this world, who is Satan himself, that's the warfare you and I are in. And it's as real as any military battle going on on this planet. It's not a physical warfare, it's a spiritual warfare. From the moment of man's creation, Satan has been at war with God's people. I think if we understood the reality of the spiritual warfare that you and I are in, we take our Christian light a whole lot more seriously I think if we understood the reality of the spiritual conflict for the souls of men, We wouldn't be horsing around with this. This Bible wouldn't just sit on the dashboard of our car all week long. We'd have our nose in this. We'd be living out of this book. If we understood the reality of the spiritual warfare we were in, we'd be a whole lot more careful what we look at on the TV and on the computers and the books we read and the places we go. We'd be a whole lot more careful If we knew the reality of what we're dealing with. And by the way, one day we will. We get to the judgment seat of Christ, we get before God, and we see what this was about. I'm afraid our hair will stand on end We realize the reality of it. The Bible's clear that there is a spiritual warfare that you and I are involved in. Number two, the reality of the spiritual warfare. Number two, I want us to consider our resolve in this spiritual warfare. Come back to Ephesians with me real quick if you would Ephesians chapter number six and notice here He says finally, verse 10, put on the whole armor of God. Now he makes this statement that he repeats, I pointed out a few moments ago, that ye may be able to stand. Against the wiles of the devil. That's the strategies, the trickery of Satan, that you'd be able to stand Come down to verse number 13. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God. Now he makes that almost identical statement again. That ye may be able, at this time he says, to withstand in the evil day. Then look at the end of the verse. He says it again: and having done all, to stand. Verse 14, the very first phrase, stand therefore. Now I look at these few verses here, and the repetition of that term, I get the idea that you and I are to what Where to stand that has the idea of resolve. Run if you want to, quit if you will But I came here to stay. That's what he's saying. You stand, we're in a spiritual warfare. It is as real As this building we're setting in. It is as real as any battlefield on this world. Spiritual warfare. And he says, your responsibility, my responsibility, our resolve is to stand Now I got looking at that word stan and I thought, what does he mean? He used it three times, the word stan. And it simply means this: it means what you think it would. It means to plant your feet and not budge. Hold your ground. Continue without wavering or without hesitation. He goes, you and I are in a spiritual warfare, Satan. Look at look at Look at verse 12. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, powers, against rulers of darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness and hyper. He says, you stand. You get shaved, you get right with God, you plant your feet, and you don't move, you don't hesitate, you don't waver. Stay true. Then he uses the word there in verse 13, to withstand. He uses the word stand three times, but in the middle he injects that word withstand. Has a little different idea. To withstand something means to stand against it, to stand in opposition to. So he says, not only are we to plant our feet in the will of God. And not budge, we are to kind of, this is the way I see it, drop the shoulder and withstand the attacks and the assaults of the devil and the world. You withstand it. Resist it. It has the idea of they build a dam and it withstands the current of the water. I was out, my son lives in Joplin, Missouri, and we go out there and when we do, we try to go over to Bramson. There's a river there, Taney Como, and it's great fishing. And you come up and you come up to this big dam and they release water out and that. But that that cement dam Is resisting withstanding that powerful current, that powerful water pressure coming down. I'll tell you, they open those gates. Boo That water comes out of there. The power that water and that and that that dam withstands it. That's what God's telling you and I as believers. I'm telling you, our enemy Satan is powerful I'm telling you the forces, the spiritual forces and principalities of this world are so powerful, and God says in the midst of this warfare between heaven and hell, God and the devil, right and wrong, you plant your feet and you withstand and you put up resistance against it. That's our resolve to withstand it. Now, here's the thing: in this spiritual warfare, Satan is the aggressor. Think about. We don't go out looking for the devil causing trouble. I don't We don't go out trying to pick a fight with the devil. We don't have to. He's the aggressor. He's the one that comes after us. Standing resolved is holding my ground, holding my position, withstanding the assault of the Satan. He's the aggressor in this spiritual warfare. We don't go listen, you go out looking for the devil, you're a knucklehead. That's Greek for stupid Don't don't you go messing with well I'm gonna try a Ouija board and just you're an idiot. Excuse me. Well I'm gonna listen to some satanic rock and you're a moron. We don't have to go. Satan come after us. He's the aggressor in this spiritual warfare. And our uh we are to Resolved to stand. Come with me if you would. Keep your place here in Ephesians. Come over to 1 Peter chapter 5. We're studying First Peter on Sunday nights. And you get to the last chapter in First Peter. And he makes a very important statement about this spiritual warfare and the enemy of the people of God. 1 Peter 5, look with me if you would at verse number 8. Be sober. Be vigilant. Now, when God says be sober, but be vigilant, what's he saying? He said, be alert. You better take this seriously. Don't be horsing around. You better be sober. Now I like to joke and I like to have fun and I like to laugh, but there are some things that absolutely are vitally important. And that's what he's saying. He says, you be sober, you be vigilant, look at this, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, does what? He walketh about seeking whom he may devour. You and I don't need to go out looking for the devil. We don't need to go out trying to pick a fight with the devil. I'm telling you, he's the aggressor. We do right, we get that book, we trust Christ as Savior. We learn what that book tells us to do. We trust God and do what he instructs us to do. And I tell you, you'll run into the devil. He'll come. I had a preacher that I was associated with not long after I moved here to go to these preacher fellowships. And uh he's a nice enough guy, I didn't know him that well, but he made a statement in one of the fellowships He says, we're not trying to do anything at our church. He said, I just want to lay low. I want to stay off the devil's radar. So he leaves me alone. I walked out of there thinking to myself, that guy's an idiot. You think the devil's going to leave you alone? You're believing his lie. In fact, the guy ended up running off with a lady in the church, forced his wife, ruined his testimony, scarred the church. I'm telling you, you and I better be vigilant. We better be sober because Satan is on the prow. He's the aggressor. And we're to stand and to withstand. Because He's coming. He's coming after us. We felt. Anybody, any Christians here, you ever feel the sting of Satan's fiery darts? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Yeah, we felt it here at the church. I've felt it personally. Satan coming after us. Satan's the aggressor in this conflict. Satan's the one that's out after us. James 4, verse 7 says, Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil. You would stand against him. He comes after you. You just hold your ground. Don't negotiate. Don't retreat. Don't divert. You stand where it's right. That's Satan's coming after you. You just stand. Standing is not quitting when the devil assaults us. He came after Adam and Eve, didn't he? They didn't go looking for the serpent. The serpent came to them, right or wrong. He came after Jesus Christ out in the wilderness. He showed up and started tempting Jesus Christ. And he's out after you and he's out after me. You say, oh, pfft, what could the devil do to me? Read the book of Job. God removed the hedge and brothers Satan did everything but kill them. The only reason he didn't kill them was because God said you can Don't tell me Satan something you can play with. Watching these stupid satanic movies on TV. You're a fool He's out after you. Listening to Satan's music, reading Satan's books. I'm telling you, he will eat you alive and spit you out He came after Adam and Eve. He came after Jesus Christ. Standing is not quitting when the devil assaults us. Hey, Satan's after, uh you know who Satan's after? Satan's after that person that's not saved but is under conviction and is considering getting saved. Listen, if I'm talking to somebody this morning, you've never trusted Christ's Savior. You don't know for sure your sins are for uh uh are forgiven on your way to heaven, but you're concerned about it, I'm telling you, Satan is out there, He is out to keep you from getting saved. He'll give you every reason, every excuse in the book not to trust Christ. Oh, I'll do it tomorrow. Not yet. I'm telling you, tomorrow never comes for those who postpone their need to get saved. I had a fellow down in put down in uh Kaiser. Remember they used to have the hospital down there, Potomac Hospital down there Fellow had a heart attack, was on his deathbed. Family asked me to go and visit him. They said, Pappy's not saved. Will you go visit him? I said, yeah, I'll go visit him. He was back in ICU. Showed up. I said, I'm the preacher. This is important. They said, all right, we'll let you back there, preacher. And he took me back in her just a small little area. And he was alert and I got talked to him. I said, sir, let me show you how to be saved. And I got my Bible, went through how to be saved. And he's he had a heart attack. He's on his deathbed. And you know what he said to me? He says, I'm not ready yet. I'm not ready to get saved yet. I said, you've got to be kidding me. He was probably my age or a little older at the time, what I am now I said, you they say you don't have long to live. What what in the world what in the world has to happen for you to be ready You know what I think? I think there's a spiritual warfare going on in that ICU room, and that devil was planting thoughts in his mind that I've got time, I can put this off. A few weeks later he died, went out to a priceless eternity. What a tragedy. How unnecessary. That's what the devil's after to keep you from getting saved. You know who else the devil's after? The devil's after the new believer. Somebody trusts Christ as Savior. Brother, you got a target on your back. I'm telling you right now. Oh, if you get saved, all your cares are over. Everything will be easy and wonderful for here out. Anybody tells you that they're lying through their teeth. Or they're awfully ignorant. Person gets saved, brother, devil do everything you can to keep you from growing Devil do everything he can to keep you from following the Lord in baptism and starting to read your Bible and be a part of a good growing church. Devil do everything he can Keep you from growing, new believer. Uh the devils after the the unsaved that are under conviction, the new convert, the growing Christian, devils after the prayer warriors. I thank God for some folks in our church are absolute prayer warriors. I tell you, they got a target on their back from Satan. He will do everything he can to keep us from prayer. Why is it? I mean, would you agree with me? Prayer is a great privilege. Man. Why is it we have such a struggle with praying? Anybody? Anybody here know what I'm talking about? Every time I read a book about prayer, I get convicted. I should pray more. Every time I preach on prayer, I get convicted. You think it's bad to be convicted sitting there when the preaching going on? Try being the preacher and get convicted. Prayer. Satan will try and keep You know who else has a target on their back? Satan's after the soul winner These bus workers, I thank God for our bus ministry. I say that again. I thank God for our bus ministry. There are people in church today that would not be in church if we didn't send those buses, bring them in and teach them about Jesus. Now I'm not trying to I can't answer for any other church. Don't misunderstand, don't read into what I'm saying. We got our hands full here. But my question is, if we didn't run those buses, who would If we didn't go get these people in this community and bring them in, who else would do it? You know who has a target on the back? Every person that's trying their best to try and get unsaved people to Christ. Satan is out to devour them. Listen, he's the aggressor. So God gives me a ministry. God gives me a gift. God gives me a responsibility to run this bus route. Teach this Sunday school class, go out visiting in this neighborhood, uh, reach these people for Christ, and I'd plant my feet and eyes, go after that And Satan comes and he attacks and he insults and tries to do everything he can to destroy me. And I plant my feet and I drop my shoulder and I withstand his assault and I do what God has called me to do. Amen or not Stan, that's our resolve. I could go down the list. Busworkers, Sunday school teachers, faithful senior citizens. Satan is opposed to the Sunday morning church service. Satan's opposed to the Sunday night church service. Satan opposed to the Wednesday night church service. He'll shut it down. He'll do everything he can. He gives us every excuse in the world. Any and all who love God and have any kind of influence for the gospel, Satan's out after you. We've got to stand. By the way, you don't need to criticize and condemn our brothers and sisters in Christ. You find something, uh he said this, he didn't do that, they're not this, he's that. Brothers, you don't I don't need to go condemning and criticizing one another. That Satan is awfully good at that He's taking care of that. In Revelation chapter 4, Revelation chapter 12, verse 10, the Bible describes Satan as the accuser of the brethren. Listen, we don't need around and go around cuzing each other of stuff. Satan's already got that taken care of. Somebody comes and says, Preacher Preacher, you sorry. Tell you how terrible I am. You know my thoughts, the whole time they're telling me how terrible I am, I'm thinking this. They don't know me as well as I know me And I'm a whole lot worse than they even think I am. If what they know about me upsets them, what would they do if they really knew everything about me? Listen, withstand. Withstand. Satan's out to destroy and tear down and ruin. I thank God in 1993 Satan just about destroyed this church. There was hardly anything left. Handful of people coming out, but I thank God there was a handful of people who said, we're going to stand. And we're going to keep this thing alive and we're going to trust God. God honored their prayers and honored their faith, and God brought this church back alive again. Rebuild it back up. I thank God that those went on before. But I'm telling you there's a real devil. He's out to destroy churches. He just about got Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, but a few people said we're gonna stand. Are you with me? You follow what I'm saying? So the reality of the spiritual warfare is all through scripture. It's it's there. You and I, if we realized how real this was, we wouldn't be horsing around like we are Our resolve in this is to stand, not budge. We're not going to let ga Satan have his way. Oh, by the way, I thank God for the folks back in 93 that stood I want to say something. We have a next generation comes on that needs you and I to stand. We're not going to give in to the new versions. We're not going to give in to contemporary. We're not going to give in to cutting back. We're not going to cut off soul winning. We're not going to back off. We're going to go forward. We're going to stand. We're going to take on more missionaries. We're going to build more buildings. By God's grace. Are you with me? Because there's another generation coming on that needs us to stand and withstand the devil. We start horsing around and compromising and cutting back and bowing to the society. What does the next generation have? Nothing. Let me end I gotta end. Consider our responsibility. Then he goes down verse 14 through 18. And he lists this armor that you and I are responsible for putting on. Now we could preach a sermon, and I might do this someday, not today, but someday preach a sermon on each of these I know how many people are glad I'm not going to preach a sermon on each of them today. But he goes down there and look, just look at him. Let me just give you the list. Verse 14A says the uh well let me get back here. He says, having your loins goed about with truth. You know what that is? Just be honest. Be for real. Be genuine. Don't be a hypocrite. Don't be a fraud. Be real, I tell you, you s you and I start putting on a show, we're just letting Satan have a shot at us. We start being dishonest, say and act one way one time, act something different another time, all we're doing is Letting Satan have a shot at us. Then he says, uh he says, and uh respite of righteousness. Do you know what that is? Just summarize. Just do right. Live right. Be honest. Do what's right. Listen, if it's wrong, don't do it. Stay away from it. It's that simple. Breast crate of righteousness. And he says, have your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel. You know what? Win souls. Share the gospel with people. I notice when a church quits soul winning, quits Thursday night visitation, quits bus ministry, quits door-to-door knocking, quits missions, I notice when a church quits that, they're downhill. They're going downhill from there, awfully quick. I have church back home, what I consider my home church for years. They dropped the bus ministry, they dropped soul winning, they dropped revivals, they cut back on missions. You know what? That church does not exist today Take named Baptists off some little community, get together, have fun, eat chicken. Win souls. Then he says, above all, taking the shield of faith. That means trust God. Take the helmet of salvation. Have assurance of your salvation. The sword of the spirit, the word of know and use God's word. Learn this Bible and use it. Share it. Praying always. Pray. Pray, pray, pray. It's a bully. A fellow wrote a book. What was his name? Jack Hanley wrote a book called Fuzzy Memories. And he said when he was young there was this bully in the school that would steal his lunch money, take his lunch money, say, I'll beat you up if you don't give me your lunch money So he said, I'd give it to him. I didn't want to get beat up. And he said, finally, one day I had it up. And after school, he went down to the Taekwondo karate guy. And he said, I want you to teach me how to beat this bully up. He goes, all right, it'll be five dollars every session. He said, Good night. That's more than the bully's taking. He said, so I just went back, let him beat me up, take my money. Now that's silly, isn't it? That's exactly what some Christians are doing. Rather than stand, rather than do right, rather than trust God and straighten saying, adjust my lifestyle Make changes that God wants me to make, live the way God wants me to live. Rather than do that, we just let the devil beat us up. I'm talking folks got miserable homes You're unhappy, frustrated, defeated. The fact of the matter is, you just get right with God and plant your feet, do what God says, trust Him, and you can have the joy of the Lord. You can have victory over the devil. You can be used of God to win souls. I think my greatest desire in my heart and mind is for God to use me to bring other people to Jesus Christ. That don't just happen. We gotta stand. We gotta stand. Where are you at? Are you right with God this morning? There's something in your home, your heart, your mind, something that's not right. You're giving devil shots at you Huh? Are you reading the Bible? Are you taking your Christian life seriously? Are you just forcing around? Is church of any priority in your mind? The body of Christ? Where are you at? Because it's real, it's real. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to help us see the reality of this warfare we're in. I pray you'd help us take seriously our walk with you I pray you'd send revival to my heart and our church and our community. And we see the Spirit of God get victories. Lord, we see the devil on every hand wreaking havoc. Oh Lord, we need you. I wonder if our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many this morning say, preacher. I'm saved. I know I'm saved. God's dealt with my heart. There's some areas I need to straighten up. I need to take this more seriously. I can't play around anymore. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. God has dealt with my heart today in some specific ways. Any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher, pray with me. God bless you, hands all around. I believe the Spirit of God is moving. I believe God's dealing with hearts. Maybe there's some say, preacher, I've got a friend that's unsaved. I don't want them to die and go to hell. I've got a family member, a neighbor. So burdened for them, and I need to I need to take seriously. I need to take seriously this spiritual warfare, and I need to be a witness. I need to win them to Christ. Is there any like that, preacher? I have somebody I'm so concerned for. Tell you, we better take our walk with God seriously, or we'll never win them. We never will. Maybe there's some here this morning to say, Preacher, I've not been saved. I don't know for sure when I die, I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that God has forgiven and saved me. You'd say, preacher, pray for me, that God will help me. Is there any like that? The uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. I need to have that settled. Any at all? Maybe online, if you're watching, and you're unsafe, please contact us. Let us help you settle that. Now if you're saved, not baptized, that's important step. Church membership, all these basics of the Christian life have to be in place. Father, bless now our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand again.