Our theme will be Standing on the Promises. And I'm praying one of the thoughts behind this theme is I'm praying that we as a church and all of us as individuals Can get to the point where we simply take God at His Word. In other words, put it in the words of Bob Jones Sr. , he always said this, what the Bible says is so. The Bible says that we'll just take it at face value. Taking God's word at face value. We're standing on his promises. We want to claim the promises of God. If God gives a promise, I just want to claim it. Just take it for what it says. God said that? Okay. I'm going to claim it. I'm going to trust it. We want to heed his warnings. If God warns us to stay away from something, avoid something, don't be a part of this. Stay away from that. If God gives us a warning, we want to heed that warning. Amen? We want to stay away from it. I don't want to get involved in that If God gives us instructions where he instructs us in Scripture, then we want to do, follow those instructions. We want to do what he says. And if he tells us this is something that needs to be a part of our life, then we make it a part of our life. If he says this should be an emphasis of our church, then that's the emphasis of church. If he says go into all the world with the gospel, we go into all the world with the gospel And so standing on the promises. So with that in mind, if you would notice Proverbs chapter 30, and our text for this morning, and is our memory verse for the month, is verse number five I want to read both verse 5 and 6. It says, the Bible says, every word of God is pure. He is a shield unto them that put their trust in him. Add thou not unto his words, lest he reprove thee, and thou be found a liar. Every word of God is pure I'm going to preach this morning on standing on the promises. Let's pray, ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we are grateful for the Bible. And Lord, we want, as pastor of this church, and I believe the church would join with me in this. We want 2024 to be the year of the Bible, where we celebrate your word, where we submit to your word, we study your word. God, we pray that your word would permeate our hearts, our minds, our lives, our home, our church, our ministries. And so please speak to us this morning. Set the tone, I pray, maybe this morning, for our coming year. Fill me with your spirit, I pray. I yield my will to your will and your word. I present my body anew, Lord, just as an instrument, a tool in your hand to use to challenge us, instruct us, and help us. So bless now. Have your way in this message, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We live in a day where there is more information available to us than has ever been in the history of the world. This one little device here. Through this little device, you and I can access some of the greatest literature and some of the greatest information and knowledge, the minds of some of the greatest people that have ever lived. And through this little instrument we can have access To the mo the deepest, darkest, most depraved things that have come out of the heart of man The information of all history is available to you and I in ways that has never been available before. That's profound. That's significant. Now, having said that, I need to quickly say this. Though we have more information than we've ever had before, I believe we have less wisdom. than we've ever had before. We can find out facts about the most obscure, meaningless things. We can find out tremendous truth and information, but if we don't know what to do with it, If we don't know how to apply truth to our lives, we're foolish people. We're foolish people. It's possible to be a very successful business, businessman or woman And yet be a total failure in life. It's possible to be very gifted. I believe we have, I thank God, for many people in our church that are very gifted. But it's possible to be gifted and at the same time be very foolish. It's possible to be highly educated, and I'm not against education. Proverbs, you study Proverbs, he says over and over, get knowledge, get understanding, get knowledge. He repeats it. So I'm not against education. But I'm saying there's a difference between having education and having wisdom. And be highly educated and yet be extremely foolish. What we need today is wisdom. And I'm not talking about the wisdom of the world. I'm not talking about the wisdom that comes off the street. There is worldly wisdom. James talks about the wisdom of this world. What we need is wisdom from above. We need wisdom from God to be able to determine that which is right and that which is wrong, to correctly and clearly Determine that which is right and that which is wrong, that which is true and that which is false. We need wisdom. We need wisdom. Proverbs is a book of wisdom. It's a God, the book of Proverbs is a God-given book specifically on the idea, the theme of wisdom. The book of Proverbs is inspired counsel on how to make wise decisions. Anybody here ever make a decision and afterward you look back and say, boy, that was dumb Anybody? Yeah. Uh anybody ever make a decision and you look back and say, Boy, that worked out good. I'm gl uh that was a wise anybody there? Not as many hands. Oh no The book of Proverbs is given to us by God for the purpose of helping us make wise decisions in life. Decisions on how to use our time. Decisions on how to in uh in some cases invest our finances. Decisions on what type of associates to have. The book of Proverbs is a counsel on how to make wise decisions in life. Personally, and in our homes, and in our businesses, and our ministries. It's how to live life wisely I highly recommend, I've said this many, many times over the years, and we're starting off a new year. I highly recommend taking the book of Proverbs. And reading one chapter, they're not long, some get up into 30 verses, they're not long. And read one chapter a day, and the chapter that corresponds to that calendar day For instance, today is is uh today's Proverbs January 7. And so this morning, first thing in the morning, I read Proverbs chapter 7, the young man out on the street and a strange woman comes by And so I highly recommend that tomorrow, Proverbs chapter 8. And just do that over and over and over throughout the year. I think God will help you. I think it is a great benefit to do that. So I highly recommend that. Proverbs is given by inspiration of God. Somebody said, Oh, man just, oh, I don't believe the Bible, man just wrote that thing. You know, you're correct. Man did write it, but God authored it. God's the one that led the penmen to write what they wrote. Proverbs is given to us by inspiration from God Almighty And when we're reading Proverbs, we're reading the words of the God of the universe. Now, most of it was penned by who? Somebody talk to me. Solomon. Solomon is the penman behind most of the book of Proverbs. He is a God had given, you know, the story of Solomon. God gave him an option. He said, ask of me whatever you will. And Solomon said, I'm not going to ask riches from you, I'm going to ask for wisdom. And God responding to, by the way, I think it was pretty wise to ask for wisdom. And God responded to him. He says, I'm going to give you supernatural wisdom, but I'm also going to give you great riches because of the choice you made And so Solomon receives this supernatural wisdom from God. Jesus said there never was a man wiser before or since. Of course, other than the Lord Jesus. So the majority of the book of Proverbs is penned by Solomon. I'll tell you right there, that fact itself makes it worth reading on a regular basis. That the wisest man in the world penned this. There are, it appears, there are portions of the book of Proverbs, and particularly chapter 22, verse 17, through the end of chapter 24. It appears That that portion of the book of Proverbs was assembled by Solomon. Maybe he didn't necessarily pen those statements of that passage, but he assembled some wise statements. From various sources and he put them together in that portion of Scripture. Now I can't say that with certainty, but it appears to be that way And then you get to the end of Proverbs, the last two chapters, chapter 30 here, and chapter 31. And notice what it says in verse number 1. Did you notice that when Pastor Matt read The words of Agor, the son of Jacob, even the prophecy the man spake unto Ithel, even unto Ithiel and Euchal. And so this portion we have this other fella is mentioned, this Yukal, or Agar, I should say. And then if you look at chapter 31, It says the words of King Lemuel, the prophecy that his mother taught him. Now, we have these two other names introduced here. Um, who is Agor? My deep research and years of study, I come to this conclusion. I have no idea. We don't know who this guy is. Some have suggested, I find this interesting, just this is just some background information But some have suggested that Agor was actually a student maybe of Solomon or an associate of Solomon that he had mentored, that he had trained and taught. And Agor had recorded passages of scripture and or passages, these wise sayings, and uh Solomon would incorporate them into this book, and that could very well be Others have suggested that Agor is just another name for uh uh for uh Solomon. Sometimes an author will go by what's that called when it pseudonym, right? Pseudonym. Something like that. I are a bio I I are a college university graduate, so And so some suggest, well, this is just the name Solomon went under to pen this here. I don't know. I don't know the answer to that. Chapter 31, Lemuel. And he's referred to as a king. Most believe that that was probably another name for Solomon and in scripture. A lot of times they would have various names they'd go by. It's true in our day. uh you know we have nicknames or whatever go by. They called my dad. My dad's dad's name was Sam. Samuel. Sam Leatherman. And they called my dad when he was teenager in early years. I remember a little bit when I was young Uh folks would say, hey Sam, they called him Sam. His name wasn't Sam. His name was Clyde, but they called him Sam because his dad's name was Sam. And so people have various names. We had a little boy uh rode our Sunday school bus in Chattanooga. His name was Cornbread. And uh we never knew as we never did find out his real name. That's just everybody we asked his mom, what's his name? Cornbread. I said, okay So Lemuel, we believe, is very likely another name for Solomon. Now we come to our text. Verse 5 of chapter 30. And here we have, given to us by inspiration of God, a profound statement on the Word of God. He says, the word of God is pure. He is a shield unto them that put their trust in him. And he adds this very strong warning, caution: add thou not unto his words, lest he reprove thee, and thou be found a liar. Can I just paraphrase that a little bit? Don't be messing with the Bible. Don't be messing with God's Word. Revelation, and this will be another message later in the year, but Revelation talks about adding to Scripture or taking away. And a severe judgment of God Upon anybody that plays or messes with the Word of God. And so we have this statement about Scripture, about the Word of God. We make a big deal about the Bible around here. We preach it, we sing it, we promote it, we publish it. We don't print it, but we help distribute it, get it out. It is impossible to overstate the importance of God's word in the life of a believer. The importance of God's word in your life and my life As we live by it, we believe it, we claim it, we let it lead us and direct us and guide us, the importance of the Word of God. No believer can afford to neglect the Word of God. I cannot afford to go a day by and not let God speak to my heart and challenge me. By the way, no church can afford to neglect the Word of God. I hate to say this, but it is true, and I'm afraid it's getting almost to the point of a majority of churches that are neglecting the Word of God. I tell you, any church that neglects the Word of God is making a grave, grave mistake. The Word of God is our sole authority, it's our final authority in all of our faith and practice And any church that will neglect Scripture, any church that would get up and have a church service and never reference scripture is making a grave mistake. We cannot overemphasize the importance of the Word of God in the life of a believer, in the function of a church I said this recently, I repeat it, all our ministries ought to be Bible-based ministries. We ought to have scriptural support for every song we sing, every lesson we teach. Every ministry uh we uh minister ought to have Bible support, Bible basis to it The Bible is the foundation of our faith. Everything we believe is based, founded on the Word of God. It's the foundation of our faith. We don't believe something because Dr. So-and-so tells uh teaches it. We don't believe something because the first church of the deep freeze teaches it. What we believe, our faith is Bible faith, scriptural faith. It's the foundation of all we believe. The Bible is our final authority in our lives. Now there are authorities in our life. God has delegated authority. The government has limited authority. The husband, the head of the home, has authority delegated by God in that home. So there is authority delegated, but the final authority is this book right here. God's Word. It's the final authority in our lives. This book, the Bible, is God's full, is the full revelation of God's will. If I'm ignorant of God's word, then I'm ignorant of God's will. So he says, Preacher, what's God's will for my life? It's found in the pages of the Bible God's will. I've found that a further a Christian gets from the Bible, the further they get from the will of God. I've said this often. But sometimes folks will come in, sit down, preacher, I need to talk to you, and they'll say, preacher, I'm struggling, you know, I'm messing up, I'm defeated here, I have this, different any number of scenarios One of the first questions I'll ask when someone's when somebody's struggling with something, I'll ask, how's your daily Bible reading? You know what I found? I want to say I want to say 100% of the time, but I'll allow 99% of the time I'll get this. Well, preacher, it ain't what it ought to be I'm telling you, we need the Bible in our lives. We need this thing to lead us and direct us and guide us. I had a fellow who was years ago who was irate with me about Something. I don't even remember what it was. He can't talk to him. And he's just it didn't even make sense. He's just all upset about. I said, let me ask you a question. I said, how's your daily Bible reading? His head immediately went down I said, are you are you spending time with God? Is God speaking to your heart from his word? Are you God leading you? He goes, well, to be honest with you, preacher, it's not what it ought to be. We talked a little bit, we had prayer, and we left there, shook hands, graced, and God used it. I'm telling you, we need the Bible. I've found that the more farther a Christian gets from the Bible, the farther they get from the will of God. I've found that the farther a church gets from the Bible, the farther they get from the will of God. Again, we're not in competition with anybody. You'll understand this, right? And I've got my hands full taking care of Mount Lake. I've got my hands full taking care of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church So I uh uh you know each church has to answer to God for themselves. You understand? Everybody with me, they gotta answer to church. But I'm telling you, I see all over this country around the world churches getting away from the Bible and they end up a total mess. I mean involved in the most ridiculous things, doing the most outlandish stuff. The farther an individual, the farther a church gets from the Bible, the farther they get from the will of God. Importance of the Bible. By the way, let me throw this out. The farther a nation gets from the Bible, the farther they get from the will of God. Just look around us. Look at the history of our own country. And again, I'm not here to preach about America, but I'm simply saying we throw the Bible out of our courthouse, we throw the Bible out of our schoolhouses, we throw the Bible out of our White House and look at the mess we're in. We don't even uh they don't even know if they're men or women. The Bible, we cannot Overstate the importance of God's word in the life of the believer. By the way, hey, hey, I am all for getting the Bible back in schools I'm all for getting the Bible back in Annapolis. I'm all for getting the Bible back in the Capitol. Wouldn't it be wonderful if every morning the White House gathered all the staff together? We're going to read from God's Word today Wouldn't it be something if Congress, every time they assemble, somebody gets up, we're reading the old King James Bible, we're going to read a chapter of Proverbs today. Wouldn't that be something? But I'll tell you what I'm more concerned about. I'm more concerned about getting the Bible back in our churches. Let's start that. Hey, let's do some one better than that. How about we get our Bible back in our homes Let's get the family altar back. Come on now. When America, when Americans had family altar, our country was a whole little up better off. That's where it begins. We cannot overstate the importance of the Word of God. Now let's look at our text real quick. Number one I want us to notice the purity of God's Word. The purity of God's Word. Notice he says, every word of God is pure. Now, what does he mean by pure? What's he saying? Uses that term pure. The word pure is a um is a uh it's not really um a blacksmith term, but it's close to that The word pure comes from a term that a silversmith or a, would it be, a goldsmith A silversmith melts silver and works with silver, so I guess it'd be a goldsmith, but it's a term that a silversmith would use When he melts down that silver, or he melts down that silver and he refines it. Now what does that mean? It means he's melting and he's burning out all the impurities. All the dross is the term we use. Anything that is not pure silver is burned off of there and separated out from the silver. And when it is done, he says, this is pure silver. There's nothing impure in it. There's nothing, there's no dross in it. There's nothing other than absolute pure silver. Same thing with gold. Anybody here ever buy a ring and they say that's pure gold Means everything else is taken out. It's pure gold. When the Bible says, when God tells us that his word is pure, It means there is nothing is without impurities. In other words, God's word, the Bible, is without error. I want to make it very, very clear. This book has no mistakes. Don't come to me telling me there's mistakes in the Bible. There are no mistakes in the Bible. God's word is pure. It's without error. God's word has no mistakes. God's word is accurate and true in every detail. Now the Bible is not a geographical book, but it does reference geographical locations And every place that the Bible references, every geographical location that the Bible references, is exactly where it is in the world. There are no make-believe. There's some other religions that have writings and stuff, and they'll talk about big cities the Jews built in Missouri and different things. And you go there and those places do not exist. But where the Bible says, if the Bible says a mountain is at a certain spot, if you go there, there's that mountain. The Bible says a river is somewhere. You go there and that's what that river is. Now, of course, the flood and different things altered some things. But what I'm trying to say is this the Bible is not a book of geography, but it is geographically correct. There are no geographical mistakes in the Bible. The Bible's not necessarily it is a history book, but that's not its purpose. But it is historically accurate. Sometimes they well there was years ago they say, ah, nobody ever existed. uh by the name of Darius, a king of Babylon. That's just fic that's just uh some some some Bible writer made that up. The Bible's wrong And lo and behold, the archaeologists get working over there, and they start finding references in that old writings to Darius. And they come out, well, I guess uh, well, the Bible was right there. And well, that sky never existed, and uh, uh, and lo and behold. Uh I'm all for it. I say it all the time. Uh when it comes to archaeology, you want to disprove the Bible? Dig, baby, dig. We're all for it. You go ahead. We're not afraid of the archaeologist spade. Just reconfirms what we already know is true. It's not a book on astronomy. But yet it references accurately the stars of the sky and the movement of the sun and moon. It's not a mathematic book But it is mathematically correct. What I'm trying to say is this. The Bible is without error. It's pure. There's no mistakes. There's no mistakes in it. If you would keep your place here. Let me show you a few verses. Just kind of back this up a little bit. Psalms chapter 119. And we're going to kind of just jump around here in Psalms a bit for a moment. Psalms 119 And right towards the end of Psalms 118, verse 140. Psalms 119, of course, the longest book of the Bible, longest chapter of the Bible, I should say. And uh 140, Psalms 119, 140. If you found it, say amen. All right, that's about everybody. Thy word is what? Very pure. Therefore, thy servant loveth it. Come back to verse 128 of 119. Verse 128. He says, Therefore I esteem all thy precepts, that's another term for the Word of God. I esteem all thy precepts concerning all things to be what? To be right. I hate every false way. Come back to chapter 19. Psalms back there. Look at Psalm 19. Now, Psalms 119 is the Word of God chapter of the Bible. It's all referencing the Word of God. Psalm 19 references the Word of God also. Psalm 19, and look with me at verse number 7. The law of the Lord is what? Perfect. Converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right Rejoicing the heart, the commandment of the Lord, that's a reference to the word of God, is what? Pure Enlightening the eyes. One more, chapter 12, verse 6. I love chapter 12, verse 6, talking about the Word of God. He repeats what Solomon says. The words of the Lord, verse 6, chapter 12, verse 6, the words of the Lord are pure words. As silver tried in the furnace of earth, purified seven times. That's what I was referencing earlier. Pure. Thou shalt keep them, O Lord. Thou shalt preserve them from this generation forever. And that will be a message later on in the year on the preservation of God's word. God has given to us his word, inspired his word, and he has preserved his word for us today. Some people say, well, the only pure words of God were the original manuscripts when they originally wrote down. Well, I agree with that. Those were pure. They were exactly what God wanted. But God not only inspired those, but he has preserved them for you and I today. That'll have to be another message. But God's word is pure, the purity of God's word. The author of the Bible makes no mistakes, and the Bible contains no mistakes. The Bible tells the truth. The Bible is true, cover to cover. There is nothing in this book that is untrue. The purity of God's Word. Number two. The power of God's Word. Come back to Proverbs with me, if you would, chapter 30 Our text, Proverbs chapter 30, notice he says, every word of God is pure. He is a shield unto them that put their trust in him. Now, Ephesians chapter 6 refers to the Word of God as a sword, a shield and a sword. It references the strength The ability of a warrior, the power of the Word of God. I want to suggest to you that the Bible is the most powerful book that has ever existed. There never has been and never will be another book like the Bible. No other writings have ever influenced nations The way the Bible has influenced nations. No other Bible, no other book has influenced lives and communities and generations the way the Bible has influenced mankind. The power of the Word of God to alter a nation. Power of the Word of God. Hebrews 4, verse 12 says, For the Word of God is quick and powerful. Sharper than any two-edged sword. You say, what's it so powerful to do? Number one, it can convert a soul. First Peter chapter one and verse twenty-three Being born again, not of corruptible seed, but incorruptible by the word of God. The Bible can save a soul. You come to the message of the Bible. By the way, let me put it this way. If you don't have Bible conversion, you don't have conversion. You don't have Bible salvation, you don't have salvation. I ask people, how do you get are you saved? You know for sure, oh yeah, I'm saved. How do you know you're saved? I got baptized. That's not Bible salvation, you don't have salvation Well, I'm a good member of the church. I had a fella out towards uh uh out towards 560, lived out there, an older man. I asked him one time, do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? He said, absolutely This is an elderly man. I said, oh wow, it's very confident. He said I am. I said, how do you know? What gives you that confidence? Your sins forgiven on your way to heaven This is what he told me. He said, I have been the Sunday school superintendent. He named the church for 40 plus years. I know I'm going to heaven. That is not Bible's salvation. Bible doesn't say be a Sunday school superintendent for 41 years and thou shalt be saved. The Bible has the message of salvation. The Bible was able to convert a soul. The night I got saved, and you know my testimony, how God changed my life. And by the way, there's people all across this auditorium, members of this church. All around, testify the same thing. Uh got saved by reading what Scripture says, by seeing what the Bible says, and God got a hold of me. I called on Christ and God changed my life Power, the word of God. Power, the word of God. I was an avid reader. Before I got saved and the mess I was living in, I was an avid reader. Not one book. I've read thousands of books all through my young teen early teen years, teen years. I mean I just read all the time. And not one book impacted me the way that book right there did Brought conviction of my heart, opened my eyes to see what Christ did for me. It has power to convert the soul. It has power to change your style. 2 Corinthians 5. 17, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. This book will change your life. Bible points me to Christ and Christ changes my life. I'll tell you, if you're, you say, preacher, I'm tired of what kind of person I am. I don't want to be this kind of person anymore. I don't want to live this life anymore. I don't want this anymore. I tell you, why don't you come to the Word of God? Pay attention to what the Bible says. Receive it, accept it, it'll change your life. Change your lifestyle. I put this down. It has power to comfort in sorrow. Romans 15:4 talks about the comfort of the scriptures. This this may sound, you may misunderstand this, may sound a little morbid, and uh I hope you understand what I'm trying to say But I find great fulfillment. I was going to say I enjoy, but let me word it this way. I find great fulfillment in doing funeral services. Now, I'm not happy about the circumstances, but as a pastor, I and I want to be careful, but I enjoy God using me To help people in their time of sorrow. And you know what I use? You know what I found is most helpful to people in their time of sorrow? It is not poetry by Robert Frost. It's not the writings of Shakespeare. You know what I found brings the greatest comfort to people in their time of sorrow? The Word of God. The Word of God. Psalm 23, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. That's written 3,000 years ago. And the millions of people that have come to that and found strength and comfort and grace from God and other passages all through Scripture. It has power to comfort us in our time of sorrow. Our time of sorrow. I noticed, and I don't want to be I hope I'm not out of line here, but I noticed in funerals I do a lot of times outside the church and uh down at the funeral home, and I I'm I'm thrilled to help anybody. I'll do funerals for anybody But I noticed when they play music that is not Bible-based, they'll play some old country song. Or some uh what's that one? Uh on the hill. Something. I always play it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Uh don't fly off the hill or something like that. I don't know Dog ran away. But I I notice something, and I I I gotta be careful here. But I notice whenever they play songs that are not scriptural based, people fall apart. Crying, oh. You know what I found? We sing songs like Blessed Assurance, Jesus is mine. We sing songs like Some Glad Morning, Glenn Miss Light. We sing songs, Bible songs about heaven, about the presence of God. I found people find strength. They're comforted, they're encouraged. I'm telling you, this book is a powerful, powerful book. It can take sorrow, and sorrow is normal. But God, I'm not suggesting we don't sorrow. But I find I'm what I'm saying is this Bible can give us comfort in the midst of sorrow What a book. The purity. God's word is pure. The purity of God's word. The power of God's word. I've found that the Bible can cleanse from sin. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his ways, Psalm 119, by taking heed thereto according to thy word. You know what? Somebody put it this way, I think it was D. Almoody, maybe They said this book will keep you from sin, or sin will keep you from this book. I found this book can help me have victory over sin. Just getting in it, memorizing it. Sometimes, uh and that's why it's important to memorize script. Sometimes I'll hear a song, I'll be down at sheets, and they'll play these stupid, ungodly songs over the rate over the um the sp the the the speakers and you're pumping your gas and it's all And I know it's of the devil. I know it is. Every time I go there, they play some song from be right before I got saved. Some ungodly ri rock concert I was at. And that thing will be down there. And I'm telling you, music is powerful. And it can bring back all those emotions and those memories come flooding back in my mind. I'm standing there pumping, that thing's blasting down on me, and the devil's behind all of it. I know he is. Some old verse will come to mind. Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee. Let the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart be acceptable in thy sight. And I found that old book helps me defeat the devil. Helps me have victory over sin. The power of God's word. And I put this down to confirm our salvation Somebody said, Preacher, are you saved? Yes! How do you know you're saved? Because the Bible promises that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Now, if a person calls on the name of the Lord, sincerely, biblically calls on the name of the Lord, in repentance and faith, they're calling on the name of the Lord. My Bible says promises that person will be saved. If they don't get saved, then God lies. And God does not lie. And so I have assurance of my salvation. I know for sure when I die I'm going to heaven Not because I'm a preacher, not because I'm pure and perfect, not because I'm better than anybody else, but because that book promises me that if I when I called on the Lord Jesus Christ, He saved me 1 John 5. 13, these things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life. That's why it was written. So that I can have assurance of salvation. So the power of the Word of God, and let me end with this real quickly: the purpose of the Word of God. The purpose of the Word of God. Notice here in our text, every word of God is pure. He is a shield unto them that do what? Talk to me. Put their trust in Him. The purpose of the Word of God is so that we can put our trust in our Lord, so that we can trust our God. What's the purpose of the Bible? It's to point the world to the Savior. That the world will see and know who Jesus is and put their faith and trust. in Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of sins, for the gift of eternal life, for a new life here on earth. But my faith at the Bible points it there. John chapter number 20 and verse 31. John said this at the end of his book uh at the uh the gospel of John under the inspiration of God. He said, these things are written that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ That believing ye might have life through his name. The Bible is the purpose of the Bible is so that folks will believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. It's to point people to the Savior. The purpose of the Bible is to give principles for living. This Bible, as I said at the beginning, this Bible directs us how to live our lives. This Bible instructs us what marriage is and how it's to be carried out. He will say, well, you hear all these perversions of marriage. I tell you, this book tells us what marriage is right here. This book tells us how we're to operate, how we're to live, what to do, what not to do, how to do it. This gives us principles to live by, and he gives us examples on how those principles are carried out. It's a manual for living. It's a guidebook for life. It's a light in a dark place. Psalms 119, 105. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path, shows me the way to live. This book teaches me how to love my wife. This book teaches me how to love and care for my children. This book teaches me how I'm to worship God. This book teaches me how I'm to use my finances. This book teaches me How to live life the way God intended it to live. The purpose of the Word of God is to point people to the Savior, give principles for living. Let me give you a third one. The purpose of the Word of God is to prophesy of the Lord's return. Huge portion, huge message in the Bible is that Jesus is coming back again. We have scores of prophecies of his first coming, every one fulfilled to the tape. And we have thousands of prophecies of his second coming. And one of the purposes of the Bible, let this whole world know the king is coming. Jesus Christ is coming back again. He's going to judge this whole world. He's going to establish his kingdom. And his will is going to be done. You say, oh, there's so much injustice in the world. Stick around, the king's coming. Stick around, the judge is coming, the perfect judge. This book points us to the Lord Jesus Christ. This book gives us principles, how to live our life, and this book tells us the prophecy of Jesus Christ coming back again. Don't ever stop looking for the return of Jesus Christ. Let's get up every day and say, maybe today. The Lord will come back. Wouldn't that be something? Uh we were Mark and I were something, maybe it was Wednesday night, I think, before the service we were talking back there. And um something, we said something, I said, well, maybe the Lord will come back. And we both looked at each other and said, that would be wonderful. That would be great. I don't know hardly anything. There's a couple things maybe that I can't hardly think that I want more than Jesus to come back again. I have some folks I'd like to see saved I sure look forward to Jesus coming back. Maybe it'll be in my lifetime. Won't that be wonderful? It's what the Bible's about. Jesus coming back again. I don't watch much news. I dislike it. I read a few headlines. I have a few things. Just kind of let me know what's going on in the world. Sometimes I get caught up in it a little bit. Man, I get all out of whack My head gets distressed and I start thinking stuff and without fail I come back to that old book and I'll spend some time reading and gets my head back online It's my eyesight back on the Lord. Say, all right, everything's alright. Everything's alright. It's true, it's right, it's pure, it's perfect, it's powerful. And it'll help us. It'll help us. Standing on the promises, there's no other book that can do for us what the Bible can do for us. I said it earlier, I'm all for getting the Bible back in school, I'm all for Bible back in government. But I think first we need to get it back in our churches and back in our homes. I think there's homes in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, and I don't have any in particular in mine. I don't know. I can't help but think there's homes in our church. The Bible very seldom, if ever, is opened. Very seldom the Bible comes. I want to challenge all of our church folk. Let's make 2024 the year of the Bible. Let's stand on God's promises. Let's get in the Word and say, God, speak to my heart. Teach me. Help me. Never underestimate the power of God's Word and never hesitate. To stand on his promises. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask, dear Lord, that you would do just that. Teach us, help us to stand on your promises. Lord, to take you at your word That what you say is so, help us to trust you and allow you to lead us and direct us, instruct us in life and in eternity. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, I don't want to neglect God's word? Now maybe it's taken place. That's between you and God. Maybe you've not been spending time in God's Word, not memorizing, not making it a part of to govern your life like it should be. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I don't want to neglect it. I want God's word to have his way. Any like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you. Hands all around. You'll never go wrong just taking God at His Word. I wonder, now let me adjust that a little bit. I wonder if there's some, say, preacher, that family altar. Maybe you used to have it, maybe you've never done it. If you say, preacher, our home needs to get back to that old family altar, gathering a family around, reading some scripture, maybe singing a hymn, and praying together as a family, making the Bible the center of our family, our relationship. And I wonder if there'd be some. Maybe it's just uh maybe the kids are grown and moved out. I don't know. But you'd say, Preacher, we need to get back to that old family altar. That was good for our country. We need it today. It'll be good today. Is there any like that? Say preacher pray. I need to get back to that old family altar. God bless you. Hands all around. I tell you, it'll make a difference. I believe that with all my heart. And maybe there's some say, preacher, I don't know I'm saved. I don't know for sure. My sins are again on my way to heaven. And I want to know from the Bible that God has saved me and that I have eternal life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. How about it? Any others around Say, preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled. Thank you. God bless you. Father in heaven, I ask now you bless a lot of hands raised. And I pray, dear Lord, that on this first Sunday morning of a new year Maybe this old altar would be a place to come and just make some commitments and just submit and say, Lord, I want your word to have its way in my life. Father bless, I pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.