I love this church. Of course everybody that knows that is from this church. And uh I really appreciate that. In honor of your faithfulness of 40 years in preaching the gospel, given by the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church 2010. I appreciate that so much. That will have a place of honor on my wall. I might have to take a something down. I don't Hey, good crowd tonight. And uh I see look around, I see uh a lot of strange faces. Well, I mean, maybe that's not the best way to put it. But uh I see some strangers. Maybe I should put it that way. I hope you won't be a stranger by the time you walk out though. We welcome you. We're glad that you're here. We have our all of our chalk drawings completed and we'll be putting this up on the wall and uh they'll be uh giving them out I guess on uh uh Sunday night. Uh that's the normal procedure. But uh anyway, uh I look at the chalk drawings And I've never done that one before, and I've never done that one before, and I've never done that one before, and I've never done that one before. And I've never done that one before. And I've never done that one before. So these were all new ones this week that uh we've uh the Lord has given us uh I I that's the amazing thing about it is every week uh the Lord gives me something some new picture. Um I you say, well, you know, I've seen those before. No, you haven't. No you haven't. I yeah, I have to admit, you know, if I if I do mountains, mountains are mountains. If I do a fall scene, a false scene's a falseine, they're you know, they got oranges and yellows and all that But uh they're each one of them's different. They're unique, they're they're one of a kind. And uh I hope that those who win 'em will put 'em in a place where uh you'll be reminded perhaps of the message or perhaps uh maybe the hidden effect in each one of 'em If you put a black light over 'em, uh fluorescent black black light, uh you'll be able to see that hidden effect. And uh maybe some part of it will remind you of the message we preached or remind you of some spiritual truth that will help you in the days ahead. I want to thank the church for their hospitality this week. There have been several who have taken us out and uh for uh uh dinner and the evening and I really appreciate that. We Uh, put on a few pounds I think, probably. It's hard to tell anymore whether I put 'em on or not, because they're it's just all there anyway. But anyway, uh but I do. I uh I appreciate uh your hospitality and it's been it's been good. Well I guess there's really two sad things. One of them is leaving and the other is not getting my deer this year. So that's two two bad things. But they've I tell you it's it's not the fault of the deer. Because the the deer have almost been coming in my front door over here. And uh and I still haven't got one, so I you know. But anyway, uh Uh we'll uh we'll probably be seeing you again sometime this this coming year. I hope that uh I hope this coming year will be a a year of of excitement and growth and uh I'm I'm praying that uh the church here will uh just continue to uh to move in in uh that direction of serving the Lord uh better. Yeah You know the Lord's coming back soon. And I I know we we're guilty of saying that all the time and and everybody knows it, oh well yeah, he's gonna come back. But don't forget that there's gonna be scoffers in these last days, says where is the promise of his coming? You know. And that's what some of us are are saying, well, you know, I thought he was going to come at uh the year two thousand when the you know Y2K I thought he was gonna come then, but he didn't come But I do know this is a whole lot closer than he used to be coming, and I believe it I believe when I look at the at the world conditions and everything and what the scripture teaches, uh I can't see how it can be much longer And so what does that tell us? It tells us that that we know we better be ready. If he's coming, we better be ready when he comes, isn't that right? When I say you're ready, I mean you need to be born again. You need to be a Christian. And so uh I'm trusting perhaps tonight there might be Uh something in the message that will uh turn your eyes to him and you'll trust Christ as your Savior and be born into the family of God. Back on the back table. There are some prints. A lady uh talked to me before the service and she said uh uh uh can could I buy one of these chalk drawings? And I she particularly liked that lighthouse there And uh actually she doesn't have enough money to buy one. That's a problem. You know, it's like two or three million, something like that would probably get it. Uh but the truth of the matter is I just don't sell 'em. And I've told you many of you before, the reason I don't sell 'em because people will quit working for 'em if they can buy 'em. They'd rather spend the money than spend the time And I'd rather somebody bring a visitor than to give me fifty bucks. If you want to give me fifty bucks, it's okay, but I'd rather have the visitors coming into the services where we can preach to them and and they have an opportunity to get saved. So anyway, uh I hope these pictures will be a blessing to you in the days ahead. Take your Bible, if you will, and turn me to the book of Numbers, Numbers chapter 16. I don't know why my nose is starting to run now. By the way, before I get into the message, I'm curious, how many of this picture the best of the week? Got one? Do I see two? I see two. Do I have three out there? Four? Three. How about four? Is there four out there? Okay, all right, brother. I was just curious about that. If I'd have put a bear overlooking the falls, would that have helped? Huh? No, I thought about doing a bear, but then I thought, man it's a pretty picture the way it is and I didn't want to mess it up. If you have your Bible in in uh uh Numbers chapter sixteen, we're gonna I want to preface the reading of the word uh with a story. Uh it was May of uh uh twenty uh uh twenty ten. Just two years ago, the young married couple was uh enjoying their their outing, uh their outdoor trip, backpacking in uh the uh Denali National Park in Alaska. They were in the grizzly bear country and uh uh they knew it, but they also knew that normally you see those way out. I remember Nan and I uh had the privilege of going uh up there uh on a trip one time and and uh we got to see a grizzly bear. But it was way over there. They had to tell put a telescope. The guy that was driving the bus, the tour bus, had a telescope and he set it up outside the bus and and uh we can look through the bus and this big old grizzly was over there laying on his back. Like that. And uh so they're out there. And that's the way you normally see 'em. But in this particular case, all at once as they were walking along and joined the the the beauty of the place and everything, why all at once a a grizzly came out of the brush up ahead, several uh yards up ahead of 'em and charged 'em The young man stepped in front of his wife and took out his 45 uh automatic. He fired two shots and then seven more rang out. And finally the bear, just before he got to him, shot off the path and crashed over in the woods and they found him later dead. The two of them are alive, and the girls, the the wife was alive because someone was willing to stand between her and sudden death. And there's a story similar to that in the Old Testament. God didn't have a 45 automatic And uh it wasn't a guy standing between uh death and uh a bear and and his wife, but rather uh it was the children of Israel. And the story is found in the last part of chapter 16. And so if you'll look there with me, I'll allow you to remain seated. But I'm going to start reading in verse 45. And then we'll get into the message. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, I'm looking at verse 44, and now verse 45. Get you up from among the congregation, that I may consume them in a moment. And they fell on their faces. And Moses said unto Aaron, Take a censor and put fire therein from off the altar, and put put on incense and go quickly into the congregation, and make an atonement for them. For there is wrath going out from God, from the Lord. The plague is begun And Aaron took as Moses commanded and ran into the midst of the congregation, and behold, the plague was begun among the people. And he put on incense and made an atonement for the people. And he stood between the dead and the living And the plague was stayed. Now they had died in the plague were 14,700. beside them that died after the manner of Korah. And Aaron returned unto Moses unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and the plague was stayed. Let's pray. Father, we we bow before you tonight. Thank you, Lord, for the good crowd and for the uh new f faces we look out and see. And thank you for the the ones who've been faithful all week and and of course it's always good to see visitors. And I pray, Lord, as we preach that uh you'll speak to our hearts and and uh perhaps Lord the the message will uh change uh somebody's heart. They might trust you as Savior. Perhaps there's Christians here tonight that need to hear this message. I certainly need it, and I trust that uh you'll work in our midst here tonight. Get glory to your name, we pray. We ask you to bless the chalk drawings. We show it in a little bit. In Jesus' name we ask, and amen. And amen. This story begins at the first part of chapter 16. And so let me let me just uh Perhaps I can read a little bit and talk a little bit and get the whole story out. As you can see from what I've already read, the congregation had done something. And God had caused wrath to fall. And there was like over 14,000 people that died as a result of whatever it was that took place. You know, God is a is He's a God of love. But the Bible also says he's a consuming fire. We never want to forget that. That while God is a God of love, He's a good God. He loves mankind. And He loved us so much that He gave His only begotten Son. We know that verse. But we also must remember something else. He's a holy and righteous God. And because he's holy and righteous, sin offends him. And sin is a transgression of God's law. So when you break God's law, you've offended a holy and righteous God, and there's only one thing that can happen. And that is the wages of sin is death. Now, you're already dead in trespass and sin if you've never been saved. You're already dead in trespass and sin. Understand that. You're already. He that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son of God hath not life. If you if you do not have Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, then you are destined to the lake of fire, unless there's a change. So let's not forget that God, a God of love, is still a God of wrath. The Bible says he's angry with the wicked every day. So let's let's put away this Santa Claus uh picture of God that we have, that so many have. Let's lay that thing aside because it's not true. It's not true. He's not a Santa Claus. He's a good God. And he's always going to make a righteous judgment, but the wages of sin is death. That's his decree. Back in the first part of chapter 16. We see what took place that brought about this catastrophe in the national life of the nation of Israel. You know that Israel was God's chosen people. They had come out of uh Moses led them out of Egypt. They had crossed the Red Sea miraculously. God separated the waters. And uh the Egyptian army was drowned in those same waters when God allowed the waters to flow back again. So Moses and the children of Israel now are heading toward the promised land. They get to a place called Cadespardea and uh they send out the spies into the promised land that God promised to them said it's a land that flows with milk and honey And the spies, when they came back, they gave an evil report, that is all of them but two, Caleb and Joshua. And those two said, It is a it's a land, it's just like God said, let's go get it. But the people said, No, we don't want it There's walled cities over there, there's giants over there, we don't want to. And because of their unbelief, they were not allowed to go into the promised land. And so God made them wander in the wilderness for 40 years And so this took place sometime after they had gotten into this into the wilderness. And I I I can't there's no no time uh table here that I can say well they were ten years in or five years in or whatever. But they've been i they'd been in the wilderness for several years when this took place. The people and this is what took place. So I'll read it in that way I won't have to explain it. So now Cora, wait a minute, gonna have to guess just a little slip of water here. It says, Now Korah, the son of uh Ishar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, and Dathan And uh Abiram, the sons of Eli Eliab, and On, the son of Api Ah Peleth, there it is, sons of Reuben took men. And they rose up before Moses With certain of the children of Israel, 250 princes of the assembly, famous in the congregation, men of renown. And they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron. Now understand, Moses and Aaron were God's chosen leaders of this nation. So when God chooses somebody to be a leader over, in this case, over this nation, you better not mess with him. Never mess with the man of God because that that you've you've called the wrath of God down on you when you do that. And so here's what took place. When they gathered themselves against Moses and against Aaron, and said, Ye take too much on you, seeing all the congregation is holy. In other words, they said, Hey, we we're of the tribe of Levi also, just like you. What makes you better than us? Why can't the what you've taken too much on yourself? You shouldn't be the leader. You should have say in this whole thing Now sometimes that happens in churches. And somebody will get up and they'll say, Hey, you know, uh yeah, I know you're a pastor, but I'm also a Christian and and I have some spiritual insight, and I think you ought to I want you to understand God has chosen the men of God, and that's that's where it should stay. Now it says here, and so uh Uh it says, Wherefore then lift ye up yourselves above the congregation of the Lord? And then Moses and when Moses heard it, he fell on his face. You know, that's that to me is amazing. Here was a man who who could take a staff and throw it down and turn it into a snake. He's a guy that uh uh could raise his hand and said, uh stand still and see the salvation of the Lord and the the Red Sea would just part. I understand it was God doing that, but I'm saying God was working through this man and doing miracles, not counting all the miracles that happened in Egypt, you know, during the uh before they were released. But just think about this. And yet here here he when he he sees this the the accusation when these men come to him and and uh begin to to rebel against him and speak to him in that manner and say, what makes you think that you're any better than we are? Instead of saying, Listen, I want you to understand, God You know. He okay, stand back there by and let the you know. He didn't do that. He fell on his face. You gotta remember, and and this is a trait that Christians need to practice, and that of meekness When when somebody slaps you on one side on the cheek, you know, you're supposed to turn the other side and let them slap them. Then you smack them in the mouth if they do it again. No, that's not what it says. But the idea what I'm getting at is that Moses was a meek individual. He was a strong leader. But he listened to God and he had a humble spirit about him. And there's something about a humble spirit that God honors. And we'd do well if we remember that. Christians sometimes have a tendency to get arrogant in all their knowledge of the Bible and everything. Be careful about that because that leads to a prideful attitude, and God hates pride. So he spake unto Korah and unto the unto the company, saying, Even tomorrow the Lord will show who are his and who is holy, and will cause him to come near unto him. Even him whom he hath chosen will he cause to come nearer to him. Do this. Take you censors, Korah, and all his company. Now, instead of reading uh uh that whole chapter there. Let me see if I can just break it down quickly and put it in a nutshell and then we can get to the rest of the message. Here is this this group of men, uh the the three men that came to him. And uh They had talked to 250 princes, leaders of the nation of Israel, and got them to follow them. And so here the this whole group of people now have opposed Moses and Moses says, all right, and this is what God wanted to do. He said, Moses says, I want you to meet me tomorrow morning and we're gonna uh at the okay corral and we're gonna have a shootout. Now that may not have been exact words, but that's pretty much what he meant. He says, I want you to get your sensors. Well, a sensor is is just a it's like a pot. And it was probably it was made out of brass. And uh in that pot would uh be some uh coals, hot red hot coals. And uh then uh uh usually you you take some sort of a fragrance, uh some kind of a a uh uh uh I don't know what you'd call it, but a fragrance, then i in a powder form, you'd throw that on there and it would come up in the smoke and be a real sweet smelling savor Now, in the tabernacle that that that was something that was good because that sweet smell smelling savor was a picture of of the prayers of the saints going up and and And God took that as as something that was sweet and smelly, something that that he enjoyed. So here these guys are saying, hey, we're just we're just as holy as you are And m and so Moses just simply says, all right, let's find out just you know who's holy and who's not. You bring your censors, you put your cockpills in it Bring your fragrances, put your s you know your incense, uh meet me tomorrow morning with your stuff and and we'll see about it. Aaron will bring his When they did that, why uh God answered. The first thing he did was He opened up the earth and he swallowed these guys that had initiated this rebellion. That's the first thing he did. It's found over there in verses 31. It says, and it came to pass as he had made an end of speaking all these words that the ground clave asunder that was under them. And the earth opened her mouth and swallowed them up in their houses, and all the men that were appertained in the Korah and all their goods, they and all that appr appertained to them, and went down alive into the pit And the earth closed upon them and they perished from among the congregation. So God got rid of them just like that. The next thing that happened, he looked at the 250 uh uh princes that were leaders of these You get the picture? It started out with three in rebellion. Now it's 250 in rebellion. God sent a fire and consumed the 250 that were rebelling against him. He said, I want you to gather up all those incense pots that are made out of brass. And he says, I want you to make plates. Brass plates to cover the the uh the altar of the uh brazen altar outside the tabernacle And let that be a memorial to you that you're that only certain people are have the right to have the incense pots and and the incense. So you'd think it'd all be over. You'd think everybody would say, whoops, wait a minute, we made a mistake. These guys were not of God. Moses and Aaron are the leaders, and God uh has shown us that, and so we're going to obey God. And that's what it looked like. Everything was hunky-dory. Everybody goes back to their tents. They think about it all night. And the next day, here we go again. Look down there in verse uh uh verse forty-one. But on the morrow, the very next day, but on the morrow, all the congregation, do you see the progression? Started out with three. 250. Now the whole congregation is coming to Moses and opposing him. What do you think about that? The Bible says a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump. That's why it's so dangerous. to give ear to someone that's griping, complaining, or moaning about something, well, in the church in this case. Whether it's at work Whether it's at home, it doesn't make any difference where it's at. But once when you give ear to somebody like that, you are falling right into the same trap that these people did here. So God had to drop four or three of them into the pit, 250 of them he consumed with the fire, and now he had the whole congregation coming to oppose Moses. And this is what took place. And it came to pass that when the congregation was gathered against Moses and against Aaron, that they looked toward the tabernacle of the congregation, and behold, the cloud covered it. Now whenever the cloud covered the con the tabernacle, they knew that God was there. That was God in that cloud. At night it was a pillar of fire, but during the day it was a pillar of cloud. And it says, and the glory of the Lord appeared. And Moses and Aaron came before the tabernacle of the congregation. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Get you up from among this congregation, that I may consume them as in a moment. And they fell upon their faces. And Moses said unto Aaron, Take a censor, put fire therein from off the altar. And put on incense and go quickly into the congregation and make an atonement for them, for there is wrath going out from the Lord that the plague is begun. I see a couple of things there. Number one, I see a I see a Moses who loved his people He could have just let it go and God would have listened, in fact he he God told Moses at one time, he said, listen, let me just consume this whole congregation. He said, I'll start all over with you and I'll let you be the head of this new new nation of mine. And Moses said, No. No, the heathen would would make fun, say you couldn't do what you said you were going to do. And so here I see the compassion of Moses. I see him concerned about the people. Just as God is concerned about a rebellious people, just as God is so concerned that he sends his only begotten Son down here to die for our sins. The plague has begun. I want us to get a picture of what's taking place. Moses and Aaron looking over the congregation. God has already brought the plague, and all at once you hear the screams of the people on the outer edges of the congregation as they begin to drop dead Drop dead. Moses says, Aaron, Aaron, I want you to get the incense pot, put the hot coals off of the brazen altar in there, and put the incense on there, and go into the congregation and stop the plague. You have to get a picture of Aaron now. Aaron's a high priest. It's a picture of Jesus Christ, and even the garments that he wore is a picture of Christ. He wears on his head a white uh a white turban, you might say, with a golden miter around the head band, as a headband, and on that is inscribed holiness to the Lord I see him he has a white beard. This is how I see him. I I probably m you know well I don't think he shaved that morning, okay. I think he has a white beard. And I can see him in the in the priestly garments The priestly garment is a light blue robe underneath, but on the top as an ephod. And it's just like a vest thing that's down to about here I see the the the scarlet and the white and the purple and the blue stripes that make up this garment. And right in the middle of his chest there's brilliant stones, twelve of them One of them one stone for each one of the tribes of Israel. Each one of the uh each tribe. I see uh the The bottom of the of the garment has a the pomegranates and the bells so that when he walks you can hear him jingle as he walks. Here this is the high priest The high priest is the one who is an intercessor between God and man. The Bible tells us that we have a high priest. His name is Jesus Christ. And he is the one who is our intercessor. He's the one that stands between us and God. He's the one that stands between us, the judgment of God. And now I see Aaron as a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ. He has an incense pot in his hand He swings it. Incense pots so big, has the red hot coals from off the brazen altar, the coals that have sin had had seen the suffer uh the uh uh the the sacrifices of of untold number of animals permeated with the blood of those animals without the shedding of blood there is no remission of sin. I see the the the fire that that uh uh consumes that I seem with the incense. Oh, the incense. That's something else. For you see, the incense was special It wasn't just uh some old perfumes that they just sprayed on there. This was an incense that God made up the formula to it. You find that in the book of Exodus, and I won't take the time to read it, but it it designates specific spices. That make up this particular incense. And it is so special that God says no one is to make this incense up and use it for their own fragrances. It's specifically for me, for the incense to be used on the altar of incense in the tabernacle and in the incense pot of the high priest. It's special, one of a kind. For you see, there's one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus There's none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. He says, I am the way, one way. There's only one way to get to heaven. It's not through Allah or through Islam or any other religion. It's through a person, not a church. Through a person Not a religion, through a person, not of works. It's through a person, the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the propitiation for our sin. He is the one that God looks at and and accepts as the perfect sacrifice for our sin. I see the high priest now as he takes the incense pot. He runs into the middle of the congregation. He is the one who is standing between the living and the dead. I see him as he walks into the middle of the congregation. How many there are out there? A couple million people. Yeah. I hear the screams of those who are dying. But all at once, as a congregation begins to smell this sweet fragrance, They start making toward the high priest because they understand the truth there. That God is pleased with the fragrance. They've smelled it before as it came out from the tabernacle And God would come down and bless them. They understood that this fragrance meant the presence of God. It meant deliverance. It meant safety. It meant security. And as the high priest runs into the middle of the congregation waving the incense pot, the people begin to come toward them, and I, if I be lifted up, I'll draw all men to me, Jesus said. And that's exactly what's taking place. Those who came were saved. Those who refused to come were lost He stood between the living and the dead. You know that's the way it is today. Jesus stands between the living and the dead. You're here tonight. You're either on his side or you're not. You say, well, I'm not really against him. Hey, if you're not saved, you're against him. You say, Well, I'm not really against him. I'm sorry. If you're not for him, you're against him. That's the Bible. Do we believe the Bible? Yes, we do. I do. I believe that Jesus died for our sins. I believe that he's the only way to heaven. And the Bible says he that hath the Son hath life. Amen. He that hath not the Son hath not life. That's the Bible. So either we take the Bible and believe it. Or we chuck it in the corner and live our life the way we want to, and then at the end we meet God face to face and realize He is the God of the living and not the dead. Before I close, let me say ask this question. Let me get a drink of water before I start asking. This is one further thought. I wrote it down so that I wouldn't miss it. The plague of sin and death Is fast approaching our unsaved loved ones. I want you to think about that Right now, perhaps there's someone who is in your on your mind right now that you can think of that's lost There are they're a loved one, someone that you care about. Maybe they're just a a good friend, maybe somebody you work with on a regular basis, or maybe it's maybe it's a relative or Maybe it's mom or dad, brother, sister, some but but it's somebody that that you can think of right now that that you know has not trusted Christ as their Savior. I want you to understand the plague of death and sin is moving upon them quickly. As it was in that congregation. Well, what's the answer? You and I, who've been born again by the Spirit of God, the Bible calls us vessels of honor. Now, I don't know what that specifically means, incense pots. It's a vessel of honor. I know that within that vessel is the Holy Spirit And I know that you and I have the obligation to stand between the living and the dead. You and I have the sweet fragrance of the gospel of Christ that we can share with those who are lost. We have the sweet fragrance of a sanctified life that people see and say, you know, there's something about the way they live. Something about their attitude, something about the smile on their face. It's infectious. It's something that draws me to it. I wonder what they've got that I don't have. You and I need to understand we are the ones today that are between the living and the dead. You and I carry the incense pot of life for those who are lost. And if we don't go, if we don't share, if we don't aren't willing, did you notice what this hundred-year-old man did? Aaron is a hundred years old in this thing. He ran into the congregation. He was earnest about this. He understood the ramifications the quicker he could get out there and stop the plague the better it was. He ran into the congregation. How we need to be running to the lost with that that that fragrance of the gospel and sharing with them. You're here tonight and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior. Boy, I'll tell you, I've got good news for you The gospel of Christ is just simply, here's what Paul said. He said, I delivered, this is the gospel in a nutshell. I delivered unto you, first of all, that which I also received. How that Christ died for our sins according to the Scripture, was buried, and rose again the third day, according to the Scripture. That's the gospel. That's the message that will save you. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. If tonight you walk this aisle. Say, Pastor, I need to get saved. He'll go like that to someone. They'll pick up their Bible, they'll walk up here to the side of you, kneel down here at this altar of prayer, and from the Word of God they'll show you. The sweet gospel story and how you can be saved. And you can walk out those doors rejoicing for what God has done in your life. I have a feeling if those people in the congregation that that made it to Aaron could smell that sweet fragrance. And the plague was stopped. I imagine it was from rejoicing in the congregation because of it. How about it tonight? Are you saved? Can you honestly say before a living God, hey, I'm saved, I know I'm on my way to heaven? I'm not talking about boasting about it. I'm talking about the the the the knowledge, the the knowing that you're saved These things are written that you might know that you have eternal life. And if you don't know it, you're probably not saved. Probably not saved. That's scary. I'd make sure tonight before I walked out this out these doors. You'll notice I didn't talk to you about joining the Baptist Church. Did you notice that? I didn't say anything about joining the Baptist Church. But I did invite you to Jesus Christ. To know him. To know him. To know him. That's what it's all about. If we can have these lights out, I'll show this shark drawing. Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sin. The Bible, from the very beginning, there is a thread that runs all the way through to the book of Revelation. And that is the life is in the blood. The life is in the blood. You know, it's a scientific fact as well as a spiritual fact. There is a fountain filled with blood, drawn from Emmanuel's veins. And sinners plunge beneath that flood, lose all their guilty stains. Come now, let us reason together. You're here tonight. You're not saved. God says, come, let us reason together. Though your sins be as scarlet, they'll be white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Reason it out, my friend. For you to say no to the gospel tonight, in the face that any moment you could be called into eternity, which lasts forever. And without Christ, that lasting forever is in the lake of fire. You say, oh, you don't believe it hell, do you? I believe what that Bible says is what I believe And that's what the Bible talks about. When Jesus makes statements concerning hell more than he does about heaven, there tells me that we ought to sit up and listen You're here tonight and you're not saved, will you please? Reason. Reason this thing out with God and let God speak to your heart. Come and let us take a Bible and show you how to be saved. Will you do it? Christians tonight, why don't you vow tonight to your own in your own heart? Why don't you just say, God, I want to stand between the living and the dead? There's people out there that I know are lost And the plague is upon them. And if I don't reach them in time, they're going to die and spend eternity in hell. I want to be that one who will stand between the living and the dead. Will you will you will you will you make that vow tonight in your own heart? Heads are bowed and eyes are closed.