1 through 2 and 3. We're going to read 1 through 3 actually. We're going to look at verse 2 primarily. We're studying through the book of uh the chapter of Psalm 40. We're studying through this verse by verse And the Bible says in verse number one, he says, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. He brought me up also out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay. Now we looked at that already. We've studied through that pretty thoroughly. Now he goes on and he says, Brought me up out of a horrible pit, out of the myor clay, and set my feet upon a rock and established my goings. Now I've entitled the message Standing on the Rock. Let's pray and uh we'll get into this right away. Father in heaven, I thank you For the Word of God and all the promises and uh the instruction and the information you give us in your book so that we can live for you and serve you. and uh and uh make a difference in this world. Thank you for the report. Come back from Mexico and down in Central America where our booklets are being used God, you're making a difference there through that ministry. We're so grateful. But I pray now you'd meet with us. Father, I pray your presence would be here tonight I ask, Lord, that you would speak to each and every one of our hearts. Speak to the need of our heart tonight, whatever that may be. I pray you'd help us to see beyond our present and the temporal and see your plan and see your purpose and see your wisdom and your love. And so that we can stand upon a rock of your will and your promises, I ask that you'd fill me with your spirit. And guide my thinking, guide my speaking, I pray with all my heart. In Jesus' name, amen. I want to remind you, I'm probably confident nearly every one of us understands this But biblical Christianity is not just another religion. Biblical Christianity is not like any other religion in the world. In fact, every other religion in the world is just that, a religion. Where biblical Christianity is a supernatural life that God gives to a sinner that trusts Jesus Christ as Savior. He gives us a new life, he gives us a supernatural life. I put it this way, the Christian life is not just another religious life. Sometimes people will say about a believer, maybe they've said this about you. I know I've had it said about me. Oh, he's a very religious man. He's she's religious. That young person is a very religious teenager, whatever it may be. And I understand what they're saying. We generally what they mean by that usually is that we are We're concerned about spiritual realities. We're concerned about our relationship with God. But in reality, Christianity is not just another religion. It is a living relationship with a living God. It's a dynamic relationship with a living God. And so um, and biblical Christianity is not something that you and I can produce. We can, we're able to, in our own ability, and our and maybe in our own um uh uh uh ability be able to mimic some things about Christianity. But as far as living a biblical Christian life, it's not something man can produce. Man can produce some amazing devices. Now I'm no expert on this. Maybe Jamie or somebody could uh uh uh expound on this, but the way I understand it, your average smartphone has more information and has more functions that take place in it than the first Apollo rocket that we sent to the moon. And what man has been able to accomplish and and the devices we come up with now and what they're able to do is just amazing Man can accomplish some tremendous feats, the things that man has done and accomplishments he's made. However, one thing man cannot do, man cannot produce a Christian life. We can produce a religious life, and maybe in some cases, uh humanly speaking, a very good life But a biblical, a genuine Christian life is takes place, is produced when an old sinner Hears about the Lord Jesus Christ, how he died for his sins, was buried, and rose again, and he receives Jesus Christ by faith. He receives us as his Savior, and he is born again. Now I know we're all familiar with this, but I think sometimes we just get this idea, well, it's just religion, it's just something good. It's not. It's a supernatural thing that takes place in every old sinner's life that trusts Christ as Savior. We're born again. Nicodemus in John chapter 3 came to the Lord Jesus Christ. He said, you know, he compliments him. He says, You're obviously a teacher come from God. No man can do the things thou doest. Except God be with him. And Jesus says to him immediately, somebody help me out. What did he say to Nicodemus? Very first thing, he said, What? Ye must be born again. He just cut to the chase He completely disregarded the compliments. He said, Nicodemus, you need to be born again. He said, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Now, what is it to be born again? It is a supernatural birth. In fact, the term there, born again, part of the idea where the word it comes from has the idea of born from above. It's a supernatural birth. I can't born me again. All I can do as an old sinner is put my trust in Jesus, and Jesus, through the Word of God, gives me this eternal life, gives me spiritual light. And so my point I'm trying to make is this It's uh the biblical Christianity is a supernatural thing. It's not like anything else the world produces And again, we can mimic, the world can mimic some practices of Christianity, mimic some aspects of Christianity, but the world can't produce a Christian. Only God can do that. It's a supernatural thing. accomplishing a victorious Christian life, living a victorious Christian life. It's not my own ability. I can maybe go through the motions. Again, I can mimic some part aspects of Christianity, but to live a spirit-filled, godly, Christian life That is a supernatural thing that God does for me as I yield to Him. I cannot accomplish what the Holy Spirit Wants to produce in my life. I cannot work that up. We did a series on the fruit of the Spirit, and it was very, very clear. The fruit of the Spirit is just that, the fruit of the Spirit. Are you listening, girls? And so it's the fruit of the Spirit. It's what God produces in my life. And so that brings us to our text. So if you would notice here, look at these three verses And if you pay close attention, everything that has taken place here, everything that has taken place here in our text has been accomplished by God. God brought him up out of the horrible pit. God brought him out of the miry clay. God set his feet on a rock. God established his going. God gave him a new song. Not one time does he say, look what I accomplished, look at look what I did. I dug myself up out of this pit. I got myself out of the miry clay. Man, I got my feet on a rock. I got my established my goings Man, I found a I got me a new song in my heart. He doesn't say that at all. He says God did all of it. Every aspect of our Christian life is totally dependent upon the grace and mercy of God. Every aspect of my Christian life is totally dependent upon the filling and empowering of the Holy Spirit and Him producing that life and that fruit in my life And so everything here, it's God, God, God. Now, I've got three thoughts here I want to give you very, very quickly. The one we've already preached on quite a bit. I notice, first of all, it is God that saves him. Again, look at verse number one. He says, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me. He heard my cry. Again, there's God doing it. He brought me up out of the hireable pit, out of the miry clay. Now, whether he's talking about the salvation of his soul here, which is possible. David is maybe saying, you know, I was in the horrible pit of sin, I was in the miry clay of sin, I was under the judgment of God, I called on the Lord, I waited patiently, I called on him, trusted him as my Messiah And he saved my soul. He got me out of this and maybe that's what he's talking about. Or maybe he's talking about being saved, not necessarily a soul from sin in hell But I think maybe he's talking about he got himself in a mess. Let me ask you a question. Did David ever get himself in a mess? Yes. He is a man after God's own heart, a tremendous God used them to pen scores of scripture, and yet he made a mess over and over and over again. Listen, if David messes up, you and I are going to mess up Right? Anybody with me here on this? Sure we are. And what he's saying is, I came to God. God saves our soul, and when we mess up, God can save us from the mess we make. And praise the Lord for that. Amen or not? He can save us from the mess we make. And so the thing I notice here, this isn't something David's doing. This isn't something we're producing. It's something God does for us. It is God that saves our soul. It is God that gets us out of the messes we make. And so David did the crying and God did the saving. David did the trusting, and God did the delivering. And so God does it. So, number one, God saved him. Number two, and this is where I want to zero in on a little bit In verse number two, notice that God stabilized him. He got saved, and then God stabilized him. Look at verse the middle there, verse two. He brought me out of the hierarchy pit. out of the horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and look, he set my feet upon a rock. He stabilized him That word set there has this idea to firmly establish. I mean it he set my feet. He saved me. He got me out of this mess. He saved me from sin in hell. And then he got me firmly established. He set my feet. He stabilized me. It means to set securely in a fixed position. And again, a rock. He set my feet, established me, he fixed me, he secured me to a rock. Now, a rock is an immovable object. A rock generally in the scripture will refer to a solid foundation. If you remember back in uh Matthew chapter seven. Jesus comes to the end of his Sermon on the Mount and he gave this tremendous teaching on how to be a disciple, what it means to be a disciple. What a disciple does, what a disciple does not do. And he comes to that great at to the end of that great sermon, and he his invitation, basically, his application Is an illustration about two men that built homes. One of the men built his home, his house upon the sand. Anybody familiar with everybody? The wise the foolish man built his house upon the sand. And what happened? The storms came, the waves came, the wind blew. What happened to the house? It fell flat. But then he says, the wise man is the man that builds his house upon what? A rock, a solid foundation. That rock is not going to move That rock is not going to fluctuate. It's not going to be up one day, down the other, over here, one time, over there, another. That rock is fixed. It's established. And David said, God did something for me. He saved me. He got me out of this mess. He got me out of my sin. He changed my life. He took all that was wrong. And he made it right, and then he stabilized me. He planted my feet. He established my feet on a rock, unmovable, unchanging. It's troubling. And maybe it bothers you, but as a pastor and no doubt many others, it's troubling how unstable So many Christians can be. They'll get saved. They'll trust Christ. We see it a lot. And I'm forgive me, I'm not trying to be critical. I'm just making observation, and there's biblical support for this observation. But people, many times, people will trust the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, and I think sincerely and Excuse me, they'll genuinely get saved. But they never get stabilized. They never get established in their faith, in their walk with God, in their commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so because of that, they fluctuate. And they're on one day, they're off the next. They're in one day, they're out the next. They're hot one day, they're cold the next. They're here one day, they're there the next. And there's no stability there. One day they're praising, the next day they're complaining One day they are uh they're out uh witnessing for the Lord, and the next day they're running with the unsaved crowd. There's no stability. One day they're thanking God, the next day they're mad at God. And David said, God saved me. He got me out of this horrible pit. He changed my life. He took all that was so wrong in my life. And he made it right, but he didn't stop there. He planted me on a rock. Got me stabilized so I can be consistent and stable in my Christian life. And I tell you, what we desperately need in Christianity today is some stable Christians That are just where they ought to be, when they ought to be there, doing what they ought to be doing, in the way that God tells us to do it, and just keep doing it, and keep doing it, and keep doing it Trusting God on Sunday, trusting God on Monday. Are you with me? He said he planted me on a rock. He set my feet on a rock. Up one day, down the next. In one day, out the other. On one day, off the next. In fact, he he rebuked the church in Revelation He says, uh, you're not hot or cold, you're lukewarm, you're just unstable. You're not I wish you were one or the other. Get in or get out, get on or get off David said he stabilized me, put my feet on a rock. It was a problem all through the early church, all through church history We've had this issue of Christians who never get stable in their walk with God and their commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. If everything's going my way, then boy, I love Jesus. I'm faithful. I'm going to be there. If something happens that I don't like, it's not the way I want, well then, Philly, I'm off the boat. You follow what I'm saying And what David says, God put me on my feet on a rock, I'm stabilized, I'm set, regardless of what happens, if it's storms or sunshine. If it's winter or summer, I'm stable. I'm staying committed to the Lord. In Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 14, Paul is addressing folks. It says they are tossed to and fro. Like a boat on the ocean. They're just wind drives them. They're over here, then they're over there. Oh uh today I'm happy, tomorrow I'm mad. Today I'm praising, tomorrow I'm cursing, today I'm reading my Bible, tomorrow I'm watching TV, and uh just no consistency, no stability. David said, God help me He planted my feet on a rock. In Galatians chapter 1, verse 6, he rebukes many of the believers at the church at Galatia. He says, How were you so soon removed? How did you let some event took place and pushed you out of the will of God? How did you let some disappointment Or some bad news or some heartache come along and you let that get you off the rock out of the will of God. That uh uh uh uh thing that took place and you allowed that to get you uh out of the will of God and and uh and uh uh uh and not being what you ought to be. David said, God will set you on a rod God's looking for Christians that are what they ought to be, whether everything's going my way or not. Come on, somebody talk to me tonight. Amen. We need in our churches stability among the members, among the church themselves. The church themselves. Now I know it's bad weather, I understand that. And I'm not preaching at anybody. I'm simply saying that our churches need another term, synonym of stability, is faithfulness Just being faithful to my responsibilities, my walk with God, my commitment to Jesus Christ. We need churches that are stable in their doctrine Not changing doctrine all the time. Man, alive. Some places they got a different Bible every week, Bible of the Week program. And all we need to establish is it is the is the Bible God's word or not, and then plant our feet on it. Amen. And our doctrine, the second coming, churches changing their doctrine about the second coming, about the rapture. And what we need is churches that set their feet upon the rock of good Bible doctrine and not change one bit. Faithful. Our standards. If our standards are Bible standards, then they don't fluctuate. They don't change. Say, well, they had those standards a hundred years ago. Well, if they're Bible standards, they're still in place today. See, plant my feet upon a rock. It's not changing. It doesn't fluctuate, it doesn't move, doesn't alter. And our standards of music and dress and all of that. Need to be stability, stability. In our service, just faithfully preaching the gospel, faithfully serving others, faithfully helping people live for God. Just staying at it, staying at it, staying at it. God has given our church a tremendous responsibility, a fearful responsibility, take the gospel to lost people so they can be saved. and escape the wrath of coming wrath of God and eternity in hell. That's an overwhelming responsibility, and we need to be faithful to that responsibility and we need to be stable in our service and carrying out that responsibility. Say, set my feet upon a rock. Stability. I like uh uh uh uh I haven't heard this lately, but we used to when people would visit um We used to have more visitors from the lake than what we do. I don't know. But years ago, man, all summer we'd have people vacation at the lake, they'd come to church. And I would like to occasionally they come, we wouldn't see them for years, you know, maybe five, ten years, fifteen years in one case I'm thinking about. And they came back and they were in the service. I was shaking hands, they went out, there's a couple from downstate And um we became somewhat friends and they came back and they said, Preacher, we hadn't been here for almost ten years, and nothing has changed about the church one bit. Now he meant that in a positive way. The church had grown, there were more members, but as far as our position, our preaching, our singing, all of that, it never changed. Listen, we need to be stable. Stable. We're not changing. We're not changing. People come and go, but we're going to stay stable. Weather changes, we stay stable. We stay stable. In our doctrine, some Christians and some churches are constantly changing. Constantly changing. Some churches will slowly drift, slowly drift, slowly drift And and and at first it's in in uh what's the word I went, imperceptible, am I right? What? Mm Yeah, you don't you don't you don't pr you don't see it. It's just slow little change here, little change there, little little shift here, little drift there, and before you know it, five, ten years go by and completely out of the will of God What happens for churches, I've seen it for Christians. We miss a little bit here, we miss a little bit there. Man, we used to read our Bibles real faithfully, but we let that drift. We used to give out tracts and and be a good soul winner and we let that drift. We used to have goodstand, be real careful about what we watched and what we listened to, and we let that drift. Listen, if my feet are planted on the rock of God's will, if my feet are planted on the rock of obedience to God, it's not going to drift, it's going to stay in place. And David said, God brought me out of a horrible pit. He saved me from a horrible situation. Got me out of that mess. And then he planted me on a rock and and uh um uh and uh established me, established me. So he say God say, and God does this God saved him, God stabilized him, and let me give you my last thought here, real quick. God shepherded him. Shepherd him. Shepherd him. I get that. Look here at verse 3. I'll explain what I mean by that. Brought me out of the horrible pit, out of the miry place, set my feet upon a rock, stabilized me, and then he says this, and established my goings. Establish my goings. I use the term shepherd. David said, God shepherded me. What does the shepherd do? He leads the sheep, right? He leads them out of danger. The Lord is my shepherd, I uh um uh my mind just froze up. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down and grief hazards. He Leadeth me beside the still waters. You know what David's saying? He established my goings. The Lord's leading me. The Lord's directing me. God's taken me from where I was, and he's leading me, leading me, leading me on. And God shepherded him. I want to say this. God has a plan for every single person. Every single person here. Young people, the little ones, I'm looking for some old people. Yikes, Charlie, it's you and me. The older folks, God has a plan for every single life. Nobody is here and says, well, God doesn't have any plan for my life. That's a lie of the devil. God has a path for every life. God has a direction. He wants to lead us. God has a has a has a destination. He's leading me to in my life. He has a path for my life. And he leads me, he shepherds me, he guards me. Maybe I start drifting off the path. I start drifting out of his will. And then he brings in chastisement and he corrects me. Maybe I hear a sermon and convicts my heart and I make some decisions and I get that back right again. And he shepherds me and he leads me, leads me, leads me. Well in youth conference uh here back in October, Pastor Matt had me teach a class on homiletics, on how to prepare sermons and preach, and we had a great turnout, a tremendous response. I was thrilled. And the question came up, actually in both classes, the question came up about a call to preach. A call to preach And they asked, they said, uh one of the fellows said, uh Pastor Lemon, what when was your call to preach? And I look back over my life, and the older I get, the more I find myself looking back over my life, how God led me, how God directed me through all these many years And I'll be very honest with you, I don't see any point in my life where God called me to preach or pastor. Now I surrendered and I believe he did call me, but there never was like a crises point or a a crosswords where I had to make a decision. Am I going to go into this vocation or I gonna serve the Lord as a preacher and a pastor. I never came to a crossroad like that I look back over on my life and where I'm at now in the ministry. It's like it was just the natural progression of my life. And God just led me. Never started out anticipating this, but God just led. God shepherded me. Into right exactly where he wanted me to be, doing exactly what he wanted to do. And what God, I look back over my life and what I saw God do for me, I'm telling you, he wants to do in your life also Now it doesn't mean everybody be a preacher. It doesn't mean everybody even be in any kind of ministerial vocation type thing. But I know this, God has a plan for every one of our lives, and if we'll trust him, if we'll do what David said, wait patiently for him, cry unto him, he will shepherd us into the very place he wants us to be. Sometimes, again, imperceptibly. In other words, at the time I didn't know it was God leading and directing, making this decision. He's leading, leading, but God was doing it. He led me all the way And that's what David says. He said, God save me from a horrible pit. I made such a mess. I got myself in such a mess. And I waited, I called on God, and I waited on him. He heard me and he got me out of that mess. And he made things right in my life. And then he took me, and so I wouldn't waver and go back into it and constantly, he took me and he stabilized me He got me established. And then he shepherded me throughout my life. He just led me, led me. He established my goings. He established my goings. Take your Bible if you would, turn with me to Psalm chapter 37, just a few pages or two back there We had this as a memory verse the other year. I try to memorize it about four or five times a week. I'll go over this text here, just trying to keep it in my memory Psalm thirty-seven, look with me if you would at verse twenty-three. I'm going to read twenty-three and twenty-four, but twenty-three is what I want us to notice The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down, for the Lord upholdeth him with his hand. I think what David is saying here is the same thing he's saying there in our text in Psalm 40. He says, though I fall, I'll not be utterly cast down, for the Lord upholds me. God establishes me. He stabilizes me. I may mess up. I'll make it so. But God keeps me. He stabilized me. But look there in verse 23. The steps of a good man are ordered. By the Lord. I got looking up that word ordered. You know what I found out? I I I love words. I love study words. I like to see how they play out I found out that word ordered there comes from the exact same word as Psalms 40, verse 2, where he says, He established my goings. He ordered my goings. He planned them. He shepherded them. He directed them. He led them David says, God has had a plan and a purpose for my life. And he got me out of the mess I got myself in. He got me stabilized. And then he led me in his perfect plan, his perfect will for my life. I can't tell you what God's will is for your life. I can't tell you what God's plan is. I can look and guess and see, well, I think maybe the Lord's leading this person that way. Maybe God's leading that person that way. I can tell you some things I know He's not leading you to do. But I know this, I know for every single one of us, God has a plan. God has a path. And if we'll let Him. He'll shepherd us, he'll lead us, he'll direct us into the very place to be the very person he intends for us to be. You follow what he's saying here? This is a great truth. This is so vital in the Christian life. Now I want to back up, and this is what I want to end with. If you'll notice verse number one. All of this. The salvation from the horrible pit and the miry clay, the stability being set on a rock, the shepherding, all of it. Was rooted in David's prayer life. Did you get that back in verse 1? I waited patiently to the Lord, and he inclined it to me, and he heard my what? I cry. David prayed. David prayed. David prayed. I may be talking to someone here, someone online. I don't know Somebody that's made a mess. And you got yourself in a pit, a horrible pit. You got yourself stuck in some miry clay. I'm here to tell you, if we pray, And seek God and wait on him and cry to him. I'm here to tell you, God can get you out of that pit He can. If you're lost, God can save. I had a guy tell me one time, God could never save anybody like me. I'm here to tell you, God can save someone even like you. But he called the Lord. He waited, called him, prayed out to God, trusted him, God delivered him. And then he stabilized him. Maybe you find yourself. I don't know about you, but sometimes I get so disappointed in my own self-discipline. Can I get a witness? Oh, I wish I was more disciplined. I don't know how many times I said, God help me, Lord, fill me with your spirit. Give me that fruit of temperance in my life. I can be more disciplined. And sometimes I get so disappointed in my own ability to be stable, but I can cry out to God, God, and wait pace for Him, trust Him. And God can stabilize me. He's the one sets my feet on a rock. I wonder how many of us would sure like for God to help us be more stable in our faith and our walk with God. Amen or not. Young and old And then he says, God shepherd me, God established me. I want God to lead me. I want God to direct me. And I have perfect will what he has for me. But all this comes back to prayer. All this come back to earnest, faithful, persistent prayer. Waited patiently on him. I cried unto him, and he heard me, and he did all this for me. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to take these thoughts. And God, whatever tomorrow may hold, I pray you'd help us to pray and to trust you and be stable and to be consistent and go forward. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, and this may be personal, it's between you and God, but let me just ask this, I wonder if there'd be some say, preacher, I kind of got myself in a bit of a mess Now this is between you and God. But you'd say, preacher, pray with me. God will help me seek him and look to him and get me out of this mess. Is there any like that? Anybody? Well, I got I got myself in a bit of a mess. I understand maybe we uh we do And we just don't want to acknowledge it. I understand that's between you and God. But what about this? I wonder if there's some of us here to say, preacher, I want to be stable No matter what disappointments may come, no matter what changes of wind may change in life, I just want to be in my place. I want to be stable. I want to be consistent. I don't want to be up and down on is there any like that? Uplift the hand, preacher, pray for me. I want to be stable. I want to be faithful. God bless you. And then this matter of shepherding, you say, preacher, I want God to lead me I want his will. I want to be able to say what Paul said. I've fought a good fight. I've kept the faith. I've finished my course. I want God to lead me and do that. Is there anything like that? I want God to lead me. My hands raised I want God to leave me. I want to be in His will. I want to fulfill His plan, His purpose for my life. And God will help us. Father, bless our invitation on the snowy Sunday night as we finish up. God help us uh to respond to these truths in Jesus name. Let's stand together, heads are