Good job girls. Appreciate that. If you would take your Bibles, turn to Matthew. If you would, Matthew chapter 25. I'm going to get hooked up here. Did I tell you why the um coffee bean didn't go out Saturday night? He was grounded. I love that joke. Matthew twenty five, verse fourteen. I'm gonna read uh this whole story here the Lord told because uh it's gonna set up um My message for this evening, beginning at verse 14 of Matthew 25, for the kingdom of heaven is as a man traveling to a far country. who called his own servants and delivered unto them his goods. And unto one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one. to every man according to his several ability, and straightway took his journey. Then when he that had received the five talents went then let me start that over again. Then He that received the five talents went and traded with the same and made them other five talents. Likewise, he that had received two also gained other two. But he that received one went and digged in the earth and hid his Lord's money. After a long time, the Lord of those servants cometh and reckoneth with them. And so he that had received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliverest unto me five talents. Behold, I have gained beside them five talents more. Now look how the Lord responds. His Lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Thou hast been faithful over a few things. I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of the Lord. He also that had received two talents came and said, Lord, thou deliverest unto me two talents. Behold, I have gained other two talents beside them. Again, notice the Lord's response. His Lord said unto him, thou good Well done, good and faithful servant. Thou hast been faithful over a few things. I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of the Lord. Then he that had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art a hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed. And I was afraid and hid the talent in the earth, and lo, there thou uh there thou hast that is thine. His Lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I'd reap where I sowed not and gather where I have not straw'. Thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers, and then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury. Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents. For everyone that hath shall be given, and he that hath and he shall have abundance. But for him that hath not hath not shall be taken away even that which ye hath. Cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness, where there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. I'd like to give what I call the State of the Church address. And so just uh sharing my heart and my vision, where I see we're at as a church, uh, some of our strength and maybe areas that are uh we've ch are facing us as a challenge. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, again tonight I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield myself to you. God, I pray especially tonight that you would give me the mind of Christ. And Lord, that your burden, your concerns for our church would be communicated through me It would not just be the pastor as the under shepherd, but God, we want to know your heart. We'd like to know your evaluation of our church. And where we are, where we need to go. And so again, I yield myself to you. Present my body. Fill me. Help us to receive what you have, Lord. Help us to go forward and to be all you intend for us to be. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. In 1986, uh in the summer, it was probably around July uh the second week of July. Uh myself, I was twenty-six years old and another fella flew into Boston, Massachusetts, into the airport there. We were evangelists with Neighborhood Bible Time We were picked up at the airport by a fellow, a fairly wealthy guy. He picked us up in, of all things, a Mercedes-Vence sports coot. It's a convertible. He had a top down, he opened the trunk, we stuffed all our luggage in there and everything in and we climbed in and he drove us to the house we were going to spend the week and uh showed us around the church. I guess we went first and unloaded some of our stuff Then he took us to the home that we were going to stay for the week as we did the rally. And as he was leaving, he turned and he tossed to me the keys to that Mercedes-Benz sports coup And he says, that's your vehicle for the week. I looked at the partner and went, cool And so for that week we drove that very expensive car around. And uh if I remember correctly, this was just when car, remember the old bag car phones Used to be on a bag in between, if I remember correctly, he had one of those between the seats in this fancy car. Five speed and driving around Now, what do you think I did with that car? You think I went out and did whole shots, donuts, flying up and down? You know me too well. No. No, I didn't do any of that. We treated that car with the use of the term kid gloves. Um We did everything we could to treat that car right and be very, very careful. Now, why would we do that? Two reasons. One, it was not mine. It was someone else's. And number two, it was very, very valuable. And for those two reasons, we made sure that we didn't ride the clutch We made sure we kept distance from other cars. We made sure we did everything right. That was not our car. It was very, very expensive. Now, what was true about that car we used for the week is true about Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. We've got to do it right. This church is not ours, it's Jesus Christ's Church. It's not ours. And number two, this church is very, very valuable Do you know what it costs for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to exist? It costs the blood of God's Son, Jesus Christ. The Bible says he purchased the church with his own blood. Now, don't just use that in some generic term out there. That's talking about our church right here. So this is not ours. We don't have the right to run this thing the way we think and to do what we want to with it We don't have the right to neglect the church or to abuse it or to alter it. It's not ours. It's grace. And it is extremely valuable. Not one of us here have what it would cost to purchase a church. Acquired the precious blood of Jesus Christ. None of us can afford to initiate the church. Christ did that. I look at our text here and it sets the stage for what I'm trying to share this evening. I notice, there's a lot of things in this passage, but I notice two important truths, especially as it relates to what, as I said, I'm trying to express tonight. The first thing I notice here is that we will give an account to God for what we do with what He has entrusted us with. One guy he gave five talents to. Was it talents? Yeah, five talents to. Another fellow he gave two talents. Another fellow, one talent. God gave to each individual what he felt their potential was, what he felt was best for them. And the one with five talents went out and did what he did with it and gave an account. The fellow with two and the fellow with one. And so I notice here that God, and this is my take on this, God has entrusted Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church with some things and he we are going to have to give an account to God with what he has entrusted us with. We're going to give an account. I, as pastor in particular, Hebrews chapter 13 says that I have to give an account as pastor for the church, but I believe all of us, as individual members, must give an account for our role, our investment, our part. in the success of our church. So we're going to give an account. Second thing I noticed in this passage of scripture here, and this is is uh I thought was very interesting. Not only are we going to have to give an account, but notice his uh notice how he referred to the first two fellows. He says, Well done, thou good and what? Faithful servant, then he says, thou hast been faithful over a few things. The first two guys, the fellow with the five talents and the fellows with the two talents, he says to those two, they were faithful. Faithful. Faithful. He uses that term four times in reference to these two guys. They were faithful. The last fellow, he doesn't call him faithful. He says he was a wicked and swathful servant. Now, I look at that and I thought, what is the distinction between the first two and the last one that God would call the first two faithful and the last one slothful? What was the difference in the two? It's obvious. The first two gained something. In fact, that very word is used. If you look there, at the end of verse 20, he says, I have gained besides them. Verse 22, at the last part, he says, I have gained to other talents. So the fact that they had gained something is what prompts the Lord to refer to them as being faithful. The third fella, he gave back to the Lord what God gave him. But because he did not gain anything, he is not referred to as being faithful. Now, most of us, see if you agree with me on this, most of us would say, hey, he kept what he had, he didn't lose it, he was faithful. But that's not God's standard of being faithful. God expects us to gain if he gives us something, if he puts something in our trust. And there's another other par there's a number of other parables in the Gospels that teach the exact same thing. If God entrusts us with something, whatever that may be, an ability, a talent, an opportunity, God expects us to take advantage of that opportunity to take that ability and use it to advance to increase his kingdom. And if all we do is take what God has given to us and hold on to it, then give it back The exact same thing back, we're not being faithful. The word gain, by the way, means simply to acquire more. It means to increase my possession. So let's put it in the context of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. God has given to us resources. Would you agree with me? God has blessed us with tremendous resources I'm getting a little ahead of myself, but um in the financial report from our annual meeting from all of last year, 2010, there was over $333,000 given to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church through the offering plates on Sundays. That's a third of a million dollars Somebody, I would say amen there if I was in there. Is that not exciting? That is something God has entrusted our church with. Ah, we have opportunities and we could take, and I'll touch on some of them, all these opportunities. What does God expect to do with these things that He entrusts us with Well, if we're going to be faithful, we take these resources God has given to us and we use them to advance his kingdom. He wants gain in his kingdom. He wants an increase in his kingdom. So God is going to, we're going to have to give an account to God. And number two, we God considers being faithful consisting of gaining, improving, increasing. God's looking for his church to increase. So having said that I viewed Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church in January of 2011. Let me just briefly share what I feel at this point our strengths are as a church. The areas that I think that, of course we all we have room to grow in all of these. I'm not saying we've arrived, but some areas I think that we are our strengths, I see as our assets One I think, and don't misunderstand what I'm saying, wait till I finish explaining before you uh respond or react in your mind, uh, I think the preaching at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is one of our assets Now I'm not talking about me personally. As the preacher, what I'm talking about is the preachers we bring through here. I'm convinced we have some of the best Bible preachers with the Spirit and power of God on them that are available in the country. God has given us opportunity to bring through the pulpit and the doors of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. There's no doubt in my mind that is a strength of this church. The preaching of the Word of God. Let me suggest one of the strengths are the opportunities for folks to learn, to be taught and learn and grow under the teaching and the preaching of God's Word. If we don't got anything else right, I think one thing we've got is getting the Word of God taught and preached So I feel like that's an asset. That's one of our strengths. Another area I feel like is a strength in our church, and again I'll say this and then I'll explain, is our calendar. By that I mean, I feel like we have a good mix of events and things taking place that help God's people grow and have an influence in the community. If you look at our calendar, I feel like we've got a good variety. For instance, in a couple weeks we have a wild game dinner. That has become a part of our community. I meet people all the time. Yeah, I've been out to that thing. When's that thing going on? What's this? And it's just almost a part of the community calendar. And then we have spring revival. And then we have missions conference and fingerprints ministries. We've got mission trips we take. We've got neighborhood Bible time. We have the Sword Conference, a fall revival. We have a nice mix of things taking place that appeal to various interests That are all Bible-based, that keeps us busy. Amen. That's one of my jobs. Keep us busy. And I feel that's the strength of our church. So I'm just sharing with you my perspective. Preaching, the calendar, I think that God has blessed us with, and one of our strengths is tremendous facilities. I love just this plant here. This campus. Drive by. It looks nice. I think we've got people that work hard and take care of it. Um other people involved, but Ron and Debbie Cyndon have done a great job on that mission house. If you haven't been over there lately, boy, they put work in that and fixed that thing up. In fact, we're thinking about moving out of the parsonage moving over there But I think God has blessed us with tremendous facilities that we can use to advance his kingdom. Remember, what he wants from us is faithfulness, which consists of gaining Advancing the kingdom of God. And so I think we do good there and taking care of it and the facilities looking nice and the work going on. That barn has been a blessing back there And uh we were able to use that this summer. You don't know how many compliments I've had of people that have come visit the church, who've been here before, and they see that thing and they compliment on how nice that barn is. In fact we're thinking about moving in the barn maybe I think God has uh one of our strengths is our finances. Now I'm not naive enough to think that we have a hundred percent participation in tithing of all the members of our church. I'm not that naive. But I do believe, without knowing for a fact, I do believe that we have probably a higher percentage of tithers and givers to our church that give sacrificially than your average church, our size. Percentage-wise, I just, that's my perspective on it. And as I said, I'm not naive enough to think that everybody tithes Now, don't having said that, I feel very strongly that all the members should tithe. And Let me take it another step farther. I believe, if I understand scripture correctly, by not tithing, I am disobeying God. In fact, the Bible uses the term robbing God. But I feel like we have a large percentage, an exceptional maximum, of our strengths. And last of all, as far as our strengths are concerned, I see the spirit of our church. Being a strength. I feel like we have a good spirit among God's people in this church. I think there's a spirit, a family type spirit There's a uh I get the impression as pastor, and I know I feel this way, that we enjoy each other, we enjoy the fellowship of each other, and we just have a good time getting together with God's people. And I think that's a strength. And if you've been around, of course, I don't get to other churches very much other than the speaker, but I'm in and out, so I don't know what it's like in other churches, but I feel like from talking to people, that is a unique thing for our church. And so we thank God for that. And we see those as strengths and uh and assets. Now, three areas that are important to me, and I'm going to go through this as quickly as I can. Three areas that are important to me and that I feel as pastor are important in our church. Number one, our distinction in this world. Our distinction in this world. Would you take your Bibles and let me just show a few verses to you? If you would turn to Romans chapter 12. Romans chapter 12. I hope you're bear with me on this. I think it is very important that we maintain our distinction in this old sinful world. And I explain what I mean here in just a moment. Romans 12, look with me at verse 1. Surely we're familiar with this passage of scripture. The Bible says, I beseech you, Paul speaking under the inspiration of God By the mercies of God that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Look at verse 2. And be not conformed to what? This world. God says, I do not want my people being conformed to this world. Turn with me, if you would, over to 2 Corinthians. Chapter number 6, 2 Corinthians chapter 6. Now these are good verses that I feel ought to be highlighted in your Bible. These are important These are crucial issues for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. 2 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse 14. The Bible says, be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? And what communion hath light with darkness And what concord the word means agreement? What concord has Christ with Belial? Or what part hath he that believeth with an infidel. What agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God. As God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord. God says he wants his people to be distinct from this old sinful world. We don't yoke up with unbelievers. We don't host outreaches that unite with unbelievers. We do not involve ourselves in ecumenical activities. We are to be separate from folks who do not believe the Bible, regardless of how religious they may claim to be We're to separate from them. We teach our children the importance of not dating and marrying unbelievers. Come on now. We do not uh yoke ourselves up with people who reject the gospel, who reject Christ. This is very important. Turn with me if you would to 1 John chapter 2. 1 John chapter 2. And notice with me, if you would, verse 14. 1 John chapter 2 and verse 14. Notice what the Bible says. Verse 15, I'm sorry. Love not the world. Neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life is not of the Father, but is of the world. And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. What is he saying? God does not want his people to be conformed to the world. Take on the values. And the principles of the world. We are not to love the world. We are to separate ourselves, not join in with the world's events and activities and values and principles. The world's principles, the world's standards are the exact opposite of the holiness and purity of God's standards. And God wants his people to be distinct from this old sinful world. My concern and great concern is for our church is that we not become worldly. We do not adapt the values and principles and pleasures of the world. We do not take on the appearance and the sounds and the practices of the world. We remain disappo Extinct as God's people in this sinful world. We are pilgrims in this land. We are just passing through. We do not become part of this world. And it's important for our church to be distinct. Um Be distinct. And by the way Not just not conforming to the world's values, but we have to be careful of becoming not being callous to this world's mockery of God and his word. And what I mean by this is we may not take part in it. We may not uh involve ourselves in it, but we get to the point where the world's and they're mocking the things of God and Uh and uh um and um uh what's the word he that mockets sin of foolishness. Uh what's that verse? Uh makes uh mockery of sin Forget it. But anyway, we have to be careful where this is what I'm trying to say. When the world takes Jesus' name in vain, it doesn't bother us anymore. We've got to watch out for that. There's a word in Proverbs, and I want to preach a message on it. I just haven't been for a number of years now, it just never came together. But it's a word called bereith. That's an unusual word. But it talks about, and I'm not quoting it, I'm just going off the top of my head, but it talks about a person, a foolish person, hearing Bad words and God being blasphemy, and they don't beryth it. He berayeth it not. And what it means is this, is you get to the point where somebody takes God's name in vain and I don't react to it I just get used to it. I just get dull ears. Doesn't bother me. And if we're not careful We can get sit in front of the tube and have God's name blaspheme and God's standard of holiness drugged through the sewer and doesn't even bother us anymore. We just get callous to it. That's as much worldliness as it is diving in the sewer with them. We've got to be careful about that. We are to be distinct. Now there's two areas we're to be distinct in. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. As pastor, I've got to make sure that I lead the church in this direction that we be distinct in our doctrine. We are a Baptist church. You say, what do you mean by that? We are Baptist because of our doctrine. There are seven distinctives of a Baptist church. The Bible, our sole authority, the autonomy of our local church, the priesthood of every believer that makes up the church. the two offices we recognize in the church, pastor and deacon, the individual soul liberty that every Christian has in the church, separation of our church from the state. Two ordinances, Lord's Supper and Baptism, and saved and baptized membership. Those distinctives make us a Baptist church Now, I don't have time to get into it, but I do want to mention this, and if you're interested, I'll expound on it more some other time. But we are not just a fundamental church, we are a Baptist church You can hold to the fundamentals of the faith and not be a Baptist. You can be Presbyterian. You could be Church of God, whatever name you want to. But when you hold these distinctive doctrines here, these distinctions, then that makes you a Baptist church. You follow what I'm saying? There's a reason that name is on our title. It identifies us as a certain position we hold to, and we hold to dearly. These are scriptural. I've said this many times. I was not in a Baptist church when I got saved, but as I grew in my Christian life, I become convinced that the distinctions of a Baptist church are the closest thing to the Bible I've found yet. It's not a matter of pride, it's a matter of commitment to what I believe the Bible teaches. And I feel it's very important that our church be a Baptist church, not in name only, but in doctrine. You follow with me? Anyone with me? We need to be distinct not only in our doctrine but in our demeanor. First and foremost, we are Christians. Amen? First and foremost, we are Christians. I'm an American, I thank God I'm American, but before I'm an American, I'm a Christian. Amen? I'm a Baptist. I hold to the Baptist distinctives. But first and foremost, I'm Christian. And I am to display Christian demeanor. Every aspect of our actions, our appearance should be distinctively Christian. And here is an area of importance for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, that we be distinct as Christians in our demeanor. By that I mean in our attitudes. We are to be Christ-like in our attitudes. That means we have the mind of Christ. And if you'll read Philippians chapter two very carefully, you find that Christ laid aside his own rights Christ laid aside his pride. He humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. And we as Christians at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church need to have the mind of Christ and be humble in our attitude. Humble before God, humble before one another. There is no, and I'm preaching it myself as much as anybody, there is no room for pride in Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church Period. We are unchristian when we become proud. We are unchristian when we become self-righteous. We are unchristian when we become selfish and self-centered. And my concern as pastor and for the church is that we be Christian in our demeanor. In our attitudes, having the mind of Christ, humbly, dying to self. In our actions, not just our attitude, but in our actions. How many people agree with me that the church service ought to be pure and godly and holy? Do you agree with me on that? Absolutely. Hey, let me take that a step farther. We ought to be pure and holy and godly on Mondays on the job, too. It's not just a Sunday morning go-to-meet and thing we put on. It ought to characterize us throughout the week. Here's the sad thing. Sometimes you get church members who will say things on Tuesday on the job they would never say in the house of God on Sunday. Hmm? Jokes. There's folks listen to music in the car driving down the road they never listened to in the house of God. If the preacher would play that music in church, you'd be in an uproar. But yet we can listen to it on the week. Listen, that ought not so to be. That ought not to be We're Christians in our attitude, in our actions, we're kind, we're pure, we want to be good, we want to be holy. Paul put it this way, for I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live, yet not I. It's Christ that liveth in me. And a life which I now live in a flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God. In other words, he's saying Christ living his life through me His actions, my behavior reflects Christ. People see Christ in me. So our attitudes, our actions Let me touch on this. I don't say it as um often, but I think we and I think I don't think I know we need to be Christian in our appearance In our appearance. You ought, I think, to some degree, you ought to be able to look at someone and say, you know, they look like someone that would be a Christian. Do you ever see someone, you ever been out on vacation, been on the job somewhere, and you see a family in the store or something, you say, you know, they look like they could be Christians. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's the way we ought to be That's the way we ought to be. I think there's two areas on this. Now I don't harp on this. I don't get on a soapbox about this, but I feel strongly about it One is, I feel like Christians ought to, and the Bible is very clear, Christians ought to be modest in our appearance. We ought not to be showing flesh We ought not to the uh and brother Schindler, boy, did he nail it last week or not? We ought to be modest in our appearance, men and ladies. And there's principles given in Scripture, and maybe I should preach on it more than what I do, but I don't want to make a soapbox of it, but nevertheless We ought to appear as Christians, we ought to be modest. Not just modesty, but gender-wise. I'm convinced. I'm telling you, I believe I can sit down with this Bible and convince you that men ought to dress like men and ladies ought to dress like ladies. The way I see it, that's what the Bible teaches. God created them male and there's a distinction. And there ought to be a dis there's a the Bible talks about the difference in men and women's strengths, difference in the roles they play in marriage, difference in roles in church, and the Bible certainly teaches there's a difference in their appearance. in how we dress. I believe men should dress like men. Ladies should. Now I understand, and I've said this a thousand times. Ladies, if I you know, if I go up to Walmart and you're not dressed the way I believe the Bible uh teaches and the way I preach, I'm not going to be unkind to you. You know that I'm not going to draw attention. I'm proud to be your pastor, even if you wear sackcloth and ashes. I don't think it's necessarily a good idea, but If if Ty see Tom in Bell Bottoms, I'm proud to be his pastor. But I do believe men should dress like men, ladies should dress like ladies. I say this often, but I I think it illustrates the point. How many people would be disappointed if you went to Walmart, you saw Pastor Leatherman in a dress? Sure. And don't respond to this, but if you went to Walmart and you saw Mrs. Leatherman and pants, you'd be disappointed. You'd be disappointed. Why? Because the Bible clearly teaches men should dress as men, ladies should dress as ladies. Now this is old-fashioned, out of date. We might be the only church in all of Garrett County that that preacher preaches at But it's I'm convinced it's in the Word of God. Convinced of it. And like I said, if you let me sit down with you and open the Bible, I think I can convince you that that's what the Bible teaches. Now here's our position. God bless you. That's between you and God. How you dress at home and in your personal life and you know in your life outside the church. That's between you and God. I love you, I respect you, and that's up to you. Fellas, you want to wear a dress? I think you're sick. But I will say this, our position has been before I ever got here and will be as long as I'm here, when we represent anybody is representing the church They are to agree with and conform to these principles that the church holds to as far as men and women dressing. You understand what I'm saying? Not trying to be unkind, I'm not trying to be harsh, I'm trying to be firm. And so anytime the church Somebody is representing church, whether it's teaching a class or out visiting or doing something around the church here or serving, we expect men to wear britches. How many people are glad for that? Praise the Lord. And also we ask that the ladies dress in dresses and not wear pants. Because that is the position we hold to. Now, as I said, I love you, respect you, I'm not trying to offend anybody or anything like that. You know what I'm saying. But that's our position there, and that's where the church holds to, and so we ask people to agree with that. And it's an area. Why why you what's the big deal about that, preacher? Are there more important things? Yes No doubt about it. If you're unsaved, I don't care how you're dressed, you need to get saved. But when we're going to represent the church, we want to be distinct in this old sinful world. And we want to be clear in our testimony. So, our distinction, let me quickly give you number two and number three, our discipleship of believers. I shared this with the deacons and the trustees, a burden on my heart. Matthew 28, 19 and 20 says, teach the all nations, baptize them in the name of the Father and Holy Spirit, teaching them to what? Observe all things whatsoever I've commanded you. We have a responsibility. Not just to share the gospel and win people to Christ, but we have a responsibility to disciple them and teach them what Christ has commanded us to do. I'm going to be very frank with you. I'm afraid, and the responsibility rests on my shoulders, I'm afraid we have a glaring weakness in this area. I'm afraid we are dropping the ball. I take responsibility as pastor. We are dropping the ball in this area. We are not discipling new believers. We'll give him a little book. We'll say a few words to him, maybe make a follow-up visit, and that's all that happens. And that is not right. We've got to correct that. We've got to step that up when someone trusts Christ as Savior. We need to have things, and I'm Telling you my responsibility. I need to get things in place where we can take that person to the next step of baptism, the next step of discipleship so they can grow and go on in the Lord Now I share with the deacons some ideas and some things we can put in place that I think is going to help that. But the church needs to be aware that that is an area where we are dropping the ball. And we need to improve that. And I'll share some things in the coming months. But uh for new believers, um uh I'd like to see discipleship couples That when someone trusts Christ, that husband and wife can step in and befriend them and establish a relationship with them. It has to be more than just giving them a book or going through a lesson. It has to be Establishing a relationship with them, befriending them, and making them feel a part of the family of God. Building relationships and seeing more baptisms. I long for the day when we can have an average of one baptism a Sunday. Wouldn't that be great? That'd be a great thing. So that's what we want to work towards. What about discipleship of our youth? Now, last year, if you remember, my big concern when I gave this speech, my big concern was our Sunday school. I felt like our Sunday school was not anywhere close to what its potential was. I'd like to say this year, twelve months later We have taken great strides forward in that. And I'm thrilled. I don't think we're there yet, but I'm thrilled with where we're going with our Sunday school. And I'll just say this, Mark and Jackie have done a phenomenal job stepping in, getting things organized, holding us accountable, giving tools and resources to our Sunday school teachers. so we can go forward and do a better, doing a better job discipling these children that God has entrusted us with so they can become productive Christians and reproduce themselves and grow up and be leaders in God's church. Now we're not there yet, and I think Mark would agree with me, we're not there yet. But we made tremendous strides, and I thank God for that. But we've got work to do We need the commitment of every Sunday school teacher, every bus worker, every children's church worker, commitment to the church of Jesus Christ. that he has bought with his own blood and saying that is a number one priority in my life and I'm giving myself to the discipleship of these young people, these children that are under my care and entrusted to my by God, to me by God. Amen? Now we made tremendous strides. Well, we've got to press forward. We want to do better. I would like to see more of our teens go off to Bible college. In fact, I would like to see every teenager, I'm talking as pastor, I'd like to see every teenager go and when they graduate, give at least one year to Bible college. I've said that since I've been in the ministry. Whatever God's called them to, whatever their future vocation has to be, I'd like to see every one of them give one year to a Bible college. I think that's a good thing. I was talking to some of the young people today, and a couple of them mentioned that their plan is to go to Bible college one year and just give it one year and see what God has. And I think that's the right thing. I would like to see us have a more effective ministry to young adults, both married and college and career age Like to see activities for young couples, for singles that are out of college or out of uh high school and uh are out there and have something we can target them and help them and give them resources and teaching to enable them to be good Christians in their adult life. And then I mentioned on believers. I'd like to see more young people called into the ministry And surrendering to God's call. It has to be God calling them, but we've got to set the we've got to fertilize the ground. We've got to make it conducive where God can deal with their hearts. And so that's an area. And last of all Another area of concern as pastor for the church is our declaration of the gospel. Mark 16, 15 said, go on to all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. We've got to do that. We've got to do that. I would like to in the year 2011 double the number of trained soul winners we have that go out on a weekly basis, teach them how to share the gospel, and go out on a weekly basis, knocking on doors, going into communities Highways and hedges, neighborhoods, hollers, valleys, mountaintops, all around here, taking the gospel, sharing the gospel with people on their front porch or in their living room, on a weekly basis, I'd like to double the number we have right now Will you work with me towards that? Work hard that we have more people going out. Um I would like to, I think we can do more on our bus routes. to reach our potential. I thank God for the bus workers we have. But there are hundreds and hundreds of young people and children out there that are sitting at home or sleeping in their beds on Sunday mornings. that if we could do more on that, we could get them into church and get them under the sound of the gospel. I know we could. We've got whole towns we're not touching. So there's more could be done there. Our radio station. It's going to require diligent sacrifice and giving and prayer if this thing's ever going to become a reality. And then globally, I'd like to see in Kazakhstan, I'd like to see us by the end of the year have some definite contacts, something very similar to what we have with the renemas in Kazakhstan Wouldn't that be great? It's possible. Brother Lord Willing, Brother Jua Adams is going to be over there by the end of the year. We're going to have a trip over there and it looks like August And Lord willing we can establish some definite contacts with Christians in country that we can communicate with, work through, maybe send and provide resources to, and have more direct influence on that country. I'd like to see, and this is completely up to God and God's people, but I'm just telling you, I'd like to see this year have $100,000 given to world missions through our Faith Promise mission We are right there. We are knocking on the doors. In 2010, our church gave over $90,000 towards missions in the twelve months of 2010. We can. We are right there. We could, in the year 2011, break that 100,000 mark. I would like to see it. But it's faith, promise. Trusting God to do what he will. And then this matter of church planning I'd like to see us involved in reproducing ourselves and starting churches. I don't know where. We talked and prayed about South Cumberland a little bit. Maybe a need starting a church down in that area there I got a call this week from a fella that's starting a church, another fella starting a church up in Pittsburgh. I think that's excited. I said, I I said, I don't know what or how or where yet, but I want you in here and we want to get on board with you and help you get a church started up in Pittsburgh. This is our mandate to reproduce ourselves and locally and globally. Now let me ask you this. I tried to share this as quickly as I could. Let me ask you this. What part do you want to have in this? You're part of the church. This church is valuable. Christ paid his own blood for it. It's not ours. We can't mess with it. We've got to do with this church what Christ has clearly instructed us. We've got to do it the way God has instructed us. I believe I touched on some three areas tonight that are very, very important for us. And I'm asking you to get on board. Pray what the Lord would have you to do. What role do you have? What part do you have in this? Are you just a bystander to sit on the sidelines, throw a quarter in every now and then? Or you want to get down in this thing? And be a part of it. And make this thing be what God wants to be. And we can stand before God and hear Jesus Christ say, Well done, thou good and what? Faithful. You brought gain. You increased that which I've given. Let's pray. Father in heaven, bless us, Lord. Lord, I bear as much a responsibility, not more in all of this, as anyone else does. We're in this together. So I pray you'd help us tonight as we go to Lord's Supper to make a commitment as members of the body of Christ, as individual believers, that we commit ourselves to this church being What you intend for it to be. And God, it takes all of us. Burn that in our hearts and minds. It takes every one of us doing all we can to be all we need to be. I pray, Lord, you'd bless the invitation. In Jesus' name. Let's stand.