Sixteen Matthew chapter sixteen couple ladies were talking Purses and um the one lady said the other lady I said she said, I imagine that uh you have a memento of some sort of someone, a loved one or something you carry in your purse as a little reminder of someone that's passed away and she goes, yes, I have a lock of my husband's hair. She says, Your husband's hair, he's not dead. She goes, I know, but his hair is gone. And so Wednesday night, this coming Wednesday night, the President of the United States is going to do what presidents have done for a long time every year. They bring what's called a State of the Union address. And uh in that address they deal with uh our country where attacked, the way they see it and uh where they intend to lead the country and their opinion, their evaluation of of uh different issues facing the country and their solutions And so with that in mind, I told the men that we met with earlier this evening that uh I've I've toyed with this idea for many, many years about bringing um uh the pastor's state of the church address and uh just sharing with the church my heart the way I see where we're at Uh the way where I believe the Lord would have us go, the direction, some specific things that uh we look at this coming year that we would like to see done, some things we want to avoid. And so with that in mind, I'm going to read from Matthew chapter 16. I'm going to begin reading in verse 13. If you would follow along. Notice what the Bible says. When Jesus came into the coast of Caesarea Philippi He asked his disciples, now this is an important question, whom do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? And they said, and they said, some say that thou art John the Baptist, some Elias, others Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. Now you could do an in-depth study there on people's perception of who Jesus was, and you could really gain a real insight on what Jesus' personality was like, what his ministry was like, by looking at the ministry of these men and why they associated Jesus with them, different characteristics of Jesus Christ that reminded them of John the Baptist or of Jeremiah. uh or Elijah and these different people. But that's not our intention tonight. Look at verse 15. He said unto them, but whom say ye that I am? His immediate disciples. And of course, who do you think is the first to answer? Peter, he speaks up. Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ. The Son of the Living God. Boy, if you want a concise summary of who Jesus is, that is it. Peter nailed it on the head. Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. Now look at the Lord's response to that. Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjonas. Flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. Now here's a statement the Lord makes that I believe is misapplied. The misapplication is true, but I don't believe that's what the Lord's saying here. He says, and I say also unto thee that thou art Peter, and upon this rock Will I build my church? And the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Now here's what I think the Lord is saying. When he says, upon this rock, most of your commentators are going to say that the Lord was referring to himself. Now the Lord is the rock. He's the cornerstone of the church, no doubt about it. But I don't think that's what he's making reference to When the Lord said, upon this rock, I think he's referring back to whom the disciples say that Jesus is. I circled the word rock and I drew an arrow up to verse 16. Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. Upon that confession, upon that statement is what the church is built, upon who Jesus is. The recognition and acknowledgement that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, that is what the church is built upon. I think that's what the Lord's saying. And upon that profession, upon that statement, that truth, that confession, the gates of hell cannot prevail against that. Cannot stand against that truth. I want to bring in my state of the church address tonight. First time I've done this. I'm excited about it. And uh let's ask the Lord to bless. Let's pray. Father I do ask now that you would help me as pastor of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to have a clear and accurate understanding of who we are. Of where we're at and where we need to go. Lord, this is your church. And so we're asking you for leadership and direction. I yield myself to you. I present my body anew tonight. I ask you to fill me with your spirit. And help us, Lord, in this endeavor this evening. In Jesus' name. Amen. Luke, Matthew 16 tells us here, as I just said. That the church is built upon the confession of Jesus Christ being of Jesus being the Christ, the Son of the living God, and the gates of hell cannot withstand this truth Now, I want us to notice just quickly some things from this passage, and then I'll get to the to what I'm trying to do this evening. The first thing I want us to notice is that Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church has been established by Jesus Christ. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church has been established by Jesus Christ. You say, wait a minute, wait a minute, Ed Wilt came. We got his picture in the lobby. He came in 1962. He started Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. No, God, Jesus Christ, used Ed Will to establish church. But Jesus Christ is the one that established this church. Now we use that statement in general church. Well, Jesus established church. Wait a minute. Let's bring it home. Our church right here. Us sitting here tonight, Christ is the one that brought this together. And made this. So Jesus is the one. Our church has been established by Jesus Christ. He is the founder of Mount Lake Independent by Church. He is the head of this church. I talked to the current and prospective deacons and trustees this evening. And uh they're they're all knew this. It was just uh review really for them. But the fact of the matter is Jesus Christ is the head of our church. Pastor Dennis Leatherman is the under-shepherd. Jesus Christ cannot, I guess he could, but it does not Physically pastor this church. There's tens of thousands of churches around the world. He doesn't physically pastor them. He's at the right hand of the Father. But he's the head of the church and he gives to each church a pastor to be his under-shepherd The pastor's responsibility is to provide oversight to the church, provide leadership to the church, so that church functions as Jesus Christ intends for it to function. You follow me? You with me? And so he is the founder church. He's the head. It's his church. Number two. So I read, oh, and by the way, I get that from where the Lord says, um, thou art Peter, upon this rock I will build my church. So he's a he the church has been established by Christ. Number two, I put this down. Jesus Christ has a plan for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. The things that happen, the opportunities we're given, the challenges that God allows us to face are not just haphazard. Jesus Christ has a plan for our church. Upon this rock I will build my church. That word build has the idea to develop. Comes from the same word we get our word edify. To enlarge, to build, one of the definitions of the word build there was to promote growth Jesus Christ has a plan for Mount Lake Infant and Baptist Church, and his plan for our church is that we grow. We grow spiritually. We grow in our faith. We grow in our love for one another. We grow numerically. I believe God's plan for our church is for us to increase in number. To increase in outreach, incre increase in our faith. And here's the exciting thing as I was preparing this and thinking about this Uh uh boy, uh if I could somehow communicate to you the excitement I have about this truth. And that is this: Christ is actively involved. In the function of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. We don't see him physically, but I'm here to tell you: Jesus Christ Himself is actively involved in our church. In our function, in our future. He's planning. He's working. He's sending opportunities our way. He's uh giving us challenges. He's Laying things on our hearts. He's providing resources for us. He has a plan for this church right here tonight. And he has a future for us. And he's involved in that. We're not down here on our own. It's not just up to Pastor Letterman or or us as a congregation to figure out what. No, God is active. He's involved, working. He has a plan in our lives. Jesus Christ has a definite will and plan for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I like this statement. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is a work in progress. We have not arrived yet. Amen? We're not there yet. And brother, sister, you want to sit back and you want to find faults you want to find criticize, find faults here and there, cracks here and there. That's fine. You'll find you don't have to look too far to find faults with human beings But I'm here to tell you, we're not the finished product. Christ is still building. Christ is still working. Sometimes we get frustrated with young people. Anyone here? We've got to remember they're not the finished product. Krista has a long way to go yet. I'm teasing her. And you and I are not the finished product yet. And this church is not the ideal. We don't set ourselves up, boy, we've arrived. No, we're a work in progress. Christ is involved in us, he's working. He's uh uh actively involved in our functioning, in our advanced company. Hey, Mount Lake Independent Baptist, how many folks, let me back up, how many folks have gotten saved either at or through the ministry of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church? Raise your hand. Look at that advanced majority Fact of the matter is the church didn't save one of us. Christ saved us working through the church, the ministries of the church. He's actively involved. And that's exciting to me. Third statement I put down. And I kind of touched on this earlier. Jesus Christ is the owner of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. He owns us. He bought us. He purchased Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church with his own blood. And so, sometimes we say this, but the fact of the matter is, it's not my church. It's not your church It's not our church. It's Christ's church. And He has allowed us through the sacrifice He paid for us to be a part of His body. Of his possession. And so it's not ours. And with that in mind, we cannot do with this church what we want to. It's not ours. It's his. We can't take it in the direction we want it to go. It's not ours. It's his church. He says, I will build my church. His uh fourth statement I put down. Jesus Christ has enabled us to vanquish the gates of hell I honestly believe, and I include myself in this. I say we do not grasp the reality of heaven and hell. I do not think that truth really we really comprehend the reality of a place called hell. That people go to when they die. The reality of that, just as real as you go home tonight, there's a place that people go to when they die called hell. It's a real place called heaven. And Christ has enabled us through the testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ from the proclamation of the gospel. The living Son of God, the gates of hell, the grip that unbelief has on this world cannot stand against that And he has given us the privilege. He has given us the opportunity to vanquish the gates of hell, to win souls, see people born into the family of God, escape hell, and have eternal life in heaven with the Lord. Man, if that doesn't excite you, I don't know what would. That God would give us that opportunity. The gates of hell shall not withstand against us. As we trust and obey Christ, we experience victory and success. Now, in two years. Everybody with me? Everybody alright? Alright, good. In two years, in the u year 2012. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church will be 50 years old. In 1962, Brother Ed Wilt, his wife, I think a couple of his children Came to Oakland, Maryland. They came through the ministry of Calvary Baptist Church in Cresuptown. Came up here, there was a handful of people that wanted to start a Baptist church in Oakland. It uh if I understand it correctly, at the time there was no Baptist church. Am I correct on that, Helen? Okay, I I thought so. He was called by a handful of people who want to start a Baptist church. He came to Oakland and they started, again it was Christ doing this through them, they started the first Baptist church of Oakland. That was the name. 1962. They rented a small building down on the other side of the tracks on across from where subway is. It was trackside restaurant for a long time and it's changed hands. That little building there, that was the original building. of First Baptist Church of Oakland. Ed Will Cain, for approximately eight years, he went through a series of trials. They had some setbacks, they had some great victories, but Edwil stood faithful And for eight years he plugged away, plugged away, plugged away, preaching the gospel, out in the community visiting. And over these 16 years, my wife and I have been here, I've come across a number of people knocking on doors, and they say, Yeah We were the first pastor you ever had came by here and he witnessed to me. We led a lady to the Lord, an elderly lady out on Fingerboard Road. She goes, Wait a minute, she went back in, she was only in her bedroom, not even fifteen seconds, came out She has a gospel tract. It was printed. First Baptist Church of Oak of Oakland. Pastor Ed Wilt gave that to her years ago out witnessing. She had it in her bedroom. She could go right to it, get it immediately. Isn't that something? Eight years. Ed will, under the direction of God, of course Christ doing this through him, establish a Christ-centered church. First Baptist Church of Oakland was built primarily for the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ. It was not to exalt Edwin, it was not to exalt a denomination It was not to exalt another local church, it was to exalt the Lord Jesus Christ. It was established upon the deity of Christ and the authority of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. If he was alive, and I talked to him at length before he passed away, he'd say that to you. This was done for the glory of God. We must not forget that. Mount Lake, which later the name was changed, I'll touch on that. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church exists for the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ. He established a Christ-centered church. He established a conviction-governed church. There were some things that Brother Ed Will and the First Baptist Church of Oakland held as convictions. These were unnegotiables, negotiables. These were things they would not negotiate about. Convictions. Convictions about the authority of God's word. As Pastor this church I am committed myself under my leadership. If I have a right mind, we will not waver from the authority of God's word. That is the authority in this church. Say, was it King James? They I do not believe the King James was an issue at that time. Brother Don, maybe you could help me on this, but it was a King James Church. As time went on and the issue became hotter, I believe the church took the right stand on the right position on the Bible And so he established a conviction-governed church, authority of God's Word. It was a convictions about Baptist distinctives. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church has been, is now, and under my pastor, will always be a Baptist church. We're not going to take that name off. We're not going to change our convictions. Now, if I was sitting there and a preacher was up here and said that, I'd have said, amen, at that point. You do what you want, but that's what I would do A Baptist church. It was a separated church. They had convictions about personal separation. Edwill taught from the Word of God that we ought to be separate from the world. We ought not to appear and take on the value or allow our minds to be conformed to the image of this world. That we were not to love this world, neither the things that are in the world, because the love of the world uh uh is uh uh is spiritual adultery as far as God's concerned, if we're a friend of the world He had convictions, a separated church, personal separation. He preached in Hell II, First Baptist Church of Oakland, was an ecclesiastically separated church. You say, what in the world does that mean? In other words, The church did not cooperate with liberal Bible-denying churches. Am I right? Ed Wilt was not a member of the pastoral ministerial association. Full of liberals and all that. They were s he preached and practiced you should be we are to be separated from the world personally. We are to be separated from modernists and liberals and compromisers. And disobedient brethren. We're separated from other churches that are do not function according to the Word of God. And they were uh a personally and ecclesiastically separated church. They had convictions about that He established, under direction of the Lord, a compassionate church. First Baptist Church of Oakland had a genuine concern for winning the loss to Christ. They made definite efforts. I'm curious, how many folks here tonight you were saved under the ministry of Brother Ed Wilt? Raise your hand. Is there anybody here saved under the ministry of Ed Wilt? Is anybody here? Brother Ed Wilt baptized you. Does anybody here knows who brother Ed Wilt is? Raise your hand. Okay, good. How many folks were members of the church under Ed Wilt? I'll get a hand one way or another. There we go. I knew he was something with it. But it was a church that had a burden for the lost. I believe it will baptize Lucy Friend, if I remember correctly. Genuine effort to win the loss. They took preached and practiced personal soul winning. They're involved in worldwide missions. They had a genuine love for the brothers and sisters in Christ. So that's our heritage. That was our beginning. Listen, that is what has been handed to us A church of convictions, Christ-centered, for the glory of God, pardoned for the loss, taking a stand for what's right. We've been given that heritage Hey listen, we live in a day and age where people do not appreciate the value of heritage of the heritage that has been given to us. Let us not let us uh appreciate what God has given to us as a church. in this heritage. Two other significant events I see in the history of our church in nineteen seventy Under leadership of Pastor John Scripture, the church came out of the General Association of Regular Baptists and became an independent Baptist. The General Association of Regular Baptists was not a denomination. It was a fellowship. But it had been shifting. They had been changing. Calvinism was creeping in Liberalism was creeping in, compromise was creeping in, and they brought the church out. I think that is a very significant event in the life of our church, and I believe it is one of the factors that keeps us what we are today I believe if we had not come out of that, we would be a different church than what we are. And so, I believe that was a significant event. I believe also another significant event was in 1972 when this building was built right here. There was a move made from the fellowship hall into this building, and I think that was very significant. So Our history. From 1988 through 1993, the church went through some difficult times. Some dark days, some very discouraging times. But there was a handful of people who prayed and sought the Lord and trusted God. I'm really glad I didn't plan it this way. I didn't intend it for this way, but I'm really glad that Dr. Don Williams is here tonight. Because he was a key player in those dark days, particularly towards the end of it. And he stepped up. Church asked him if he'd be willing to come up, help them, find some leadership. They decided they're going to try and stick together and try and maybe make this thing work. And uh under his leadership, he kind of rallied the troops, I believe. The impression I have a little bit, provided some leadership, stepped in, and the church rallied around September of 1993. We extended an invitation to my wife and I come and be pastor. At that point, the people of the church rallied together. The handful that were here rallied together And determined that this was going to be rebuilt. That Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church would not die. And I think God's hand was in all of that. The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. The church began to grow. I would have said amen there also, brother. That was a good spot. Follow his lead, you'll be all right. We are far from perfect. Right? Never in a hundred years would we claim to be perfect. We are far from perfect and we have a long way to go. But I see Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church as a strong Bible-based church. I believe that we as a body of believers are sincerely attempting to function according to biblical principles. I really believe that I believe that we are sincerely trying to run this church and function as a purpose, and our methods are sincerely trying to line them up with scriptural teaching, scriptural principles. I know as pastor, I am committed to that. I believe with all my heart, our deacons, leaders are committed to that. And I believe we for the most part as a congregation are committed to that. Am I right or wrong? We're committed to do it the Bible way. So I believe I view us as a strong Bible-based church. Again, we're not perfect, we've got a long way to go, but that's the way I see us. I see us as a by as a body of believers With a genuine determination to reach the lost. I believe the heart of this church, I believe the heart of this church is winning souls to the Lord Jesus Christ. Whether it's locally or whether it's on the a worldwide scale through faith promise missions, through mission trips, through adopting Kazakhstan, the heart of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is taking the gospel to the unsaved and seeing people satched. From the fires of hell and knowing Jesus Christ as Savior. It's the heart of this church. If we do nothing else, we are committed to taking the gospel to the lost. Locally, through soul-winning efforts. I'll talk about that in a moment. Through our radio outreach, through our bus ministry, through track month Through Acts 1631 project, through our weekly knocking on doors and soul winning, through our neighborhood Bible time rally. Through our wild game dinners, our men's stakeouts, our revival meetings, our missions conference, all of that revolves around one thing and one thing only: winning souls to the Lord Jesus Christ. I see us one as a strong Bible-based church. This is where I see where we're at now. I see us as a body of believers with a genuine determination to reach the lost. Now, many of us would stand up and say, you know, I'm not there yet as far as my involvement in reaching the lost, but my heart is there. You with me? I never in I I I I I can't remember, I should say this, in 16 plus years being here, I can't remember anybody coming to me and challenging me with our emphasis on taking the gospel to the lost. So that's where this church is at. Three, I see us as a friendly congregation with a genuine concern and commitment to one another. When our service is over, I stand in the back, I see happy Christians laughing together. I see Christians who enjoy each other's fellowship. Um and again I I I don't mean to reflect negative in any way. It's just the development of church. But when we first came, I think my wife would Testimony. Sorry, I didn't mean to wake you. Uh my no. She looked at me like a I thought I woke her. But um uh When uh there there goes the rest of the venison down the But when we first came we stood when I said Amen and it was over, people were gone. Right? I mean it was true Alright, I guess we'll go home. But now I can't run people off. It's like, alright, sticking the lights. Uh and I'm not complaining. But what I'm saying is this, as pastor, I look at our congregation and I see for the most part happy people that enjoy one another's fellowship, folks that have a sense of humor. You have to have a sense of humor to put up with a pastor like this. Good grief. Now is not the time to say amen. I see a church that's tender-hearted Now again, we've not arrived. We're not there. You say, well, are we are are we everything that you would like for us to be as a pastor? No, not yet. I'm not everything I would like to be. But I see that characteristic in us. I was up to see George the other day. He goes, Yeah, Sister So-and-so was by, and Brother So-and-so was by, and Mr. and Mrs. So and so was by and he listed off a whole slew of people in the church just came by. You know why? Because they loved him, cared about him, wanted to check on him. Isn't that neat? Let's see Wilda. She goes, here, will you take this out over to Brother So-and-so and I got this? Would you deliver that? I felt like a UPS man. Yeah, no, no, that's there Happy, enjoying each other's fellowship, having fun, sense of humor. Now as we look to the future, Mount Lake Independent Baptist, where do we go? We've not arrived. Lord knows that. We've had our share of setbacks, victories, and defeats To be honest with you, we've had bigger crowds than we have right now. 1999, 2000. We are our biggest crowds. We were running 200, a little over. We're not there now And so, where do we go from here? Two, as I thought of this for the last three weeks, I've really given thought to what I would say in this And there's two words, two thoughts come to my mind as I think about the future of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. And that's what I want to bring this thing together around. The first thought that comes to mind as I think about our future is the word challenges. I think we have some challenges, very real challenges. I think we face the challenge of keeping our focus. When I came as pastor, the Lord laid on my heart. I know it was the Lord. Laid on my heart the phrase, looking unto Jesus. I felt like the Lord impressed upon my heart we needed to get our eyes off of one another. We need to get our eyes off of the problems. We need to get our eyes off of the failures of ourselves and off of the failures of others. And we needed to look to Jesus. It is his church. If it's going to grow, if it's going to succeed, he's the one gonna have to do it. Let's look to Jesus. And I see that as a challenge for us in 2010. To keep our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. I can guarantee you one thing in the year 2010. Now I'm not a what do they call those people? Psychic. I'm not predicting anything, but I'll tell you this. Somebody in the next 12 months is going to disappoint you. Huh? Somebody's gonna fail you in some way or another. And what I'm saying, the challenge facing you, I'm talking about in our church, people. Brothers and sisters in Christ, they're gonna say something stupid, they're gonna say, and by the way, next 12 months you're gonna disappoint somebody. You're gonna say something stupid and hurt somebody. I mean it goes both ways, right? What I'm saying is a challenge facing us. Let's get our eyes off of one another. Let's keep them on Christ. It's the only way we're going to go forward. It's the only way this thing's going to take this only the only way is to look to Jesus. That's a challenge I face. Here's another challenge that comes to my mind. Keeping our focus. And here's one, and this is a little sticker maybe for some. Maintaining our convictions. Our convictions. We live in a day and age when Christianity not isn't dropping them, has dropped convictions. Now I feel very strongly that our if we're going to have convictions, they need to be Bible convictions. Not my opinion, not my preferences. What does the Bible say? And we ought to hold to them as convictions. These are right. We cannot these are these are issues we cannot compromise. Convictions So a challenge for you and I is to maintain our convictions about the Bible. We are committed. I, as your pastor, give you my word. I am committed to maintaining the King James Bible at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. We will not change Bibles. And we have reasons. And come to the Bible Institute, I'll give them to you. Convictions about the Bible Convictions about holiness. Don't hear much about that. But my Bible says that we are to be holy even as God is holy. Holy. If some, I'm telling you, if something is genuinely holy and you drop it down the middle of this old world, it'll stand out. This is not a holy world. And if somebody is going to be holy, they're going to be different. They're going to stand out. They're not going to fit. God calls us to be holy. Our concern is not whether the world likes us or not. It's whether we are pleasing God or not. Holy. I'm afraid there's a challenge, and I'm being very honest with you. As pastor, I'm being very honest. I'm afraid that there is a mentality creeping in to our church and many others like that That we are wanting to be accepted by the world. I don't want to offend the world and be ignorant, arrogant, but I want to be what God wants me to be. And it's not a matter of whether the world likes it or not, whether it um satisfies my flesh or not. holy. And we can make I could take an hour make application in so many areas in our homes. Dan and I had a long conversation last night about our homes, TV, music, that type of stuff. Holy appearance. Our associations. Holy. We ought to have some convictions about that. Again, I could take an hour and talk about that. Worldliness. Some challenges. Under this idea of challenges that we face as a church, and I really appreciate you bearing with me this evening, but I I see two dangers, very real dangers Now, I think the second one is a greater danger than the first one. I'm talking about two us tonight, our church, two real dangers we face. The first one, I think, is this contemporary Christianity. I think that is a very real danger. I believe, and again, we're not there yet, I'm not there yet, but I under I feel a great weight of responsibility before God. to do my part as pastor to keep this church away from the contemporary movement. Now I'm afraid. I'm being very honest with you. And I'm not trying to be condemning in any way. It's just reality. I'm afraid if I would let the pressure off, if I would take the pressure off and was standing against the contemporary movement, I think it would come in like a flood. I would like to believe there's enough people in the church that understand it and have a biblical worldview strong enough that would stand up against it if I did. But that's not been my experience in other churches where pastors drop that. My experience has been it comes in like a flood. So it behooves me as pastor to stand stalwart. Sometimes people don't understand. Sometimes I try and explain it and people misunderstand what my motives are and what my position is, even. But the fact of the matter is, I see the contemporary movement as a grave, grave danger to a Bible-believing church. It is not, I'm not just talking about a style of music. It's far beyond that. It is an entire different version of Christianity. It's a completely different way of thinking about God, about Christian life, about faith. It's it's a it's an alternate Christianity. I do not see it as a biblical Christianity. And again, we could take an hour talking about it, but I'm sharing with you tonight the state of the church address. And I see that as a very real danger. President of the United States says, I see a real danger. We're facing as a country a real danger in Islamic terrorism. And the nation understands that. I say as pastor, we face a real danger in our church, and that is of this contemporary movement. I feel very strongly about that. The second danger I see under this category of challenges, I think is even greater danger than the contemporary movement, and that is this: apathy. Apathy. What we've done has worked. A lot of what we've done has worked. Correct Bible time, wild game dinner, knocking on doors, faith promise. A lot of we've done God has blessed it and used it. Am I right? Are you all still with me? But here's the danger. We've done it for 16 years now And we start losing that zeal for it. And it starts becoming oh great, another missions conference. Huh? I mean what are they gonna say? Here's Bible time. I've told that story six times. Kids, Burbank, we've given out 14 million ribbons here. First time we had Bible time it was like, what man, this is incredible. And I think we have a real danger of taking for granted what God is doing for us and through us and becoming apathetic. Now I take responsibility as pastor. In very many ways, the pastor sets the tone for the church and for the events. But I think we all need to guard against that. What was the rebuke of the Lord Jesus in the book of Revelation? Thou hast left thy first love. The excitement's gone. The honeymoon's wore off. And you know what now? We need to stay excited about these things on purpose. Not because there's a natural enthusiasm. The novelty wore off. It's not new anymore. So now I gotta say, hey, this is good. This is of God. This is something God uses. I am deliberately going to be excited about this. I'm going to be fired up. I'm going to give myself to it. There are certain things we ought to be able to get excited about on demand. Right? There's certain things I can preach on that I know are going to get amen, especially I go out in a preacher's meeting. If I say, Bless God, I stand for the King James, place comes unglued. You know why? Because they've decided they're going to stay excited about that. Let's not take for granted when a little child down in King's Kids trusts the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. Let's be excited about that. If I walk in here and say, guess what? Barack Obama got born again, baptized in Independent Baptist Church. He's dedicated his life to the Lord. He's going to be a preacher. What would everybody do? You'd say, wow! That's incredible! Right? Everybody be come on, would everybody be fired up? You just laugh. Yeah, right. Well as excited as we would be if that happened, we ought to be just as excited when a little bus can't trust the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. Because it may be someone being saved from that type of life. As much as being saved out of it. Let's not become apathetic. We've got a wild game dinner coming up. We've got a missions conference a little after that. We've got a revival in April. We've got Bible time in August, in July. Let's just say, man, let's make this the biggest we've ever had. We're not going to die. I don't want my best years as pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church to be behind me. I want to be ahead. I've got to stay fired up about it, and so do you. And here's the danger. We get used to what God is doing. Has God blessed us or not? Brother Williams, you get out around. Has God blessed this church? God has blessed us. Let's not take that for granted. Let's not become apathetic about it. Prayer meetings, then's prayer breakfast. I remember the first time when I first came, some of you folks over here remember When I first came, I announced, I think it was the first Sunday or the second Sunday, I announced, I'm gonna have a soul-winning training class. I'm gonna teach people how to win souls. Guess who all came? The whole church came. There's only eight people, but that was the whole church. Power, so when church-so- okay, the whole church came. I mean everybody came I said, wow, you know, we got a hundred percent participation. Sixteen years later. After we've taught it about 24 times, hey, we got a soul winning class, we're going to teach people how to win souls. Two people show up. Huh? Am I right or wrong? Let's not lose that excitement. Man, we were excited about it at one point. He said, preacher, I've had that class 16 times. Make it 17. Be excited about it. Apathy is a real danger we face. I want to challenge several areas I want to challenge our Sunday school teachers and our youth workers. And you know, I'm sharing my heart tonight. And I'm really disappointed. There's only a couple here tonight. Now that's not your fault. But our young people are our future. And I'll be honest with you, we have got to quit treating them like they're an elective. They're just something we gotta do something with. I don't think our Sunday school classes ought to be messy. I think ought to be neat and sharp. We're investing in our future. If we forget what our past was and the price that was paid in our past, we're not going to appreciate what the future holds. We're not going to pass that on. We can't show up 20 minutes late for Sunday school and think we're going to influence kids for Christ. We can't read a story to them. And think that that's going to win them to the Lord Jesus Christ. I have a book. My son gave it to me. He read it. It's called Already Gone. This thing is one of the most convicting books I've read in a long time. The fact of the matter is, most of our teen, most of our not our let me take it back, I don't mean to say that, most of our young people have already decided in their hearts and minds that this is not what they are. It's true. They've already made that decision. They're just waiting to get out from out of the house. They're gone. They're already gone. You know why? Because we don't really take seriously teaching them the most important things in life. We do everything else all week long, then Sunday morning we just kind of throw a Bible story at them. Trash laying all around. And we think they're going to get a vision of a holy God. They think they're going to see that as something to dedicate their life to. That ain't gonna happen. I take responsibility as pastor, and we need to shore that up. We need to take our training of our youth seriously. We're not going to reach our community just sending a bus out and picking up whoever happens to want to come that day. We're going to have to work it. If we're going to make a difference, this has to take priority. Now, if we don't care whether our children dedicate their life to Christ or not, then let's not bother. The world spends more time and effort in convincing the kids that they evolved from a monkey than the church does trying to convince them that they're created in the image of God. We wonder why. We wonder why they go out in the world, act like animals. Challenge, it's a difficulty, it's something we're gonna have to address. Sunday school, youth workers I believe as members of the church, we've got to be our best for our young people. We're losing them. To the flesh and the world, Hollywood, rock and roll. I'm not naive. Sex. Not stupid. How do we change that? The preacher standing up there and hollering, you better do right or God will judge you! That's part of it. But you know what they need to see? They need to see adults that believe what that book says. And they live it. And it's for real. Not just at church, but it's at home. And they love God And their life is committed to the Lord Jesus Christ, and it means something. If our church has any future at all, we've got to win our young people. We need to give them the best training we can give them. Training. Not telling them a story. Training them. Challenge to the church as a whole. Let's renew our commitment to advancing the gospel. Listen, God has given us some buses. And we've got a whole community full of people. You'll never convince me that if we don't go out there and try and round some up, folks wouldn't come in. I guarantee they would. Our buses, our soul winning. You know, three or four people going out for an hour once a week, we're not gonna have much of an impact on our community. We need a team of people trained knowing what to say, going out into our community, taking the gospel door to door, neighborhood to neighborhood, up little uh dirt roads and back little hollers and little communities and the outstretched outreaches of our commun of our county. We've got to get after it. Bossage, soul winning, our faith promise. Listen, we make a commitment to give X number of dollars a week to missions, we need to keep that The missionaries are dependent upon that. God lays that on our heart. We need to trust Him and obey Him. Discipleship, and here's the area God has convicted my heart. About people to make a profession of faith, investing ourselves in them. Establishing a relationship with them and discipling them to know Christ and live for Him. That's not easy. You know what? That takes effort. That takes time. Sometimes it takes money. But if we're going to reproduce ourselves, if we have any future at all, we've got to win people to Christ and disciple them. And I'm I'm preaching it myself. So, my first word I think of our future, I think of challenges. And I've I've shared with you my heart some real challenges I see we face. Finances, I didn't even talk about finances. Our church this past year took a hit financially. The economy or whatnot is down. I would like to think that everyone in the church tithes, but I'm not stupid. I think a good number of people do this is one of the best giving church. This is the best giving church I've ever been in in my Christian life But we took a hit this year. The deacons, trustees, the last two meetings, we dealt with it and talked about it. We're committed to operating, functioning within our uh what God provides for us financially. We will function within that. Amen? What God provides for us. So these are challenges we face, economic times, things that are out of our hands. You know If uh people are making X number of dollars and they're tithing on that, that's what our income is. But if their income goes down, then their tithe is going to do what? And we've got to operate within that framework. We understand that. It's a challenge we face. Now, the other word, and I want to end with this, and I knew it was going to be a little long tonight. I appreciate you bearing with me, but I want to end with another word that comes to my mind when I think of our future. Some very real challenges we need to face and I I want to work with folks and come up with message methods, seek the Lord and ways to solve these, meet these challenges, correct these deficiencies and bring them up to where they need to be But there's another word I want to end with, and that's this word. And it's been on my mind since the new year. Opportunity. Opportunity Never before, and you've heard me say this in the last couple weeks, never before in history, in the history of the world, has a church our size in a rural location like we are, had the opportunity to have such an influence around the world. God has given our church an opportunity to do things that churches 50 years ago would have dreamed of doing. Opportunity. You say, are we special? Is it that we're something special? God's giving us opportunities that other churches aren't. You know the way I see it? I think other churches have those same opportunities, but not like Independent Baptist Church, the people of this church have a vision and see those opportunities, and we've tried to seize them. Are you with me? Number of things, this adopting Kazakhstan, what an opportunity God has given Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church To make a difference in a country, a half a world away that has no witness, and God is using us to make a difference. What an opportunity God has given us! Radio station. Not one, but two. We're gonna keep our transmitter out there doing exactly what it's doing, and we're gonna add to it another station. That's incredible. We didn't go and finagle and make deals and force this thing through. God dropped it in our laps. Opportunity. Radio station, our website. We have people in China, in Thailand, Australia, in Holland, in California tuning in regularly and being influenced by the ministry of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. That is phenomenal Scriptures, assembling scriptures. I dream of the day That we have a service commemorating and dedicating a local church in the country of Kazakhstan. That we assemble scriptures here in our church location and distribute them in Kazakhstan someday That is a very real opportunity. That is not very far off. In a in eighteen months from now, we're taking another trip back to Kazakhstan. And by God's grace we'll have scripture to distribute, and perhaps a missionary on the ground that we can work with and through. Isn't that exciting? A church out here in Oakland, Maryland, in the out in the Appalachian Mountains, and we're able to have a direct influence on a country like that. Man, if I spoke in tongues I would right now. Here's another exciting thing I see. This summer internship. Hey what? That's turning out to be an exciting thing. We got a young man on the line. I'm trying to reel him in right now from a church over in Kentucky, a mi a college, Shawnee Baptist College, and uh Lord willing this week we'll get a definite yes or no And a young man come in here and work for three months and be able to influence him and help train his leadership and have him influence our young people and set an example. Isn't that exciting? What an opportunity. Opportunity. Opportunity. Youth missions. I tell you, and again, I'm not saying this because my son, I would say no matter who it was, but Dan going to Ireland had a profound impact on Dan. That was a good thing. That guy has grown. And what a blessing he is to our home and to this church. Now I'm not saying that because my son, I say it about James or anyone else. But I think there's an opportunity here with this youth mission internship. If God provides leadership, this could open up doors for influencing young people for Christ and giving them opportunities they may never have some other way. Can you see that? We have an opportunity to have a clear, clean testimony for the Lord Jesus Christ. I love our town. I love our community. I would not want to live anywhere else. I've had opportunity in the last 16 years. I'll be very honest with you. I've had opportunity to go other places. I don't want to go nowhere. This is where God wants us I love it here, but I'll tell you, our community needs Christ desperately. You know what they need? They need to see Christians who are for real, that love God. That hate evil and cleave to that which is good, and have a testimony, a child of God Holy, pure, good, happy. We have that opportunity To be ambassadors of Almighty God to our town. Isn't that good? This is my heart. This is the way I see it. Good and bad are strengths and weaknesses. Our challenges and our opportunities. Let's keep our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's fall back in love with Him and let's get excited about the things of God. And let's not take for granted the opportunities God is giving us. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, I hope I hope, Lord, that you could use this to help us grow in our faith, our love for you, our love for one another, our zeal for the lost. Lord, you know the last thing in the world I would want to do is discourage someone. I want us to step up. I want the Lord be a better pastor this year. Provide better leadership, stronger. I pray for our Sunday school buses, our choir, music, nursery, all every person that has an influence for Christ, help us to be our best. Help us to be pure and clean. To forsake that which is evil and unclean and be godly, humble, true. With our heads bound, eyes closed, how many tonight would say, Preacher, God has spoken to my heart? In a very definite way. And I don't know how what the Lord would do with individually through something like this for you. But you say, preacher, God's dealt with my heart, and I want to respond to the Lord. And I want to be what he wants me to be, and I want to do what he wants me to do, and I want to step out in faith and trust him and obey him. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. Hands all around. I believe the Lord's spoken to our hearts tonight. And how appropriate that on a message like this we would have Lord's Supper. And we'd gather around and remember what it is that makes us a church And who it is that paid that price. Let's ask the Lord to search our hearts. Let's let God have his way before we come to the Lord's Supper. Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name.