Very good. How many people are glad Jesus never changes? Amen. I am. And uh thank you, Dale. Very good. If you would take your Bibles, turn to First Samuel, chapter number thirty First Samuel chapter number thirty, I like Brother Lester Roloff on Sun on uh radio during the weekdays. He's on ten thirty in the morning, and you never know what he's gonna say. And the other day he said, uh we need more porcupine preachers. He said, so people get the point of the message. I thought that was pretty clever. You never never really uh know exactly what's coming out and get turned on here, Brother Dave. 1 Samuel chapter number 30. I want to begin reading in verse 21. I'm going to read down through the end of the chapter. We're going to try and cover all these verses this evening. I think you'll see how I'm going to do that But um verse number 21, 1 Samuel chapter 30, if everybody has it there. The Bible says, And David came to the 200 men, which were so faint. They could not follow David, whom they had made also to abide at the brook Besar, and they went forth to meet David and to meet the people that were with him. And when David came near to the people, he saluted them. And then answered all the wicked men and the men of Belial and those that went with David and said, And said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them aught of the spoil that we have recovered, save to every man his wife and his children, that they may lead them away and depart Then said David, You shall not do so, my brethren, with that which uh You shall not do so, my brethren, with that which the Lord hath given us, who hath preserved us, and delivered the company that came against us into our hand. For who will hearken unto you in this matter? But as his part as but as his part is that goeth down to the battle, so shall his part be that tarrieth by the stuff. They shall part all alike And it was so from that day forward that he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel unto this day. And when David came to Zaglag, he sent of the spoil unto the elders of Judah even to his friends, saying, Behold, a present for you of the spoil of the enemies of the Lord. And to them which were in Bethel, and to them which were in the south of Ramoth, and to them which were in Jetar Jacar, and to them which were in Eir, and to them in Sifmoth, and to them which were in Eshtemoah, and to them which were in Rachal, and to them which were in the cities of Jerah, Meleites, and to them which were in the city of Kenites, and and to them which were in Hormah, and to them which were in Korashan Khorachen, and to them which were in Atheka Athak I did pretty good on there, didn't I? Down through there. And to them which were in Hebron and the places where David himself and his men were wont to hunt uh haunt. Alright, I named it staying by the stuff. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you bless now as we look at this portion of scripture. And Lord, how many lessons we learned from the life of David so far. And I pray you would continue to teach us and help us to continue to grow in our faith, our walk with you. And Lord, I just pray, uh, we were talking a little before here this evening, I just pray that our faith in you and our understanding of your word would be evident in the living of our lives. People would see Christ in us. So fill me with your spirit, I pray. I yield my will, I present my body anew with all my heart. I pray you be the preacher, you be the teacher tonight. Help us walk away a little bit better off better Christians than we were when we came. In Jesus' name. Amen. Of course, David, we know the story most of uh everybody's been in on our study here. David has fled to the Philistines and is trying to escape Saul. Big mistake. He ended up costing him. He lost his family, uh, all his possessions, the men that were with him lost all their household, was taken by the Amalekites. So David prayed, first time he did that in quite a while, and God directed him to go after the Amalekites, and God promised him that he would get all the stuff. He'd recover everything, his family, his household, all his possessions, everything You will recover all. When God says you're gonna when God says all, he means all. And so they're gonna get everything back. David does what God says. He goes uh pursuing after the Malachites. Remember they came across that little Egyptian guy who was sick. And the Malachit bailed out bailed him, kicked him out. Well he ended up God used him. Uh I thought this was interesting. The the person that the world rejected, God used uh in his in in his uh in his uh in that warfare. So uh David goes, uh they find him all drunk, dancing, carrying on. Uh David recovers everything. They slaughtered the Amalekites, all of them except a bunch, got away on some camels. And um now they're on their way back, and they come back here, and that's where we pick up in verse 21. So David is coming out of One of the lowest points of his life. They were talking about stoning him. David wept so hard he couldn't even talk and uh there was no strength left in him. David is without a doubt Up to this point in his life, at least, the lowest point of his life. The darkest valley he's ever been through. But the thing is, the interesting thing is, he's coming out of it He's coming out of that valley. He's coming out of that storm. Anybody here, I think you'll know what I mean by this. Anybody here ever been through a storm in your life? Now I'm not talking about the one that's going on out there right now But emotional storm or a s a circumstantial storm, spiritual storm. Anybody ever been through a storm in your life? Yeah, you ain't been around long if you haven't. uh been through a storm. In the midst of the storm, how many of us ever thought this? It's never going to end. This is the way it's going to be forever. Anybody ever get thinking that way? This is never going to I'm never getting out of this valley This is how we say it sometimes. There's no hope. There's no hope. Fact of the matter is, storms don't last forever. Sooner or later we come out of them. Sooner or later things change we come out of them. I was talking to a fella years ago who was going through a tough time. I mean terrible. And uh I kept reassuring him it's not always going to be this way It's not always going to be this way. You stay faithful. You keep your eyes on Christ. You walk with the Lord. It's not always going to be this way. And so David is coming out of here. Who do you think it is wants us to think that our situation is hopeless? The devil's the one thing says that. God doesn't want to think uh think that a situation is hopeless. In fact, as long as God's alive, it's not hopeless There's only one hopeless place in all the universe, and that's in hell. Person dies in their sins, goes to hell, it's hopeless. There's never getting out of it. It's never over. That's it. And so if you're not saved, the person's not saved, uh, the most important thing is get saved. I say that all the time. The most important thing in the world is trust Christ Trust Christ as your Savior, because a person dies in their sins, goes to hell, is hopeless. So David, what I took encouragement from this was Is David's coming out of this? This was terrible. A few verses earlier, uh he was uh he was in the pits. Uh but this too came to pass. Um So don't lose hope. Stay the course. Keep your eyes on the Lord. David recovered all. He got it all back. Eventually, he got it all back. Do you think he's relieved? He's on his way back. His wife? His wives, that's not good. His wives are with him, his household, he's got all his um all his possessions. How many people think he's probably relieved at this point? Got everything back? Two people think so. I think he's pretty relieved at this point And he's coming back, and lo and behold, these guys turn on him. We're going to see this here in a little bit. So Introduction-wise, uh I uh I I got thinking, boy, this is nice. That storm didn't last forever. That's not hopeless. You're going to come out of it eventually. But uh the other part is uh challenges and trials, uh they just keep coming one after another. You say, oh great preacher, I'm coming out of this one, I'm gonna hit with another one. Uh yeah, probably sooner or later As the sparks fly upward, so a man is born unto troubles. They just one after another, one after another. If you've got the idea, listen. And uh this is kind of sad. I don't mean it this way. I think you'll be encouraged before this is over. But if you got the idea you're going to make it the rest of your life without any troubles, you're going to be sorely disappointed. It's part of life. It's the way it is. And so David comes out of this. He's relieved. He's recovered everything. Now there's a rise up and there's resistance against him. Challenges and trials, though they do not last forever, are nonetheless relentless and many times unexplained. I don't think David expected uh the opposition he got here in a little bit. Uh challenges of life uh continue uh challenges in life continue all throughout life. Anybody ever think, man, at this point in my life I figured all the difficulties would be behind me. Anybody get there? I thought when I graduated from university, uh when I graduated Tennessee Temple University, I thought, oh good, no more tests or trials anymore. Wow. I became a pastor. I thought, oh, pastors, they never have problems. This is going to be great. And um I found out, 60 years old, they still keep coming. They still keep coming. So let's look at this. I broke this down into four thoughts, four observations I made from this passage, and we'll look at these real quick. First observation I make is: David expresses compassion. I see David expresses compassion. Look at verse 21. And David came to the 200 men, which were so faint they could not follow David. Now remember this? When David got back, they was going up there to the Philistines, kicked him out, they're going to war with Israel. They said, David, you ain't going with us. You're going to turn on us So he sends them back. So they have a three-day journey back to Ziglag where he's hanging out, where he's staying. Gets back there The place is burnt to the ground, everything's taken, they're in great despair. So then God says, Go get the Malachites, go follow them, you'll get everything back. And they start to go, and there's uh uh there's these two hundred guys That are so exhausted, so worn out, they can't even go any farther. I mean these are good men, these are strong men, but they are absolutely exhausted They're so faint they can't go on. And uh so they stayed back by this little brook basar there. David went on, got the victory with the 400 other guys that couldn't go, and they come back, and these guys come out to meet him So faint they could not follow, whom they made to abide by the brook was there. And they went forth to meet David and to meet the people that were with him. And when David came near to the people, these guys that were so faint they couldn't go, when David came near to the people, he chewed them out for being so lazy and not going with them. Now, what did he do? He saluted them. I think I noticed three things about David's attitude towards these 200 men that were absolutely exhausted, couldn't pick up their feet to go on. I notice three three observations about David's compassion to them. First of all, he shows them regard. Now what I mean by regard is He shows them real concern. He's really concerned about their situation. He doesn't rebuke them. He doesn't rebuke them He understood their condition. They were exhausted. They had little supplies. And he was concerned for their well-being. He went out to salute them. The word salute we'll look at here in a minute, but he uh he doesn't rebuke them. He's concerned about them. In fact, I got studying this and I kind of picked up here, I think, David actually, when they said, David, we can't go on. We're exhausted, we're worn out, we can't go on. Um I think David suggested, well you guys stay right here. And I think he gave them two responsibilities, Wilbur. I think he gave him two responsibilities. I think one was You guys guard this little passage across this brook Beshar here. There was where they were crossing back and forth. So you guys exhausted. You sat here And you guard this. You uh you just make sure nobody ki comes across here. So they could do that. You know, they're not marching or anything, they can sit and relax and uh rest a little bit. And so I think he gave them some responsibilities here. He didn't rebuke them. He gave them responsibilities. He said, you were secure this passage here. And then he told them to stay by the stuff. What in the world stuff are they staying by? It's all their belongings and the different things that you would use on an expedition like that. You guys protect this So secure the passage while you're resting, you guys rest here. Secure the passage. Stay by the stuff. Secure the stuff here. Uh tarry here by the stuff, secure all of that uh while we go on and we'll go recover everything like God promised us to do. Now I I thought that was interesting in that There was a r there was a role to play, there was something for everyone to do. Even those that were in no physical condition that they could actually go out and pursue and fight the Amalekites They stay back here, but there's still something they could do. And you know what I thought of when I was studying that? I thought of this. Sometimes folks get a little older and the body starts can't do anybody here ever say this? I just can't do everything I used to be able to do. Anybody say that about five times every day? My dad would say that to me, man, I just can't do the stuff I used to do. I can't But here's the thing, if we're not careful, Satan will get in there, that old simple flesh will get in there and say, well, I'm of no good. There's nothing I can do for the Lord anymore. We should never, ever, ever think that way. Don't let the devil come in. As long as we're breathing, I believe God has a purpose and a place. It may be simply securing a little crook a little brook there and making sure no enemies get into camp Or it may be setting by the stuff, but I'm convinced everybody has something they can do for God. I remember anybody here remember Nina? Nina McRoby, so faithful She was Ellie and then she went in the nursing home and she'd say, I don't know why I'm even here. I don't know, I don't know why God would leave me. There's nothing I can do. And I said, Nina, there's something you can do that's very important. You can pray every day for your preacher. And I said, you pray for me and pray that God will give me power and pray God will give me wisdom and courage and that God will give me compassion. And uh she would pray and I'd go visit her, preacher, I'm praying for you. You know what that was? That's tearing by the stuff. That's sitting there taking care of it. Write letters. Um uh I told my dad when he was there, he said, I don't can't do much in church. He tried to do everything he could. And uh he had the um we had the uh the church directories. I said, Dad, why don't you get that directory and pray through that directory every day, every person's picture and name, and pray down through there. And he started doing that not long before he passed away. And so the point is this, everybody has something they can do for God. Might not be able to be out there on the battlefield, uh, but can support it, can stay behind there uh and support it. Uh watching at home folks who say uh folks at home I I thought about this and I was preparing us. There's folks out there right now you're watching at home You say, I'm not comfortable getting to the church. I'm a little susceptible to sickness. I can't be there. And uh, oh, I'm just not part of it. I'm just sitting on the sidelines. No, no, no. Uh folks at home can pray, you can send out tracts, write letters. Be involved. A lot of folks at home are giving. I can't necessarily be here, maybe involved in stuff, but they're sending in their support. I'm telling you, that's all part of tarrying by the stuff, staying by the stuff, doing what I can for the the the success of the cause of Christ. So David uh showed regard to them. He he had compassion on them. He was He understood their situation. He cared about that. And he gave them some responsibilities, things they could do. And then the next thing I noticed about his compassion, he freely received them. Look uh look there in verse 21 um which were so faint they could not follow whom they had made uh to abide by the brook. And uh um uh and they went forth to meet David And to meet the people that were with him. They were concerned about this battle. They were concerned that everything got taken care of. And they saw him coming off on the horizon, saw the guys coming back. the four hundred men and David uh back from the battle and from recovery and uh they got up and uh they rested apparently and they went out to meet him. They were anxious to see what's going on And I thought it's interesting. David didn't just say, wow, you guys get out of here. You you weren't part of this. You just get aside. You're not part of this victory parade coming back No, he received them in. They were uh as much a part of uh the victory that took part here as the ones that went to it Um, I wondered, do you think maybe the guys that stayed by the stuff, tarry by stuff, I wondered if maybe they wouldn't be a little self-conscious. I mean they're warriors just like them. They're used to and they're they say we're sitting here and they're out battling. I wonder if they weren't a little bit self-conscious about that. I wonder if there wasn't a tinge of guilt, maybe Say, man, we should have I couldn't. I just couldn't. We should have been there. And uh just wonder if they just that didn't bother them a little bit. And when they saw David coming Boy, they wanted to go out and meet them and just, I don't know, explain maybe their situation or see how things went. And um, but David just takes them right in. He had David had an open door policy He says, you guys come on in here. You're concerned. Let me tell you what happened. And he received them. So number one, he showed them regard. Number two, he freely received them. And then uh I like this. He sincerely respected them. Look at the last verse. Look at the last part of verse 21. And when David came near to the people, these guys that were tired, he saluted them. Now, what do you picture happening when David saluted them? How many people picture this? I don't think that's what he did. I don't think he saluted him like a military salute. Well you say, Yes, sir. He wasn't saluting them that way. The word salute has this idea. This is interesting. It means to humbly and respectfully make inquiry. In other words, he's very humbly and he's very respectfully asking them, How are you guys doing? He's showing regard to them. He's showing respect to them. He's treating them, get this, he's treating them as if they are very important to the overall cause. He's not treating them like second uh second class citizens or second class soldiers. He's coming out there saying, you guys all right, you guys doing good And he's not doing it looking down on them. So how are you guys doing? You're doing nothing. How how'd it go? Wasn't like that at all. He was treating them with tremendous respect And in David's mind, these f fellas that stayed by and guarded the little crick and watched the stuff and rested, they couldn't go on a They were just as important in the cause as the fellows that were out there chopping heads off and uh fighting the enemy. Uh tremendous respect. He didn't talk down to them, he didn't treat them uh as if they were inferior. In David's mind, they were just as important as anyone else. And I want to say this. That is exactly the way God views the body of Christ. Now if we have time we have time, we go to 1 Corinthians, where Paul points out that every member of the body of Christ, just like a body, a physical body Every member in that body, some are are uh the term Paul uses are not as honorable as others. Uh you know your pinky toe isn't quite as uh isn't quite as uh uh you don't go around and show it off like you would maybe a dimple you have on your cheek. You know what I'm saying? Am I make am I making any sense at all? And so some parts of the body, you know, it's, but they're all important. They're all part of the body. They all operate. They're all necessary for the effective function of the body. That's what Paul says in Corinthians. And I think that's what David is acting out here, is what David is practicing right here. Hey, you guys, he salutes them You're as much a as important to this thing as the guys. Uh I wonder when they were done to battle and they recovered everything and they got all the wagons and the mules and everything loaded up with their uh with their belongings and their households. They got all the families together and they're hugging everyone and so happy and uh uh the Amalekites they're all slaughtered, they're dead except for the ones that got away. And um they got all their stuff back loaded up. I wonder if David didn't go from soldier to soldier. Hey, you guys doing all right? You alright? Anybody injured? Everybody okay? Then he comes back here with these guys who did fight, and he says to them, you guys okay? Everybody alright? Are you recovering all right? I mean, uh, what a tremendous leader here. showing respect to these guys. So number one, David expresses compassion when they come back to these fellows who were tarried by the stuff. Number two, real quickly I notice he faced unexpected criticism. Now, to be honest with you, if I hadn't read this ahead of time, I wouldn't have seen this coming. If I hadn't read this before, I wouldn't have seen this coming. Look at verse 22 That answered all the wicked men and men of Belial. How many people? That seems a strange thing. And David's men, his army, his guys, wicked men and men of Belial? That are here fighting with David and fighting for David. Look what they say. And those that went with David said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them aught of the Spoil that we have recovered. Save to every man his wife and his children that they may lead them away and depart. Wow I don't know if David saw that coming or not. He may have had a better read on his men than I do just from studying scripture. But um now's the time to be rejoicing. Now's the time to be happy. Now's the time uh to be laughing and uh joyous. And these wicked men, these men of Belial, all they can do is criticize. Then come and criticize what David's doing. Criticize these guys for not going out. One thing I learned is leadership requires the ability to deal with criticism graciously. What do we have a tendency to do? When someone criticizes us, we have a tendency tendency, our old nature wants to respond hell. Negatively, or criticize them back. You know, oh you didn't do that right. Oh yeah, well you didn't do that right And just engage them and fight fire with fire. But good godly leadership has to be able to deal with criticism graciously. I think, I got thinking about this, a good class in Bible colleges for pastors, I think, would be how to deal with criticism. Because I'll be honest with you, come out of Bible college, you get into ministry, one of the first things you have to deal with, there's a little honeymoon period. I'll give you a little pastoral psychology here. It's a little honeymoon period with that new ministry. Oh he's wonderful, he's wonderful. But eventually that honeymoon wears off and then the criticism starts pouring in. Am I right or wrong, Brian? Am I right? Oh I am And that criticism starts coming, and you come out, and uh man, sometimes that can blindside you. What in the world? And I think it'd be a good class. If I ever have a Bible college, we're going to have a major on dealing with criticism. That will be the major, not really. Critics are a dime a dozen. Dr. Lee Robertson used to say that to the preacher boys all the time. Critics are a dime a dozen. He said this: any, this is Dr. Robertson said this: any fool can criticize Takes no character, takes no strength, requires no integrity, requires no fortitude, requires no intelligence. Any fool can criticize. And he said, he said, I just disregard the criticism. He says, I don't pay attention to it. I stay focused and I go forward. Somebody else put this: it's easier to criticize than to be correct. I kind of modified that a little bit and put this, it's easier to criticize something than it is to care about something. You know who generally gets criticized the most? The one that's actually doing something. You know who the critics usually are? Those who are doing nothing. Those who are doing nothing. I'd rather be criticized and accomplish something for God than never face criticism and never do anything for God. Because if you don't want to be criticized, then don't step out for God. Don't don't don't s don't stand for anything. Bob uh I think it was Bob Kelly said Uh if you don't want to if you don't want to be criticized, then don't uh don't have any convictions, don't have any standards, don't take a stand on anything And so David faces these criticisms. I want us to look at these critics real quickly here. Notice, first of all, they were sinful men. He says, and answer to all the wicked men, the wicked men. The word wicked means bad, evil, unkind. I thought this was interesting, miserable. You know what I found out? Critics are usually unhappy. People would criticize everything, criticize everything, are generally very unhappy people. And so these were wicked men, bad, evil, unkind, miserable. Then it says they're men of belial But wow, what in the world is that? It means this. It means this. Worthless. It means good for nothing. It means unprofitable. We would call them in our day low life. These are people who never accomplish anything. These are people who never lead anything, never make any progress, never build anything. They're just of little or no value. All they do is criticize. I was trying to think of any great churches, now I'm thinking from pastor's perspective, I was trying to think of any great churches that were built by people that criticized all the time. I don't know of any. I don't know of any. I don't know if any great businesses were built on criticism. Criticism. Any fool can criticize, Dr. Robertson said. So these are sinful men. And uh Noah, one of the men of the Lyle is also translated another place in the Bible, naughty, profane Now this is interesting. In David's men, the day the men that David's been training have been working with them, battling shoulder to shoulder, the Philistines, and uh uh and uh running from Saul and protecting them from King Saul. And here within those six hundred men there was an element of very, very wicked men. And um uh I think I think uh And regardless of the crowd, regardless of how good an organization may be, there's usually within it an element of um of uh less than desirable people. You know what I'm trying to say? Say here's the thing. Um Sometimes people see a church, they c they say, uh uh, oh, there's a great church, oh it's a wonderful church from a distance. Then they get up and they find out the people in the church aren't as perfect as they think they are And uh sometimes even in a good organization there is some bad people. So David had that. He had 600 men and a certain percentage of them. were not that great of people. So they were sinful men. They were selfish men. I underline this phrase in verse 22. Because they went not with us, I underline these next few words. We will not give them ought of the spoil. We're not giving them nothing They didn't go with us, we're not giving them nothing. You know what selfish people hate to do? Is give Selfish people do not want to give. These guys, we're not giving up. We went and fought for this. We went and uh we risked our lives. You guys laying here by the brook drinking fresh water and fishing and uh sunshine, getting suntan, laying around here, we're out there doing all this. We ain't giving you nothing. They were selfish men, and then I noticed they're spiteful men Oh, stone-hearted. Look at the last part. Look what he says. We will not give them ought of the spoil we've recovered, save to every man his wife. All right, we'll give them their wives back, and we'll give them their children back Why? So they may lead them away and depart. What's that last phrase? What are they saying there? We want these guys that didn't go with us to do what? Get out of here! They're cold hearted. You're not going to fight with us. You're not part of the gang. You get out of here. Lead them away and depart. They want to kick them out All through I put this down, all through history, the best of peoples had some bad eggs, even in the New Testament church. There's some bad eggs. Can you think of anybody in the New Testament church that would have been a bad egg? In the New Testament, book of Acts particularly, but through the epistles. Can you think of anyone Demetrius loved to have the preeminence, and he would kick people out of church, wouldn't forgive them, he'd want to run people off. Paul mentioned Demetrius. Anyone else? Ananias and Sapphira, they're liars. They got in there, cost them dearly. There's another fellow, I don't know if you ever came across him, some of you probably did. Alexander the coppersmith Anybody ever remember reading about Alexander? He's in the one of, I think it's Timothy, the end of one of the Timothy. Paul said, He has done me much evil. You say, Brother Leatherman, in the New Testament church, under the leadership of Paul, there was some bad eggs. Yeah, yeah, there has been. There always will be. Yeah. Yeah, he'd run him out. Yeah, I think maybe Demetrius, that might have been a Diatrophies, diatrophies. So, yeah, so uh they've been there all through history, you've had that. Uh there will always be unkind and critical people. There will always be unkind critical people, sometimes in the places you least expect it. But here's the thing. Don't become like them. Don't become like them. David responded, and that takes me real quickly. I want to give you my last two thoughts here real quick. Third thing I notice is he explains his conduct. Look what he says to these wicked men and men of Belial. Verse twir twenty-three. Then David said, Ye shall not do so. What's he call them? He shall not do so. My brethren. I don't know if I'd have said that to them. I thought of some other things I might say to them. He says, ye shall not do so, my brethren, with that which the Lord hath given us, who hath preserved us and delivered the company that came against us into our hand He says, brethren, we're not going to do that. David saw that they were sinful. He saw their selfishness, but he speaks graciously to them. And sometimes people behave less than ideal, and people act foolishly and selfishly, and we want to bite their heads off, and we want to beat them into the ground. In this case, David didn't do that He called them brethren. They're one of his. These are men. He sees they have some value. And uh he treats them respectfully. Having authority over someone doesn't require being unkind to them. You see this sometimes in children. You give them a little responsibility in the school. You give them a little authority, and that authority goes where? Goes to their head And then suddenly they're bossing everybody around and boy they're in charge and uh and David didn't do that. Uh David David wasn't unkind. He He could have been sharp with these guys and he doesn't do it. Being right does not justify being unkind And so David treats these guys, even though they're knuckleheads, he treats them kindly. I notice three things he does here. Now bear with me. I'm going to try and knock this out here. Verse 23, first thing I notice he reminds them of something in verse 23. Look at verse 23. You guys online that are watching online, look at verse 23 And what is he reminding these wicked men, these selfish men, he's reminding them something there. See if you pick up what I got. Verse 23. He's reminding them of it Yes, it was God that did it in the first place. What are you guys coming back here running your mouth about these guys didn't do anything? God did it all. God did every God's the one that gave us the victory. Look how he words it there. You should not do so, my brethren, with what that which the Lord hath given us. The Lord who hath preserved us and delivered that company that came against us in their hand. He's saying, listen, fellas, don't get on your high horse. Don't think you're something great It wasn't you or me or them, it was God did all of this. We just trusted them. We just did what God told us to do And I tell you, we've got to be careful. When God is blessing and God does something through us, we must never think that I am anything. I've said this a thousand times God has blessed Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, not because we're wonderful, but because he's wonderful. And David is reminding these guys, if it wasn't for the Lord, we'd be dead bodies laying on the battlefield. So don't get on your high horse here, come and run back here. We must never take credit for that which God hath done. Pride always wants to take credit for what God hath done. The grace that God showed David on the battlefield, David now showed to these men, and he's wanting to teach them that they need to show to others. So he reminded them that this was God's victory. Number two, he rebuked them for their foolish position, like this in verse 24. He says, Who will hearken unto you in this matter? Now think about what he's saying there. He's saying, listen, nobody's going to buy this, what you're saying, that we shouldn't give them spoils of the victory. You shouldn't include them in this. Who's going to agree with you on that? Who's going to listen to you on that? He's using a little sarcasm here. He says, nobody's going to buy this, fellas. And so he rebukes them. And then number three, he raised up an established policy. The end of verse twenty four and verse twenty five. But as his part that goeth down to the battle, so shall his part be that tarrieth by the stuff. They shall part alike. Everybody gets a part of the the spoils. Everybody gets in on the share, regardless of what their responsibilities were, whether they're staying tearing by the stuff, or they're out slinging swords, they all get part of it They're all part of the success. They're all part of the machinery. They're all part of the warfare. Everybody gets part of it. And he made it a policy in Israel from there on out. By the way, that's God's policy also. We say this at missions conference sometimes. The missionaries are off in the mission field. I was reading in the mission letter, I think it was Nathan Ring just recently. Did you read Nathan Ring's Lisa recently, Charlie. I was reading it and he sent an email the other day. Had a bunch of people saved. Down in a lockdown in Brazil. He had a bunch of people saved. I think he had some baptized. I think it was Nathan. And um We always say this. We're supporting him. In God's sight, we're part of that. We're part of those souls being saved. This is the way Paul put it in Philippians chapter 4 verse 17. This will be added to your account. This will be added. I don't know about you. I'm excited by the fact that the souls that are missionaries that we support and pray for, the ones there winning to the Lord, the Lord includes us in on being a part of them coming to Christ. That's pretty exciting. That's good to know. I like what Mike Creed does down at Independent Baptists. They have a board in their hallway, they have this big board, and it has a running tally of the professions of faith of all their missionaries around the world. They have like 400 missionaries. Of all their missionaries that give reports back, however many are saved, they keep a running tally and then he has a cross there to your account. And that's what David's saying. He's saying the guys that stay by the stuff, you're as much a part of this as the ones out there on the battlefield. And then last of all, I'll end this with this. Number four, David establishes a coalition. Now from verse 26 on down, it lists all these people that David are giving spoils to. Look at verse 26 there. He says When he came to Zaglag, he got back to his little temporary home there, he sent of the spoil to the elders of Judah, that's in Israel, even his to his friends saying, Behold, a present for you of the spoils of the enemies of the Lord. And then he goes down this list and he sends some gifts to the others. And he sends some gifts to his friends over in this city and over there. And he lists them all And he's sending them to him. What's he doing? I think this is just me. I might be wrong, but I don't think so. I think David's building a little coalition together here I think he's prepping, he's going to be king before long. And he's winning all these people over. And he's saying, listen, I'm your friend. You guys have been friends to me. And he's building a coalition. David's not stupid. And whenever he becomes king, he's going to need the support of all these cities and all these people. And um and I think he's there as friends, and David is very generous. I know that's probably the underlying part, but I think there's an aspect. He's building this coalition. He's building this coalition. He's taken a policy. He's learned something. He's put a policy in place. This is the way it's going to be in my an administration. Everybody gets part of the spoils. And now he's sending stuff out to all his friends, all the southern part of Judah there and Israel. He's sending it all to them and uh make sure they're all he's good in with them, and I think he's building a coalition. Let me end with this. Hudson Taylor was back in England and he was recruiting, he was preaching conferences and meetings. He'd been in it in uh China for a long time. He came back to London, Birmingham, and he's speaking at a big conference in a school. And um that night a storm hit, kind of like what we had tonight, except probably worse. And I mean it hit hard. And the person heading up that meeting told Told uh Hudson Taylor said this, nobody is going to show up to a meeting in this storm, doesn't matter who's speaking. And Hudson Taylor said, well, let's have the meeting anyway. He says, I'll go there even if there's no one but the doorman at the door, at the meeting. Less than a dozen people showed up. Hudson Taylor, less than a dozen people showed up. But those dozen that were there said the power of God was in that meeting, like few they've ever experienced And everyone, every single person that came to that meeting that night surrendered to go to the mission field, and every one of them ended up as missionaries on the mission field Isn't that an amazing thing? And Hudson Taylor said, I'm just going to plug forward. There can be critics. People say nobody's coming. Nothing's going to happen. All this. But he went ahead and did right, did what God called him to do. And what I'm saying to us tonight is people are going to criticize, but we've got to be gracious, we've got to be kind, and just plug forward And trust God. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I pray you'd use these thoughts tonight to help us to stay faithful, help us to be kind and gracious Help us, Lord, not to let criticism derail us and uh but just to serve you faithfully. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there'd be any tonight say, Pastor Uh I I sometimes criticism gets to me. Sometimes I uh I let uh what things people say and do it it bothers me And you'd say, I'm just going to trust God, I'm not going to let that derail me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? My hand's raised. Sometimes it gets under my skin And uh but we can't quit. We just need to be gracious and kind and press on. Father in heaven, bless now as we give the invitation. In Jesus' name, amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.