6, Genesis chapter 6. I appreciate so much Ryan filling in the story behind these that makes the songs just come alive. I was thinking when he said about being down in the dirt laying I never seen anybody weed their garden laying down. That would be an interesting sight. But uh I thought about the little boy was in school, he came in, he was all filthy, all dirty. The teacher said I said, how'd you get all dirty? Look, you're all dirty. I'm clean. He says, Yeah, that's because I'm closer to the dirt than you. And um I thought that was cute. My wife said it was corny, but I thought Genesis chapter 6, verse 18, and uh let me just give you a couple thoughts here real quick. But with thee will I establish my covenant. God is speaking Speaking to Noah. And thou shalt come into the ark, thou and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons' wives with thee. And of every living thing, of all flesh, two of every sort shalt thou bring into the ark, to keep them alive with thee. They shall be male and female. Of fowl after their kind, and of cattle after their kind, of every creeping thing of the earth after his kind, two of every sort, shall come unto thee to keep them alive. Twice he says in these verses To keep them alive. To keep them alive. I've entitled the message Staying Alive. Let's pray and let me give you a few thoughts real quick. Father, bless our time in your word. Lord, the testimonies, the songs uh the history here. Uh I've been blessed. I pray now you take some trees from your word and just pop it all off tonight and uh make this a complete service And as we go out of here, I pray our hearts would be filled, our burden for others would be greater, our confidence in you would be stronger. And fill me with your Spirit, Lord. Speak through me, I ask, in Jesus' name. Amen. Always say this at funerals, almost always. I try to, and that is this. God created man to live. God did not create Adam and Eve to die. Death is an intruder in man's existence. Death is the result of sin. Romans 5. 12. Many of you have that verse memorized. For by one man Sin entered the world and death by sin. So death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. If you'll notice in that verse, death did not come into the world by God. For by one man sin entered the world and death by sin. God's not the one that introduced death into man's existence. Man brought that upon himself in disobeying God. So God did not want, God did not create man to die. Now we come to Genesis chapter 6, the flood. We've been studying Noah and all the situation here. I want to submit to you, God did not want to kill mankind. You say, oh, but preacher, it says earlier in the chapter we looked at it, that it repented God that he had created man. God was grieved. I'm going to destroy man from off the face of the earth. I want to suggest to you, this is my take on this. I want to suggest to you that Why did God regret making man? Not because he wanted man to die, but this is what I'm trying to say. Man had sinned against God. God's holiness, we talked about this in Sunday school a little bit, God's holiness requires that death, that sin be judged. And the judgment of sin is what? Death. The wages of sin is death So man had sinned against God. God's holiness, the holy character of God, required that sin be judged with the condemnation of death. Man refused to repent. Man refused to turn to God. He persisted on in his sinfulness. And God regretted that he had made man not That he wanted to kill man, but he regretted it in that his holiness required man to die. You follow what I'm saying? It wasn't God's intention. He didn't want man to die. But now man had sinned so grievously, God was, in a sense, this is human speaking of the divine, so it's it's hard to uh comprehend. But in a sense, God was almost having to do something he didn't want to do. You follow what I'm saying? In destroying the world So God did not create man to die. The flood was the result of mankind's persistence in rebellion and sin. So what's the situation? So God has an ark built. The ark was built to keep people alive. God didn't want to kill mankind. He wanted them to live But his holiness required that they die. So God builds an ark so that people can live, so that he could preserve life in the midst of judgment, which is death. I'm going to get a little theological here, maybe a little bit, but God's compassion And desire for people to live, and God's holiness, that requires judgment on sin, which is death, they are in perfect harmony. God's compassion and God's holiness. Perfect harmony. They're not at conflict with each other. They're in perfect harmony. God's justice And God's grace are in perfect harmony. And I think the place to see the perfection of God's holiness and God's compassion, God's justice and God's grace is on the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. Where his love for mankind, he takes on the judgment of sin, his holiness is poured out on Jesus Christ. You follow what I'm saying? And the ark is a picture of the cross. It's God's vehicle of salvation in the midst of judgment. So the ark was designed to keep People alive. God's holiness demanded that sin be judged. God's compassion demanded that sin have an escape from that judgment. And the Ark is, I put this down. The Ark is a manifestation of God's compassion. Now I've got about 45 points to my message. We're only going to look at the first 30. Alright, so don't worry. No, I'm kidding. The first thing I want to consider on this staying alive subject is noticing the passengers on the ark. And I want to do this real quickly. You don't believe me, but it's true. The passengers on this arc. Verse 18, the last part, all the way down through verse 20, tells us there were two groups of passengers, two categories. of passengers on the ark. The first category were the members of Noah's family. Look at verse 18, the last part. Thou shalt come into the ark. Thou and thy sons and thy wife and thy sons' wives with thee. How many were there? Eight people. Eight people are the only ones, these eight people are the only ones that ever got on the ark. Eight people are the only ones that ever got onto the ark. Could more people have gotten on the ark? Yes. Now here's the question that came up in preparing this. What if everybody, what if, what if half of the population had repented and come to Christ as Savior? Would they have all fit on the ark? With all the animals and elephants and everything? You know, these what-ifs, you can come up with all the what-ifs you want. So why are you even asking me that? We can But I gotta think about what if you know what I think, Brother Brian? I think if half the world would have repented and half the other, I think God would have had more arcs built God's not willing that any should perish. Whosoever calls the name of the Lord. Anyone could have got on that ark, and if that ark would have got filled, I think, this is Leathermanism, I think God would have had more arcs built. But he didn't. They didn't. Eight people. Now there's a couple lessons we can learn from that. We know from other passages of scripture, Noah was preaching about 120 years, building the art, preaching that people need to repent and escape the flood. 120 years of faithful soul winning, faithful preaching, faithful obedience to God. Eight people make up his church. Eight people. Now there's some lessons we can learn from that. I put this down. Success is not necessarily determined by numbers. Success is not necessarily determined by numbers. Noah did exactly what he was told to do to the best of his ability, and only eight people got saved. Was Noah success? Sure. Mankind was salvaged. But nevertheless, only eight people got saved. Sometimes churches and in our circle, maybe not so much nowadays, and I think the motives were correct. But in years gone by, churches used to try and duplicate the numbers that we read in the book of Acts. Remember Acts chapter 2, the day of Pentecost? How many people got saved? 3,000. I remember back when I was in Bible college, there were huge churches, independent Baptist churches. They were out, we're going to win 3,000 people get saved and baptized in one day. And they'd go after that. And I think their motives are right, and thank God for every person that was genuinely saved. You get a little bit later on in the book, and there's 5,000 people added to the church. Then you get later in the book and it's multiplied and multiplied and multiplied until you have thousands and thousands of people making up the churches in the New Testament And what we try and do is duplicate those numbers. I want to suggest if we're trying to duplicate the numbers, we're missing the point. We're not to duplicate the numbers of the book of Acts. We're to duplicate the obedience of the church in the book of Acts. Obey God. That's what success is. 120 years, Noah's preaching, preaching, soul winning, knocking on doors, so to speak Given gospel invitations. The flood's coming. Uh judgment is coming. The ark is your only hope of salvation. It's the only way you can live. You've got to get on the ark. Make your reservations. Come and believe the God's message. His family, eight people. Only ones. You know what that reminded me of? That reminded me of an incident in the book in the New Testament, in the book of Luke, where the Lord's at the temple and he's watching people put money in the treasury. And he said the rich folk came by and they put in huge amounts, large numbers of money. And then one little widow lady came by, and what'd she put in? Two little mites, little pennies. You know what Jesus said? She put in more than all those rich folks that had the big numbers, big numbers, big numbers, high dollars. She put them more. He says, and and I said, how's that? He says, she put in everything she had. She was completely obedient to God. So the numbers aren't necessarily success. Well, that's just a little church. They're not doing it. Hey, it's not the numbers we have. It's our obedience that we have. I put this down, second thing, uh the fact that only eight people got in the ark. Obedience is our primary responsibility. It's never right to disobey God to get more people. Noah could not alter the message so that more people would get on the ark. He was to preach righteousness. Whether people accepted it or not, that was not his responsibility. His responsibility was to be obedient to God. And so obedience is our primary responsibility. So one, we said success is not necessarily determined by numbers. Number two, obedience is our primary responsibility. Three Thank God that he had a family that shared his faith and commitment to the Lord. His boys and their wives and his wife believed the message, shared his faith, shared his commitment to the Lord, and they uh were on the ark with them. Now I got thinking about that. Can you imagine how difficult it would have been for Noah If his children and his wife were not supporting him in that situation, that would have been tough. That wouldn't be tough. And I'm going to say to you, if you're here this evening and you've got a spouse and you've got children that share your faith and share your commitment to the Lord, you ought to thank God every day for that. And if you, as children, you have parents that love God and are trying to do right and live by the Bible and trying to be obedient to the Lord, you ought to thank God every day. You've got a mom and daddy that do that. Thank God he had family supporting him. Not all men of God through the Bible had children and family who shared their faith. I think of uh uh this you know I got thinking about the disciples and their family. You know what the Bible tells us about the twelve disciples and their families and their children and their walk with God? You know what the Bible tells us about them? Nothing. We know Peter was married. I think it's interesting. The only of the twelve, the only one the Bible points out was actually married is Peter. Just I think he did it just to tweak the Catholics. You know it? Oh no, Peter wasn't married. Peter first Pope wasn't married Bible said of the twelve, he's the only one that says had a mother-in-law. And you're a knucklehead if you had a mother-in-law and you don't got a white. You know? That's a bad deal So it doesn't say anything about that. And we read through the Bible of other uh men of women of God that did not have their family. So I'm thank God. If you had a family that shares your faith and your burden, your commitment to the Lord, thank God for that. Noah had that. Of course, later his one son gave him a rough time. So, number one, we have the members of Noah's family. If you knew how fast I was going through this, Brother Ed, you would be shouting, Glory to God. Hallelujah. Yeah, thank you. I want us to notice second of all and last of all, the members. First of all, the two categories of people getting on the ark. First, Noah's family. It's all he got. For all that work, all that preaching, all that obedience, all he got was his own family. But he was successful. Then we have the members of the animal kingdom. Now I thought this was interesting. Look at verse 20, 19. And of every living thing of all flesh, two of every sort, shalt thou bring into the ark, to keep them alive with thee. They shall be male and female, of fowls after their kind, cattle after their kind, every creeping thing of the earth after it this kind, two of every sort, shall come to thee and to keep them alive. So I want us to notice, first of all, the different kinds of animals. He lists several of them. I think when the Bible references cattle, it's talking about domesticated critters. Those that are not wild. So he's got the domesticated animals on there. He's got the wild animals on there. He's got the uh Uh fowls, verse 20, after their kind. So you got birds on there, you've got wild animals on there, you got domesticated animals on there. So he's got all these. One thing I noticed that's not on there Did you notice what he said? He's not going to take on the ark with him? Fish. That would be dumb. So he doesn't have to take fish on there. So you got the kinds of the animals. Notice the count. Of the animals, two of each kind, male and female. They have to reproduce, they're gonna have to repopulate the earth. Later, we find he's told to bring seven of each of the clean animals on We understand that would be for sacrifices and whatnot and those types of things. We'll get into that later. But here's where uh I wanted I thought was interesting. We have the kinds of the animals on the ark, the count of the animals, then the gathering of the animals. How in the world did Noah get all of these animals onto that ark They're from around the world, no doubt. Now apparently I'm of the opinion that at that point before the flood all the continents were connected. It was just one landmass. So they didn't have to cross oceans or anything. But how in the world would you one man and three boys get all of these animals Just in one area, the Bible tells us. Look if you would at verse number 20. Fowls, cattle after their kind, creeping things after that kind, two of every sort. Look at this Shall come unto thee. God put it in these animals to start congregating where Noah built this ark. I got thinking about that. I want to put myself back in time. We're Noah and uh he's got his three boys. I got two, but uh he had three, and uh they're working away and hauling wood up and getting things, and it's getting You know, fifteen, twenty years till the ark's finished. It's kind of winding down, maybe five years, maybe one year. And uh he sends his boy into town We need some more nails. Go into uh Ace Hardware in town and get some more nails. He shows up back. He says Dad, you wouldn't believe what I saw coming back, riding the horse back from uh Ace Hardware. He said, What? There were some elephants out there in the field about a mile down the road. He said, elephants? They don't live around here I know it's crazy. Everybody stopped looking at them. They're just kind of milling around. This other son comes in, and he's over on the other part of the county. He shows up and says, Dad, weirdest thing ever. There was like these giraffes. He says, well I heard of giraffes in books, but they don't live in this part of the world. Yeah, I know, but everybody's taking newspapers out there, taking pictures and everything. And they're just kind of milling around. And all of a sudden there's reports, these weird animals, and these animals are. And as it comes down to the end, there is more and more animals from all over the continent just showing up around there. And nobody can figure out what's going on. And I can hear Noah say, he knows what's happening. And I can hear him working into that message. Where do you think all these animals are coming from? Why do you think all these animals are showing up? Ah, it's global warming. They're just melting and things are moving around. Can you hear it? Can you see that? And these animals start showing up and showing up and showing up. And finally it's the time to enter the ark. And no doubt this didn't all happen one day. But they start congregating around that ark. I mean thousands of them. And they're all showing up around there just instinctively. And he starts herding them in, herding them in, herding them in. The gathering of them. But what do we learn from that? This is what I learned. Noah could build the Ark. He had the ability, he had the intelligence, he had the facilities to build the Ark. Noah could not gather all the animals up. That would have been humanly impossible. So God told Noah, God instructed Noah to do what he could do. And God said, I'll do the part that you can't do. You do what you can do, you do what I tell you to do, and I'll take care of the parts you can't do. And you know, there is an aspect of Christianity A vital aspect of Christianity that you and I can't do. We need to obey God We need to do what this Bible says, but you know what? I cannot make myself grow in the Lord. God has to do that for me. Mark testified. God was teaching me something. That has to be God doing that. You know what I found out? I can't save a soul. I couldn't even save, I couldn't save myself. How in the world can I save someone else? But I can give out gospel tracts to people. I can open my Bible and tell others So if we will obey God and do what God tells us to do, then God will do the part we can't do and God will do the saving. Does that make sense? What's the job of the church? To have as big a crowd as you possibly can. It's not the job of the church. The job of the church is to preach and teach the Word of God. To train people to serve God. Ephesians 4. Jesus said, I will build my church. In a sense, in the context of our message, this is it. You build the ark, I'll bring the animals in. You preach and teach the Word of God. You train the people as leaders in the church. You train people how to serve God, win souls, and do right and live right. You teach and preach that, and I'll work in people's hearts and I'll bring the I'll bring the cattle in. Uh thank you, you're welcome. You aren't all cattle cattle, some of y'all are giraffes. And um but I'll bring 'em in. I'll bring 'em in. So let's this week, this is what I took from my message. I want to obey God. I want to do what He tells me to do, then I'm going to leave the results to Him. I'm going to trust him. We preach the gospel. He builds the church. We trust him and obey him. He does the spiritual part. And he helps us grow. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us Noah's example. 120 years. No real visible results other than his family as significant as that was. Lord, help us just to be faithful, help us to be diligent, help us to work hard. But God help us to leave the results to you and let you do that which we cannot do. God, we can't change people's hearts. God, we can't change people's nature. You have to do that God, we can't mold people into the image of Christ. Your Holy Spirit has to do that. Help us, Lord, to obey you, submit to you, and faithfully keep doing what you've told us to do And we'll trust you with the results. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I wonder if there's some here this evening would say, Preacher, you know, I've been trying to serve God in a certain area, and I just don't see it happening. I just don't see the results I anticipated. You say, preacher, I'm not going to quit. I'm just going to keep on being faithful. I'm going to keep on teaching that class. I'm going to keep on working that bus route. I'm going to keep on witnessing to my loved ones. But you'd say, preacher, pray for me. There is an area in my life I just worked at it, worked at it. I'm just going to keep on and trust God for the results. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. Pray with me. God bless you. Now this applies in so many areas of life. Let's let the Lord do it. Years ago a person came to me and said, Preacher, I've been out on visitation for months and months, and I've never yet led someone to the Lord. And I said, that's God's job. You just keep on going. Just keep on going. Just keep on going. Father, many hands raised. You know our needs. You know where we're at. Help us to trust you with the results. Help us to have faith in you. You and just be faithful in Jesus' name. Let's stand together