Take your books out. We do uh your Bibles, excuse me. Take your Bibles out. Yeah, we're gonna turn to page three in the in the revival that remains But there w we do have a few copies. If we need more I've got still got some out in the van. But turning your Bibles tonight, y we were talking this morning about the judgment of God for for one part of we we can't uh go and and love people like we need to without warning them about judgment's coming. And uh I think we'll see judgment, but uh what holds off judgment? What stays the hand of God in judgment? And I want to turn to Isaiah chapter number one tonight. Isaiah chapter number one. And uh It's Father's Day, I gotta give you a dad joke, okay? Uh uh I've heard about those things and they're corny. Please forgive me. Uh but did you hear about the the man that uh was like shipwrecked. He was the only one that made it to shore and he lived on this deserted island for so long and and they finally came and rescued him and and took him uh away from there and and uh they they saw three huts said I thought you said you were alone. He said, I am he said that one hut is my house, that's where I live. The second hut is the church uh uh that I built to go and worship the Lord in. And then a couple of years ago we had a church split. The third hut is is where I attend church now. Isn't that amazing? Isn't that something that that was corny, okay? Uh I'll try not to do that too much tonight. Uh but Now in Isaiah we see the fall and decline of Israel, of Jerusalem, the fall and decline of Israel. Let me ask you, have any of you ever failed at anything? Yes, I hear the yes. I can raise my hand. Yeah, I failed many times. The only people who don't fail are people who don't do anything. Amen. And those who don't do anything are usually the ones that talk about the people that are doing something. Amen. That's how it works. But in other denominations, uh the pastor leaves and goes to another church on average about every three to five years. Um in the independent Baptist the church leaves the pastor every three to five years. That's just the way it works out. I said I wasn't going to say another dad joke. But now in Isaiah Jerusalem is besieged by their enemies. They are besieged. Under Jeremiah, when we go to the book of Jeremiah, Jerusalem Was not, well, it wasn't destroyed under Isaiah, but it was destroyed under Jeremiah With his, with the with the prophecy that God had him write down, the the word of God that he wrote down. Uh under Jeremiah, Jerusalem is destroyed. Jerusalem was not destroyed under Isaiah But what was the difference? We're going to see it this evening. Isaiah chapter number one and verse number one The Bible says the vision of Isaiah the son of Amos, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, for the Lord has spoken. I have nourished and brought up children, and they have rebelled against me. These were the words that God gave Isaiah to tell the people there in Jerusalem, in Israel. You're getting ready to go to exile, you're being exiled. For the way that you've been. He's uh God did everything for them. He's been so good. He's been long suffering. He's been uh giving 'em grace and and everything that they needed, gave them nourishment. It says, I have nourished and brought up children. But they've rebelled against me. Sort of reminds me of 2 Timothy 3, 1 through 4. Read that when you get home tonight. But I know we're looking at Israel in Isaiah's day, but it reminds me of America today. God founded America. There's no doubt about it. We weren't built out of revolution. We were started because of a revival where people could come to a land and worship God the way God wanted them to I'm so thankful for those that have shed their blood for this nation so that I could raise my fun my family in a free country. The first part of verse number three says, the ox knoweth his owner, and the ass is master's triad. If you know anything about cattle at all, we we've got cows. My brother used to have cows in the pastures around our home. We live on an old family farm. But now our neighbor, he leases it from us just sort of pays the taxes on the land uh during the year. Uh but whenever those cows that are out there eating hay and everything, whenever they see him drive up, they know his truck. They know him if he walks down, if the truck's not there, if it's up at the barn. When he walks down, they recognize him and they come running. They know who feeds them They know who takes care of them, gives them their shots when they need them, when they're sick. They know him. Bad thing is we're about the same height. When I go out there, they come running My deer stand is on the back side of the pasture. Terrible deer stand placement. When I jump the fence to go to the deer stand, here they come running Sort of scary that sometimes there's a bull in there, Angus. And uh just I I'm rethinking I I try I do everything that I can. I'll go around the fence and jump over the back to get my stand, but they usually they see me. They see me in the dark. I don't know. Poor place But in the second part of verse number three, it says, But Israel doth not know. My people doth not consider. We need to be considerate of God. We need to consider Him. What He's done for us. He has blessed us. Oh, He looks after us. He blesses us with spiritual blessings. It might not be monetary. He does that too. He looks after us. He provides for us. He owns everything. If you're here and lost tonight, the money that you get, it came from God. He's the one that gave you the breath to breathe, to be able to work and earn a living It's all his. He own it owns the cattle on a thousand hills. He owns, one preacher said, the taters under the hills. He owns it all. But when things go good, People forget God. A lot of our leaders don't consider God anymore. They don't consider and they they're not aware or thankful I think of a fella he was he was driving another dad joke. I said I wasn't gonna do it, but I'm gonna do it The fellow was driving around, he had a business meeting, and this business meeting was important. If he was not there, he could possibly lose his job. He could possibly could cause the bankruptcy of the company And he was driving, I think it was in Washington DC, and he was looking for a parking space. He went around the building where uh where he was to meet at and there were no spots And he goes around again. Still no parking place. It's about ten minutes until the meeting starts, and and he's getting nervous. He's starting to sweat. And he's finally calls on God and say, Lord He said, whatever you want me to do, if you want me to go the mission field, I'll do it, but I've got to get in there. Please give me a parking I I I I've got to get in there. This could be my job. This could be everything. Lord, whatever it is, I'll give everything I've got. Just just help me find a parking spot He comes around again, a car pulls out right in front of him. It's a parking spot right there available. He says, never mind, Lord, I found one But if we're not careful We don't consider God. We'll make promises, but then when things are going good, we forget him. Verse number four says, Ah, a sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evildoers, children that are corruptors. They have forsaken the Lord. They have provoked the Holy One of Israel unto anger. They are gone away backward. Judgment is coming. We see it right here. It's lined up. It's the perfect storm. They've done all these things against God. He can't help, but judge them because he's righteous and holy. But not yet. What leads up to it? What leads up? Verse number five says, Why should ye be stricken anymore? You will revolt more and more. The whole head is sick and the whole heart faint. I think about that as possibly being our government, the head of our nation. Our President, Congress, Senate, the whole head is sick and the whole heart, though the ones that are running our nation are faint. Because they don't consider God. They have taken him out of the equation. Verse number six says, From the sole of the foot even unto the head, there is no soundness in it. But wounds and bruises and putrefying sores, they have not been closed, neither bound up, neither mollified with ointment. I think about that, putrefying sores not being closed, people living in open sin, and don't see anything wrong with it anymore. Not trying to do better, not sorry for it, but proud of it. Jeremiah 8:22 says, Is there no bomb in Gilead? Is there no physician there? Why then is not the health of the daughter of my people recovered? Hey, things may be looking good for November. We might have hope, but don't put your hope there. My hope is not in the White House or the people's house or the state house, but in God's house. Judgment must begin at the house of God, he said. If we're going to see revival, judgment must begin. We must look within ourselves. Is there something, Lord, do I not have clean hands or a pure heart? Lord, please, please send revival to us. What could take place here tonight is much more important than what takes place in November. This country has a spiritual problem. It's spiritual, not a monetary problem. We've just squandered all the riches that God's blessed us with. We need revival. Verse number seven says, Your country is desolate, your cities are burned with fire, your land, strangers, devour it in your presence, and it is desolate. is overthrown by strangers, burned with fire, riots. I think about the riots in the towns and and uh just doing what they seemed right in their own eyes. Not regarding law enforcement and people that are trying to do right, having disregard for other people and what they own, their property. Open borders. Strangers, it says. Your country is desolate, your cities are burned with fire, your land, strangers, devour it in your presence. Isn't the word of God more up to date than next week's newspaper? As desolate, as overthrown by strangers. And I looked up that word strangers because I want to stay in the context of the Word of God, but when I looked up the word strangers, it was talking about heathen gods. Everybody that's in America is not a Christian. There's a lot of other religions that are false. A good thing to think about whenever you think about going to a church or think about a religion, if it's named after somebody, you better stay away from it. Because that person's in the ground somewhere, but we serve a risen Savior. He's not in the grave. Heathen gods, false religion, idol worship. I never thought I would see the day when I could drive around near my hometown and see statues of Buddha and people worshiping those. Now, what's the difference in Jeremiah's day? Destruction of Jerusalem and Isaiah's day just being besieged. Look at verse 9. Except the Lord of hosts had left unto us a very small remnant. We should have been as Sodom, and we should have been likened to Gomorrah. I like that word accept right there. That's like saying, but God. But God. For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. But God. I love those holy conjunctions right there. Small remnant What is staying judgment in America? What is holding the hand of judgment back in America? Somebody's praying. You know, many times your children should probably come to you and say, I I want to do this, I want, I want to do that, and everybody else is doing it. That's a good reason not to. Don't follow the majority. Wide is the way that leadeth to destruction There is a way that leads to eternal life. Psalm 66, 20 says, Blessed be God which hath not turned away my prayer, nor his mercy from me. In America we still have a very small remnant. that is dotting uh the the horizons all across this country in churches like Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and Grace Baptist Church and And Calvary Baptist Church in Newbourne and so many other good churches across the very small remnant. You say, well, we was pretty well packed out this morning. That's wonderful. But we're we've got a lot of work to do Three points very quickly. I see the time and I'm almost done because the introduction took longer than the points. Consideration, appreciation, and temptation. Consideration, appreciation, and temptation. God tells Jeremiah to go find one man that seeketh God, Jeremiah 5. 1. You know Jerusalem is destroyed during his day Jeremiah 5. 1 says, Run ye to and fro through the streets of Jerusalem and see now, and know, and seek in the broad places thereof, if you can find a man, if there be any that executeth judgment, that seeketh the truth. and I will pardon it. Guess what? Jeremiah found none. Not one. Ezekiel 22, 30, another one. Uh and I sought for a man among them that should make up the hedge and stood in the gap before me for the land that I should not destroy it, but I found none. That's sad In their day. Hey, the remnant. Except we were here, we would be like Sodom and Gomorrah. You say, well, when we look outside the doors of the church, it seems like we're heading in that direction. But you are staying the hand of judgment right now. In Genesis 18, you know the story of Abraham pleading with the Lord about Lot and his family and those of Sodom and Gomorrah before God overthrew them and destroyed them. The Lord could not and would not destroy the righteous with the wicked. He will take us away before the great tribulation begins. We are not appointed under wrath. First Thessalonians 5 9. Some have said if God doesn't judge America, he will have to apologize. To Sodom and Gomorrah. He doesn't apologize to anyone. He is going to judge the world of sin, the Bible says. Judgment is coming, but the remnant is still here right now. Consider the remnant. There's always been a very small remnant. I want to give you some quick statistics. St statistics, yeah. Statistics say that thirty percent of the world's population professes Christianity. I think that That number's probably a little bit on the high side. 30%. That means there's 8 billion people in the world, 2,400,000 million, are professing Christians. The number goes down drastically when they're asked if they've been born again. A lot of people say they're a Christian. Everybody on the street will tell you that I'm okay. I believe there's I think I'm a Christian. I hope I'm going to heaven. It goes down even more if asked if they believe the Bible. Getting to be a smaller remnant, a very small remnant. Of this greatly smalled remnant, 81% of those confess that they don't even read the Bible Only 19% do, out of this very small remnant that we're getting down to Small remnant indeed. And only 80% of the nineteen percent read the King James Bible. Gets down even smaller. If you believe in the preservation of the King James Bible, we are a very, very small remnant today. Matthew 7, 16 says, Ye shall know them by their fruits. Be consistent. Keep doing what's right. We always told our children, if the whole world does wrong, you do right. 1 Kings 18, 17. King Ahab sees Elijah, and Ahab said to him, Art thou he that troubleth Israel? In Elijah, a very small remnant, standing alone, says, I have not troubled Israel, but thou and thy father's house, in that ye have forsaken the commandments of the Lord, and thou hast followed Balaam. And we know what happened there. He got rid of all the prophets of Baal there, slew them by the brook. Sometimes we have to stand alone. Sometimes we're not at church. We're a we're a a a body of Christ right here, but out on the job tomorrow, out at the store. You might have to stand alone Very, very small remnant, but stand. Paul says in Rome in Acts 28, 21, 22, and they said unto him, We neither received letter out of Judea concerning thee, neither any of the brethren that came uh showed or spake any harm of thee. But we desire to hear of thee what thou thinkest, for as concerning this sect, a very small remnant by the way, we know that everywhere it is spoken against. Then we see appreciation. It's the very small remnant that stays or delays judgment. Appreciation. The left disdains us. We are, I think somebody said we are deplorable. I'm thankful and I appreciate being a fundamental God-loving King James Bible believing sin, hate, and devil despising temperamental independent Baptist. Amen. Praise the Lord. We are a very small remnant. Then number three, the temptation of the remnant. Israel wanted to and was tempted to be like everybody else. Do you ever feel a drawing towards the world? Not alone, Israel tried to do it 1 Samuel 8:20 says that we also may be like all the nations, and that our King may judge us and go out before us and fight our battles. I don't know about you, but I like it when the Lord fights my battles. I've got confidence in him. The temptation of the remnant is to be like the world, though. We see it everywhere God is not pleased when we see people I hate hearing the messages that come to me saying, do you know so-and-so what they did? They've fallen. They've disqualified their self. I'm hearing it too often today. The devil is on a rampage. Pray for one another. Pray for your pastor. Pray for Pastor Matt and Sister Courtney. We're supposed to be different. We're not supposed to be like the world. Matthew 16, 13 through 16, the Bible says when Jesus came into the coast of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? And they said, Some say that thou art John the Baptist, some Elias, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. What we say should be different from what they say. They were wrong They said he was John the Baptist, Elias, or other or others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. But whom say ye? Peter got it right, didn't he? Don't compromise. The temptation is there. We've got to be different and consistent. Keep doing. Keep knocking on doors, passing out tracks, radio, buses, nursing home, prison ministries We are staying God's hand of judgment. We are the very small remnant today. I want to tell you very quickly, before I close, about a small remnant. The man's name was Schubel Stearns. He was saved during the Great Awakening under George Whitfield around 1740. He felt the Lord impressing upon him to move south from Connecticut. He brought a small remnant from his church that were willing to come with him on this trek. He he, his wife, and six other couples And then another couple met up with him w from Virginia and moved with him to North Carolina, Sandy Creek area of Liberty, North Carolina. After the the move he only lived twenty years Small remnant came down. In the first year in Sandy Creek, his congreg ho congregation grew from sixteen to over six hundred. And at one point he had over three thousand people meeting there in Sandy Creek, North Carolina. because he was willing to move down from Connecticut. We sent the he sent out a hundred and twenty-five preachers from his ministry. He personally started forty-two churches in the South, which expanded to over one thousand churches Today, it became what's known as the Bible Belt. The buckle was right there in Liberty. The end result. This excites me. Revelation 4, 10 and 11. The four and twenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne and worship him. that liveth forever and ever, and cast their crowns before the throne, saying, That is us, that's the church, the representative by the twenty f the four and twenty elders right there. In verse eleven it says, Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou hast created all things And for thy pleasure they are and were created. Revelation 5, 11 through 14, and I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels Round about the throne and the beasts and the elders and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice Worthy is the lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing in every creature which is in the heaven and on the earth And such as are in the sea and all that are in them, heard I saying, Blessing and honor, and glory and power be unto him that sinneth Upon the throne and unto the Lamb forever and ever. And the four beasts said, Amen. And the four and twenty elders fell down and worshipped him that liveth forever and ever Judgment is coming, folks, but we are going to be spared from all that. We are not accounting for wrath. Revelation 7, 9 through 12 says, After this I beheld and lo a great multitude which no man could number of all nations. and kindreds and people and turns stood before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes and palms in their hands, and cried with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God, which sinneth upon the throne and unto the Lamb And all the angels stood round about the throne and about the elders and the four beasts and fell before the throne on their faces and worshiped God, saying, Amen Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be our God forever and ever. Amen. That's where we're going We're going to be in those in that number. We're going to be casting our crowns, our rewards at Jesus' feet and saying blessing and honor and power and glory to the Lamb of God Jesus gives us the final warning, Revelation 22, 12 through 14, and a couple of other verses, and Behold I come quickly, and my reward is with me to give every man according as his work shall be I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last. Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and they enter in through the gates into the city. And verse seventeen, and the spirit and the bride say, Come and let him that uh that heareth say, Come, and let him that is the thirst come, and whosoever will, let him take of the water of life freely. Verse 20, he which testified these things saith Surely I come quickly. Amen. Even so, come, Lord Jesus. Father, please take your word now. Speak to hearts. If there's anyone never trusted Christ here tonight, I pray that you'll do that work that we cannot do. Father, I pray that you'll draw them by the power of your Holy Spirit And Lord, I pray that you'll just help us to go out and continue the work that you've given us to do in Jesus' name. Amen.