He's their fifty-second anniversary, and uh we thank God for Brother Hummel so much. Thank you, sir. Well that was a wonderful program this evening and congratulations to all those boys and all those girls and and uh the workers that did a great job in instilling within these young people uh the precious word of God. We have the assurance of the Bible that his word will not return to him void. And that it will accomplish the very purpose and reason that God has in giving out His Word and accomplishing His purpose into life. What was instilled within them will be with them all the days of their life. And that's something to be very, very thankful for, and to continue on in instilling within our young people and adults as well the precious, precious Word of God. Uh we've certainly enjoyed our time of being here this weekend and what was accomplished in putting these scriptures together uh as they traveled the world. Uh I was looking the other day and have discovered that we have put scripture on every continent. Wow. And uh the last twenty years, uh twenty-three years of the ministry, it just continues to grow and get larger and larger and larger. And uh much of that is because of churches like this uh that have uh coveted together with us, uh work with us, labor with us, pray for us, support us. That we might touch this world with the transforming message of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And believe me. The message of salvation transforms a person's life. And we're very, very thankful for the team that God has given to us. As I said this morning, it's unusual that uh at least three of our team members uh able to be here, three of the families that we work with and labor with, of course out of your own church, Chip and Vicky, we thank the Lord for them. And uh Brother Stroop, are you Brother Hummel? I'm not sure. Brother Dan and uh of course my my wife and uh I'm Dan, that's D, and that makes us the Dan D couple. And we've had a wonderful time celebrating our 52nd anniversary with Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. We had a wonderful meal. Miss Kathy put together a wonderful meal today for us and and uh we enjoyed every minute of that good fellowship together. I hope that this becomes an annual event. If anyone uh sees the pastor in the hallway, you might suggest to him that uh The first of each June, we do get together and dedicate these scriptures that you've done throughout the year. And I, if the Lord carries, is coming. Uh I'll be more than happy to come back next year. If he does come, I'll send Brother Stroop in my place. And he'll have the dedication of the scripture booklets as well. Uh we are also privileged. I I this family right down here, Brother Kenton Boyer and his family. Uh we go uh way back. I remember when he was a teenager and playing football in high school and uh he come out to a meeting that we had over in Everett, Pennsylvania, and then he attended one of the camp meetings that we had there, a tent revival meeting out on the side of the mountain, and Brother Kenton came forward and surrendered his life to full-time Christian service And uh he's just been a very, very special uh young man in in our life, and his family is such a delight and joy. And I I want you to pray for them that God would keep his hand upon them and uh would use them for the for the glory of God. And all God's people said Amen. If you have your Bibles this evening I'd like you to take them and turn to the book of 1 Corinthians, chapter number 15. The book of 1 Corinthians, chapter 15. And I want to bring a message this evening that I've entitled Staying, Not Straying in the Battle. One of the misfortunes that we face in the work of God is that sometimes people drop by the wayside. It's always a disappointment when that happens. When when someone gets uh going astray and gets away from the good things of the Lord and stops coming to church and stops serving the Lord Uh it certainly is a disappointment to the pastor of that church. And in addition to that, it also breaks the heart of our Lord And and it also discourages the saints of God as they see folks that they love and that they've served with dropping by the wayside. And I I want to I want to share with you this evening how to stay in that battle and not stray in that battle. Certainly as we work and labor together, our our purpose is to cross that finish line victoriously. Paul said it this way, I press toward the mark of the prize of the high calling of God that is in Christ Jesus. And when I look at this passage of Scripture that is before us, 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and verse number 58 The Bible says, Therefore, my beloved brethren, being steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord For as much as ye know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Let's bow our hearts together in a word of prayer Our loving Father, as we come to you this evening, we thank you for the blessings that we've received these last few days. What a joy it has been to be here. What a delight it is to see the work that is going on here at Mountain Lake. And I pray that you continue to pour out your blessing upon this place. Use these people to reach many with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I pray, Father, that as we labor together, that we might touch this world and reach many for Jesus Christ. Now bless our time and our fellowship together tonight May the Lord Jesus be honored and glorified. Save the lost, I pray and encourage and bless your children. And we'll thank you for what you do because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. If you know anything about the 15th chapter of the book of 1 Corinthians, you're aware that this is the resurrection chapter of the Bible. You'll find the prominence of the resurrection here. You'll find the proof of the resurrection in this chapter. You'll find the protest that of those that were standing in opposition and denying The resurrection of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. You'll find the program and the pattern and the perfection of the resurrection as Paul reveals it to us and gives it to the church at Corinth. But then we also find in these verses the promise of the resurrection. Paul tells us that there's a secret to that. It's a mystery. Something that was hidden in the past and is now being revealed and unfolded in the present. Not only that, but you find the suddenness of the resurrection in the moment, in the twinkling of an eye. There'll be no time to prepare. and change things when that sound occurs, the trumpet of the Lord sounds, the dead in Christ are resurrected first. And we which are alive and remain are caught up together to meet the Lord in the air. Preparation time will be all over. Our work and our labor of love will be all over. And we'll stand before God and the books will be opened, not to determine whether we go into heaven, but to determine the rewards that we will receive, like these young people receive tonight. I couldn't help but think as as the medals were put around their necks and the trophies were put in their hands, what it must be like when we stand before the Lord And he begins to summon us and begins to call us. And he begins to recognize our labor of love and rewards us and says, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. I I I don't know about you, but I I want to be prepared for that day. I I want to make sure that I'm doing what the master has called me to do. I want to make sure that I'm investing my time and my talents and my treasures in the work of God, advancing the kingdom of God around the world. And so Paul begins to unfold to us exactly how that can happen. When he gets to verse number 58, he talks about the service in relationship to that resurrection. When he says be steadfast, and notice that he's talking about the brethren, those that are saved, those that have been born again by the grace of God. They said, brethren, be steadfast. And that word steadfast means to be settled. You won't stray from the battle if you're settled in the good things of the Lord. Get your roots deep in God's Word. Make sure that you're digging into the depths of Scripture. Get settled upon the truths that God has given to us in His Word. To be steadfast means that we're going to be firmly, permanently fixed. Is that the way you look at your church here and the work that God has called you to do? I'm firmly fixed. I'm firmly settled and determined to finish my course and to do it valiantly for the Lord Jesus Christ. To be steadfast means that we're going to be strongly situated, deeply rooted in the good things of the Lord. That's all that Paul said in this passage of Scripture. That would be sufficient to keep us all going. But he doesn't stop at that. He said, Brethren, be steadfast, unmovable. That means that we need not only to be steadfast, but we need to be firmly steadfast and unmovable in what we're doing for the Lord Jesus Christ. It's always a disappointment when someone drops out of the choir. Talented to do that, been used for a number of years, and then all of a sudden something happens, something goes astray, and they drop out of the choir It's always disappointing when someone stops showing up for visitation. Someone gives up their bus route. Someone stops going soul-winning. They drop by the wayside. Something happens to discourage them in disappointment. And all of a sudden they're not being unmovable in the work of the Lord. It's always encouraging When we go to a church and we look across the congregation and we can say, well, I remember those folks over there. They were here the last time. I remember these folks, they're brand new, and boy, it's good to see them being faithful. And it's good to look over here and say, yes, I I see these folks and those folks. But we're so-and-so That's a disappointment, isn't it? That's a heartbreak. It's not only a heartbreak to the preacher, but it's a heartbreak to you as well. When someone falls by the wayside, they become moved by their situation or their circumstances or Something happens within the church that all of a sudden they drop by the wayside. Paul says that we need to be steadfast and unmovable when it comes to serving the Lord Jesus as our personal Savior. Amen. Now that certainly would be sufficient to remind us of what we need to do. But Paul doesn't stop at that. Not only does he tell us in this passage to be steadfast And not only does he tell us to be immovable, but he also tells us to be abounding. To be abounding means that we present in large numbers that which we do. I think this is one of the busiest churches that we go to in in our circle of churches that we travel. And that's encouraging because you've made top priority of the work of God here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. You've made it a priority to serve the Lord And when we make it a priority to serve God, certainly we are abounding in what we're doing for the Lord Jesus Christ. I'll be honest with you this evening. I want to do as much as I possibly can until Jesus comes again. I I know that some of my my family is saying, Dad, you need to slow down a little bit Uh yeah when are you gonna I had a fellow ask me the other day, uh when are you gonna retire? I said there there's no such word in the Bible as far as I'm concerned. We just retread and keep going We're going to wear this thing out till the day the Lord calls us home. You sit around, you'll rest a little bit. You don't serve the Lord, you'll rest a little bit. Uh the old bones will begin to ache, but keep them moving. And I've learned that uh the more you keep them moving, the better they are. Am I right, brother Ed? You're just a good target sitting there. You know, I got a kind of a direct line right to you, you know But isn't it true? I I I know that morning comes and my left foot says to my right foot, You got up first yesterday, it's your turn to get up first today. There's a conversation that goes between the left leg and the right leg, and sooner or later someone's got to move. And uh it might be slow starting. Am I right, Jerry? It might be a little bit slow starting to get the those going in the right direction. But there's a there's a job to do There's a ministry to perform. There are people to reach. There's a work and labor of love that we've been commissioned to fulfill. And so we've got to be steadfast and unmovable in that, and always abounding and presenting in large numbers and overflowing numbers that which we do for the Lord Jesus Christ. Are you fixed tonight? Are you firmly fixed? Are you solidly anchored in what you're doing for the Lord Jesus Christ? I have found in my own life that to abound and to be steadfast and to be intense and strongly fixed in what I do, the devil's gonna tempt that and try that and put it to the test The greater is he that is in us than he that is in the world. And we've got to be resolved in heart and in life that what God has entrusted to my care, whether it be my money, I'm going to use it for the glory of God. Whether it be my time, I'm going to use it for the glory of God. Whether it be my energy, I want to expend it in the work and service of the Lord Jesus Christ. And whatever talents that He's given to us They're laid at Jesus' feet for his service and for the advancement of his kingdom. Our bodies and our minds. I don't want to be a I don't want to be a spectator I want to be a participator when it comes to serving the Lord Jesus Christ. We've got a lot of people sitting on the sidelines doing very little, if anything, to advance the cause of Christ. They're beginning to stray rather than stay in the battle for our Savior. You remember what Jesus said in John chapter 9 and verse number 4? I must work the works of him that sent me while it is day. The night cometh when no man can work. I've thought about that word must. That word must. That means that I'm compelled to do what I'm doing because I've got the call of God upon my life. I'm compelled to do that. I can't be satisfied in doing anything less than what God has commissioned me to do in my life. When our Lord said must, he meant that he was constrained to do that. He was not only compelled, but constrained, and he made it top priority in his life. One of the sad, sad things that we see over and over and over again. A lot of people in our churches today serve the Lord out of convenience. You say, preacher, what do you mean by that? Well, it's convenient to come to church, that's what you do. When it's convenient to sing in the choir, that's what you do. When it's convenient to work in the bus ministry, that's what you do. When it's convenient, as long as nothing else takes precedence and seemingly is more important to you than serving the Lord. That's what you do. That's convenient service. We ought to be so willing to serve the Lord that serving him takes top drawer in our life. I feel a shout coming on right now. There's no greater service that we can render to our Lord than that which He has called us to do. And I challenge you this evening to follow the example of our Savior that said, I must, I have no choice about that. I must do that which He has called me to do. And you notice that he puts a time phrase in there. While it is day, now that means while we have opportunity to do so. I don't know. There's some countries that we cannot get the Bible into. We have sent scriptures into Burma, a closed country. A country that deems it illegal to take Bibles across the border. Not illegal to have them, but illegal to bring them into the country. We've sent 150,000 New Testaments to Burma. They said, Brother, how do you get them that we smuggle them into the country? There are scriptures going into China. You know how they get there? They're smuggled into the country. And there are people and churches and folks that are meeting together and reading the Bible in secret. Because they could lose their life if found with the Word of God. There's countries that are wide open. Wide open. You would think that a a place like Mexico, bordering the United States of America, that it would be unnecessary and unneed needful for you and for me to try to get Bibles into that country. 95% of the people that you hand the Bible to in Mexico never have had scripture in their hand. Stop and think about that for a minute. The warehouse in Brownsville, Texas is putting out between 10 and 20,000 scripture books like you put together here, like was boxed and carried out these doors, they're putting 10 to 20,000 of those out every single week out of that warehouse. That has put a great responsibility in our ministry, has it not, Chip? Yes, sir. That that has caused us to work many a long hour, has it not, Brother Dan? Why? Because the day of opportunity is upon us. And that's what the Lord is saying here in this passage of Scripture. I must work the works of Him that sent me while it is saved, while we have the opportunity, while the door is open. And when it seems like that door is shut, we find other avenues and other ways to get the Word of God to them. Is that how we really serve the Lord? Is that how we carry the banner of the Lord in our individual life and the service that We render to the Lord? Or are we kind of straying in our battle in service for Jesus? Do we do it kind of when it's convenient and When there's other things that take precedence over church or over the things of the Lord, we allow that to control what we do. There's some people that profess to know the Lord as their Savior that put more meaning on a football game than they do the church house. There's some families, some parents that put more importance on little league games than they put on getting their kids into master's quote. Well, we want our children to be well rounded and to be well aware of opportunities that they have in life. There's no greater opportunity in life than that of serving Jesus Christ. No greater opportunity And I would want my kids, I'd want my children, my grandchildren, I want them all to love the Lord, to serve the Lord, and see the value that this is the day of opportunity and that we need to make it top priority in our life. So the question remains, how do we stay in that battle and not stray? How do we make sure that we're on course? Making it top priority and it taking precedence over everything else. The first thing that I would challenge you with is to keep your focus straight. Keep your focus straight. The Bible tells us in the book of Hebrews, chapter 12, and in verse number 1 and verse number 2, wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a kind of witness. Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which thus so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us Now notice those next words. Looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. Who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Where you look and where I look is of utmost importance when it comes to serving Jesus Christ. Uh you can look at the person sitting beside you or the person sitting in front of you or the people sitting behind you or the family that's across the aisle or the family that's in the back You keep your eyes and perch your eyes upon them, and there's the potential of being disappointed by what you say. Now say amen or Omen. You can even hold up this godly man as your example and the one that you want to follow, and certainly you ought to follow him But the potential of failure is there. The potential of failure is here. But there's no potential of failure with the Lord Jesus. Boy, I could take a trip around the church on that one. He will never disappoint you. He will never fail you. He will never lead you astray. And that's why the Bible says, looking Onto Jesus, perching your eye upon Jesus, following the example that He has set for us. Keep your eye on the Lord, and you'll not stray in the battle, you'll stay in the battle. I look at that passage of Scripture and there's good reason to run this race with patience. That means with endurance. We're in it for the long haul. We we don't have a a good start and run a little while and then we fall by the wayside To run that weight race with patience means that we're in it for the long haul, and our eye is upon the finish line, and by the grace of God we mean. If there's ever a prayer That I pray in these latter, I don't want to say waning years of my life, but the latter years of my life is I want to finish well. I I don't want to stop short of what the Lord would have for me. I I I've seen so many come to this stage of the journey and and and get their eyes upon other things and get their goals on other things. I I want to stay in this race and finish this race and and be like the Apostle Paul that said, I've kept the faith. I've finished the course. And I know that there's laid up for me a crown when I stand before him. And I've learned the only way that I can do it is fix my eyes on Jesus. People can disappoint you. Say amen are on me. People can tail you. People can lead you astray. But Jesus will never do that. If you know anything about running, I remember a few years ago. When r running was a part of my life, and now I'm just happy if I can walk in this race now. But when you run, you didn't look at your feet when you were running. That was the wrong place to look. You'd trip and fumble and stumble and fall along the wayside. And and you certainly when you're running, you don't look at the crowd. Because if you want to veer in with that crowd, you'll be so enamored by their cheers and their crowds And and and what what they will be doing for you, that you lose sight of where you need as they go, and you don't look behind you at the crowd that's coming after you. Where do you look when you run? You look so It's like Paul when he said that he was in a fight and he's boxing and he didn't want to beat the air. To beat the air means that I I I take a good punch and I just missed the time I I won't get the spawn. I don't want to be guilty of of being I don't want to get job home. But isn't that true? Well, when you're running, you want to keep your eyes perched upon that goal. And our goal is Jesus Christ. Looking on to Jesus, the author and finisher, that word author there means he's the originator of Israel. That means that he's birthed in our Lord faith. Now lay over that tonight. He's birthed in our heart faith. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Without faith, it's impossible to please answer. The Bible says that the just are to live by faith. And so we we we keep our eye upon Jesus because he is the originator and the burper, is that the word Jesus? Birthers it is. Put that in in the dictionary. He is the birther of our faith. Not only does the Bible say that, that he's the author, but he is also the finisher of our faith. Because of the joy that was set before him, he endured. He endured. Do you know? Brother Harvey, joy is just around the corner. Joy is just ahead on this journey. There might be disappointment here. There might be a lot of circumstances that we have to put up with here, but joy is on the horizon. And Jesus was able to see that joy, and because of that joy, he endured what he had to go through in life. If you want to stay in this battle, keep your focus straight. The second thing that I would say to you, if you want to stay in this battle and not stray in this battle, the second thing that I would say to you is keep your fervor strong. Keep your passion, your devotion, your sincerity strong. Don't let it flicker. Don't let it become dim. Don't allow that devotion to wane and begin to disappear in your life. In the book of 1 Corinthians, chapter number 4, and in verse number 1, the Apostle Paul said it this way. I love these verses. 1 Corinthians chapter 4. I'm sorry, did I say 1 Corinthians? 2 Corinthians chapter 4. And verse number 1. Therefore Seeing we have this ministry. And that's the responsibility that God has given to us. Ministry The ministry that's God given to us. Notice what Paul says. Therefore, seeing we have this ministry, as we receive mercy, we faint not. Nothing is going to distract us, nothing is going to detour us. Nothing is going to cause us to fall by the wayside because we have a ministry that has been entrusted to our care. Therefore, I'm not going to faint. To faint means to give up, it means to quit. It means to fall. There's a lot of detours in life that are caused by disappointments. Not a person sitting in this auditorium tonight that hasn't experienced a disappointment somewhere along life's journey. Sometimes those disappointments can be devastating. They can take the air right out of your sails. But if you keep your fervor strong, your passion strong, your devotion to the Lord strong, And that's why I advocate invitations at at church services. This is a place where we do business with the Lord. And you know what I've found, folks? I've found when I do that publicly, there's a greater chance when I go out those doors that I'm going to stick to it. I'm going to stay with it because I've made a public decision before God. I venture to say there's people sitting in this church house tonight that not one time since the day you're saved you've ever hit an old-time altar and done business with God There's sometimes when I preach, preacher, I get so under conviction I gotta hit the altar myself. God speaks to my heart. And and I I believe with all of my heart this evening when Paul says, Don't faint, he means don't give up. Don't stop short of the goal. Don't don't don't don't lose what God has given to you. Keep on keeping on. Then the third thing I'd say to you tonight. If you want to stay in this battle and not stray, keep your fight sharp. Keep your fight sharp. Our fight is not with one another. Oh boy, if if the church house could learn that. We're not here to fight one another. We're not to pick at each other and and be like a bunch of vultures over a dead raccoon Eating away at them. And yet there are many a church house that's just like that. They so devour one another, they're spiritual cannibals. Eaten on the flesh of one of their brothers or sisters in the Lord. Shame on us if we get like that. We ought to keep our fight sharp. Paul tells us in the book of 1 Timothy. Chapter number six and in verse number twelve. Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life. Whereunto thou art also called and hast professed a good profession before many witnesses. Our fight is not with one another. That word fight there means to agonize. It means that we struggle against the tide. It means that you and I contend and we engage in a battle that God has given to us. And certainly we ought to fight against sin. Amen? Sin's a real problem in life. Not only should we be fighting against sin, but we oughta we oughta fight against Satan. Our adversary, the one that wants to bring us down, the one that wants to bring disgrace into our life, the one that wants to divide the church. I just don't want to be an instrument in the devil's hand to accomplish what he wants to do. And we begin chawing at one another and fighting with one another. That's exactly what we're doing. We're helping the devil accomplish what he wants to do. Rather than accomplish what the Lord wants us to do. It's a blessing for God's people to dwell together in unity, isn't it? That have one mind and one spirit and one goal and all the members of that body reaching forth with all that's within them to accomplish what God has given to them. We ought to fight for sinners. People are lost in this world. And we're in a spiritual battle. Against the forces of hell and the principalities and powers and rulers of darkness over the soul and destiny of humanity. That's why we've given ourselves to make sure that people around the world have scripture to read. Because we know the power of that word. We know what that word is able to accomplish. And where we send it, it never tires in its work. It accomplishes what it's supposed to do. Stay in this battle, church. Stay in the battle. Don't begin to stray and don't lose your sharpness, your effectiveness, and your intensity. To keep on the front line of duty and responsibility. If you've lost your fire, you've lost your urgency, you've lost your emotion, This altar is where you can face God and get it back. Amen? It's where you can face God and get it back. If you want to stay in the battle, Keep your focus straight. If you want to stay in the battle, keep your fervor strong. If you want to stay in this battle in which we are engaged, then keep your fight sharp Because Jesus is coming soon. Let's stand with our heads bowed and our eyes closed tonight. Just before we pray and we give the invitation tonight, maybe you're here this evening, you've never been saved. And I just want you to know that you've come to the right place because there's people here that love you. There are people that are will pray for you. And there are people here that's able to take a Bible and show you the clear path to salvation. It's not a matter of joining the church. It's not a matter of being baptized. It's not the matter of turning over a new leaf in your life and starting over and trying to do the best that you can. But salvation comes in a person, and his name is Jesus. And he offers to us eternal life to all that will believe. If that's your need tonight, this altar's open and we'd invite you to come and let us take a Bible and show you how to become God's child. As a Christian tonight, are you in the battle? Or have you just kind of backed off a little bit? Kind of cooled off a little bit? Maybe you've arrived at the stage of your journey and you say, well, the younger folks need to step up and they need to take our place. We've fought our battle and they need to take over. I firmly believe the only time that we're dismissed from this battle is when the Lord calls us on. Maybe you just need to come tonight and say, Lord, don't let the fire go out. Don't let The passion dwindles. Don't let the drive cease. I want to press on till Jesus comes again. Loving Father, you know our hearts tonight. You know our needs tonight. You know the spiritual state of every person in this auditorium tonight. I pray the Holy Spirit would speak to us. Accomplish your will and purpose that you've had in this service tonight. And thank you that your word will not return to you void. Speak to hearts, I pray. While our heads are bowed and her eyes are closed and the pianist is playing, If God's speaking to your heart tonight and you need to come, would you do that? Would you do that this evening? As God speaks to your heart, you come on. You come on.