If you would turn there with me, Hebrews two. Uh I enjoy seeing the young people and the children more in uh part of their services. You notice that in the last month, several months, just seeing them more involved. That's fantastic. Thank the Lord for it. I'm not going to preach tonight. I just want to talk to you, and I I tell you, I debated this and debated this and debated this. Probably the issue of my concern probably is just applies to those that would be involved in our music ministry. And um but uh I thought, well, I'll mention it in church service and just address it. I thought maybe just take a little segment And then yesterday driving back and uh I was thinking through what I was going to do and James kept bothering me and distracting me the whole way. But um It was fine. And uh no, I enjoyed the fellowship. But uh I thought, well, I'm just gonna take Sunday night and I just want to address something. I mentioned this morning that um I'm at the point in my life as pastor. This is working on the 25th year here. I'm 57. I know that's not old. But you know, I'm I'm looking ahead. I'm looking ahead. And I'm my concern as pastor and the responsibility that I feel on my shoulders as pastor has been, for the most part, that our church be right, that we have a good church, and that we have the right biblical position under my administration as pastor. That would be, I feel it's my responsibility. And so that's been heavy on my heart, a great responsibility. I've felt that for years since I became pastor. But that's beginning to Expand that burden, that concern. And that is this: that if the Lord tarries, and there's a very real possibility that that's the case. That the church, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, go on. Let me back up. I believe we have a good church now. I believe God has blessed us and God has done a wonderful work. Are we perfect? No. But I believe we're a good church. I think God has blessed us. I believe with all my heart our position is right. Our position on the Bible, our doctrinal position, our Baptist distinctives. The more I study the Bible, and I just want to talk to you tonight, but the more I study my Bible all these many, many years, the more I study my Bible, the more I become convinced that the Baptist distinctives are biblical. I just I just I become more convinced of that. I've become stronger in that conviction. And so I believe we have a good church. I believe we have a right position. I think our positional music is right. I am not a musician by any stretch of the imagination. But I believe we're there. And so now my concern for our church is not just that with these things be in place now. But if the Lord tarries that our church for the next generation, that Garrett County, and the next generation in this region of the world have a church that is good. That is a good church. You understand what I'm saying? God's hand on it. And a right position. So we can so the next so that Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church can point the next generation very clearly to the Lord Jesus Christ. as laid out in the Bible. And so that's that's uh it that weighs heavy on my heart. And so part of that To making that happen, seeing that happen, part of that behooves me and all of us really to keep our church from drifting. Drifting. Very seldom, my experience and my observation has been very seldom does a church change like that. Go liberal, go contemporary. Very seldom does it happen like that. It starts with little drift, little drift, little drift, little drift. And then years go by, maybe a generation, and it's way out here in left field. And so we have to be real careful with that. Hebrews chapter 2. And notice with me, if you would, verse number three. Verse number one. I'm going to read down through verse number three. Hebrews chapter two. Therefore Therefore, we ought to give the more earnest heed. Now, how would you say that in your own words? Earnest heed. Therefore, we ought to give the more earnest heed. Full attention. Earnest. That that has the idea of focus, of energy. I mean, we are being very, very careful. Earnest heed. Therefore, we ought to give the more earnest heed to what? The things which we have heard, the truths that we've been taught from the Word of God, that the Bible teaches, lest at any time we should let them what? Slip. Slip. That word slip is a nautical term. I didn't pray. Let's pray real quick. Father, please help me to share my heart tonight and share my concern in a biblical way. I'm so grateful for our church, and Lord, we do want your blessings, and we want you to be pleased. I do, and I know we all do So please help me to share these things on my heart. And Lord, fill me with your spirit. I pray this is you directing us in this matter. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. That word slip there is a nautical term, as I understand, as I've studied a little bit. It's a nautical term, and it has the idea of The word I referenced here a few minutes ago, I mentioned a few minutes ago, had the idea of drifting. Drifting. Drifting. It's kind of like if you set a boat out there in a bay or whatever, but you don't anchor it, you don't secure it down, the current or the wind or whatever, that thing will start the what? Just start to drift. It won't stay in that position. It will drift. So it has the idea of drifting, moving from a fixed position, but it also has the idea Of a ship that is, again, it's a nautical term, but a ship that is traveling in a direction It has a course, it has a destination that it's targeted. And that ship is on the sea and it's traveling in that direction. And they have to give earnest key. They have to be very, very careful that that thing doesn't drift, not just from a fixed position, but that it doesn't drift what? Off course. And ends up at another destination than what it intended. We were down in DC a couple weeks ago and we were at the Smithsonian in different um museums down there on f on the Friday we were there and one of them was uh we were in a nautical thing. What was that? Was that with you, James, on that uh it was something that had all these nautical stuff. I don't remember what it was. But um They had all these instruments from centuries ago that these incredible amazing men Would take these wooden ships and sail out on these massive oceans to worlds unknown, just out there. And they would travel, and they explained the great care that they put into these instruments that would enable them to stay on course. And elaborate things. And I wasn't aware of this, but some of these instruments were large, you know, would barely fit on the platform they'd have mounted in their ships to enable them to go by the stars and the curvature of the earth and they had all these methods And the precision that they had back in those days to maintain the course and arrive exactly where their intended destination was. And in one of the presentations I was looking at, they said that if there was just a slight miscalculation Just the slightest error in some of their calculations that initially was unobservable That initially were not aware of. But as time went by and as they traveled, that little error Would become greater and greater and greater and greater. And they would end up in a destination and they had lists of ships that they lost their whole crew. Because of a miscalculation early on, subtle, and he ended up somewhere. And that's what God is referencing here. He said we ought to give very earnest heed to the things that we have heard, the things that God has taught us from His Word, give very earnest heed lest at any time we should let them slip or we drift away. For if the word, verse 2, if the word spoken by angels was steadfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense reward, how shall we escape? If we neglect so great a salvation, which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord and was confirmed unto us, then he goes down on through there. But that phrase We've got to give earnest feed less to things we've heard less than any time we let them slip. Let them slip. To drift from a position. It's slow It's very, very subtle. It's very, very slight, but it takes you off course. And that is a concern that we as a church have to constantly watch out for, is that we don't drift. Is that where you don't allow some little subtle, apparently innocent thing to begin with, and then that thing shifts and shifts and shifts. And go somewhere. That's true for sin. That's how sin operates. That's how sin operates. Sin never knocks, shows up at your door. Hello, I'm a horrendous sin and I'm moving in. Never works that way, does it? It always begins very subtle. Very slow. Very, very, um, uh, what's the other word I wrote down? Uh very slight sometimes. I got a, I call it the Aiken syndrome You're supposed to be impressed by that term. I would I thought go with me. Yeah, thank you. Genesis chapter three, if you would turn there. Genesis chapter three. And this is probably, my thoughts are probably for a lot of us are going to be very anti-climatic tonight. You're saying, what's he building to? But I want to try and take my initial concern, but apply it across the board to all of us. Genesis chapter 3 and verse number 6. There's a pattern. There's a syndrome, an Achin syndrome that shows up very, very early on at the introduction of sin. Look at verse 6. And then, and when the woman, what's the next word, Saul? I circled that word. She saw. Now God said, don't eat that fruit. Don't eat that fruit. Now, do you think if there's something you shouldn't eat, do you think it's a good idea to stand around looking at it? You tell your child, don't eat that cake, and they're sitting there staring at the cake the whole time. Get out of here. Get away from that. So the first step in the Aiken syndrome is to see. So she saw that the tree was good for food. Question, is there anything wrong with looking at it? No, God didn't say don't look at it. That's probably not a good idea. Very subtle. Very subtle. Just look. Eve, what are you doing over there at that fruit? I'm just looking at it. Is there anything wrong with that? Well, there's nothing wrong. Might not be a good idea. Then look what happens. And that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree could be, what's that next word? I circled that word. That's the next stage in the Aiken syndrome. She saw it, she looked at it, and I don't believe it was too long, she got wanting it. And that does look good. Huh. I'll bet that really I bet that tastes really, really good. And now she wants it. She wants it. I found that I don't desire things I don't know exist Right? If I don't see it, I don't know what's it. Anybody here anybody here ever go to Cabela's and you were completely content with everything you have and you walk in there, all of a sudden you need All kinds of stuff, right? I need this. Sweetheart, we need this. We don't need a $17,000 side-by-side four-wheel drug. So she saw it, nothing wrong with that, very s innocent. Just saw just looking. Boy now she's thinking, I mean, I'd like to try that. And then the third stage in the Aiken syndrome, she saw the tree to be desired to make one wise, and then she what? I circled word. That's the final stage in the Aiken syndrome. Now sin has conceived. Lust have conceived. Now it's brought forth sin. So my point is this, it all began very subtly, very innocent, just looking, just looking. Turn with me, if you would, over to Joshua chapter 7. This is where I get the name for my Aiken syndrome. Joshua chapter 7 verse 21. Now you know how many people here are familiar with Achan? Story of Achan? Joshua Uh fought the battle at Jericho. The walls came tumbling down. Aiken's one of the soldiers. He's going through there battling doing his thing, what he's trained to do as a soldier, whatever his specialty was, I don't know And uh maybe he's the job is to clear the house that he goes in blah blah blah clear and they go to the next one And he comes into one house, kicks the door in, maybe, looks around, and man, this is a wealthy house. Maybe he walks in and says, good night, these folks were loaded. And he gets rooting around and looking stuff. He pulls out some drawers, and lo and behold, here's a drawer full of gold. Whoa, I ain't never seen that much gold in my whole life. Silver? Good heavens. He gets looking around, here's a c uh uh uh closet, pulls the doors back, and there is closed that that is my wife's eyes right there. I can't. This must be of God. So anyway, I'm embellishing it, obviously. But he finds some gold, silver, and Babylonish garments, and what they do. He takes them and he hides them and his intention is to come back later and get them and surely nobody would ever know that that happened. Now look what he says when he's grilled on this. Verse 20, Joshua 7, and he gets caught, of course. Remember, we said this morning, we can try and hide it from man, but God sees it all. And Achet answered Joshua, verse 20, and said, Indeed, I have sinned against the Lord God of Israel. And thus and thus have I done. And he tells this syndrome. That he went through this, the stages he went through. Look, same thing as what he did. Verse 21, when I what Saw among the spoils of a goodly Bamash Moonish girl. What would be is it wrong for him to look at the gold? No, God didn't say don't look at it. God didn't say don't look at the silver, don't look at the garments. It was very innocent. Very, just look at it, I just saw it. But the idea behind the word Saul there wasn't just he came through and huh, noticed it. Then it caught his attention. He was looking at it. And then look what he says. What do you think the next stage is I saw among the spoils a goodly Babylonian garment and two hundred shekels of silver and a wedge of gold of fifty weight, and then I coveted. I circled it. Same word is desired We saw it. Now we want it. And look down here. I coveted them and what's the next word? Took. I circled those three words. Uh quickly, I think you're catching the idea here. Judges chapter 14. We see this all through Scripture. Judges Chapter fourteen Samson here. Old Samson got into the Aiken syndrome. Chapter 1, Judges, chapter 14. Judges is right after Joshua. 14. And Samson went down to Timnath. Here we go. And what? Saw a woman. Alright. Is it wrong? No. In and of itself, no. And then in verse 2 he says, he told his parents, I've seen a woman. Come down to verse 7. Now this it's worded a little different, but the concept is there. And he went down and talked with the woman and she what? Pleased him. Now he what? He wants her She caught his attention. He's looking at her. I mean, in and of itself, that's nothing wrong, just look at her. But now he desires, he pleases them. I want her. Well she's she's nice. But that'd be nice Then look at verse 8. And after time he returned to what? Taker. I circled those three words. Saul pleased take. It's the same steps, same steps. We go through 2 Samuel 11. How many people get the idea? 2 Samuel 11, David went through the same thing. Same stages. He saw her, he lusted, he desired for her, he took her. Now, that's a that's a That's a pattern through scripture. And by the way, there are some references, we won't take time, there are some references where that happens in a good way. Remember the Good Samaritan? He saw the fellow along the road. He was concerned for him, and he went over and helped him. Same principle, just backwards. Now that's a pattern through scripture, and I think that is a huge caution for you and I as a church, for us as a church. That we not allow that syndrome to become true in our thinking. I was raised in another denomination. When I was small, we went attended very faithfully. Parents were very involved. That kind of fell apart. None of us were saved. We were religious, but lost. And that fell apart, and the home fell apart. But since I've gotten saved and I've been in the ministry all these years, I pay attention to this stuff now. And I got back looking and I noticed that entire denomination went through a very similar process. They did not give diligent heed to the things that they had heard lest they let them slip. And when I was very, very small, looking back now, I noticed they started, they were very careful about the Bible they used. They were King James. In fact, they would not even use study Bibles because they wanted nothing To be added to the Word of God. They felt like having study notes in the Bible was adding to, it was cautious, it would be biased. You just go by the Word of God. Now I take issue with that, but my point is they were being extremely careful But they didn't take earnest heed, and when I was small, they started bringing in other Bibles And they thought, well, they'll be easier to read, and in and of itself, their motive, I think, was sincere and was innocent We'll just do this. And I know as a small boy, I was given a Bible, and I think I still have it somewhere. I was given a Bible Good news for modern man. That is not a Bible. It's not even a translation. It is a very poor, perverted paraphrase of the Word of God. But they were giving these out. And then the music, they were very, very careful that when I was small, they didn't even have instruments in the church. Now, is there anything wrong with having an instrument? No. The Bible tells us But now, if you go to that denomination, they're not preaching the gospel. They've lost all their identity. And they're total blown worldly. In fact, I just heard a couple weeks ago or a couple years ago that one of their main schools, Bible colleges, one of their main training for uh People serving ministers in their denomination is now allowing sodomites to in the school and on the staff. How far they've come. And it begins very subtly, it begins very slight. Now here's where my concern comes in. I'm going to end. This is what's concerned me. I've been noticing. As a pastor over the last several years, and Pastor Brett and I have talked about this a little bit, and other pastors, other preachers. I've been noticing in good churches, churches like ours, churches that I that are solid, that are friends of mine, that are solid. But they are allowing very subtly, very uh very very slightly an influence of music That in and of itself is not wrong. Where it's at, there's nothing wrong with it, but it it concerns me to where it leads. And this is what concerns me. And I've been in meetings recently where I this happened And good people, good meetings, people that I love. And I'll go to the meeting. But I think they're making very serious mistakes. And what they do is they take the words, this is my concern, this is what all this is about, they take the words that, good words to songs, But they come from very, very contemporary groups, Christian rock groups Groups that are in denominations that do not believe the word of God as it's taught. They've distorted it. False doctrine, wrong doctrine. And they'll take the words from these groups that sing there and say, oh, we would never have that group. But they have a good song, and that song's really good. So we're going to take the words from that song, and they're rocking out with that song, and they're just going worldly with the song. But the words are good, so we're going to take the words, we're going to clean it up And we're going to sing it in a inappropriate and a correct way. And that's what they're doing. And they are singing it in an appropriate, very correct way But I think, this is me as your pastor, I think that is a very serious mistake. I really do You say, but it's uh it's scriptural, it's it's it's biblical, it's a good message. The words are great. And I agree with that. And it's presented in a very scriptural, spiritual way. And you hear it? And it's a blessing. And I agree with that. But I think it's a mistake to do that. And the reason is, I have various reasons, and again, I am not a musician by any stretch of macination, so I'm really not interested in arguing with anybody about this or debating about it Because I I'm not educated enough in that field to be able to to do that. But I know what the Bible teaches, and I've been around for a little while. And I've seen things happen. And I believe that's a very serious make. Some of our good schools, good schools, are practicing this. And again, in and of itself, the words are good, the song is good, the song, the way it's sung is good, and all that. But where it's coming from, its source, it's its identification It's bad. We live in a day and age. I was talking with my wife this afternoon. Um, she was sound asleep, but I was just talking to her And you know, just going through this in my mind, because I want to do it right, I don't I want to come across right, and I I want to express my concern in a in a in a in a com in a right way And um, you know, these are good schools, these are good people, and and I would I fellowship with them. I'm not convinced at the point of breaking fellowship at this point But I can see down the road where this leads to, where that would become necessary to follow what I'm saying. And now here's here's the argument, here's part of the argument, but Pastor Leatherman, we're not bringing that group in. The song itself is is a fine song, and the words are good. If we sing it our way, what's wrong with that? And my answer is there's nothing wrong with that at this point. But it's where it leads to. And what it's associated with, and this is what I was talking to my sleeping wife about this afternoon, is, you know, fifty years ago this that probably wouldn't be an issue. Because it would be very difficult for anybody to identify that song with that false doctrine group or that rock and roll group. You could pull it out away from it, nobody may even know it, and you could do it, and the song would stand on its own And some of our hymns, am I right, Brian? Some of our hymns are there are from sources that we certainly would not endorse completely. But the song is so far removed from that source The connection has been severed, the umbilical chord to that source has been severed so thoroughly that the song stands on its own. And maybe some of these, 50, 100 years down the road, they may that may happen But that's not it yet. And we live in a different day and age, and here's what happens. And this is what I did They're singing that song and it's like, man, that's a I like that. Those words are good. I'm gonna Google that. I'm gonna see where I can get those words What happens? Zing, I'm connected right to that false doctrine at group. There was one where they were saying and I thought something that song, something that song I don't know. I like it. That man's a great song, but and so I know you're not supposed to do this, but very secretly while they were singing I Googled the words in and put lyrics. And boom, it brought me up to a website. It was a hardcore charismatic group. 700 club. All that left-wing stuff. And that words were directly from it. I mean, while they were singing, I was connected to that. Now what happens What happens if you got a new Christian sitting there and we would do that? And that new Christian says, man, that's great. I'd like to get that. Oh, and they have no idea. So they buy that album. Then they hear that group is singing up in Morgantown. And the next thing you know, they're drawn right over into that. You follow what I'm saying? And so you say, Brother Leatherman, good grief, you're nitpicking. Probably. But maybe it's taking earnest heed. And very very careful, very, very careful. Um I understand there's different styles of music and I recognize that and not all of them are bad. There's some styles that I don't necessarily enjoy that much we were talking you know, different things. And um I'll tolerate a little bit and I understand there's different styles of music, but we have to be careful where that music leads us to. And here's another thing, and I'm just talking at this point. But here's another concern I have in mind, not just where that directs to, but who that song is associated with, I think, is very, very important. And I have scripture for that. If you would turn to Acts with me, and I'm about done here. And by the way, while you're turning to Acts chapter 16 Music, my observation in 32 years of the ministry, my observation has been that music is probably the most common area where drift begins It's usually where it starts. Usually where it starts. Music is so powerful. I've got a big thing here I want it to do about the impact of music and all that. I'm not going to do any of that. But music is powerful, and Satan was heaven's choir director before he fell. So he knows it. He knows how to use that, and he knows how powerful it is, both for good and bad. And so that's usually where it begins. But I want to come back to my thought that not just how it's presented and where it leads, but who it's identified with. Notice with me in Acts 16. How many folks follow it whether you agree with me or not, how many folks understand what I'm saying? Alright, good. Look at verse 16, Acts 16. And it came to pass as we went to prayer, a certain damsel. Now notice what was true about this damsel. A certain damsel, look at this, possessed With a spirit of divination. How many people would want this gal in that condition ministering in your church? No. When it says she's possessed with the spirit of divination, what's it say? She's what? She's possessed of a devil Not good. If you agree with me, it's not good for a little girl possessed with the devil. Everybody agree with me. Not good. Alright, look what happens. Which brought her masters much gain by Sue saying, look at this, the same followed Paul and us cried, saying These men are the servants of the Most High, God, which show us the way of salvation. Question, is there anything wrong with what she was saying? No. How many people would like for the message to get out to Garrett County surrounding areas? That Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church has is of God and they show people the way of salvation. How many people would like for that message to get out? Sure. What she was saying was tremendous What she was saying is exactly what they would want to be said. And look how Paul responds to that. And this she did many days, but Paul being what? Grieved. Why would you be grieved, Paul? For goodness sake, that's exactly what you want people to know. But he was grieved, turned and said to the Spirit, I command thee in the name of Jesus Christ, come out of her. And he came out the same hour. Now here's what I think there's a principle we take away from this, and that is this. Even though what was being said was right. It was the person, it was the condition of the person saying it that disqualified her from saying it. Follow what I'm saying? And so there are groups out there that may write. These men are the men of God, and they show us the way of salvation, and their message may be right, but they're not right. They're violating scripture. Many times a lot of these contemporary Christian groups are living in sin. Now I'm not trying to say we're better than a lot of independent Baptists live in sin But blatantly uh and and promoting sometimes. And I know I'm painting a broad brush, so please I don't want to argue about that, but it's true And so I believe it's a serious mistake to take the message they're saying, even though that message may be right, and promoting it and endorsing it because the association with the people. And so I'm very, very concerned about this. And somebody might say pastor's making a mountain out of a molehill. And maybe I am. I'll give you that. But I found that sometimes mountains begin as molehills. You know what, in the spring, without fail, in the spring, we always get a little black ant comes into our kitchen, not little. Every spin. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And I learned from experience many many years ago, you better squish that little thing when it gets in there, because what's gonna happen if you don't? He's bringing a whole heap more with him. And I think that's what we have to be very, very careful. We have to be very, very careful. And so that's my beef. That's my concern. So I was praying and so all right, how does this apply to people that doesn't apply to? I think that syndrome applies across the board. I'm concerned in this case about a little bit of music and very subtle, very innocent in and of itself, and you're making a big deal, preacher. But I think that same concern ought to be applied across the board to any area of our life, what we allow in. Computer, television, reading, just, I mean, you name it. Always very innocent, very innocent, very innocent And something else, I'll just throw this out, I've got to quit, is what leadership allows in moderation, followers will take to excess. I've seen it. And suppose we bring and and and I try to be very, very careful. Again, I'm not a musician, but we and Mark is does fantastic, the choir is fantastic, so don't misunderstand. I I'm not suggesting it's here. I I'm not suggesting we're here. As far as we know, we're we're we're not. I forget what I was going to say about that. But um What leadership allows in moderation, followship takes success. So if we would allow something up here that's a little questionable Where's the folks out here that maybe aren't that familiar with it, where are they going to go with it? So that's what we have to be careful about. So I want to ask us all tonight to examine ourselves. Am I taking earnest heed But the things that I've heard, that God has taught me from His Word, that I don't drift, I don't slip. I don't know. Maybe somebody I'm talking to right now, the Holy Spirit, has already brought something to your mind. Maybe somebody, some of us are sitting here thinking, he's not even preaching about that in God's deal with my heart And so let's pay attention to that. Let's respond to that and be very, very careful. Alright, did you get my heart I'm not attacking anybody. I'm not trying there's good men that I love that are on the same page with us across the board, but they're practicing this. I by the way, I called Byron Fox and talked to him about 45 minutes about this before I Wanted to say something. I wanted I wanted somebody that knew what they were talking about to tell me whether I was thinking correctly or not And he was absolutely, and he says he's dealing with it all the time, all over. He mentioned a big school, good school. And he says, I've talked to the leadership there for five hours. And they're trying to shift that. It kind of crept in unawares and he says they're trying to shift it, trying to shift it, get it back straight. So I don't want to have to shift anything. I want us to keep course. All right. Alright, shut up, Pastor. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I I I really believe, Lord, I have your mind on this. I think I think Scripture supports this and our concern. And so I pray you'd lead us and direct us. Lord, you know how much I thank you and praise you for the music and the musicians we have in the music program. What a blessing. We want it to stay right. We want to stay on course. And then, Lord, across the board in all the areas with our Bible and our doctrines, our practice, all of this, help us, Lord, to give earnest heed to this. And be very, very careful. Help us not to be judgmental or to be holier than now or stuck in stick our nose up The Lord just humbly trusts you and let you lead us. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How would we say, preacher, believe it or not, the Holy Spirit did speak to my heart about Samarias? That maybe I need to give some earnest heed to. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Maybe it's our daily Bible reading, our church attendance, those things. We let that slip, man alive. We get off course. How about it? Any others? A bunch of hands raised. How about it? Any others? Is there someone here not saved? You're on the wrong course completely if you're not saved. Say, preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. Any like that? Now Father, bless our invitation. And help me and all throughout the church. Help us to have your mind and follow your leadership. In Jesus' name we pray. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Let's finish out. Good invitation