So we're working through the uh experience of Noah and the Great Flood, and uh I think like I said this morning we're on the time frame of Noah building that flood, 120 years, we'll get through this And um but uh I just want to look at one small thought tonight here. I'll tell you, you read this story, you read this story, and then you start breaking it down and really looking at what's happening, and there's so much that comes out of this and And um uh I just want to bring one thing. Our our subject is staying alive. And if we remember, a couple weeks ago, last time we looked at this passage, uh we pointed out that God created people to live. He didn't create people to live. And so it's not God's desire. When he says here in chapter 6 that he regrets making man, he's going to We know from other portions of Scripture what we understand of God. It's not God's desire to kill man. He came that we might have life and have it more abundantly. And so this goes contrary to the compassion of God. And if we point it, if you remember we pointed out, the holiness of God demanded judgment on sin. But God doesn't want man to die. Ezekiel tells us, Ezekiel 18, verse 23, verse 31, 32 tells us that God does not rejoice in the death of the wicked Uh he grieves over that. It's an un it's a um uh what's the term necessity? It's a unpleasant necessity. It's not So he's providing a way to, though He his holiness demands judgment on the wickedness of man, yet his compassion is providing a way for man to escape that judgment. judgment and that's where the art comes in. Look with me if you would at verse 18. But with thee will I establish my covenant. Speaking of Noah, verse 18 Chapter 6 And thou shalt come into the ark thy sons and thy wife and thy sons' wives with thee. And of every living thing of all flesh, two of every sort, shalt thou bring into the ark to keep them alive with thee They shall be male and female, fowls after their kind, cattle after their kind, every creeping thing of the earth after his kind, two of every sort shalt thou come unto thee to keep them alive. And take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten, thou shalt gather it to thee, and it shall be for food for thee and for them. Thus did Noah, according to all that God commanded him So did he. So let's pray. And uh I got one thought I want to draw from here I think will uh fits into what all we're doing here. Let's pray. Father, uh bless now our study in your word Lord, we do ask, and as the Heinballs fellows sang here, Mark and Austin, a little bit ago, Lord, we don't need great oration, we don't need great sermons, God. We need to hear from you. And so I pray that you would speak to our hearts through this passage. And I yield myself to you, present my body anew for this hour, that you would just take your word, apply it to our church, God, that we can be everything you intend for us to be, that you would be pleased with us, that we would make you happy, God. And so bless us now and help us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. We noted the other week in this passage of scripture the passengers on the ark. Now they're not on there yet, but uh we noted that it was the members of Noah's family And the main point we drew from that was this. There was only eight people that went on that ark. Noah had preached for 120-some years. He had done everything he could to win souls to Christ. We get that's implied in all of this. And the only people that ever got saved was his three his wife, his three boys, and their wives. They're the only ones, that was the only numerical fruit that Noah had from his preaching ministry. Now that could be a little discouraging. Uh we've been here 18 years in the la uh uh uh this past September, and if all we had was my family as a result of eighteen years of ministering and serving, uh be a little discouraging. I'd say most folks would have given up But Noah just kept pressing on, 120 years preaching, and all he had was the only passengers on the ark was him and his immediate family. What we learned from that is, no, let me ask this question, let me back up Would you consider, with all that in mind, what I just said, would you consider Noah to be successful Sure, absolutely. He accomplished exactly what God intended for him to accomplish. We would not be here today if Noah would not have been successful. It would be an over for mankind. So Noah was successful. So that tells me this. Success is not determined by numbers. That's not what the success is. Success is determined by our obedience to God. Noah was successful because he obeyed God. That's our primary responsibility, and we've elaborated on that. I like this thought and I'll repeat it here again. You know, we hear so many times, and Brother Dan, I'm sure, could testify to this Uh we hear so many times you go to preachers meetings, and there's uh I'm not against this, so don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But we hear him talk about Book of Acts, boy, there was three thousand, then there was five thousand Then it was multiplied. That had to be at least 10,000, and go on. And they talk about the numbers, numbers, numbers, numbers, numbers through the book of Acts. And that's fine. You know, I want the place to be filled. I want to reach as many number people as we possibly can. But you very seldom hear preaching on the obedience of the believers in the book of Acts. The numbers part is God's responsibility. The obedience part is my responsibility. So, whether you have a Sunday school class, you know, or your bus route or whatever, we try and reach as many people as can. Noah did. No doubt, he preached to everybody he possibly could. He warned him But um the success is not in the size of my ministry. The success is in the obedience of my ministry to the Lord. So we got that from there. Then we noticed, if you remember, the animals The members, not just the uh, what did we say, the passengers on the ark, the members of Noah's family, then there was the members of the animal kingdom that were on the ark. And for obvious reasons there was no fish on the ark I doubt seriously he had a fishbowl on there, you know. Um there was birds, there was wild animals, domesticated animals, two of each kind. Later on, uh seven uh he was instructed of the clean animals to put seven on for no doubt for food perhaps and for sacrifices and whatnot. Now how did he get them onto the ark? The Bible says they just started showing up And uh I love to picture that in my mind. I would love to uh make a show or something sometime, a movie or something about Melabelian art, be biblical correct, and all of a sudden these animals, just giraffes and and uh alligators and stuff just start showing up in the neighborhood and the neighbors are all worked up. Good night, there was an elephant in my backyard the last night. Do you see that? And for maybe a year or two before all these animals are just showing up all around there. Then finally he he put them in So uh and we learn from that that God will do what we can't do. Noah could build the ark, he couldn't gather up all the animals around the world. So God did what he could not do. Now here's the little thought I want to look at tonight. First of all we had the passenger. Now the thought tonight is provisions for this time on the Ark. Look with me at verse 21. And take thou unto thee Of all food that is eaten, and thou shalt gather it to thee, and it shall be for food for thee and for them. The provisions for the ark. Noah was given two very difficult duties. One was to build the ark. Now that was tough. There had never been an ark before. There had never been rain. Nothing of this magnitude that we're aware of any in history at all. And he was told about that would be kind of like in eighteen hundreds God telling you to build a spaceship You know, it's like, what's this for, you know? And uh so it's completely foreign. Just the magnitude of the job God gave him is staggering That he would build this ark, 120 years in building. And the time that that would consume, the labor, the excruciating effort that would have to be put into this. It's hard to imagine. But there was another responsibility Noah was given that I don't think, at least I don't, give very much thought to, and I haven't before this, and that is this: gathering up the provisions. For a year an ark with all these animals, that is a huge endeavor in and of itself. To do that. So God gives him two not impossible but almost overwhelming tasks. Build this huge vessel And get enough provisions for your family and all these animals for at least a year's time on this ark. And so he went about it. Now, the purpose of the ark Was to keep people alive. Right? We determine that. It wasn't a yacht to be out enjoying. It wasn't a leisure vessel. Alright? It wasn't designed to transport goods places The only purpose of the ark was to keep life alive on earth. As the only purpose for his existence. To keep, let me I that that thing, but let me uh put it in this, state it in this way. It was to keep people alive and safe from the judgment of God on man's sin. Do you agree with me? The Ark was designed to keep people and animal life alive when God's judgment of sin failed. Now, what does that remind you of? There's something else that was made of wood that's purpose was to keep people alive when the judgment of God's of God's judgment was in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ, the atonement of Christ And this is nothing new or unique, but the Ark is a tremendous the Bible theological term is type or a tremendous picture or ill exam uh or illustration of the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ Just like those who trusted God and got on that ark, they were safe from God's judgment. Those who trust God and and accept Jesus Christ as Savior are safe from the current judgment on sin, God's ultimate judgment on sin. So the ark is a beautiful picture of the gospel, the atonement of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, here's where I want to bring the two. Maybe we don't think of it this way too much. The ark required a lot of work to build that thing and to get the provisions and make it possible For people to get on there and escape God's judgment, there was a lot of work involved in that. Even so To make the gospel of Jesus Christ available for people to come to and trust Christ requires a lot of work. We cannot think that we can just sit back. Noah, there's no way Noah could just have sit back and say, you know, someday I'm going to get around to building that ark. You know, I hope you know when I see somebody else working on Ark then I'll get around and I'll start doing it too. That thing would have never been built People would have never had the opportunity to escape God's judgment. Noah received the instructions. He got the command. Look at the last part of verse 21. And thus did Noah according to all that God what? Commanded him, last part of the chapter there. And so he got the command and he got to work. And as a result of that hard work, getting the provisions, building the art, people had the opportunity to get on and get saved. Now, very few, only as families, the only ones that got on, but everybody had the opportunity Because he trusted and obeyed God. And just like that, and that's where I thought when I was preparing this, it fits in with what we're doing here. Is, you know, for people in Puerto Rico and Nicaragua and places of what's the Burma, there's a bunch of them going to Burma and Africa and different places. You know what? There's a lot of work has to go in For these people have the opportunity to get on the ark, so to speak. Somebody's got to put the time in. Somebody's got to put the effort in. Somebody's got to work hard at this. And if there's one thing I'm gleaning from this chapter and Noah's involvement, is the incredible amount of work that was necessary. And I'm seeing that how that applies to our responsibility as a church is there is an incredible if we're going to obey God, his command, to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. There is a tremendous amount of work involved. Now, I said all that to say this. The obvious work involved for Noah was building the Ark. That's what first that's what comes to your forefront of your mind. That's what's obvious. You've got to build this thing. But as I studied verse 21, I realized there's other aspects of making salvation possible to the world than just the obvious. The obvious was building the ark. What wasn't so obvious, they're how to get provisions He had to somehow plant, perhaps, and get preserved this food that's going to be preserved for at least a year. And all that that involved, we don't know what technology they had there. I tend to think they had more technology at that period of time than we give them credit for But um I don't know what all technology they had as far as preparing foods for long-term storage and all of that, but he had to figure these things out As far as we know, nobody ever before had to prepare food for longtime storage. There was no snowstorms, there was no storms that we know of at all whatsoever. The growing season was year-round, 12 months. You run out, you just plant more. And it was just there was no need to store food before this time. So he's having to come up with ideas. How am I going to preserve the food? How am I going to store the stuff so it doesn't spoil? How am I going to raise all this food? And so there's a lot involved in this that is not so obvious. Now let me make the application as God impressed my heart. There's a lot more in getting the gospel into all the world than that which is obvious. There's a lot of stuff behind the scenes. There's a lot of secondary, so to speak, activities that have to take place If we're going to actually get stuff like this, literature like this, into the hands of lost people, we've got to figure out a way to raise the funds to assemble it. We've got to figure out a way to uh get somebody learn how to work the press We've got to find a press to work. We've got to get ways to get people up. All these things are part of getting the gospel to the laws Now we can stand up here, preaching, and stand up here. Bless God, we're going to get the gospel into all the world. Praise the Lord. That's the obvious job. There's a lot of other things behind the scenes that have to be done. And that's why I, for one, appreciate ministries like Beacon of Truth. It's not necessarily a missionary going to this city and doing this and knocking on doors and all of that. It's not necessarily building the ark. It's providing provisions. That's pretty good stuff, you know? I'd be a good rep for beacon of truth, wouldn't I? This isn't the building art ministry. That's what the missionary's doing. That's what the preacher on the field's doing. This is getting the provisions. materials to use to make that possible. And so Noah was giving a some obvious responsibilities, but some not so obvious responsibilities. Uh somebody, you know, you get on the field. You've got um brother um and I've been thinking of him uh especially recently with the Nicaragua brother Matt Goens down in Nicaragua You know what? That ministry is booming. God's blessing. Souls are getting saved. They've got an orphanage they've got in the works. They've got an institute he's starting. They're seeing people saved. He's training preachers. They need buildings Now, the obvious responsibility for Matt Goens is preaching the gospel, getting down there, thus saith the Lord, you got to get saved, and door-to-door soul winning, that type of thing. But there's a whole lot else that needs to go on He's got to figure out a way to build buildings to house all this. He needs literature to be able to give out and lessons to be able to teach. And so there's a lot that goes on in the provision aspect of it. Discipling. We need people to translate scriptures There's a reason why there aren't many people translating scriptures. Do you know why that is? Because it's very, very hard. If it was easy, it wouldn't be an issue It's very hard. It's very meticulous. It's an incredibly spiritual thing. And so we'd have that aspect of building, making salvation available. of building the art, so to speak. You have building buildings, training leaders, discipleship. All of that are provisionary aspects of this worldwide effort of making salvation possible. So, God told Noah, build the Ark. You can do that. You have the capabilities, you have the know-how, you have the intelligence. you are able to build the ark. I'm not going to build the ark for you. You can do that. You can get the provisions. You have the capabilities. You're going to have to work hard. You're going to have to sweat, wear yourself out, you're going to have to use your head. But God says, I'm not going to miraculously provide these provisions for you. You're going to have to get them You have to figure out how to store them. You have to figure out all that stuff. You're able, you're capable, you can do that. I'm not doing it for you. Now you can't get all the animals. That's impossible. So I'll do that. I'll do what you cannot do, but you just do what I've told you to do Now, I want to come back, and uh and this isn't the primary point of this, but I want to throw this in because I think it applies here. Come back to 2 Thessalonians, and then I'm going to end Sort of. 2 Thessalonians. If you knew how close I was to the end, you would be on the edge of your seat. Second Thessalonians chapter three and verse ten God did not miraculously provide the food that was going to be needed, the provisions, no doubt clothes and uh hygiene materials and all that. There's a lot involved in this. God said, you need to provide that. Look at 2 Thessalonians chapter 3, come down to verse 10. For even when we were with you, This we commanded you, that if any man would not what? Work, neither should he what? Eat God says, you want anything, you want something to eat on that ark? You better get to work. You've got to provide it. And the whole point is this God expects us to do what he commands us to do. He never commands us to do something we're not capable of doing. One way or another. What we are unable to do, God will take care of. I think I pointed this out recently, but question: can you and I save a soul? No, we can't even save our own soul. Will God save souls without somebody taking the gospel to them? No, somebody's got to take the gospel to them. Nobody has ever been saved without another person somehow being involved one way or another. So God tells us, I want you to take the gospel. You do what I say, you do what I command you, and what I'm commanding you, you're capable of doing. And then I'll save the souls. I'll save the souls. Um question, are there souls in Oakland and area, surrounding areas that need to be saved? Good grief. Surely Is. Will God save them if nobody makes the gospel available to them? No. So God tells you and I we need to go into our area Our community, alright, and do what we can do, what we're capable of doing, and that is sharing how to be saved with people in our community. God says if you do that, then I'll do what you can do. I'll do the same part. Don't you worry about the saving part. You worry about the obeying part. Now there's a real danger. God has blessed us and has directed us. I am no doubt in my mind that God has directed us in this matter of missions and our involvement in missions. There's no doubt about it. Now let me let me throw this danger out. That's the danger. This is the danger. We get so focused on foreign missions, we neglect our neighbors. We neglect going door to door. And so we've got to keep that balance. We want to stay focused, Kazakhstan, Puerto Rico, all the world. But we cannot neglect Mountain Lake Park. We've got to get out. We need to do here what we expect our missionaries to do over Over there. Follow what I'm saying? We cannot neglect our mission field. We've got to do what we need to do. So uh we have the provisions going on. Now a reminder, it was Noah's faith that saved him, right? Noah was saved by grace through faith. It was not his works. But you read through here, there's a lot of work going on. He's working, excuse the expression, his tail off. I mean he is working hard. But that's not what Saving him. That is a result of his salvation. Think about that I put it this way. Noah believed what God said. Noah believed that what God said would happen would really happen. God said there's judgment coming. Everyone's going to die who's not on that ark. Now there was no clouds in the sky. There was nothing visible To indicate that what God told him was going to happen. It was all by faith. He simply believed God said that was going to happen. When he started building the ark, there wasn't water rising up everywhere saying, good night, looks like we're going to be flooded. No, God told him there's going to be a flood, and he acted on what God said. No. Are you with me? Are you following me? His faith in what God said produced A tremendous amount of work on Noah's part. Not because the need was obvious, but because God said this was so. And Noah's faith prompted him to work. Noah's faith produced a tremendous amount of work. And the salvation of human humanity became possible because of his faith but that faith if that didn't produce works would have been dead Follow what I'm saying? His faith saved him, but that saving faith produced a tremendous amount of works. It was the basis of his work His works resulted, his works were the result of believing what God said, not anything he saw. Now we're in a very similar situation. God said that there's judgment coming. He's coming back to judge the world God says that if a person dies without Jesus Christ, they go to hell, spend eternity in the lake of fire. Now I have never seen hell. I've never seen it. I've never talked to anybody, humanly speaking, who has died and has seen hell. I don't I don't know anybody like that. I have nothing to go on the fact that there is a real hell other than the fact that God says it so. Now, that's all Noah had. Nothing more about the flood that he had than you and I have about hell and coming judgment. And yet it prompted in Noah a tremendous amount of work, an almost desperate effort to do what God told him to do. Now, why are we so indifferent? Why would we be so indifferent when it prompted Noah to work so hard Why do we do nothing? We never, figuratively speaking, we never hammer a nail in a board of the ark. Just give out a little gospel tract, maybe? And that's great. Praise the Lord for it But if we're going to get the ark built, we've got to work hard. We've got to get involved in these peripheral things and make all this possible, the provisions. And uh, you know, God, like I said this morning, God's dealing with my heart about this as much as anybody's. But I'll be very honest with you, I feel like we've got to work a whole lot harder than we are. If we're really going to obey God, if we're really going to make a difference, we've got to work really hard. Now that's not to say I don't appreciate what everyone's doing. I do. But you put us up against Noah. I feel like we're sitting on a recliner. You know What I'm saying? So let's ask God to help us. You say, preacher, I don't know what I can do. Do what you can do. God will do what we can't do. Do what he tells us to do. Just trust Trust him, he'll take care of the stuff we can't do. I don't know what how God's dealing with your heart, maybe about personal soul winning, about our own outreach here, our own visitation really needs revival. Missions, giving, getting involved. However, God leads us and directs us. We've got to trust and obey Him. We've got to do this. We've got to. Or people are not going to get saved. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord. Help me, I pray, Lord Be diligent in this matter of obeying your command to make salvation possible to the world. Show us what we can do. Show us clearly what our steps are, what our responsibilities are. Help us to believe you, have faith in you and trust you and obey you. God, we look forward to seeing you do things that we can't do, seeing supernatural things take place when we trust you and obey you. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, you know, God's dealt with my heart. My involvement in reaching the loss for Christ. Whatever God's will is for you in that area. But you say my involvement in reaching the loss for Christ really needs to be stepped up a bit. I need to be more active. I need to be more involved. I need to invest a little more effort and energy And it's a matter of getting the gospel to lost people here in our town and around the world. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me. See this, the reality of it, believe him, and work hard at this matter that he's commanded us. How about it? Any like that by the uplift hand, preacher, pray with me. God bless you, hands all around, my hands raised. God's been dealing with my heart. Doing all I can. It's a constant challenge. Not just building the ark, but doing the other peripheral things that need to be Father, bless our invitation. Lord, as we prepare for Lord's Supper, I ask that you'd search our hearts. God, we could do business here before we come to Lord's Supper, and everything would be clean and right Right and pure between us and you, dear Lord. We can make uh uh just really do business with you tonight. As we ship these literature off, I pray they would go from a church that loves you. It's burden for the lost. Lord, just have your way in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. As Kathy plays the invitation. Why don't you just slip on here to the altar and raise your hand? Why don't you just come and say, God help me in this matter? Maybe you want to come and kneel on an altar and just ask the Lord to search your heart. God, I want to come to the Lord's Supper Clean and pure, trusting you, believing you. Noah believed what God said was true. And it produced tremendous amount of effort and activity on his part serving God, giving the gospel out. He wasn't able to stand before God and have great crowds that he won, but he was able to stand there with obedience. Hard. He did what God said to the best of his ability as hard as he could. I like I was like Oh destroyer um five. Father in heaven, we thank you, Lord, for speaking to our hearts and we pray you'd have your way in our Lives and God, as we come now and gather around your table together as a body of believers, a family of God, if you would just clear our hearts and minds as we stop and reflect on The price that was paid for us to be saved, for us to be a part of a church, have a home in heaven, and uh make this a very special time we ask in Jesus' name. Amen.