Nehemiah then gets word of Jerusalem's people and his his country and the state of the condition and he gets burdened for it. And really chapters one through six is Some of the most exciting parts of the Old Testament is the wall building of Nehemiah. Maybe some of you have read the book of Nehemiah. If you've never read it, please I would encourage you to do that. Go to Nehemiah, read chapters 1 through 6. It's exciting But in chapter 1, just right at the beginning here, Nehemiah gets the words and it he hears about uh his his people. We'll pick it up in verse 3 in the context. And it says, And they said unto me, the remnant that are left of the captivity, there in the province are in great affliction and reproach. So he hears about his people, their suffering, they're being afflicted. And if you heard about your family suffering, you'd want to do something about it. We've heard of those recent floods and and and that's kind of broke our hearts. Maybe maybe you have family there, maybe you don't, but you know, at least there are Americans that are suffering and we want to do something. You know, may maybe some of you heard that if they had a Trump, you know, little sign and they were being neglected and stuff, that's kinda messed up. Uh but you know he hears about all his people being in affliction, their reproach, and then he hears that the wall of Jerusalem is broken down, so they have no safety. There's of course breaches we learn later that they fix up the uh the gates and where there's openings and there's breaches left and and but you know the whole wall's broken down, the gates are over burned with fire, that'd be the the gate the entering and leaving gates and all that kind of thing. So he hears about the wall and the gates and everything, his people and Man, he just can't shake it. He can't get rid of the thought. He can't stop thinking about his people. He can't stop thinking about Jerusalem. He just can't get off his mind. His people, his culture, his his just what he knew growing up. He just can't shake it. Look at verse 4. And it came to pass when I heard these words that I sat down and got on social media and complained to all my buddies, uh talked about it to everybody but but the Lord who actually matters. No. He sat down and wept And mourn certain days. Couldn't shake it. Couldn't get rid of it. Man, we need a Nehemiah. Hey, will there be a teen tonight that'd be in Nehemiah? Just can't shake America. Just can't get really uh the the inner city out of their heart. Can't they can't get Maryland out of their soul, can't get Can't get the Northeast out of their mind. Can't get uh the United States just off their chest, can't get it out of their mind. I mean we need a teenager like this. But Nehemiah just can't shake it. He mourns certain days, he's weeping and uh and mourning over his people and he fasts. Uh I don't think he decided to pass it, he just didn't want to eat. Why can't why am I going to eat a steak and drink some soda when my people are suffering and he wasn't having soda but but you know why why should I eat and drink when my people are suffering when they're just the the the the conditions so bad And it says in and the gates are uh sorry, uh he says uh he prayed before the God of heaven. Go to chapter two, we're just gonna this is all commercial for you, not even the main points yet, but um It says in verse five of chapter two, and I said unto the king, and if it pleased the king, if thy servant have found favor in thy sight, that thou wilt send me into my unto Judah, unto the city of my father's sepulchres That I may build it. So then he he kinda begs the king, he he entreats the king, hey can I can I build this? Uh we know if you've read the story, he's allowed to build the wall, and he goes and he builds it, and the enemy does fight. We're not gonna read those verses, it's later on Uh the enemy laughs at him, makes fun of him, what are you gonna do? And and uh they're like, we're gonna build this wall, we're gonna do whatever whatever, we're not gonna follow you guys. And let's pick it up in some mid-wall building here in chapter six And uh all the enemies in verse one of ch chapter six come at him and try to get him off that wall. And in verse two they want to go in the village in the plain of Onoh, and they want to do a mischief there in verse two. But then pick it up there in verse three He says, and I send messages to them saying, I'm doing a great work so that I cannot come down, why should the work cease whilst I leave it and come down to you? Now, uh let's have a quick word of prayer and we'll get in the message. I'm going to preach a message which I've entitled Reasons I Can't Come Down from the Wall. Reasons I Can't Come Down from the Wall. Let's have a quick word of prayer. Heavenly Father, would you help us tonight, Lord? America's in great need. Jerusalem is still even in great need, but I pray you'd help us to get a burden for America tonight. Would you help us to get a burden for the broken down cities, for the uh the the the the families that need God? Just give us a burden for the United States tonight. And I pray you just just speak to hearts, speak to teenagers, speak to kids Speak to older people. Lord, you just give us a burden tonight in Jesus' name. Amen. Let me take you two years in our plan. You're not a supporting church Some more sporting chorting churches remember this letter. But uh in the second year, we started dealing with some septic floods. Uh we lived in an apartment when I first moved to New York City Uh, you know, y I know I was I was a bad husband and but we moved right into a at a big um uh apartment complex. There's ninety apartments in this thing. Huge, New York City type deal. Uh we were off the lobby which was kinda nice. We weren't like the fifth floor. We were off the lobby which was kinda neat. We didn't y have to use an elevator or uh there was just a couple steps down off the lobby, but you know just I think two or three steps, whatever And it was a nice apartment. But it just so happened that that particular apartment off the lobby was the last on the septic line. So all the ninety apartments came through our pipe and then went out to the sewer and whatever the city city sewer And uh there was one winter where it got really bad. Uh maybe you remember it. It was it was kind of like a blizzard in New York. Maybe it kinda hit here too. I think it hits here no matter what, but uh Uh and so uh but there was a driving ban in New York City and and just everybody's home and they started using the bathroom and then you know we had dealt with it before in a minor way. Our our toilets would bubble And uh and even sometimes the tub would kind of bubble up, but it would be manageable. Even if it spilled out over the toilet, we could mop it up. The threshold was enough to keep it within the bathroom. It was tile. No, it was nasty. We didn't it was smelly. We didn't like it, but it was doable. But during that driving ban it got bad, the ninety apartment started using the bathroom and taking showers and everything and then it just overtook both toilets quickly The tub and then this brown nasty water came out over everywhere, took over the bathroom, came out, uh went into our hallway, flooded our bedroom Uh and it was about almost knee or at least shin height. I mean it was deep water and it flooded our bedroom, flooded our closets, our kids' room. It was Hezekiah as a little kid at the time, I think it was three or four. It was in the second year of the plan. That same weekend Two of her biggest tithing members said they're not coming back to church. I was discouraged. I don't get discouraged really easy. I think I've only gotten discouraged like one or two times in all the ten years Uh I'm just not a discouraging kind of guy. And uh man I was discouraged. I was like, man, what is going on? Like we're getting flooded, it's like knee deep. We got church and I get a couple hours and It's like early in the morning and these guys are coming back to church. Are we doing something wrong here? What's going on? You know? And I was discouraged and then God gave me this message. A little bit different years ago. I repurposed it for traveling, but uh you know, and churches to church, but Um God gave me this message and said, Don't come down from the wall. And I preached it similar. The points are the exact same. I've developed the body more, but uh these were the points God gave me. Let me give you what God gave me ten you know almost ten years ago now. Uh what would be eight years ago. Look at chapter two. Here's reason number one. Here's a reason that Nehemiah, way back in chapter six, said he can't come down. I think he remembered this right back at the beginning. Go to chapter two. And look at verse 17. He's get all the uh get all the workers together, all the Jews and priests and rulers, and the rest that were going to do the work and that did the work. And then there was in seventeen he gets all those guys together and he says he he he says, Then said I unto them, You see the distress that we are in? Uh and he goes, Hey guys, do you see what I'm seeing And I think sometimes when you see a church plan or a missionary, now you may not get a burden from New York City. You may feel the burden, but you may never be called to New York City. You may never have moved to New York City But at least you can feel the burden. But these are people that understood Jerusalem. These are people that are Jews. I mean in verse uh sixteen he says he got the Jews together. These are Jews from Jerusalem And uh they this is their culture, this is their people. It'd be just just like Oakland, uh, Maryland. You know, this is our neighborhood, this is our city. And he goes, Do you see what I'm seeing And sometimes if we're not careful, uh we let the burden stay with the preacher, stay with the pastor, stay with the leadership, and we don't get the burden. Nehemiah said, You see the distress that we are in, and do you see it tonight? Do you see America I don't want to run to application right away, but later on in the verse, in verse seventeen, he said, He sees the trust we're in, how Jerusalem lieth waste. Here's reason number one. I think this is why he didn't stop building the wall and didn't get off just to go talk to those enemies is because Jerusalem lieth waste. I mean I'm not gonna tell you to watch this anything, but all you have to do is turn on the news for five seconds. All you gotta do is just see our culture. All you gotta have to do is walk around at Walmart. All you have to do is work with teenagers. All you have to do is work in ministry. All you have to do is have a job in America, and you'll see the condition of America. People need God. People need churches. Now it's not easy to build churches, it's not easy to be in New York City, and Pastor is correct. It's not easy, but it's a needful thing. We need to see the distress that we are in, how Jerusalem lies in the waste. That is point number one, and we need to recognize this. I I am a excited that some of you have a memory of America that's different. Even the America that I grew up in is different than the America of today. And I'm I'm a nineties kind of kid, uh at least as a teenager, and it was different even in the nineties than it is now. And some of you have uh Generations that you can reflect back on. But you know what? I'm unwilling to live in the past. I'm unwilling to think about the nineties. I'm unwilling to think about the seventies and the fifties and the forties and and any other generation. You know what I want to see? I want to see what we could do now. I want to see what we could do about Jerusalem now. I'm unwilling to let the United States go to the pot, go to the toilet, just because we're neglecting America The world needs the gospel. Kazakhstan needs a we reached a Kazakhstan lady, led her to the Lord, got her baptized. She attended church faithfully in her church. Kazakhstan needs the Lord. Everybody needs the Lord. But America needs the Lord. Jerusalem lies away. Jerusalem is our neighborhood, is our town, is our city. Jerusalem lies in waste. Somebody once said we've arrived at a crisis in the church. We should awaken a deep feeling in every heart. We've turned for away from God. We've grievously backson. We've fallen in open sins. We've brought dishonor on religion And he said, And God is now ready to come out of judgment against us, and he's chastening us, he's already chastening us with his sore displeasure. It sounds like it was said today or you know maybe the last week It was said in 1846 by Reverend Bidwell. Well, if God was already judging that generation in 1846, what would he say today? What would he say in 2024? I don't really know about all that, but I I say we're a little bit worse off than eighteen uh ninety-six or whenever that was, eighteen forty-six, uh when Reverend Bidwell uh was perceiving the culture of that time We have turned our backs on God. In in Nehemiah's day, the wall was broken down. Uh the people of God were reproached to the enemies of God. He was concerned about the safety of the city, concerned about rebuilding the wall and the breaches left therein, uh of where the the the the gates were and There was piles of rubble that he was concerned about, and he wanted to do something about it because he recognized Jerusalem's life in waste. The work of God was destroyed. The worship of God was in ruins. There was no temple that was uh that was set up properly, and the wall of God was broken down. And he said, I'm going to do something about it. You know what we need We need someone today that will say, I want to do something about it. I want to get behind a church planner. Maybe God's leading you to be a church planner. Maybe he's impressing upon you for ministry or getting behind a U. S. church planner. Maybe there's a city you're burden for. I I love how your church took on a country. Uh maybe we should take on a city. Maybe we should take on a state. Maybe we should take on an uh an inner city or a major city that we're burdened for that. You know what? You know, we talk about this city all the time, or let's just throw out a few names, let's say Chicago or Miami or Houston or Dallas or New even New York City or Philly. But could we not even adopt a city and say, well, you know what, let's do more in Philly. Let's do Some mission trips over to Philly and see what we can do. Maybe let's see what churches are there. That was the first thing he told the his guys. He got them all down. He said there's going to be a reason. It's going to get sweaty. You're going to hit your thumb. You're going to start bleeding because you're working here. But there's a reason we're doing this. There's a reason we're going to beat the sun and build this wall Because Jerusalem lieth waste. But not only is that the reason I think that he didn't come down and give in to the enemy, but uh look at chapter six now. We're going to look at reason number two. Reason number two. We skipped over verse one. Now let's read verse one. It says in chapter six, verse one, Now it came to pass that when Sebal and Tobai and Gesh of the Arabian and the rest of our enemies heard that I build the wall. I don't like that. You know, I really don't like that. That that when we start doing something for God that the enemies like are are are attentive to that, you know It's in God's word, we'll read it, we believe it. But I don't like that, Pastor, when we start doing something that that our enemies hear about it. Now they they laughed at the beginning, they were against them at the beginning. Uh but they fight right here and they hear what we're doing. You know, you know, it's funny, you you do a building project and there's all these all these laws you never knew about, that you were supposed to know that You know, even though you broke ground and it seemed like you had the permit for it well, I mean there's a there's a little marsh land there. You gotta deal with that like a little caterpillar that lives there because You know, he's more protected than a US citizen. And oh you gotta run this new line. Well, now you need an elevator, now you need some steps or now you need like a like a you know a real trail ramp, you know, you didn't need before and you know, but all these crazy things when we do something for God, the enemy's fighting. So he starts building that wall, and the rest of their enemies heard. They build the wall, and then there was no breach up there, and all there's an opening there. There's a weakness there. By the way, the enemy always comes When there's a weakness, when there's an opening, it's always that way. It's never when we're pockets are filled with money that we're living high all uh you know high on God. You know, He's answered all our prayers and we got everything we need and And he's supplied all of our our our needs and wants. And we're living spiritually just at the top of the mountain, it's never then, it's usually in the valley, it's usually when there's a hole, usually when there's a breach And uh there was a time he said he was very upfront. I I had not set up the doors upon the gates, I didn't complete it yet, I didn't finish it yet, and that's when the enemy wanted to come So here's point number two. The reason he didn't come down from the wall is because the enemy is fighting. We don't give in to the enemy. Hey last time I checked, we don't give into the fiery darts. We don't give in to that roaring lion seeking whom we may devour. We don't give in to him. He doesn't tell us what to do. He's not our leader. He's not our influence. No matter how much he bites and throws darts our way and And whatever he may do and prowl around, just let him be, let him do what he's gonna do. We're not gonna come down from the wall. And in verse two, it says that Sabal and Geshep sent to me, saying, Come, let us meet together in some of the villages in the plain of Onoh, but they thought to do me mischief. Now a quick reading you might think, well, okay, mischief, it's kinda like he's sort of trying to be mischievous or do some like little trickery here, but some believe it was to get him off the wall to kill him. Now often God's enemies du do that. They it's it's not just uh not just to be trickery, but trickery to kill. I mean, you know, the the the subtle serpent, you know Even tempted Adam and Eve. He wanted to kill Adam and Eve. He was the really the end goal was to kill them. Oh, you're not going to really die. You take that fruit. You know, take that so i in the back of his mind so you can die. He knew what God said. Adam knew what God said. Of course, Eve was deceived Uh but you know Eve just you know to took of that she was deceived, thought it would be good for the good, but yet it killed them spiritually and physically. But here the enemy. Yeah, let's get off that wall, just stop working, just stop doing that thing for God and and of course in our context he did it. He didn't come down to the wall. Now mischief it's interesting in the Hebrew. Now it does mean what it means, you know mischievous and to do uh to do trickery, but all it's also to do mischievousness to lead to misery or give pain or or to be that like thorn in that flesh. And that's really what the enemy was trying to do, just trying to get at them, to get them down, to destroy them. And the enemy wants to do that when we do anything for God You know, by the way, you know, usually those big Sundays are our d toughest weeks before. You know, uh families get sick, kids don't say they won't don't want to come. The enemy distracts, deters, divides, destroys, and damages the work of God, but we don't give in to the enemy. You know, what would America look like if that when our soldiers fought for our freedoms they ran like cowards? What if in our wars that our our soldiers fought and won that they not were not courageous and they were not bold, they were not uh they weren't confident in in our in in what they stood for, our freedoms, and they were cowards. That's not history, that's not true. But what would we be like? We probably wouldn't even be speaking English. We probably wouldn't even be America So why is it that in the Christian world we we kind of expect our our soldiers to be brave and courageous and stand up for our freedoms and fight for our freedoms? And then in the Christian world We are cowards. We run when the enemy talks. We run when the we hear the message of the enemy. When we hear the laughter of the enemy, when we hear uh them fighting against what we're doing. That's a reason to not stop what we're doing Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. We don't have to fear what's in the world. We don't have to fear the enemy that thou we don't have to fear the world, the devil, or the flesh We uh we you know uh Paul said, I beat my flesh into subjection. I I I don't give into the world, I'll give it to Satan, I'm gonna do something for God, no matter what the enemy may do. So we don't give in just because the enemy is fighting. Reason number two The enemy's always gonna fight. They're gonna flood us at every corner. They're gonna they're gonna touch our our family with sickness. They're gonna uh cause COVID's times of millions. It's just it's all gonna come our way. We we need to just brace ourselves. It's just it's just a fact of life. We don't give in to the enemy. We don't give aid to the enemy Satan always fights the Christian. He fought them here in Nehemiah. He fought them back in Genesis. He'll fight them in the Great Tribulation, in Revelation, and all through the books of Book of Revelation, in the future, he fights the church now. He he he's always fighting. The enemy is always fighting, and we don't give in to the enemy tonight But not only did he not come down from the wall because Jerusalem was was uh was in waste, was it lies in waste, and not only because the enemy was fighting, did he say, you know, I'm not going to give in to that. But there's a thr third reason, it's found here also in chapter six. Look at verse three. He says here in verse 3, and I sent messengers of them saying, I'm doing a great work. So that I cannot come down. Why should the work cease whilst I leave and come down to you? Thirdly and lastly, the reason I think he didn't come down is really just literally what he said as he sent those messengers with this message. He said, I'm doing a great work. Point number three, if you're a note taker, I'm doing a great work. I didn't alliterate it. I alliterated Sunday school. Uh and I think even junior church today, children's church, but I didn't alliterate tonight because this is what God gave me ten years ago or eight years ago. Uh but I'm doing a great work Now there's a lot we could say about this work. But he recognized the bigness of the task. He recognized the need that was before him. He recognized why he was up there. We forget why we're up there I if if if I could say if I could use myself personally and we're not we're not as preachers we're not uh really supposed to do this too often but because there's a day of will. That that's why we do what we do. That's why we knock doors, that's why we reach people Because there's Dave Wolfs out there, there's there's there's pastors out there, there's missionaries out there, there's young people, there's families that just need God. There there's some solid Christian families, they're not a Christian yet I mean they're sinning, they're full of their sin, they're sinners that are sinning, and they're living life outside of God, but they need God out there. Hey, let's get a burden for Oakland, let's get a burden for Maryland, let's get a burden for our neighbors, let's get a burden for our ne For Hunt Let's get a burden for down the street. Let's get a burden for the neighbor we don't like that much. Let's get a burden for Walmart and all the people at work there. Let's get a burden for the uh the the grocery stores and the and the restaurants we go to. Let's get a burden for these people. These are real people that need a real God in their life. Let's get a burden for it. He said, I'm doing a great work. Now it said that in verse four, that he said it four times. I've already said it twice. He said, I'm doing a great work. I cannot come down. I just said it three times. Did I tell you that he said it four times? He didn't repeat himself. He had to clear himself. He had to make sure those messengers made sure that the enemy heard what he was saying because he wanted to be very clear. He said, I'm doing a great work. I cannot come down. Why should the work cease? Why should I stop the work It comes down to you. Who are you for me to stop the work that I'm doing, the greater work that I'm doing, and going on to the lesser work of what you want me to do? Now, if we're not careful All over social media. I don't really have a lot of it these days. I I dropped it during the latheest cancer and uh so I don't really have much I in fact I I deleted and deactivated I didn't just like pause it. I I got rid of it. You know, and I I didn't have X or Twitter. I don't have really a lot of that. But when I did have it, uh, you know, if we're not careful, a lot of a lot of A lot of oh no speech, a lot of village speak happens on Facebook. I just saw a lot of that to where where uh and use this from people that really do nothing for God and yet they have a lot to say about God and what he's doing and what others are doing And a lot of that talk is is right plastered in front of our face. And no sane person walks into a room as soon as they get up and has just about a million people or a thousand people yelling at them Yeah, we do that on our phone. We look at that and everyone's yelling and a lot sometimes that's the messages of the enemy. Sometimes that's ones that want to do me harm. Sometimes that's a That's a village of Ono in the that's a village down in the plain of Ono. And it looks beautiful. It's in the plain. It's a almost sounds like a Hallmark movie. It's in the village down the plain of Ono. Not on a hot hot wall where you gotta work and and build wall and place block and mortar and sweat and uh and just all that involved in just work. You know, you can go down and have a coffee shop and have a conversation, sit on a stool and discuss the ministry But that's not God's work. That's not what God's called us to do. That's not what uh uh Nehemiah was called to do. He sent him s four times after this sword, and I answered them after the same manner. He said, I'm doing a great work. I'm not gonna come down to you guys, I'm not gonna give in to you. And um, you know, you know, even though I like the way that's phrased, I'm doing a great work, I think that it's the bigness of the task that he was really referencing. It's a it's a great work, it's a it's a big task. And really, I mean to build a wall around a city, it is a big thing And um and uh you know I'm not an expert. I've never actually built a retaining wall, so I'm speaking now, I'm going out on a limb here, I've I've do not have this experience. I've I've done woodworking, but I've never done block well uh building or even retaining wall Uh I kind of understand the concept. You gotta level the ground with sand or gravel and then you gotta place the block, make sure it's lined up and level, and some of that stuff, but But I I've never personally done it. I've just kind of researched it for for preparation of the message and I kinda looked at it and and and some of my family members have built these things. So I kind of watched them, but I never did it personally. And uh I don't know the ins and outs of all the special special trades when it comes to wall building. You know, the sp you know uh I I don't know how good I am at leveling a wall. I've never done it And uh you know, at the at the very least I I put block down for my grill. I put pavers down and leveled that out, and that's that's the extent of me leveling out ground for something. And that that's all I've done. But I do know really after that first block is laid and get that all level and everything, that cornerstone or first stone, you then it's just a labor job and you just To get that done, you just block by block, block by block, and you kind of just need guys putting those blocks down and and by and large that happened. And I know you may need to level every block and and everything, but but I want to break it down to just block by block. So So how do we get a a wall built? Well, block by block. Yes there's special trades to it. Yes there's some positions that need some craftsmen and some uh some extra knowledge for s for certain the for certain of the detail work, but uh a lot of it is just block by block. Well how do you build churches now? Let's apply it now to this big thing of church and getting churches planted, getting churches How do you do it? How do you reach a whole city? How do you reach an urban area? Soul by soul, brick by brick, person by person. Teenager by teenager, you reach this teenager, you you you you pour your life in them, you go visit 'em, you you go you invite them to church, you take him out to eat, you get you play basketball with them, or whatever you Whatever your interests are. You know, you do you do what he's doing. You reach him and you truly love him. You don't do it to be fake. You just you reach that teenager. Then you then you reach another one. Then you reach another one. You just do it soul by soul. That's really what it breaks down to tonight Now, as I say these things, the soul winner in the church, this is a Bible-time church, you guys know what outreach looks like. We are a Bible-time church. I know what that looks like. I've done it all across America And the soul winner right now is Burden. You know, I've it's gotten into winter time, I've been a little lazy, I need to get out there. But you know what the sad reality is, Pastor, and youth pastor? Uh I don't uh know your name very well. I very apologize for that. I I I I like to rattle it off. But um Be n but you know what what I'm burdened for? The guy in the church, the person in the church that's never done it. You know you know the biggest thing I remember about the guy that knocks on my door? I don't remember the track. Sometimes we we we just so Focus on the graphic and how sharp it looks and the wording. I don't for the life of me, I don't remember the track that he used. I don't remember what it said I don't remember who made the track. I don't even remember what it looked like or even the color. I vaguely even remember what he handed me. Even the biggest takeaway was was not It wasn't the thing I don't remember even how he talked to me. I don't remember what he said to me exactly. I don't remember how what illustrations he used. The biggest thing I remember, the one that is just in my mind, is man, this guy really cares about me Then this guy cares about me more than I than I've ever seen before. This guy and it's not fake. I mean I've seen many fake before, I've seen hypocrites, but then this guy really likes me and and he cares about me. You know, I'm gonna go to his church just because He seems to really care and I eventually got saved because I just went to that church. I think we need to get our care back. And I don't know why you've never done it Because I'm grateful that somebody did it for me. And maybe you've never been the result of door knocking. Maybe you've never been the result of someone working with you and leading to the Lord. But But why have you never done it? I don't know why you've never done it. The soul winner is already burdened. You're going to be burdened. You're going to respond accordingly because you do, because you're a soul winner. It's in your heart. But for some their heart's already cold They just have never done it. And I don't know how to convince you. I don't even know how to preach it to convince you it to close the message out. But let me tell you, it's a great work It's a big task and we need your jersey on. We need you we need we need you to lace up. We need you to put to put the uniform on and get out there and serve the Lord. My favorite kid song But I sing in Judah churches all across, and I sang in Bible time, is I'm I'm in the Lord's army. And we may we never me we may never serve our country, but we're all in God's army. Let's put the uniform on Yeah, some of you don't have your uniform on. We are in a war time and it's very evident if you do put it on the uniform and start fighting, you'll see it. And we need you. We need you out there. We're we're getting brothers and sisters that are shot in the face There's some casualties. There's young guys that I went to school with that just think that the world has more to offer than Jesus does, and they go after money and not the ministry. And it and that breaks my heart. People get shot in the face, I mean spiritually speaking, and then and body shots, losing limbs. And we need you. We need you. Let's go ahead and close in prayer. Heavenly Father, would you help us tonight with every head bowed and every eye closed Let me ask you two important questions as we close. We all know to come down from the wall. Maybe you've come down from the wall. Maybe you are discouraged. Maybe you have gone lax in your soul winning. Maybe you've lost your heart Maybe you've lost your your burden for for the loss and and for people you work with and and and I want you to get that back because I I know I I'm the result of that. I know what a benefit it is when there's a soul winner that's fired up With every head bowed, neighborhood closed, who would say, Pastor, would you pray for me? Pastor Dave, I need to get more involved in just reaching out to my neighbors, my co-workers, the soul winning of the church. I just need to be more active. in my outreach, God showed me that and I need to I need to respond. Anybody like that, God spoke to you about soul winning and evangelizing. You put your hands down. Now I'm going to ask that question as I I don't even know how to target the one who's never done it because really it's hard I I I don't know. Maybe you think that you're nervous or in speaking to people, but I will say that sometimes people need a person just like you. They may need that quiet person that maybe doesn't really say it all correctly. Maybe they need to see you make a mistake. Maybe they need to see a Christian that just not has it all if doesn't have it all put together, that doesn't say it all right. says it the way that that they know how and they just try to quote that verse and they say it struggles to that verse and and that could have the greatest impact on that person and and by and large just care about people and that goes a long way too but this now is for the person who has never done it in your entire Christian life. You've never one time spoke the gospel to somebody. You've never seen someone uh led to the Lord, and you say, you know, Pastor David, I'm gonna I'm gonna challenge myself in the next six months to when missions conference comes I'm going to have a person in church that I invited or here. I was able to see them led to the Lord, but it's because I got involved in this, but I want to see God use me. Anybody want to take that challenge for the next six months? By by missions conference, I want to see someone in church because of me, I was able to speak to them. Anybody like that? I see that hand? Now this is specifically for the one who's never done it. But I know some of you were eager to raise your hand, but praise the Lord for you as well. But I do uh I do suspect there was a few that maybe have never done it, as far as I can tell. But let's let's go ahead and close in prayer. Heavenly Father, thank you for the hands that went up for different things And Lord Oakland needs the Lord. Maryland definitely needs the Lord. And I pray you just give us a burden. May Mountain Lake Baptist Church never lose its soul-winning fire. May may it never l lose its outreach uh and its burden for the community. And I pray you just give us a burden. As Nehemiah said uh you know Jerusalem life in ways hey guys you see that, you see why we're doing this and we're gonna do this and then he gets up there the enemy fights and he says we're not gonna give in to the enemy, we're gonna stay up here, we're not gonna come down to you guys and then he said, 'cause we're doing a great work. We're we gotta stay up here. It's a great work what we're doing. And the local churches, one of the greatest works we can be involved in. And I pray just give us that burden tonight. Help us to see America is in great need. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.