And uh verse number 58, I'd like for us to read it together in unison, if you would. The last verse there of this great chapter, 1 Corinthians 15. Notice what the Bible says there. Let's read it together. Ready? Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as ye know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. I simply entitled the message Steadfast and Unmovable. I have another alternate title. I've given it this: A North Star Christian. And I'll explain what I mean by that title here in a little bit. Let's pray together. Father, I ask your blessing now on our time in your word. I pray that you would fill me. With your Holy Spirit is my great desire at this moment. Lord, I yield my will to you as best I can. I present my body anew, and I pray that I would simply be a conduit, Lord, that you would speak your word through me to each of our hearts. And Lord help us when we're confronted with your word to make the right decisions, to trust you and obey you, have faith in you and let you lead and direct us in our lives. And uh bless this hour I ask now in Jesus' name. Amen. I mentioned chapter four in 1 Corinthians, and uh I'll notice verse number two, if you would come back there. This is a parallel passage, I believe. To 1 Corinthians 15, 58, chapter 4, and verse number 2. Now I would highly recommend this be a verse that would be underscored in your Bibles, if it's not already Chapter 4, 1 Corinthians, and verse number 2. Notice what the Bible says here. Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. Again, in Galatians chapter 6 and verse 9, the Bible says this: Let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. And when he says faint not there, that term has the idea of growing tired of something and walking away from it He says, We will reap if we faint not. Let us not be weary in well-doing. Chapter 4, 1 Corinthians, it's required of stewards, a man be found faithful. Chapter 15, verse 58, be ye steadfast, unmovable. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever gotten involved in something? Whatever it may be, you've gotten involved in it, and after a period of time, you lost interest and you abandon it. Anybody give them a witness? You ever have anything like that? Remember when we first moved here, Lonnie, we were here, we came in September, right at the beginning of winter time, and um Uh and uh Lonnie Lewis was winner and everything froze up, lakes and everything. Lonnie Lewis called me and says, hey you want to go ice fishing. Remember that, Lonnie? He's gonna take me ice fishing out on the lake And so I said, yeah, I really enjoy fishing. I love it. And I thought this everything's frozen. There's nothing to do. Uh we'll go ice fishing. So I went out with Lonnie Lewis ice fishing. I think we went once or twice or went a couple different places And uh I got all geared up about ice fishing. I got my little ice fishing thing and all that. After about four times, that was the most boring thing I've ever done in my life. And uh never caught a fish and um sat out there we were sitting I don't know if he remembers this um but we're sitting there out in Deep Creek Lake at this little hole. It was blowing hundred mile an hour winds And it was at least forty below. I'm all bundled up sitting on a five gallon bucket turned upside down and uh jigging this little thing. And uh we're sitting there and uh also I heard this And I looked at Lonnie and he's just having a blast, pissing away. I said, What was that sound? He goes, Oh it's just the ice cracking. Oh, that's all. And uh needless to say, I lost interest in ice fishing And uh I walked away from it and uh I wasn't steadfast and unmovable in my ice fishing endeavor. Uh it it could be anything. Maybe gardening. How many people here ever got stirred up about April? You're all fired up. Garden, I'm gonna have the greatest garden ever. You got everything I don't want. August come by. And uh weeds all grown up everywhere, you know, things or tomatoes rotting on. Can I get a witness? Anybody here admit that Yeah, I get so geared up man I start growing them in the house and by the time uh the first frost is o the last frost is over, middle of June, uh my plants are that big in the house, you know And then uh but we lose interest in things. Maybe exercising. Come on now, be honest. How many folks in January ever started out saying this is the year I'm gonna be buffed I'm going to be in shape. I'm going to exercise every day. I'm going to eat right. And do anybody ever decide that? Get all wound up. You're fired up. Uh about January 10th. Potato chips. Soda pop. We have had a a very expensive, very nice treadmill for the last ten years. I mean it is that thing is I mean it's top of the line, it's Cadillac You can do everything on that thing. And uh you can hang clothes on that thing just beautifully. It is just nice as it can be. My point is that sometimes we get stirred up about something and before long or over a period of time we begin to lose interest And sometimes we walk away from it. And here's the sad thing. What's true about some of those incidental stuff that we laughed about too often is true in the Christian life. We're stirred up, we start out strong, uh, you know, we're all geared up, this is gonna be it. But for whatever reason, maybe over a period of time or some things happen or whatever, we lose interest in that And we end up falling away and walking away from it. If you would, turn with me, and we're going to look at a number of verses this morning, but turn with me to Mark chapter 4. Mark chapter 4. This is a parable given here. A major portion of this chapter is the Lord first giving the parable and then explaining the parable of a sower Sowing seed. And I think most of us are probably familiar with this incident, this story the Lord told. But I want us to look at the application of this parable and with the with this in mind About losing interest, not remaining faithful. Look with me, beginning in verse number 14, Mark chapter 4, verse number 14. Now this is the Lord explaining to the disciples this the parable he just told. He's coming back, he's going over it with commentary, really. The shower showeth the word. So he's saying. Well, Macy show uh made her presence known. Amen. I like babies in church. All right. The sower soweth the word. So the Lord t ex explains here, we find first off that he's talking about Getting the Word of God out to people, sowing the Word of God, the gospel you can say. Verse 15. And these are they by the wayside. So some of this seed fell on the wayside. And he says, where the word is sown But when they have heard, Satan cometh immediately and taketh away the word that was sown in their hearts. So he says, some people Christian, a soul winner, preacher, somebody is going out and sharing the gospel with people. It's like sowing a seed. He says some of it people they get it, they hear it But it never registers. Satan has his way and it never has any effect on them. It just goes in one ear, out the other, basically. Then he says, verse 16, and these are they likewise, which are sown on stony ground. Who, when they have heard the word, immediately receive it with gladness. Look at this. And have no root in themselves. And so endure, what's the next few words say? But for a time. Oh, they did good for a while. Oh, they're stirred up for a time, but when affliction afterward affliction Our persecution ariseth for the word's sake, and immediately they are offended. I notice that word when doesn't say if. But when affliction, persecution comes, I've seen it many times. Some of you have seen it also. Somebody gets saved, somebody gets involved in a ministry, somebody says, yeah, I want to do that. I want to uh I'm excited about this, whatever it may be. I've seen it with uh fellows getting in the ministry. Yeah, I want to be a preacher, I want to be a pastor, and they get in there and they're all stirred up and everything. But when afflictions or persecution come Suddenly that interest is gone. So listen, nowhere does the Bible tell us it's easy to live for God. Nowhere does the Bible tell us it's easy to serve God. It doesn't say if affliction and persecution come, it says it's going to happen. There is a price to be paid. If I'm going to live for God, if I'm going to please God, if I'm going to have his blessings and be faithful to the Lord. So he says, some of these folks, oh, they received it. They're stirred up. Amen. But boy, a little opposition came, a little difficulty, a little challenge, and suddenly they lose interest. Now read on. He says, um Have no root in themselves, they endure for time, afterward, uh they're offended. Look at verse 18. And these are they which are sown among thorns. Such as hear the word, I mean they got it. Here we have the same thing. They get the word of God, they're stirred up, maybe they get a ministry or whatever. I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna take the bus round, I'm gonna take a class, I'm gonna take this, I'm going soul winning. Boy, they're stirred up, but look at this. But the cares of this world, verse 19, the deceitfulness of riches, the lusts of other things, all enter in and choke the word And it becometh fruit uh becometh unfruitful. What happens? They start out, they're gung-ho, gear, uh, they're going on, this is what I'm doing. But all of a sudden there's a little distraction over here, sudden there's a little up little uh fun opportunity here, and something there, something here, something that, and draws them away. From serving the w serving God and trusting God and living for Him. And next thing you know, they're unfruitful. Nothing. They did not remain steadfast. They did not remain unmovable. They were not faithful. But they get lost track. Now let's look at the last one. Verse 20. And these, this fourth batch, are they which are sown in good ground. Such as hear the word of God and receive it and bringeth forth fruit, some thirtyfold, some sixty, some a hundred. I I have a little garden. I enjoy working in it. And believe it or not, there's no weeds in it, as of yesterday afternoon. There's no weeds in my little garden. And uh my tomato plants are coming up, green beans and and peppers And um I got one sunflower seed coming up. And uh all those things, I'm trying to think why I'm telling you about this. Um uh my little garden, you know what I found out works best when you plant oh plant It's best if the scene stays right there in the ground where you put it. Anybody ever notice that? Well, I think I'll move this seed over here. And you dig it up, well, I'll move it over there. You dig it up over here. Or a chipmunk comes along, digs it up, and buries it in the flower pot. You know. I found out that those plants grow best when they stay right foot where I put them. They remain faithful, they remain steadfast, unmovable, they stay there, and boy they grow up And to become fruitful. That's what God's saying to us. God's saying, you need to be faithful. You need to be in our path in our passage. In our passage of scripture, come back to chapter 15. Boy, chapter 15 of 1 Corinthians is a tremendous, tremendous chapter. It is significant, and I understand all scriptures given by inspiration, all of it's profitable. I understand that. But chapter 15 is a very significant portion of scripture. In chapter 15 of 1 Corinthians, Paul goes to great lengths. To explain, first of all, the historical proof of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Verse 1 through 11, he explains what the gospel is. And then he takes time and explains, listen, Jesus Christ did literally raise from the dead. Physically, literally, came out of that grave alive to live forevermore. He says, we've got witnesses. And he goes through and he lists a number of names of people that saw Jesus with their very own eyes alive after his crucifixion. The alive came up out of the grave, and he says, over 500 people. I see Jesus Christ. So he goes to great length in establishing the historical proof of Jesus' resurrection. Then verse 12 all the way down through verse 57, in a sense, he is giving the doctrinal importance. Of Jesus Christ being raised from the dead. And uh uh it is important to understand that Jesus did rise from the dead Him just dying on the cross and being dead and dead forevermore is not going to save our soul. He needs to rise again from the grave. To stand at the right hand of the Father, make intercession for us. Rising, he justifies us. And Paul goes and takes a A good portion of this book and uh explains the doctrinal importance of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. How that applies to us that because Christ rose from the dead, those of us who are in Christ, we will also rise from the grave, our bodies will be resurrected. And then he ties in with that, the second coming of Jesus Christ, how that at the resurrection uh we will our bodies will be transformed, that which is corruptible will put on incorruption, that which is mortal will put on immortality. And he explains all this in a doctrinal setting The fact that Jesus is alive, he's coming back again, those of us that know Him as Savior will be raised from our bodies will be raised from the grave and will meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Isn't that great? Man, what a portion of scripture. And he goes to great lengths uh to explain this in the the historical proof of the resurrection, the doctrinal significance and how it uh it impacts our future and why this is important to understand. Then you get to verse 58 And you have classic Paul behavior. Look at verse 58, our passage for this morning, and notice the first word. What's the first word? Therefore. Now keep in mind, he's just taking fifty-seven verses Historical evidence of resurrection of Jesus Christ, the doctrinal significance, how that will impact us and our future as the Lord comes back. And then he says, therefore. Now you've heard this said, I've said it myself, you've probably heard others. Anytime you see the word therefore, you always want to look and see what it's there for. What Paul is saying is, because of all that's been said in the previous 57 verses, because of this truth. That Jesus is alive, coming again, we will be raised, meet him, and be transformed. Because of all of that, therefore, because that's true. These following things need to be in place. Therefore, because of the facts and doctrinal truths given throughout chapter 15 We should do these following things. Be steadfast, be unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord Because Jesus literally rose again, and we're going to face him again someday, therefore, we should be steadfast, unmovable. Always abounding in the work of the Lord. Because we're going to rise from the dead and face the Lord, we should be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. He gives the doctrinal truth, the theological truth, then he gives personal application. That is characteristic of Paul throughout all his writings Ephesians, you see it in Ephesians, you see it in Romans, the first eleven chapters are doctrine, doctrine, doctrine. The last several chapters, five, six chapters, are practical. Because of these things are true. Listen, we should never be satisfied with simply knowing Bible facts We should always have those Bible facts in such receive these Bible truths in such a way that it affects how I live. Amen or not? Should affect the way I live. I've been in churches. When I was traveling in evangelism, I'd get in some churches, brother, they were fundamental to the T. They had their doctrines down straight. I mean every possible Bible teaching. They had it down straight as can be. And uh just uh I mean they were fundamentalists to the T. And by the way, that's good. We ought to be straight. But that's all they had. They didn't live it. They were dead as to be They were proud, arrogant, uninterested, had little or no impact on their community for the gospel, but brother, they had their doctrine straight. That is as unscriptural as being liberal, I think. God gives us theological truth, doctrinal truth, so that it will impact how we live Paul says, resurrection, second coming, you'll be raised, transformed, will be glorified. Therefore, this is how we ought to react to that This is how we ought to live. Now there's another side to that. I know churches and folks that um boy they want to live for God. They want the la therefore part, but they're not interested in the doctrine part. And so they're out there and they're operating and trying to live for God and serve God, but they have no biblical basis. It just becomes loose wildfire. And there's no guidelines, no principles for living for God. It's just, well, uh I had a gal tell me years ago, and I mentioned this all over the years, a gal tell me years ago, right down front here, after church service, I preach something And uh it struck a nerve, or whatever she came up and she said, Pastor Lederman, as long as I love God, it doesn't matter what I do. I said that doesn't even make sense. Apply that to any other area of life, it doesn't work. That is trying to have application without any doctrine. Yes, I should love God, but it needs to be according to truth. Amen? There needs to be some principles. And so Paul is written by the way, I don't mean to be offensive, I don't mean to hurt anybody or upset anybody, but that's what modern-day tongues movement is. It's trying to apply some Bible words and some Bible events without really having a doctrinal basis for it. I don't know how many folks I've had over the years. And one fellow in particular I'm thinking of, uh one of our church folk brought him in and says, uh he's got questions about tongues. I said, bring them in. We sat down and and we sat there and he says, you know, I don't know, uh there's tongues, I'm trying to figure it out. I wanna I want to speak in tongues, but I'm not sure about it in my church uh, you know, speaks in tongues and says, so-and-so here's been telling me that it's not right, it's not Bible. They said, I'd like to hear what you have to say. I took my it wasn't anything me. I simply opened my Bible, Acts chapter 2, and went down through there a few verses, and he says, All right, I've seen enough. This is what they're doing isn't right He goes, I see exactly what tongues is. It's a supernatural uh ability to speak a language that God gave for a specific period of time And uh he as long and when he saw the doctrine behind it, then it all made sense and it fit. You follow what I'm saying? So that's what Paul does. He gives the teaching, the very thorough scriptural teaching, then he says, all right, because of that, this is how we should then live. Because the Lord rose from the dead and is coming again, here's my real quick outline. Number one, I put this down. Because the Lord rose from the dead. He's coming again. Those of us that know Christ will be raised. We're going to meet him, be with him, be glorified. Therefore, we should, number one, be submissive. Be submissive to the Lord. There is a very dangerous characteristic of modern Christianity And that is this: there is little or no submission to the Lord. In other words, I can live my life my way. I'm saved, I can do whatever I want, and little or no thought as to God's will for my life I just want to do my thing. I can serve the Lord however I want. And no submission to God. I can worship God my own way. With little regard as to God's instructions. God not only tells us what we should do, He tells us how we should do it. And so we need to begin. If I'm going to be steadfast and unmovable, if I'm going to be faithful and abounding in the work of the Lord, if I'm going to fulfill God's will for my life, I must first submit to His will for my life. I cannot be steadfast and unmovable if I'm not submissive to the will of God. I said a moment ago there's a dangerous trend, dangerous characteristic of modern Christianity, and that is this I'll be a Christian. I'm going to live however I think a Christian should live. I'm going to serve God however I want to serve God. I'm going to worship however I think it's cool to worship. with little or no regard to what God says or what God's instructions are or what God's will is. That is not biblical Christianity. Biblical Christianity is this I'm talking about Christian life, living the Christian life. Biblical Christian life is this. Die to sell and live for Christ. That's biblical Christianity. Um, not my will, but thy will be done. And you don't hear that in Christianity much today, not in modern Christianity. It's I'll serve God my way. I'll live for God my way. I'll worship God my way. No, no, no. I like what George Mueller. How many people recognize the name George Mueller? Great preacher back in London, years come by, the children's home, powerful man of prayer. You ought to read his biography. What a great, great testimony of God's powerful answer to prayer Somebody asked Brother George Mueller. They said you've had victory in your Christian life. You had tremendous influence for the cause of Christ. You've had a uh tremendous testimony Of what God can do in response to earnest prayer. And somebody said, Brother Mueller, what is the answer to the victory you've seen and the blessings of God in your life? This was his answer. He says, There came a day When George Mueller died. And folks that were there when they saw him make this statement, they said that as he spoke, he squatted down lower and lower. Said there came a day when George Mueller died. Died to my own will. Died to my own desires. Died to my own plans. And it became, and I yielded to the Lord's will, the Lord's desires, the Lord's plans for my life What a testimony to biblical Christianity. Christ has died for me. He suffered hell in my place. He's given me eternal life. He's freely forgiven me. He's given me a home in heaven. The least thing I can do is simply die to self and yield myself and my will to him. Submit to his will and plan for my life. I like the way John the Baptist put it. He must increase, and I must what? Decrease. Paul said, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live By the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. You know what Paul was saying? Saying it's no longer my will, it's submission to Christ and Christ alone. So if I'm going to be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, if I'm going to be able to do this, first thing is I need to submit to the will of God for my life. I need to submit to God's instructions. God's plan for my life. I cannot be faithful in the will of God if I'm not submitted to the will of God. By the way, the only way of salvation is the Bible way of salvation. There's no other way to be saved No other way. Listen, if you think you're going to heaven on any other plan other than what the Bible gives us, I got news for you. You're not on your way to heaven. There's only one way to be saved, and that's through personally trusting Jesus Christ as your own personal Savior. It's only the Bible way. He says, I am the way, the truth, and life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. I had a Jewish fellow in Philadelphia uh tell me back uh my first year Bible college, I came home for the summer. And uh I was watching my thought, he came by, I gave him a gospel tract, it said uh how to be saved, I forget his Ford Porters or one of those tracks. And um uh he said, You're a Baptist, aren't you? I just gave him a gospel track. And um I said, Well yeah, I said I'm a Christian, I'm saved, but yeah, I'm Baptist. And he goes, You guys think you're the only ones going to heaven? He goes, Ah let me tell you how it is. I said, tell me how it is. He goes, Going to heaven is like going to downtown Philadelphia, Center City. He said, You can go down the School Kill Expressway, you can go down 119, he gave it listed a bunch of different roads He says, I'm Jewish. I'm getting to heaven the Jewish way. You're Baptist, you're getting to heaven the Baptist way. He says, uh Methodists, they're getting there. I said, that'd be great if heaven was downtown Philly But heaven's not in downtown Philly. And the Bible says there's only one way to get to heaven, that's through Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. And so we're talking about submission. If a person is going to have their sins forgiven and know for sure that when they die they go to heaven and not to hell, they've got to submit and be saved the Bible way. Or there is no salvation. Now, what is true in salvation is true in the Christian life. If I'm going to have God's blessings on my life, if I'm going to be victorious in my Christian life If I'm going to be the Christian God intends for me to be, then I must submit to the Lord and live my life the way the Bible tells me to. Does that make sense? Well I've got a lot of Christians out there saying, Well, I get saved, I accepted Christ. Doesn't matter now, I just do it my way. I just I just live my way. I just whatever I think is right, whatever I think is okay. No no no, it don't work that way So, number one, my first word I put down is submission. Now, number two, the second word, if Christ be risen from the dead And I know I'm a Savior. I'm going to be raised again. I'm going to stand before him, face him. Number one, there needs to be submission. Number two, the Bible says there needs to be steadfastness. Look again at verse 58 with me. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable. I like that word steadfast. I like it It means to be unshaken. It means, I was talking about the garden a little bit. It means to be planted. I mean it is down. It reminds me of Psalms chapter 1. He shall be like the tree planted by the rivers of water. I mean unmoved. It is just steadfast. You know what I noticed? We got some pretty good sized oak trees around the church here. I've been here it'll be 21 years in September and uh 21 years almost every morning come over here and uh you know what I noticed Those trees stay exactly the same place they were the day before. They're not moving, they're not somewhere different. They're just there. Anybody ever notice that? And isn't that interesting? That's what the idea of this word here is, is steadfast, planted, to be firm as a rock. In my place, regardless of what others do or don't do, I am there. I am in my place. It means has the idea of doing my job. Maybe I'm going to be ridiculed. Maybe there'll be affliction. Maybe there'll be persecution. Maybe there'll be a little price to pay. It may cost me a little bit, but I'm in my place. I'm steadfast in the will of God. Then he uses the term unmovable, steadfast and unmovable. Unmovable is almost the exact same definition as the word steadfast, except it's even stronger. It has the idea of absolutely, firmly, persistently in place, a fixed location, stable I mean, you cannot shake this guy. You cannot move him. He is in the will of God. He is doing the will of God. He's living by the Word of God. And nothing Can shake him from that or turn him aside. I like that. I think these are two of the greatest characteristics of the Christian life that you and I can have. Steadfast and unmovable. He's talking about godly tenacity. Just stay I got a guy, um He's a salesman and um did he come by Wednesday Jennifer? Was he were you there? What somebody was here? Maybe it was Jackie And um one of the secretaries here, he came by and I was out and I came in and he was leaving and I came in. I've been here, as I said, almost twenty-one years. That guy absolutely does not quit I mean he is just every few months he'll show up. You wanna you wanna buy this, you wanna do this? And he's got a little ministry. I'll say thank you. He'll get tell me thank you, Steve. That's great, but really not interested. Okay. He'll leave two, three months later. Hey Brother Leatherman, just wonder if you're interested, if you want to buy this Uh, thanks. No thanks, but not interested. Okay. Three months later, hey brother Leatherman. And uh it's like And uh and um then if no one's here, two, three months, two, three months, there'll be a little paper on the door out there. Hey Brother Leatherman, uh just wondered if uh he does and uh I told him when he left the other this week he's going out. I said I said, man, I tell you one thing I appreciate about you. You are tenacious. You do not quit. Well, I was just wondering if maybe you could use uh I said, you know, we're really not interested. I said, uh it's just not something uh okay, well I'll check back in a few months That's what he's talking about. Yeah, I'm gonna be in my place. I'm gonna be doing my thing. I'm gonna be living for God. I get turned down uh four or five times a year for twenty years, I'm just gonna stay right at it. Just stay right at it, just stay right at it Aren't you glad Jesus set his face like a flint to go to Jerusalem and pay the price for your sins and my sins? Aren't you glad Jesus Christ was steadfast and unmovable in bringing salvation to mankind? Looks to me, looks to me like the least we can do is be faithful to him. It's to be steadfast in living for him. Unmovable in living for him. It's interesting. I got to study my Bible. Nowhere, and I could be wrong, and if I'm wrong, you can correct me later. But I can't find anywhere where we're instructed not to fail. I don't see anywhere in the Bible we're instructed to be the biggest or the best or have the most of anything. But I found one thing we are instructed in the Bible to do is not to quit. Not to give up, not to walk away, not to faint, but to be steadfast. Say, Brother Leatherman, I failed God. Alright? Then rise up again and get back in your place. A just man falleth seven times and what? Riseth up again. He's steadfast. He's unmovable. Uh question. Was David a great man of God? Yes or no? Absolutely. Did David ever fail God? Good heavens. There are thousands of people who died prematurely because of David's disobedience to God. Thousands of people. I'm assuming this is true. I hope, certainly hope, that nobody has died because I've disobeyed God in some way. I hope that's true. I don't know of anyone. But David, thousands of people died prematurely, were killed because David disobeyed God. But I'll tell you one thing about David. He fell, he got back up again. He was steadfast, he was unmovable. He uh was a steward that was faithful. He would not faint. When he failed, he acknowledged it. He confessed it and forsook it and got back in place and went on. And when it was all said and done. God said this about David. There is a man after my own heart. Steadfast, unmovable. I don't see anywhere, as I said, that we're call that God expects us to be the best of anything You say, well, Brett, Mountain Lake needs to be the best church in Garrett County. Listen, that's not what we're commanded to do. We're commanded to be a faithful church. We're commanded to be a steadfast church. We're commanded to hold to the truths of God's word and live those truths. Uh I I don't see where we're commanded to be the best of anything, the biggest of anything. Uh we're not uh you say, Preacher, I just don't have that much money, I'm not rich. I don't see anywhere the Bible commands me to be the richest Christian. But he does command me to be a faithful Christian. He doesn't command me to be the smartest Christian. I don't know if you This may come as a shock to some of you, but you do not have the smartest pastor in the world. You're supposed to gasp at that statement and be shocked not say amen God doesn't command me to be the smartest preacher in the world, but I'll tell you what he does command me to be. He commands me to be steadfast, unmovable, to be a faithful preacher. And what God instructs me in my role and my purpose for life, God instructs you for your role and your purpose in life. Steadfast. Steadfast. Forward. I liked 1 Chronicles 12. 33. It makes reference. In fact, there's another verse down. I didn't jot it down, about five verses down from that. That says this about the men of war from the tribe of Zebulun. And God has gone down through here and he's describing the different tribes of the nation of Israel and the men that were warriors and great things. And he gets to Zebulun and he says this about the men of war in Zebulun. He says, first of all, he says they were expert in war. In other words, they were really good at what they were to do in warfare. They were good at it. Second thing he says about them, they were not double-hearted They were given a responsibility by their commanders as soldiers in the uh nation of Israel, and uh they were single-minded on that. They were not double-minded, it wasn't a little bit of this, a little bit of that. Well, I've got the family back home, and I've got this responsibility. And I'll kind of juggle that around and do that. Nope, they were single-minded. They had a job to do as a soldier in the army of the king, and they were focused on that job Number one, they were experts at war. They were really good at what they were to do. Number two, they were focused and that was priority. And then he says this, and this is what caught my attention They could keep rank. They could keep rank. Now I'm not military. I didn't uh I didn't have uh I didn't serve in the military or anything, so I had to do a little research to really grasp what that meant. And it's a very simple concept. In other words, they were made sure they were in their place. Uh how many people remember Gomer Pyle? Remember when he was marching in that this is all I remember about the show about other than some stupid stuff he said. But uh uh was it Gomerpal? Uh where he was marching and do and uh they get and all the other soldiers turn and he just keep going straight. Anyone remember that? That reminds me of some Christians. They just can't be in their place. They just can't. God's got a place. God's got a purpose. God's got a plan for every one of us. He's given us responsibilities in our Christian life. And we're out there wandering around out of place. Bible says about these men of war in the tribe of Zebulun, they kept rank. They were right where they needed to be, when they needed to be there, doing what they needed to be doing. I want to be able to keep ranked. Amen. How many people here want a pastor in God's will doing what God expects the pastor to do? How many people expect that from your pastor? I do I wouldn't want to have a pastor that couldn't keep rank. And God expects all of us as Christians. Steadfast, unmovable, keeping ranked in our place. Not the best, not the biggest, not the smartest, not the richest But steadfast, faithful, unmovable. God has a place and a plan and a purpose for every single one of us. And our responsibility is submit to that plan, purpose, and place, and stay at it, and stay at it, and stay at it. We were out Thursday night in Terra Alta. We had a good group of folks, a bus sob. We were canvassing through Ter Alta for neighborhood Bible time. We signed up a slew of kids. We were coming up, we had everybody picked up I think just about and we were pulling out and there was a young woman standing there and she had a little co little um uh uh not a shopping cart uh had a baby in it um Stroller. I guess if he shopped at a baby store it would be shopping cart, but um Tello stroller, and there was what, four or five kids hanging around or three or four kids. Bible time age. I saw that, so I pulled the bus up, slew the windows open, I said, Hey, uh, have you heard about Bible time? She goes, Oh yeah, I heard about it. I saw it on your computer web page. And uh uh we know about it. I said, well how about the kids? Did they come out? She says, sure. She goes, I went there when I was a kid. I said, really? She goes, yeah, Mrs. Leatherman would come out and sign me up and brought me to Bible time. I said, do you remember the booster tear? Yes, do it. No Twenty-one years we'll be doing Bible time in Oakland area. Steadfast, just doing the same thing every year, doing it, doing it, doing it. You know what? We're impacting generations I shouldn't say we, the word of God. We're just in our place, doing what God instructs us to do, faithful right there, there, there, there. And God's using. I was yesterday we were in Deer Park uh sign up kids and uh I think uh Randy was with me or at one house. I can't remember where, but we got talking, the kids says, yeah I've been at Bible Time, were you with me? I said, do you remember the booster chair? Were you with me? Uh or maybe it was another another in the afternoon I was out. But uh anyway, yeah, been ballottime, you got your ribbons. Yeah! This kid's like thirteen. And uh I said, you remember the booster chair? And then he gets a sure do. We are boosters, Bible time boosters. So I just jumped in there with them. People ought to know who we are. And we're there on the porch doing a booster chair together. Raven's up here and gone. Steadfast, unmovable, just stay at it. And it has an impact. Has an impact What if we quit? I don't feel like it. You know what? Let's let's go do something. We'll just have a we'll have a reunion and get together. We won't do Bible time. What kind of impact would we have? I think it would be, to say the best, it would be very limited, diminished. God says, be steadfast Be unmovable. Be faithful. One thing I expect from my stewards, and that is this faithfulness It's all required. Faithfulness. You don't have to be the richest, you don't have to be the wisest, you don't have to be the biggest, you don't have to be the best at anything. Just be faithful. God says then you can have an impact. You can have an impact. One last word, real quick. I put this down. Spirited. Submissive. Steadfast and spirit. And I get that from the last part of verse 58. Always abounding in the work of the Lord. I like that. Always abounding, that phrase always abounding has this idea to continually increase I mean just reaching out more and more and more and more. I liked one definition. I had this one dictionary, a great dictionary, and scroll through, and at the bottom they had this little phrase that said this Used to describe, this phrase is used to describe a flower going from a bud to full bloom. Going from just a little limited and just more and more and expanding and coming greater And stirred up. Do you ever see a s uh what do you call it when you have a picture and you do it in fast motion? What's that called? Time lapse. Time lapse. Not the slow, but the fast. Fast motion. That's what it's called. Huh? Nobody knows. But when you you know what I'm talking about, right? Listen, I told you you don't have the smartest preacher. I I I like this phrase. I'm not the sharpest knife in the drawer, but praise God I'm in the drawer. I'm happy with that. Do you ever see that? It's a little bud where they do that fast motion, that thing just goes. That's what God says. I want you as a Christian. Just living. You know how some of us, time goes by, we wither up. Man, we're we have less impact, we pray less, we read our Bible less, we're in I understand physical limitations and health, I understand that. But he's talking about always abounding. Just let's do a little more this year. Let's get a little farther. Let's grow. Let's be a little stronger in my faith. Let's be a little more faithful in my service. Always abounding. Spirited, stirred up about it. Find out God's instructions. Find out what God expects from you and me, and then let's get at it with our whole heart. Let's just get after that thing. Listen to what David said. I like David. He said, I will praise thee with my whole heart. All abounding in my praise. He says, I will keep. This is from the book of Psalms. He says, I will keep his testimonies with my whole heart. He says, I will seek thee, Lord, with my whole heart. I tell you what, one thing you can say about David, he was passionate in his relationship with Jesus Christ. He was passionate in his relationship with his God. God, give us some passion in our Christian lives again. Give us some passion for God, some passion for souls, some passion for living for the Lord. Give us that again. We need revival of abundant service and love for Jesus Christ. We've gotten so satisfied, we've gotten so indifferent as to what God expects from us. And he says, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. Get stirred up about that. Get spirited about that. David was passionate about his walk with God. Half-hearted Christianity is defeated Christianity. A half-hearted ministry is a dead ministry. Dead It is always abounding. Abounding. Abounding. How would you describe your walk with God and your service to the Lord? Would you say it's abounding? Or would you say it's missing? It's pretty anemic. It's not much there. That word always abounding has the idea of a little flower bud. Would that describe my service and walk with God, my Christian life? Be spirited about that. Be spirited about that. Three things, if I was a commander of uh soldiers They'd be in a mess. But my understanding, I would want three things from a soldier. Number one, I'd want him to be in his place. Right? We've got troops, American citizens, troops around the world defending this country. I thank God for those men and women. And you know what I would assume that they're doing? That they are in their place. Wherever they need to be, wherever they're instructed to be, that's where they're at, not out wandering around somewhere. They're in their place. Number two, I would assume, and I would want soldier under me to be doing his job. Alright, here we got Chester. He's a soldier. He's a uh he's a gunner. Gunners shoot guns, right? He's a gunner. Alright, Chester, uh you're gonna be on this hill right there. There's Afghan terrorists um um Al Qaeda terrorists out there. And we're expecting them to come up here. I want you to be in this place. You see something move, boom. So I come back a little later. Chester's Aries in his place. Praise the Lord. Soldier he's in his place. The gun ain't gunning. I look over, he's got his little smartphone, and he's playing Candy Crush. Pastor, huh? What are you doing? I'm in my place. Praise the Lord. But you need to be doing your job. Now Chester thank you Chester that's a good you're a good example for me but uh Amen you follow what I'm saying in his place doing his job and this is another thing I would like from my soldier He gives his whole self to it. In his place, doing his job, and man, he is focused. Not like this. In his place, got the gun. I think people would be disappointed if our soldiers did that. Do you ever see those video clips on the news of our soldiers? When they were in a firefight, you know what I noticed? Every one of them are focused very intently on what they're doing. Have you ever noticed that? I never saw them play in solitaire while they're in the middle of a firefight. Listen, you and I are in a firefight. The devil wants to take this church down The devil wants everyone in the surrounding areas of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, the devil wants every lost person to die and go to hell. Am I right or wrong? Devil wants them all to go to hell. And he is and will continue to do everything he possibly can to keep our ministry at a minimum impact and get as many people to die and go to hell. And he is working very hard at devouring every one of us. In our Christian lives, so that we have pitiful, empty, dead, useless Christian lives. That's what the devil wants. Now we're not gonna if that if he's not going to get his way, then you and I, we need to be in our place, doing our job with all our heart. Praying, walking with God, being sure we don't have sinful influences coming in our lives, being gracious and kind one to another, witnessing to the laws. Giving to the Lord as he instructs us, doing our job. He says, therefore, because of the Lord's resurrection, he's coming back again. Be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the Word of the Lord. My challenge to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and every one of this morning is: number one, get involved, get grounded, and get fired up. About living for God and being the Christian, God intended this for me. The other night, uh Friday night I guess it was, I was out taking some stuff off the back of the pickup truck at the house. It was about ten o'clock, maybe a little after. The sky was as clear as could be. It was absolutely beautiful out. I like, this is a side, but I like driving at night in the summertime with the windows down. Isn't that cool? I just love that. That night air driving. And I was unloading some stuff off the pickup truck, and I just happened to glance up. You know what I saw? This streak through the air. Falling star media. I was like, oh wow. I mean it looked like it was just above the trees About that time when I figured out what it was, my first thought was aliens. Not really. Tell you this world gets us messed up, I mean Zing! Uh uh wow, a falling storm. About that high, thing, thing, thing. About four or five I said, wow, need out. And then as I was looking down, I was watching for more, I looked over and I saw the Big Dipper. And the Big Dipper points is over here. Big Dipper points to the North Star. And I got looking at the North Star. And that's where I came up with my alternative title, I Wanna Be a North Star Christian. Oh, those shooting stars, they were pretty spectacular, and ooh, I I went oh But they lasted about that long. They were gone. Got a lot of attention, ooh and ah. They didn't help anybody. Navigate through life one day. But I got looking at that North Star and I thought, you know, tens of thousands of years, 10,000 years or more. I don't believe in evolution, so however the time frame is. Thousands of years. That North Star has been right in its place. Steadfast, actually this way, steadfast, unmovable, just doing its job Do you know how many millions of people have navigated around this world successfully? Because the North Star was steadfast and unmovable. I want to be a North Star Christian. I want to be in my place. Wouldn't it be great? And God knows, God have mercy, I'd ever fail. And blow it. And that's always a possibility. But I would really like to think that when my dying, my little grandkids Like my kids would be able to say, you know, Daddy was always faithful to the Lord. Daddy was always in his place. Daddy's the same the day he died as he was the day he got saved as far as his love and walk for God. Follow what I'm saying? You know what I would like to have said? God have mercy that this would be true. Whenever the day comes when I'm no longer pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, down the road, long way, I pray And they say, you know, just kept doing the same thing he did when he left as he did as he was doing when he showed up Preach the same gospel, preach the same standards, preach the same old book, lived the same Christian life. Now don't you want that said about you? Wouldn't you like that? Steadfast, unmovable. If you're here this morning, you're not saved. Listen, young people, if you're here this morning, you're not saved. We need to settle that today. We need to get on board and get saved the Bible way. Those of us who are saved, let's get serious. Submit ourselves to God's will and say, I'm all out for Christ. All out for Christ. Amen. Father in heaven, help us, Lord.