Alright, Colossians chapter number two. Our text for this morning is verse number five, if you would notice that with me. Colossians 2 verse 5. The Bible says, For though I be absent in the flesh, yet I am with you in the Spirit, joying And notice what he says, beholding, he says, I'm rejoicing, I'm joying, and I notice something about your church. There at Colossae. He said, I notice, I'm beholding this. He says, your order and the steadfastness of your faith. There were two things about that church, and two things about the believers that made up that church that caught Paul's attention. And he mentions it here in his letter to them, and he says, I rejoice in these two traits, these two characteristics I notice there. Second of which he says, your steadfastness in the faith. Now, a verse or two down there, he mentions that they are established in the faith. But verse 5, there's steadfastness in the faith. And that's what I want to talk about: a steadfast faith. A faith that will not quit Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our study of your word, this portion of your word. I pray that uh you would I pray, Holy Spirit of God, that your presence would be very evident here this morning and that you would stir us and enable us to be steadfast in our faith as believers. Lord, I pray if there's any with us or under the sound of my voice. That do not have assurance that their sins are forgiven and that they have a home in heaven and not hell, I pray that today would be the day of their salvation. Lord, I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I have nothing in and of myself to offer that can change any life, that can help anybody can help anybody spiritually, but Lord, your word can. And so I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. I ask with all my heart you fill me and that you would speak through me this morning in this hour. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. How many people recognize the name Henry Ward Beecher? Anybody recognize that name? Henry Ward Beecher. He was a preacher back in the mid-1800s, uh leading up to the Civil War. And uh in that time, he was a preacher in Philadelphia, uh I'm sorry, in New York City, and he was incredibly popular Every Sunday the the uh auditorium seats several thousand was just packed full. Huge church, very, very popular preacher. He was quite controversial There was some things we would take issue with on him. Some he was uh uh we would we would describe in in our day as being liberal in some areas But nevertheless, he was incredibly popular. People came out that he was a phenomenal speaker. One Sunday morning, just before the service was to begin, he suddenly became ill. To the point that he was unable to be in the service and leave the service. He called his brother up, who was also a preacher, and asked him At the last minute, if he would step in and fill in and lead the service for him, that he was unable to do his duties that Sunday morning. His brother agreed, and the service began. People had come out, thousands, places packed. It was about halfway into the service. People began realizing That Henry Ward Beecher was not there that day. That his brother was going to be speaking in his place. And believe it or not, people began to get up in large numbers And leave the service when they realized Henry Ward Beecher was not going to be preaching. His brother saw what was happening, thought quickly, and he got up behind the pulpit and he made this announcement He said, if you are here today to worship Henry Ward Beecher, you are free to leave. But if you're here today to worship the Lord Jesus Christ, then we ask that you please stay. I thought that was a pretty good response. I'm afraid in a lot of churches, we assemble to worship a man or to worship a program. Here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we do not assemble together on Sunday mornings and Sunday nights to exalt a man, but we assemble together to exalt our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what we're here for this morning. We're going to gather again tonight at 7 o'clock. We're going to sing hymns praising our Savior, Jesus Christ. We're going to testify to the goodness of God. We're going to look into the Word of God and proclaim the truths about the Lord Jesus Christ. The church does not exalt man, it exalts Jesus Christ. We have assembled this morning. And uh we're going to do it again tonight and Wednesday night. We're going to assemble together as a body of believers. And we're not going to rejoice in our programs. We had Bible time this week. We're not going to rejoice in our properties, and I thank God for the properties God has given us And by the way, this past week I think we used every square inch of this property here But we're not here to rejoice in our programs and properties. That's not why we assemble together to look at a wonderful facility. We assemble together to rejoice in the Lord That's what our singing is about. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. Everything about the New Testament church is about the Lord Jesus Christ. Begins and ends with Jesus Christ. We don't worship man, we worship we don't exalt man, we exalt our Savior. We don't rejoice in programs and properties, but we rejoice in the Lord. By the way, we're not here to be entertained. Entertainment is a big part of modern Christianity. We're not here to be entertained. We're here to be exhorted by the Word of God. We want God to stir our hearts. We want God to change our lives. It's not just sitting and watching a show. That's not what the local body of believers is about, some entertainment, some TV show. Church service is about lives being changed and believers being conformed to the image of Christ. I don't know what Henry Ward Beecher's brother's name was, and I certainly wouldn't agree with a lot of his positions, but I agree with that statement. We're not here to worship a man, we're here to worship Jesus Christ. The church at Colossi was being infiltrated by man exalters Lifting up man, lifting up man's philosophies. Just a little background, we're going to look here, just a little background about the book of Colossians. The penman, the man that God used to pen down the words that make up the book of Colossians was the Apostle Paul himself. The time of the writing of the book, he was a prisoner in Rome, in a Roman prison. The interesting thing is, Paul did not start this church. Most of the churches that are addressed in the New Testament epistles penned by Paul were started by him. Colossi The church at Colossae was not started by Paul. In fact, if you look there in chapter 2, notice verse number 1, he says, For I would that you uh That you knew what great conflict I have for you and for them at Laodicea, and for as many, look at this, as have not seen my face in the flesh. He never met these believers They never met him. They knew of him. He was obviously very well known among the believers, but they never met face to face. He'd never been there in their presence physically. And uh Paul did not start the church. He'd never been to the church. And it's interesting if you come over to chapter number four. The last part of church 4. And again, I'm just kind of giving you a little background of the book here, a little bit, but beginning, oh, about um uh verse number seven, he starts, he goes down a list of people he mentions. Uh Titekus, he mentions in verse 7. Onesimus in verse number nine. Onesimus was a uh uh a fellow that Paul had led to the Lord that was from the city of uh of um Colossio and out of the church there are Aristarchus Marcus uh Epaphrus Then he mentions down verse 14 Luke and Demas, and then verse 17, Archipus. He mentions these people. These are people that were out of this church that Paul had crossed pays with. And he's trying to make a connection with the church. He's saying, hey, these people are greeting you. I think what Paul is saying is, I'm one of y'all. If he was from down south, he'd have put it this way, I'm one of y'all. We're all part of the body of Christ. We all know the Lord. And He's making a connection with them in this letter he's writing to them. So Paul uh was the penman of this. He's writing from uh a Roman prison, as miserable as that was, and he writes this powerful letter to this little church here in Colossae, though he'd never been there, he did not start it. By the way, I want to point this out. Churches start churches. The church at Colossae was started out of the church at Ephesus. Now, just bear with me a little bit. There's an important principle here that I think it's important we understand. Paul Paul had gone to Ephesus, started winning souls, preaching the gospel, people got saved, he organized the church, established leadership, and he moved on. The church at Ephesus prospered. They grew. They became a strong witness for the gospel of Jesus Christ. They became a good, strong, healthy, vibrant, growing church. And out of the church in Ephesus, men were sent out, and they started churches in the region. The church at Colossae, that's the name of the city, somebody from the church at Ephesus had gone out of the church at Ephesus, gone over there, and started the church in Colossae The church at Ephesus was started by Paul, who was sent out of the church in Antioch in Acts chapter 13. The church at Antioch, send them out. The church at Antioch was started by preachers that came out of the church in Jerusalem. Do you see a pattern? Churches start churches. Church at Jerusalem sent out soul winners, preachers, they started churches. Those churches sent out soul winners preachers, they started churches. The point I'm trying to make is this, and again, this is uh, you know, I'm just trying to be true to the word of God An individual doesn't go out on their own and just start a church. Oh, I think I'll start a church. No, churches start churches. You get sent out of a church, and then the the the the people sent out from that church, they start a church. So the church at Colossae was not started by Paul, it was by some faithful church planners, soul winners out of the church at Ephesus. So Paul is writing to them, and he's addressing a problem. Like most many of the New Testament letters, Paul's writing to address some sort of issue going on in the church, some sort of uh problem in the church. By the way, churches having problems is nothing new. It's from day one. In the church at Jerusalem, there was fussing between the Greek widows because they weren't being uh waited on, uh and uh so they had to address that. And you get through, and all through church history, churches have uh have had issues. If you are looking for a church that does not have any issues, don't join it because you'll ruin it if you find one. Follow what I'm saying? Churches de uh as long as fallen human beings make up a church, there's going to be issues. Everybody with me? Now I think we got a pretty good church here. Uh biggest issue I know going on in our church right now is the lane jokes, the preacher says. But um So Paul's writing here to address an issue, and the issue was there was some false teaching getting in there. There was some fellows, some folks had gotten in there, and they were downplaying the seriousness of sin. They were downplaying the sinfulness of sin. And Paul needed to address that. I want to remind you, sin is exceedingly sinful Sin is not something to play with. Sin is not something to ignore. Sin must never be downplayed. The wages of sin is death. It is incredibly serious. When we allow sin in our lives. And we live in a day and age, and we live in a culture of Christianity in many circles where sin, if it's addressed at all. Is downplayed. And I'm here to tell you we need old-fashioned hellfire and brimstone Bible preaching against sin in our day and age And there was people who crept into the church there, uh church there. By the way, I wouldn't attend a church where the preacher didn't preach against my sin. Amen or not. Sometimes I'm in the back and folks come out and they say, Preacher, they'll lean up, they'll go, Preacher, what? You stepped on my toes today. I say, rats, I said, I was aiming for your heart. So this this this teaching, this attitude, this mentality got in And it doesn't matter what I say, it doesn't matter what I do, it doesn't matter how I live, it doesn't matter, uh sin isn't that bad. And Paul corrects that, and by the way, that needs to be corrected There's a teaching creeping in that church there that was downplaying the deity of Jesus Christ. It brought in some man's philosophy that Jesus uh was maybe an angel or jesus was something but he wasn't God himself I'm here to tell you Jesus is God always has been always will be He's the Son of God, part of the Trinity. He's all-knowing, all-powerful, all-wise. Jesus is God. And Paul addresses that here in the book of Colosseus. And there was this teaching that crept into the church here at Colossae. This little church Paul didn't start it. Others had started it. It was growing. It was a good church, but there was bad teaching getting in. And that bad teaching addressed uh was downplaying the blood atonement of salvation. And I'm here to tell you: you take the cross out of salvation and you don't have salvation. And we try and minimize the blood of Jesus Christ that was shed. There was a preacher a number of years ago on the uh around the country, a very popular preacher, and he made the statement, it's not the blood of Jesus that saves, it's just his death. I beg to differ. The Bible says in Hebrews, without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sins. The blood of Jesus. Nothing. What can wash away my sins? Nothing. But the blood of Jesus Christ. And there was people creeping into this church here downplaying. The blood atonement of Jesus Christ, downplaying the deity of Jesus Christ, downplaying the sinfulness of sin. And Paul has to address that. He confronts this false teaching. And he confronts it by emphasizing the blood atonement. Look with me, if you would, at chapter 1 and verse number 14. Speaking of Jesus Christ, verse 13, he says, who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear son. Look at this, in whom we have redemption through his what? Blood, even the forgiveness of sins. Paul's emphasizing the fact that it's not, and it is the death of Christ, but not just the death of Christ, the blood of Christ Come over with me if you would to verse number 18 of chapter 1. It says, and he is the head of the church, the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn, uh from the dead, that in all things he might have uh preeminence and uh And uh for it pleased the Father that in him should all fullness dwell. Look at verse twenty. And having made peace through the blood of his cross By him to reconcile all things unto himself, by him I say, whether they be things in earth or things in heaven, and you that were sometimes alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled. Look at this. in the body of his flesh through death to present you holy and unblameable, unreprovable in his sight. He's emphasizing the fact, listen, you're saved by the blood of Jesus Christ, the death and the shed blood of Jesus Christ If you're here this morning, or if you're listening to my voice, and your faith is in anything other than the gospel of Jesus Christ, then the Birth death, burial, and resurrection, the blood of Christ, if your faith is in anything other than that, you need to be saved. There is no salvation in the church. There is no salvation in baptism. There is no salvation in giving money or doing alms or last rites or the Eucharist. There is no salvation. In any of that, it's only in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. The night I got saved, May 7, 1979, I knelt by my bed and I called out to a crucified, buried, and risen Savior. To save my soul. Didn't call the preacher up, didn't put my church membership in, it was in Christ. And so Paul's clarifying this. Look with me if you would at chapter 2 and verse 14. He says, blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us, which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross. So Paul confronts this false teaching with an emphasis on the blood atonement. He confronts this false teaching by exalting the Lord Jesus. They were downplaying the deity of Christ. Paul exalted him. We ought to exalt the Lord Jesus Christ above all else. Everything we do, all our music, ought to exalt Jesus Christ. All our preaching ought to exalt Jesus Christ. Our fellowship with another. Our conversation one with another. Our giving, all of it is for the glory of God and exalt the Lord Jesus Christ. Look what Paul says in chapter 1 again and verse number 15. Speaking of Jesus Christ, he said who is the image of the invisible God. Firstborn of every creature. Look at verse 16. This is speaking of Jesus Christ. For by him Or all things created that are in heaven, that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers. All things were created by him and for him, and he is before all things, and by him all things consist And he is the head of the body, the church. I tell you this, and the book of Colossians exalts Jesus. All the books in the Bible exalt Jesus, but the book of Colossians doesn't in a magnificent way. Jesus Christ is the creator. Mary held that little baby there by the manger and held that little baby. That little baby was the creator of heaven and earth. That little baby was the author of life. Hanging on the cross was the creator of all that was made. When Jesus cried out, It is finished. Into thy hands I commend my spirit. That same one is the one that breathed into Adam the breath of life. I'm telling you, Jesus Christ is all in all. He's God Almighty. It is impossible to honor Jesus too much. Somebody asked me years ago, they said, is it, should we honor Jesus, God the Son, Jesus the Son of God, above God the Father? I said, it's impossible. They're equal. You can't honor too high. Well, we shouldn't honor Jesus too much. Oh no, no, you can't. It's impossible to honor him too much. Read the book of Revelation. All of the creation falls down and worships Jesus Christ on the throne. King of kings and Lord of Lords, God of gods. Look at chapter 2 and verse number 9. Paul again he's exalting Jesus. Look what he says, verse 9. For in him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily Paul responds by exalting the Lord Jesus Christ. And then he exhorts them not to waver in their faith. And this brings us to our text. Notice he says. He says, therefore, verse 5, for though I be absent in the flesh, yet I am with you in the spirit, joying and beholding your order and the steadfastness of your faith. As ye therefore receive Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him, rooted and built up in him, established in the faith, as ye have been taught, abounding with thanksgiving. Beware! Lest any man spoil you through to philosophy, that's man's ideas, man's reasonings, man's rationale And vain deceit after the tradition of men and the rudiments of the world and not after Christ. He's encouraging them to walk, to not waver in their faith. I believe the best protection against false doctrine. Did you know the devil would like to get false doctrine into Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church? He'd like to get us away from preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. And that's why sometimes, and and uh I pray for wisdom. But sometimes, you know, there's a lot of garbage going on politically in our country. Has anybody noticed that at all? I mean a lot of garbage But I'm here to tell you we must never lose focus of the fact our commission is to preach the gospel And even all that stuff, as much as we want to try it, we must not let that draw us away from the cross of Jesus Christ That is our message. Whether America stands or falls, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church must preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so the best protection for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church against false doctrine coming in and worldliness coming in is to keep our focus on Christ and lift him high. And that's what Paul's telling the church at Colosse. They're in dangerous ground. They're on the verge of being drawn off in another direction, away from Christ, away from the Word of God, away from the cross. And he's writing and he's warning them and he's encouraging them to stay true, stay faithful. The best protection against false doctrine and foolish living is to exalt, have a right understanding of the Lord Jesus Christ. By the way, the blood atonement and the deity of Christ is not open for debate. Somebody comes in here and says, I'd like to debate with you about the deity of Jesus Christ. No debate. We're not negotiating on these doctrines. Our doctrines are fundamental Bible doctrines. They are not up for negotiation. I'm just trying to make a statement here this morning. Here we stand on the Word of God, the deity of Christ, salvation by grace, plus nothing, minus nothing. The Word of God. And Paul's urging the church at Colossae, you stay true. You stay true to what you've been taught. You stay true to the Word of God. And ever, if is, if if this whole world ever needed churches that are true to the Word of God, it's today. It's today. God help us to stay true. Then in verse number five of chapter two, he praises them amidst of all this strong admonition and And in chapter 3 and 4, he gets talking about how they're living lives, how we should live our lives, the attitudes we should have, our treatment one of another. But he stops here in chapter 2 and he praises them. He says, I see two characteristics of your church that I rejoice in. See how he says it there? He says, For though I be absent in the flesh, yet I am with you in the spirit, joying and beholding. And he lists these two things. Number one, Number one, he rejoices in the fact that they had their priorities right. They had their priorities right Look what he says here. Rejoying and beholding your order. I got that word order there caught my attention And I thought, what does he mean, joying and beholding your order? I looked the word up and how it's used and where it comes from, like always. I come to find out that's a military term. He says, I'm beholding your order. In other words, what that word means is this: to have the right things in the right place. It has the idea of uh of people keeping rank being in order. How many people when you went through military, uh you were in the military, keeping rank was important? Anyone yeah Yeah. Remember uh what was that old stupid old show, Gomer Pyle? Something? And uh that he was always out of right anybody remember that? He was always out I for I don't know why he even thought of that right now But he says, I see, I look at your church from a distance. I've never been there. I've never met you personally. But I notice you have the right things in the right place. You've got the right priorities. I want to suggest to you one of the keys to living a successful, victorious Christian life is having our priorities right. I see people mess up, I see churches get off track, I see individual Christians start messing up when they get their priorities wrong. They get out of order. Putting things that matter most over things that matter least. I wonder how many of us, if we would stop and critique our use of our time, Our use of our time. I wonder how many of us would have to admit that a lot of time is used on things that do not matter the most. Right or wrong. I tell you, a great nemesis is this thing right here. Tell you what, this can this can become more important than a lot of things. Am I right or wrong? I know I'm right Yeah, people, yeah, people, and again, I'm just I'm just kind of I'm still wound up from Bible time, so bear with me. But when folks are sitting, the word of God's being preached Huh? The word of God's being preached and people looking at YouTube videos, playing games on their phone while the word of God's. I say that's misplaced priorities. Amen or not? It's the word of God. Putting things that matter most over the things that matter least. I believe that's the key to spiritual health, keeping our priorities right. Key to spiritual well-being is keeping our priorities right. I want to suggest to you the highest priority in life. The highest priority in life is knowing Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. In the Gospel of Mark, chapter 8, it says, What shall it profit a man? If he gains the whole world and loses his own soul. What shall a man give in exchange for his soul? I preached Friday night, we had the parents here, and here's the thing. There's so many people that go through life and they'll invest themselves in business, they'll invest themselves in all this stuff, and they never give one thought to their spiritual well-being. They never give one thought to whether they're going to heaven or hell. They never think about their relationship with the God they're going to have to stand before at some point and give an account of their life for. Never think about that. And they've got the wrong priorities. The temporal precedes the eternal. Paul looked at the church at Colossae, says You've got your priorities right. You've got your priorities right. John chapter 3, verse 1 through 7, a fellow comes to Jesus Christ by night. His name's Nicodemus. And he flatters Jesus a little bit. He says, We know you're a teacher come from God. No man can do the things thou doest except God be with him. And Jesus cuts to the chase. And he said looks at Nicodemus in the eye and he says, Ye must be born again. That's the most important thing, Nicodemus. That's the priority in your life, making sure you're right with God. Your soul is saved. You have a home in heaven That's priority. Priority number one. I had a fella down. Anyone remember the old hospitals down in Kaiser, the Potomac, uh what was it called? Potomac Hospital or something Potomac Valley Hospital down there in Kaiser. There was a fellow shortly after I got here had a heart attack on his deathbed. Family asked me if I'd go down and visit him. I drove down there and they let me back. He was in the ICU. Just a little hospital there just small. They let me back with them. He was conscious. I walked in and introduced myself. He knew of me. Chatted a little bit what was going on. I said, can I show you from the Bible how you can know for sure you go to heaven, not to hell. He goes, yes, that'd be fine. I got my little New Testament out. I always carry my little New Testament. I got my New Testament out. And I went through the plan of salvation, the book of Romans. We're all sinners, ways of sin is death, Jesus died for us, buried, rose again Whoever calls on him, puts their faith and trust in him alone, God will forgive them and save them. And I said, would you be willing to pray with me right now and settle this and know that your sins are forgiven? He's on his deathbed. He's on monitors all over him, all hooked up. And he says to me, I'm just not quite ready yet. Just not quite ready. I just I said, sir, what in the world has to happen? For you to be ready. Just not yet. Just not yet. I went over it. I pled with them. Finally, I couldn't get anywhere. I had a word of prayer. If I remember correctly, it was just a couple days later he passed away. Went out into eternity. Just not ready yet. I'm telling you what, would you agree with me? His priorities were out of whack. What he needed more than anything else at that point was trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. Paul said, looked at that church and he says, I see you got your priorities right. You're in order, you got things in order Jesus said to Nicodemus, You must be born again. In Matthew chapter 22, Fella comes to Jesus and he says, Lord Jesus, what is the first and greatest commandment? In other words, what's the highest on the list of priorities that God expects from me? What's the number one highest priority in the Christian life? What does God want from me more than anything else? Jesus looked at him and he said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength. You know what Jesus said? Number one priority is I need to love the Lord Jesus Christ. And by the way, he wasn't talking about just singing, oh how I love Jesus. He was talking about a heartfelt commitment to love God with all my heart. To love him. I tell you what, there's nothing wrong with any church that God's people falling in love with the Lord again wouldn't solve. Loving God. High priority. You know what we love? We love our jobs. We love our vehicles, we love our our uh four-wheelers. I don't know what do women love. Um our purses, our coach purses. Well I'm trying I'm horsing around a little bit, but all I'm trying to say is this we love everything else but God, and we need to fall back in love with God again. Am I right or wrong? Y'all with me? Priorities. Making sure I'm saved. Loving God. And then Jesus went on before he was done. He says, love your neighbor as yourself. You know, it's awfully important in the church and in our lives that we love one another. We love one another. Priorities. Paul looked at the church at Colossae and says, man, I just rejoice. I got great joy. Your priorities are right. You're emphasizing the gospel. Now this teachings coming in trying to get you off of that, but you're emphasizing the gospel You're in love with God. You love one another. You're kind and gracious to one another. You're tender-hearted. You're forgiving. You're patient with one another. He says you got your priorities right. Things are in order. In Matthew chapter 6, verse 33 in the Sermon on the Mount, he's talking to his disciples. And Jesus said, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And then all these things will be added unto you. All the stuff you're running after, all the stuff you've made so important. Put God first and God will take care of that. Serving the Lord first. You know, we had people this week took vacation days off to serve others and win boys and girls to Jesus Christ. Run buses. I mean war themselves out to advance the kingdom of God. You know what God says? God says, I'll take care of you. You seek me first. You put my kingdom, the advancement of my kingdom, you put that first, I'll take care of you. I'll take care of you. When I went off to Bible college and sensed God was leading me in the ministry of some way I had a family member at the time. This is like 1980, 81. And uh uh that word got out that I was going up to Tennessee to Bible college, and um I had a family member Uh invited me over to the house. I went over there to their house, sat down talking, they said, Well, tell me about what you're doing. And um I said, This is what I'm doing. And uh He said to me, he said, you'll you're never going to survive. You go in and this ministry stuff He said, you're never going to make money? You're never going to have anything? He said, this is foolish. Why are you doing this? I said, I believe it's God's will. I believe it's God's will. He said, you're going to struggle for money, you're going to never own a house, you're never going to have anything. Well, one thing you notice I'm not struggling for food forty some years later. And I can testify, being in the ministry almost forty years now, I can testify God has met every single need. Over and above. Say, preacher, are you getting rich in the ministry? No! But God's met every single need. God's met every single need. Put God first Put the kingdom of God first. Serve the Lord. Love each other. Love God. Invest in the gospel. That's priorities. Paul looked to the church at Colossae and said, You've got things in order. You've got your priorities right. And then he said, number two, notice what he says here. He says, Joy in beholding your order, and then this is where I got the title of the message, and the steadfastness of your faith. I got that word steadfast. I actually was reading this in my devotion some time ago. And I saw that steadfast in the faith. Boy, that caught my attention. I wrote it down. I'm going to preach on that one day. I started studying that. I looked up that word steadfast. You know what I found out? It's another military term It means to it means to have a close formation. In other words, and and I don't know if I can I don't know if I have the words to describe it, but it has a like the the milit like the line of troops and soldiers artillery and to have it in close formation, a firm, a movable perimeter. It's there in place. To be an un it means to be uh to hold the line. How many people know? He says, you hold the line. You don't give in, you don't retreat, you hold the line. And that's what the word steadfast means And Paul's writing to this church at Colossae, and they're under attack by false teachings and man's philosophies, and they're trying to undercut the foundation of the church by denying the deity of Jesus Christ. And he says, I look and I see, and you're remaining steadfast. You're holding the line. You're not budging. Steadfast in the faith. Means to be unmovable and unwavering in my faith in God. The most powerful, I believe the most powerful display of faith is not when everything is going our way. Anybody can have faith in God when all the bills are paid and the body's healthy and everybody loves you, right or wrong. Everything's going right, says, oh yeah, I've got faith in God. Well, praise God, you should. But I'll tell you, when faith in God becomes strong It's when the bills, when the debt the funds are low and the debts are high. Faith in God is proven when people turn against you. And start saying hateful things and lies. Start making accusations. And you don't get bitter and you don't retaliate. But you hold the line and you have faith in God. I tell you, a lot of people leave the church and walk away from God because of something someone else has done to them. I'm here to tell you, the Lord has never failed you. Man will, man can, but God never will. God never will, never has, never will. And Paul's saying, you've been steadfast, you've held the line. These people have lied. These people are trying to undercut you. But you held the line. Stayed true. I thought of Dr. Don Williams. He's going to be 90 years old this fall, I believe. We've got him scheduled to preach revival in the fall. I told him, I said, listen, as long as you're kicking, we're open for you. He goes, well, I'm still kicking. I think he's going bow hunting when he's here, 90 years old. Problem with that is whenever he shoots the deer, then he calls me up and wants me to drag it out of the woods for him. So I gave him Charlie's phone number and um He's saying 90 years old, decades in the ministry. Do you think anybody ever said something unkind to him? You think he ever had reason to walk away, give up, get mad, get bitter? I'm here to tell you, he's been faithful. He held the line. 90 years old, he can we can and uh uh we're not exalting man, we exalt Jesus, but we want to give honor where honor is due. And he's been faithful To the Word of God. And Paul says that's, he sees that in the church there at Colossae. You've been steadfast, you've held the line. Anybody can be have faith in God when you're on the mountaintop experience We have faith in God. We just saw a bunch of people saved. We have hundreds of kids here this week. We saw just God doing tremendous things. Yeah, we got faith. What about tomorrow Monday when there's not all the excitement going on Just get up in the morning and go through your daily, dull routine. That's where faith in God is displayed. I found most people mess up when there's just the dull, daily routine of life. And they lose their love grows cold, and they lose their vision, and they tend to drift and wander. Paul says, you all have been faithful. You've been steadfast. When all my questions it's easy to have faith in God when all my questions are answered and all the things and everything's going my way and everybody's praising me But when our heart is broken, our faith needs to stay solid. When our dreams are shattered We must keep an unwavering faith. You say, preacher, everything I dreamed. Maybe you're at the point in life and you say, the things I dreamed have been shattered. I say, hold the line. Have faith in God. Don't wander. Don't give up on God. When you fail miserably, Faith still holds. I love Proverbs 24-16. I think I have the reference right. 24-16. A just man falleth seven times. And rises up again. You know what that is? That steadfast faith. I failed God. I I I I I fallen. I trust God. I believe God. I'm going to get back up and serve Him. Live for Him. When I've failed miserably, my faith holds. When I've been hurt deeply, Faith is unmoved. In dull, monotonous days, my faith stays alive. When the future is fearful, my faith prevails I love, my daddy used to quote to me, this was years ago, he used to quote to me Job 13, 15. I'll tell you it's burning in my mind. Job is speaking about his God, and he says, Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. I'll tell you that is steadfast faith. God allows trials into someone's life. God allows difficulties, heartbreak into someone's life. Things happen I don't know they have the answers to. I get bitter at God and I walk away. Paul's writing in the church at Calassus, he said, your faith has been steadfast. And I can trust God even when nothing makes sense, yet I still trust Him. I tell you There's something happened. I've been here about 10 years, and it had a profound impact on me. Stewart's brother Sherman was a bus driver. He drove bus and one, I think it was February morning, he was out here, it was Sunday morning, he was helping shovel the snow and we were going to run the buses. The next day he was taken to the hospital. Many of you remember. Had a uh virus in his heart, I think something. And I mean it just went down before we knew it, Sherman was gone Forty-seven years old, I think, if I remember. I was out visiting Paul and Mildred, it's just the three of us there, and we're crying. And Paul made a statement. He looked at me with tears in his eyes. He said, Pastor Leatherman, that little dialect he had. Pastor Leatherman. I don't understand. But I trust God. That simple statement was so profound. Their hearts were so broken. And nothing made sense. But he said, I trust God. You know what that is? That's steadfast faith. Holding the line. I'm going to keep my faith in God. I don't know the reason things happen the way they do. People ask, just this week somebody asked me why I don't know why, but I do know this. God is God, and God is good, and God is wise, and we can trust Him. Even in the confusion, even in the darkness. Paul writes to that church at Colossae, and he said, You've been steadfast in your faith. You've held the line. In Luke chapter 24 and verse 21, we won't turn there. Jesus Christ has been crucified, he's been buried, and he's rose again, but not everybody has seen Jesus just yet. And the disciples and the followers of Jesus Christ were devastated. This is not what they anticipated. This is Not what they envisioned. They saw Jesus becoming King of Israel, running the Romans out of the land, and Israel becoming an independent nation again like they were in the Old Testament. with the blessings of God. And hearing their their Messiah was crucified. Their king was dead. And everything they envisioned and everything they dreamed was shattered. And there's two of the disciples are walking to Maes, I think. And a stranger comes up and starts walking beside them. And this stranger says, why are you guys so sad? He said, are you new around here? What? You here? Jesus, the Messiah, who we trusted is dead. Been crucified. And if you look at that very carefully, it says we trusted past tense. Not anymore. He's dead. This didn't play out the way we thought. We're not trusting him anymore. Their faith was not steadfast. They gave up their faith in the one who was standing right beside them. And Jesus rebuked them and he says, Oh, ye fools and slow of heart. And he began to expound to them the scriptures how that the Messiah needs to die, be buried, and rose again. And they're fascinated. And they say, listen, uh, why don't you stay with us Jesus goes back. And then they made this statement after Jesus just miraculously goes back to Jerusalem. They made this statement. They said, Did not our hearts burn within us? Something was taking place. But the point I'm trying to make is this. They trusted past tense. One day, too soon, they gave up faith in God One day, too soon, they quit in their confidence in Jesus Christ. He told them over and over and over, I'm going to be crucified, I'm going to be buried, but I'm going to rise again. But because they didn't understand They abandoned their faith. And Paul writes to the church at Colossae, and he says, you've been steadfast. You held the line, you kept your faith in God. Now I don't know who I'm talking to. But I may be talking to some folks today that you're just saying, you know, I don't even know what I can trust anymore. I don't even know what's happening in my life. I'm here to tell you from experience and more authoritatively from the Word of God. That God is faithful and you and I can trust Him. Hold the line. He will come through. He will come through. I've seen it. Somebody said this, what we need is postage stamp Christians You take that little postcard po that little stamp. Now I don't know, do you still lick 'em? How many people remember back in the day you licked them? That was gross We stick it on there. But you know what makes a postage stamp valuable? It sticks to what it's stuck on. If that thing would come off en route, then the the letter would be no good, right? But it stays. And that may this may be a lame illustration, but what I'm saying is let's be postage stamp. Christians. We put our faith in Christ and it sticks. We're going to be steadfast. Amen. Father in heaven, I pray you'd take this attempt. To challenge us and stay faithful, get our priorities right, and then stay faithful. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, there are some say, Preacher, I gotta be honest, my priorities get out of whack. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, pray for me. I allow my priorities to get out of whack And we could go on daily Bible reading, church attendance, all that. High priority. A lot of hands all around. Any others preach your priorities. I gotta get them back in line. Gotta get them back in line I'll never succeed. I'll never have God's blessing if my priorities are out of way. I wonder if there was some say, preacher, I need to be persistent in my faith. I allow it, my doubts and my questions, uncertainty to get to me, and I start to waver a little bit. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, pray with me. I need to be stronger, more persistent in my faith. I'm just going to trust God I need God to help me. Just trust Him. Stay at it. Stay at it. Stay faithful. Thick and thin. Any of you like that? God bless you. Hands all around. And maybe on this Sunday morning after Bible time, just kneel in the old altar and say, Lord, I'm yours. I want to be faithful. I want to make, I want right things right. I want things in place in my life where they ought to be. And maybe there's someone with us in the auditorium here, you're listening online or radio. And you don't have assurance your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. I'm here to tell you you can know that. Jesus Christ is the Savior. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about where I spend eternity. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Say, preacher, pray for me. I gotta get that settled I do not want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Any at all? Any at all? Father, I ask you to bless now our invitation. Have your way in Jesus' name. Amen.