And I'm I'm gonna be careful here. I don't get too repetitious on this, but on the other hand, there are different aspects that I'm wanting to touch and cover. We've talked about the the motive, our motive for forgiving, and uh we talked a little bit in my butt. We talked about the motive and what forgiveness is not, what it is, and now we're looking at more of a practical aspect about how to go about it. And tonight I want to speak I'm gonna begin reading verse thirty actually, and a familiar passage for most of us. Let me get hooked up here Real quick. Ephesians 4, 32. I'll begin reading in verse 30. And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. And here it is, verse 32, and be ye kind one to another Tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. Steps to forgiveness. Let's pray and ask the Lord Father, uh we bow now before you, and Lord, I don't know how it's been for others, but it's been a hectic day for me in the last several days, weeks. has been uh very busy. So Lord, we just want to stop now and ask that you would uh calm our hearts and minds, help us to focus on your word. Help us, Lord, to put away the cares of the work and and daily grind, and help us, Lord, to open our hearts and minds to your word and your will for us. I yield myself to you now, Lord. I present my body anew. I ask you to fill me with your Spirit and help us, Lord, to be a people, a forgiving people, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. We made the statement before in a in a number of in various ways. We said that forgiveness is the foundation of our relationship with God. Everything about our relationship with God begins and ends with His forgiveness. God has forgiven us. I like this story. I use it as illustration occasionally. That little cemetery up in upper New York State somewhere. And uh the only thing you can read on the tombstone, old ancient tombstone The only thing you can read on it is at the bottom. No name, no dates, but you can just barely read at the bottom it says forgiven. Boy, what a wonderful thing to know that God has forgiven me That's the basis of our relationship with God. I want to suggest to you that forgiveness is not just the basis of our relationship with God. But basic that forgiveness is a foundation of our relationship one with another If you think about it very carefully, in fact, if you would, turn with me to Matthew chapter 5. Matthew chapter 5. This is what's called the Beatitudes. And um Matthew 5 and notice with me verse number 7. I think this is a very significant statement, the Lord says. gives us here. And I want to use this for my next statement. Notice verse 7 of Matthew 5. Everybody find it. Ready? Notice what it says. Jesus speaking. He says, blessed are the, what's that word? Merciful. I circled that word. What does it mean to be merciful? If you're merciful to someone, what is mercy? Mercy is not getting what I do deserve. Correct? That's our definition for mercy. Grace is getting something I don't deserve. Mercy is not getting something I do deserve. So if someone is merciful means they are not giving to the person something that perhaps they deserve. Right? How many people said I ought to choke him for that? Anybody? And he deserves to be choked, but I'm merciful and I withhold the chokingness. From them. Alright? So mercy, a person who's being merciful is withholding judgment. They're withholding vengeance. They're withholding payment. They deserve to pay me, but I'm not going to demand it. So look what he says. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain what? Mercy. You know what he's saying here? He's not necessarily talking about my relationship with God. He's talking about our relationship one with another. He's saying this If I am merciful to my brothers and sisters in Christ, then I can anticipate that they will be what? Merciful with me. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain what? Mercy. This is not, he's not making this a requirement for salvation. We are not saved because we're merciful to people. We're saved because we put our faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. But because we are saved, he said, Blessed are you, overflowing with joy, if you extend mercy If you extend, for the for the sake of our message, if you extend forgiveness, then you shall obtain mercy. You shall obtain forgiveness from others. And so my statement is this our forgiveness is the basis, is a foundation of our relationship one with another. If a relationship falls apart If a marriage falls apart and ends in divorce, they go their separate ways, it is not because somebody sinned. If the failure of a marriage was because somebody sinned, then no marriages would succeed. Right? Anyone here, your spouse has not sinned against You since you've been married. Never did or said anything, anything wrong that upset you or or was wrong at you. Any here. Larry's. Good, praise the Lord. And um And then see my wife's at home in bed, so I can I'm free. I'm a I'm unleashed. No, I'm kidding. But um uh you weren't married very long till he said or did something that hurt ya. Play it wrong. Huh? Uh come on now Uh until she said or did something and say, man, you know, what's what's what's the deal? Um so marriages and outside of marriage, relationships. Don't fail because someone sinned. Hey, church folk uh don't get along well because they're sinless. I think we got a great spirit in our church. A few exceptions, Ed and couple like that, but for the most part, we got a great spirit in our church. And uh, you know, and visitors come in, the missionaries ever with us say, man, you know, your folks got a great spirit Spirit. And I thank God for that. That's not because we're sinless. Amen. Marriages succeed not because they're sinless, but because they're merciful. Right? That relationship continues on, not because both of the spouses are sinless, but because they've learned to be forgiving. And so the basis, the foundation of our relationship with another, if I'm going to have a successful relationship, then I must be merciful. I must be forgiving. And so this is vitally important, this subject we're talking about. Now, our series, our focus is not on the everyday sins we have to deal with. Not the everyday little offenses, people think, things people say and do. on an everyday basis. And I'm trying to make this abundantly clear. What I'm talking about now are those deep offenses. The ones that hurt deeply. Not just the ones that are frustrating or prick our pride a little bit. Oh, who does anything? No, we're not talking about that. We're talking about the ones that break us down. That have the potential of altering our life. Um, you know, uh and I use some different illustrations the last several last months or so month or so, you know, somebody at war lies about you and you lose your job. And you never are able to get a job as good as that. For the rest of your life, and I mean it affected your whole life. That's the level of offense that we're talking about. And the the the the le the offenses that come Just a couple, few, one or two, maybe three or four in a lifetime that happened to us. How do we deal with them? What are the steps? That we take to overcome and not let that destroy me. How do I deal with that? Not just the guy that cut me off or went through a stop sign, but The one that has actually altered my life. How do I go about forgiving that person? How do I get victory over that Forgiveness at this level that we're talking about is a sacred act, I believe. It is an act of worship. Where I release that one who has hurt me to the level that it has maybe changed what I am a little bit. And alter my life. To forgive that one is a sacred act. You know, you go to Walmart and somebody in front of you get has 15 pieces in the 10 piece line. That's not a sacred act to forgive them. You know, don't bow down in the aisle and say, oh God, I am forgiving this one. You know, you follow what I'm saying So what are these steps? How do we do that? Number one, I'll give you some suggestions that I I glean from scripture and from study. Number one. We need to get alone with God. That's where it all begins. We've said this several times. Forgiveness is ultimately A decision I make before God, if I'm going to extend the forgiveness to someone that's done this, get alone with God. That's where the forgiveness takes place. We talked about it two weeks ago Wednesday night. We said forgiveness is ultimately a decision I make before God. So get alone with God. I would suggest get to a quiet place. You've struggled with this. This has happened, it was done, it was said, the deed was done, it cannot be undone. You've grappled with that fact that man I cannot undo this. There's nothing I can do to go back and change this My life is affected because of their behavior, their words. And I grapple with that and I'm hurt and I'm angry and finally. I say, I have to forgive. The Bible commands me as a child of God. I must do this. So what you do is you go and you get alone with God Suggest you get a quiet place, away from interruptions. I would say allow plenty of time Just to be in God's presence. And by the way, that is something I think in our hustle-bustle schedule is we've gotten away from just spending time in the presence of God. Just get alone with God, maybe with an open Bible, and just let the Lord speak to our hearts and just be quiet and be still and and recognize the fact I'm in the presence of God. Get alone, allow plenty of time. Turn leave the cell phone at the house or whatever, get rid of it, turn the radio off, and get alone with God. And I would recommend getting on your knees. Now, question, do we have to be on our knees to pray? No. We can pray driving down the road. In fact, the way some of y'all drive, I pray a lot when I'm driving down the road. We can pray driving down the road. We can pray in the shower. We can pray standing on the roof cleaning the gutters. But there's something about getting on your knees before God. There's something about humbling myself before God. And if I am going to forgive someone that has hurt me to that level, I make that decision, I'm going to do this. I get along with God. Avoid interruptions. I get on my knees. And I'm not saying that you should pray these words. But what I'm saying to God is this: something to this effect. Lord, I am a sinner. And I am no better than the one who has sinned against me. Thank you for your forgiveness of my sin. And I want to share in your forgiving character and forgive this one. Alone? With God, I'm on my knees. Maybe I've spent some time looking at these verses and just settling my heart and say, God. I'm a sinner just as bad if not worse than they are. You have forgiven me tremendously. And I want that forgiveness that you've shown me. I want to be able to show Show that to this one. So get alone with God. Number two, second step. In this time that I'm with God, I think it is good and important to rehearse God's forgiveness of me. I like to on a regular basis. Now I would like to say I do it daily, but I don't believe I can honestly say that. Years ago, I think I did, but just I don't get it every day, but I try to every day go back in my mind and remember the night when Christ came in my life and saved me. I like to relive it in my mind. When we have Lord's Supper, when we're serving the great Jews. I always go back to that night and I picture the bed there and kneeling down and calling on God and Him saving me and forgiving me. And that's a good thing to do. When I'm about to forgive someone who's hurt me deeply, it's a good thing to stop and remember and live, go back, and rehearse Christ forgiving me. coming in my life. And I think another good thing to do, and I do this at Lord's Supper also, is to go back and visualize in my mind the price Christ paid for me on that cross. And the blood that was shed, and the the nails, and the spear, the crown of thorns, just the blood and pain and agony, and then that darkness, him crying out in that darkness. He was doing that To forgive me. And when we get to the point where we're humbled and where our mind is refreshed, the price that was paid for my forgiveness. Then I can turn and offer forgiveness to the one who has hurt me. So rehearsing God's forgiveness of me, visualizing what Christ has done for me Number three, step number three. I think it might require yielding myself to be filled with the Holy Spirit. I've had a number of people in the years, uh several since I've been pastor, that have come to me and on the subject of forgiveness, maybe I'd mention in a message and these are years gone by and The subject would come up and I remember several who have either met with me or pulled me aside and they said something to this effect. The one person, these are almost his exact words So, Pastor, I have been hurt so deeply, I do not think I am humanly able to forgive the one that did that to me. Um sometimes, particularly you get into matters of infidelity and things like that, but it would of relate to other areas, you know, incest or rape, those types of things Deep hurts. Sometimes humanly you look at it and you say, I am unable to forgive them. I do not have the emotional strength to be able to let that go and forgive them. With that in mind, I think it may be necessary to yield myself to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Every time someone it's only been a number of occasions, a few occasions, that someone has said that to me, I've readily agreed with them that their situation they would tell me what the situation is. I would say, you know, I agree with you If I was in those shoes, I do not believe I would be able to forgive. But God, in His grace and mercy, has given us the Holy Spirit of God. The Holy Spirit of God indwells us, and we can, if we so choose, be filled with the Holy Spirit. We can be controlled by the Holy Spirit if we yield ourselves to him. And the Holy Spirit is able to enable us to forgive someone when we in and of ourselves are not able to. Let me give you some scripture. Uh turn with me if you would to John chapter fourteen. John fourteen Forgiveness is one of the most necessary aspects in Christian successful Christian living, but it can be one of the most difficult. John chapter 14, particularly verse 16 John fourteen and verse Oh I'm in Luke, that's why it didn't make sense. Hold on. John fourteen, sixteen. And I will pray the Father, Jesus speaking. And he, the Father, shall give you another what? Comforter, that he may abide with you forever. Who or what in the world is this comforter? It's not a blanket. You go to the next verse and he tells us. Even the what? Spirit of truth. Capital S, we know it's the Holy Spirit. Come down to verse 26. But the comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, Whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach all things. So Jesus said that he is going to send us a comforter. And that comforter is the Holy Spirit. Now we know in Acts chapter 2 the Spirit of God came, filled and uh filled the Holy the disciples, and uh you and I, when we trust Christ, the Holy Spirit indwells us. Now, notice the name the Lord uses for the Holy Ghost. Why doesn't he say, I am going to send you the Holy Ghost? Why does he say I'm going to send you a comforter, which is the Holy Ghost? Why didn't he just say I'm going to send you the Holy Ghost? They wouldn't have known what he was talking about. But he did. They said, I'm going to send you a comforter, which is the Holy Ghost. You know why he said it that way? Because they he wanted them, I believe, to understand a very specific aspect or ministry of the Holy Ghost He would a comforter, if somebody sends a comforter, then the job of the comforter is what? The comfort The word comforter here, and I'm not a Greek scholar, James is, you know old James to turn into a Greek and Hebrew scholar. He's eating that stuff up. Better him than me. Praise the Lord. I'm glad he likes it. But the word comforter, the Greek word that it comes from, means one who comes alongside of for the purpose of strengthening. For the purpose of encouraging, giving strength, giving courage to. So the Lord didn't say, Alright, I'm going to send the Holy Spirit to. He says, No, I'm going to send the Comforter who is the Holy Spirit. This person of the Godhead who's going to come down. He's going to come down with you in your trial, in your burden, in your hurt, and he is going to strengthen you. He is going to enable you to do what you need to do. And so, if I'm going to forgive, if I'm going to release that thing that has affected me so negatively and so deeply, Maybe humanly impossible and I need to get alone with God and I need to rehearse in my mind the price that was paid for my sins and What Christ has done for me and forgiving me. And I may need to say, Lord, I heal myself here. Holy Spirit of God, fill me and enable me to do what I need to do in this situation. How many people here ever went out soul winning and the and you remember the first time you went out and you were scared out of your mind? Anyone here can I get away in this? You know But some I guarantee there's a bunch of folks who can testify that at some point you knocked on the door or you sat down with someone or at break at work or somehow one of the first times and you finally got the courage up And you open the Bible and you share the uh the gospel, and when you did that, man, all of a sudden it just clicked and everything fell together, and it was just like somebody else was going through you. Can I get a witness That's the Holy Spirit enabling us. And so this matter, preacher, I I can't I want to, I know I should, but I do not believe I have the emotional, spiritual strength To forgive them for what they've done. Alright? I understand that, God understands that, but God has given you the Holy Spirit. And He enables us to do those things That we see ourselves unable to do. And so I may need to yield myself to the Holy Spirit. Let Him fill me and enable me to do that. Let me ask you a question. Does God forgive? Is God a forgiver? Yes. Does God delight in forgiving? Would God delight in enabling you and I to forgive someone? Absolutely. And so He's ready, He's eager to enable us if we yield ourselves to him and let him. Let me give you number four. Bring, I put it this way, bring my pain to the Lord. Now here's a question that's come up. We get we we get confused with mixing by mixing forgiveness in with other aspects of relationships. Let me make a statement. I've already touched on this in a previous message, but let me say this. Just because I forgive someone does not necessarily mean I trust them. Right? Someone has done something wrong. They've stolen a lot of money, and I'll never recoup it. And the rest of my life, I'm going to live in another level than I could have if they had not stolen that. Now just and I forgive them, I go through the process, and I genuinely scripturally, sincerely forgive them. But that doesn't mean I let them keep my checkbook Right? There's a world of difference. By forgiving them, I am giving them the opportunity to rebuild the trust. But I am not obligated to judge them just because I forgave them. Right? Now with that in mind, along those same lines, just because I forgive someone does not mean it doesn't still hurt what they did. Right, that hurt may linger on for months, years And so, after I forgive them, I get up and I'm still hurt. My heart's still broken. But I forgave them. Why do I still hurt? Why am I still crying? Why am I brokenhearted? Why am I struggling with this? Just because you forgive them doesn't mean you're not going to struggle with anger. So, what do I do with the pain? With that pain, it's still going to be there. Now, forgiving them sure helps. Amen. Sure, it helps a lot. But doesn't mean the pain doesn't go away. And when that pain is there, you know what the flesh wants to do? What happens when the flesh is hurt? It wants to strike back. It wants to retaliate. Why you? So I forgive them. I sincerely before God. Spirit of God's enable me. I've released them. I've let them go. I'm not holding any obligations on them anymore. They are forgiven. Man. I stick it off and I cried. The old flesh tries up and gets angry. How could he do this? What I need to do is that pain. I can't just, hey, you can't just stop hurting. Right? Used to fall down. My mom would say, well she didn't say this, but a mom says something like, You poke your eye out, don't come to me for sympathy, you know? Stop crying, stop hurting. You can't just stop hurting So what do I do? Take your Bible and turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 5. I think there's a real danger that after we forgive, if we do not deal with the pain correctly Bitterness can even still set in. Anger can still set in even after we've genuinely forgiven because we don't deal with the pain. incorrectly that lingers on after we forgive. 1 Peter 5 verse 7, you're familiar with this. Great verse. Casting all your what? Care upon him, for he careth for you. Now that's the Bible, that's God's word. I'm not altering it in any way, shape, or form. But for sake of our message, do you not believe we could read this this way by way of application, casting all your pain on him? For he careth for you? Would that not be in the spirit of the verse? And so what I can do is I can come and I can Bring my pain to the Lord. I put it this way: deep sins hurt deeply. And forgiveness does not erase the pain. Forgiveness, as I've emphasized over and over and over, is a decision I make. I decide probably has to begin in my head. But from my heart then I forgive that one. It's a decision, but it's not a cold, heartless decision. They're still emotionally involved. And so I need to forgive, and then that pain lingers on. I need to bring that to God. I want to show, I want to show one more verse, and we're done looking up verses. Go with me to the Old Testament book of Isaiah. Isaiah chapter 61, one of my favorite portions of scripture, there's so many. Jesus quoted this in the Gospels. Isaiah 61, look with me at verse 1. Talking about dealing with the pains. Isaiah 61, verse 1. It's page 766 in the Bible. The Spirit of God, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me because the Lord hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek. He has sent me, look at this, he has sent me to bind up the what? Brokenhearted. One of the things the Lord Jesus does is when our hearts are broken. Somebody has said or done something, a dream has they shattered one of our dreams. And our heart is broken. One of the things that Jesus does is he binds up a broken heart. Picture it this way: that heart is an half. And the Lord comes and he binds it up. He puts it back together. And so what do I do with the pain? I bring it to the Lord. The flesh wants to respond in anger. Alright, you forgave them, but it still hurts. I bring that pain to the Lord and say, God, this hurts. God just hurts. Lord, I bring that to him. And as I trust him and put in his hands, Then he binds up that heart. And then number five, last of all, the set last step, and this one's very difficult, I believe. It's maybe different for different people, but for me, this would be one of the most difficult of them all, is destroy the record of wrongs. Just destroy it. Well so-and-so did that against you. Yeah, I I don't know. I don't know what you're talking about. I've destroyed it. Destroy that record. Just throw it away. Same thing you do with your sins when we confess them. We just put them out. They're gone. Um how many people recognize the name Corey Tenboom? Anybody recognize that name? Boy, if you haven't read Corey Tenboom's story, you ought to read it. What what's the her main book, her biography? The hiding place. There's actually a pretty good movie made of it years ago. Um Cori Tenboom was a Christian In Holland, in the years leading up to World War II, the Nazis took over And she was helping her and her family were helping Jews escape the from the Nazi occupation. Well they got found out and her and her family were put into uh concentration camp And abused horribly. And I'm just gonna read what she says. Um just leading up to it, uh in a remarkable incident, she related a remarkable incident that she had not fully forgiven a wrong Until she had stopped holding on to it and cherishing her memory of it. Now here's her words. I recall the time when some Christian friends whom I loved and trusted did something which hurt me Many years later, after I had passed my 18th birthday, an American friend came to visit me in Holland As we sat in my little apartment in Barn, was the name of the town, he asked me about those people who long ago had taken advantage of me. It is nothing, I said a little smugly, it is all forgiving But by you, yes, he said. But what about them? Have they accepted your forgiveness? They said there is nothing to forgive. They deny it ever happened. Now this fellow is telling this the court Corey Kinder. They say there's nothing to forgive. They deny it ever happened. No matter what they say, though, I can prove they were wrong. Corey's saying that. I went eagerly to my desk. See, I have it here in black and white. I saved all of their letters. I can show you where they were wrong. Corey, my friend, slipped his arm through mine and gently closed. The door. Aren't you the one whose sins are at the bottom of the sea? Yet are the sins of your friends etched in black and white? For an astonishing moment I could not find my voice. Lord Jesus, I whispered at last, who takes all my sins away Forgive me for preserving all these years the evidence against others. Give me grace to burn all the blacks and whites as a sweet-smelling sacrifice to your I did not go to sleep that night until I had gone through my desk and pulled out those letters, curling now with age, and fed them all into my little coal-burning grape. As the flames leaked and glowed, so did my heart. Forgive us our trespasses, Jesus taught us to pray, as we forgive those who trespass against us. In the ashes of those letters, I was seeing yet another facet of his mercy. We must destroy the records of wrongs. 1 Corinthians 15, 13, 5 says that we must not keep a record of wrongs done against us. One other little story I came across, I read a copy, I just want to read it to you, and I'll end with S. Um it's about a a girl named Doris. A woman um she wrote what happened as she and her best friend walked through a park around a beautiful little lake. Here's her story, and I am with this. I apologize for reading so much, but I think this catches the spirit. The sun was shining brightly, the birds were chirping, and carefree people surrounded me as they enjoyed this gorgeous spring day. But I could not share any of their feelings. I was caught in a turmoil of emotions ranging from anger and bitterness to deep pain. And sadness. I angrily stomped along, kicking pebbles out of my way, barely able to carry on our conversation. I was dealing with my husband's adultery for the second time. The first time I quietly suffered through the hurt and quickly forgave him. I hurt immensely, but with the counsel and support and prayers of my friend I endured Remembering that the Lord whispered to me at that time, seventy times seven, showing his command to forgive, just as Jesus had instructed Peter. But this time was different. I was livid with anger. How could my husband do this to me again? How could he put me through this after I forgave him so graciously? What a fool I was. And then my emotions led me further into the past. Me. Why did it always seem to be me who suffered? I remembered how my father died when I was still very young. My mother became an alcoholic. I suffered through those feelings of aloneness and rejection too. Why always me? As I allowed my bitter thoughts and feelings to pour forth to my friend, I was also able to listen to myself. And that's all I heard. Myself. I was completely focused on me. I didn't care. I was entitled to it. I was tired of being the victim. And then, ever so gently and quietly, the Holy Spirit spoke. This is how Jesus must have felt. He didn't do anything wrong, yet he suffered horribly. Suddenly I felt some small measure of purpose in what I was going through. So this is how Jesus must have felt. And even worse. I thank the Lord for that insight, and I was humbled at the contrast between my own bitterness and what Jesus had borne for me. Me. My steps lightened a bit, and I felt a sense of comfort. My friend and I continued walking and talking and later stopped to pray. When we left the park, I was still hurting. I still felt some bitterness and anger. I knew that the journey ahead of me would not be easy But I also knew that I would never be alone in my sorrow. Again, the Lord brought to my mind that phrase, seventy times seven And my need to forget, obey, and forgive. I choose to forgive. My heart wasn't fully in it at first, but gradually the bitterness died out, and love was replaced. Forgiveness is not just an emotion, it is a decision. And Peter's words now have new meaning for me. By his wound, by his stripes, we have been healed. Isn't that amazing? Letting go of the pain, bringing it to the Lord, and destroying the records of wrong. Forgiveness, it is not easy. But God will help us if we trust Him. Let's pray. Father in heaven, as you'd help us in this matter. Lord, maybe not all of us. Have been in a situation where this has been such a struggle. But I believe, Lord, if we live any length of time, sooner or later, to some degree, we're going to have to deal with it So I ask you to help us. With our heads bound and with our eyes closed, I don't know how to give the invitation this evening. I just ask that the Spirit of God. would apply um the word of God into our lives as he knows we have need. Perhaps the Lord spoke in our heart