Turn with me if you will to uh Ezekiel. Ezekiel chapter forty-seven. Ezekiel chapter forty-seven The Don Williams Gallery of Grace. Yeah. Yeah. That's good. Alright. We're going to read several verses here, beginning in verse 1. And I'm going to ask you to stand with me and do reference to the Word of God as I read it. Ezekiel chapter 47 and verse 1, the word of God says, Afterward, he brought me again unto the door of the house, and behold, waters issued out under the threshold of the house eastward. For the forefront of the house stood toward the east, and the waters came down from under the great side of the house at the south side of the altar And then brought he me out of the way, the gate northward, and he led me about the way without unto the other gate by the way that looketh eastward, and behold there ran out waters on the right side. And when the man that had the line in his hand went forth eastward, he measured a thousand cubits, and he brought me through the waters. And the waters were to the ankles. Again he measured a thousand cubits, and he brought me through the waters, and the waters were to the knees. And again he measured a thousand and he brought me through The waters were to the loins. Afterward he measured a thousand, and it was a river that I could not pass over, for the waters were risen, waters to swim in. A river that could not be passed over. Let's pray. Father, I thank you for the word of God and and uh I thank you, Lord, for these folks who have come out tonight to hear the preaching and see the chalk drawing. And I pray that uh that each one of them will take away uh something here tonight that will change their life. I pray for that one who is here that does not know Christ as their personal Savior. They've been depending upon their church membership or their uh religion or uh their good works. Uh Lord, uh I I pray that uh you'd help us uh to realize tonight that it's not by works of righteousness which we've done, but according to his mercy that he's saved us. So bless our time around your word here tonight and we'll give you all the praise for it all. Bless the chalk drawings. We show it in a little bit in Christ's name. Amen, and amen. You may be seated. Ezekiel's a a prophet of God, prophet to the nation of Israel Israel had been uh was a nation that was disobedient uh to God, and as a result, uh over a period of time, the constant disobedience and and the willingness to get into idolatry and so forth Uh finally God got tired of that and he uh allowed his nation, his people, the nation of Israel, he calls his people. He allowed them to be taken into captivity. And so they were taken into captivity. I'm not going to get into the the northern ten tribes and the two southern tribes and You know, I'm not I won't get into that because both of them were taken in captivity at two different times, but two different nations. But uh the point is that that uh God's people had uh stepped out of line and uh over a period of time and and it wasn't like uh God was just waiting for him to step across the line and zap he took had him taken into captivity by a Gentile power. That wasn't that wasn't the way it was at all. There was times where he he worked with them and worked with them and uh they would g get backslid and he would bring some some chastening on them, he'd deal with them and and they'd kinda straighten up. Maybe they'd get a good king and under good leadership while the nation would go good for a while But there came a time when when uh bad kings, bad kings, they just uh uh as a result they went the wrong way And so God finally uh allowed them to be conquered and taken into captivity. So there was thousands and and And probably hundreds and hundreds of thousands of of Israelites were taken into captivity at any it at any given time. And uh but God still had his men, his prophets, and his prophets had a job to do Their job in is in Ezekiel's case was to keep their sin before them. In other words, to to help the nation of Israel, those who were left, those who were in the uh in in uh out in Babyl in Babylon at that time uh keeping in keeping them in mind that uh God was not finished with them even though he was chastening them. That's a good lesson for Christians. God uh uh when a Christian uh gets uh out of sorts with God, uh he may bring some chastening in their into that individual's life. But it doesn't mean he's finished with them. He's not finished. He's just working the the rough spots off and he's getting things, you know, getting uh where that individual can begin to serve again. Because the ultimate desire is for uh number one, for someone to get saved, and number two is to serve him and glorify him And so if your life is is after you've uh been born again by the Spirit of God, if your life is not glorifying God in one way or another, then uh Expect God to start to bring some things into your life to uh help you see the the light and to get your life straightened out. That's the the case here. So the nation of Israel, uh Ezekiel, is having a vision here. Uh we can find that out over in verse uh chapter forty three and and he talks about uh see in verse two. I'll just read it real quickly. And behold the glory of God of Israel came from the way of the east, and his voice was like the noise of many waters, and uh Earth that shined with his glory, and it was according to the appearance of the vision which I saw, even according to the vision that I saw when I came to destroy the city. He talks about the vision. So he's he's taking uh Ezekiel now. He's got uh he's giving him a vision And this is a vision that is supposed to help the nation of Israel to, you know, to understand that God is not done with them, that He still has a plan way out here There's a kingdom that uh he is uh uh he's going to to give them uh in in someday. And of course the Lord Jesus will reign over that kingdom, but we won't we're not gonna get into that part of it So h here in this thing, he's uh he's in this vision now. And uh we could read that that first part of that part of that all over again. The waters coming down from the right side out of the door, you know, and the temple and all. And you just get all mixed up in that, uh, because that's not the message, you know. So let's just kinda move that aside and let's get on on down here. He's talking about the waters that came out of the house. The house here is the temple, and it's the temple future. It's this temple that one day that that Jesus is going to set in and rule the world in. And that's that'll be after the rip the uh the uh rapture of the church, after the Christians are taken out and the you know, the seven days of our seven weeks of uh seven years, I'm sorry, of of the uh tribulation and then Jesus is going to come back and set up his kingdom, and that's what this is this is a picture of. He's showing him the temple and he's telling him some some truth here that we can apply to us today And that's what we really want to speak about here in this situation. You notice the the water is mentioned. I mentioned the house. That's referring to the the temple future. And uh there's mention of water in here. Now the water in in the Bible can be one of two things, depending on whether it's still water or whether it's running water. If it's running water, it has to do with the Spirit of God. If it's still water, if it just is laying still, then then that's a picture of the Word of God. So there's two different thoughts here in that. But this water's running, so we can assume that the that the we're speaking of the Spirit of God or the Holy Spirit in this in this portion of Scripture Uh back in the book of John in chapter seven, uh I think we're probably familiar with that, but in John chapter seven it talks about the water. Let me slip back there real quick and I'll just read those verses to you. It says uh in the in the last days, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and he cried, saying, If any man thirst Let him come unto me and drink. And he that believeth on me, as the scripture has said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. But this spake he of the Spirit When they that believe on him should uh which they that believe on him should receive. For the Holy Ghost was not yet given because that Jesus was not yet glorified. So th so this this springing water or wells of water is referring to the Spirit of God. And so uh I'm I'm likening this uh in typology to the Spirit of God, this water that's coming out of the temple. You'll notice that the water that's coming out of the temple goes down past in verse 1 there. The very last word in that verse, it says it speaks of the altar. So I believe this is the brazen altar, and uh uh the brazen altar is a picture of the cross of Calvary, because that's the place where all the sacrifices were made. And so we see in typology here, we see the Lord speaking to us today in the church age, in this day in which we live. So the the Holy Spirit now, uh through this uh uh in this story, uh in this this vision that he's giving Ezekiel. In verse two it says, and he brought me out of the way of the way uh of the gate northward, and he led me about the way without unto the other gate by the way that looketh eastward. I know you can get all bamboozle on this, you know Back and forth. But here's here's the bottom line. He led me. You see that word? It's the second line in verse two there in my Bible. And it's uh the word led means uh you know to be led. It's an act of the will. To allow someone to lead you is for uh is a a lack uh a a uh uh an act of the will on your part. And this this man that is sh giving him this vision or this is going with him and showing him this vision Uh it says that he he is measuring out uh a measure a thousand uh cubits and he's bringing him through. And the water, the first one there, is up to the ankles in verse three. The water being the Holy Spirit, and this man willing to step into the water. Is an act of faith. You see, without faith it's impossible to please God. And we're saved by grace through faith And so I say the very first thing that we look at here is the spirit of faith in verse three. And when the man that had the line in his hand went forth eastward, he measured a thousand cubits, and he brought me through the waters, and the waters were to the ankles I guess the the one of the things that uh uh is important in In this story, is that we open our mind up to realize that God speaks to us indirectly through the Word of God. And in these verses here, though he's speaking to Israel, he's talking to Ezekiel, he's also speaking to you and I. The first thing that we need to understand is that the willingness for an individual to be led by the Spirit of God uh speaks to me of that one who knows that he's lost and needs to be saved. The Spirit of God is speaking to him and and in trying to uh get that individual to receive Christ as their personal Savior and that individual finally gives in. He says, All right, I'm willing to step into the water. That's what I'm willing to do. He's willing to be led. That's an act of faith. Faith is a is not passive. Faith is active. Faith without works is dead. God expects us, those who have faith, have been born again by the Spirit of God. He expects to see something as a result of that faith. And so the first thing that I see here is this act of faith that Ezekiel takes here in the very beginning of this vision that he has. The next thing I see is that uh uh the water is up to his ankles. You'll notice a progression as you go down through here. The first one is this the spirit of faith, which is of course a definite an a definite act, the stepping of uh into the water And then in uh verse four, again he says, He measured a thousand, and he brought me through the waters, and the waters were to the knees again. The first level that a Christian is involved with after they've trusted Christ as their Savior, after they've been born again by by putting their faith in the Lord Jesus. is the necessity of having a successful prayer life. And we talked about prayer the other other night in in a message we preached. And we took we said that that that the the prayer that we were talking about then was not the uh the intercessory type uh prayer. But uh rather it was uh the kind of a prayer that uh got down to business, confess their sins and so forth. In this one, we're not talking about that type of prayer. We're not talking about the prayer of confession to get things right with God. We're assuming that that's already taken place because they they've been born again by the Spirit of God, but they need to continue to grow. You see the one sad thing about Christians today, it seems like we see Christians who have been born again by the Spirit of God, but the next thing you see is they they either drop out of church Or they come but they never grow and they just uh they'll be spasm uh uh uh Uh I'm trying to think of a uh I say spasmatic, I guess that's as good word as any. In their in their church going In other words, they come and they you know, they sometimes they do and sometimes they don't. And I'm not I'm not talking about all you who were here last night. Not talking about that. But he couldn't do it, so there you go. I had to open that for me. Well, I know it's tough, but uh So the next step after a person is saved and then they also they ought to build a s uh a s a uh a prayer life. It ought to be something that's natural. That in the morning you spend time in prayer, time in the Word of God, time in prayer, time with the Lord. That's the reason for prayer It's a uh communication with uh a superior being uh to develop a friendship, a fellowship that uh will count when the hard times come and the storms come And believe me that storms do come and you need that fellowship and that closeness with God. And so the the second step then is after a person has stepped into the water, an act of faith that speaks of salvation. The next step is this matter of of prayer. I don't know about you, but I know how I am, so I can I can talk to you on that basis. I know that prayer is hard. I know you can say, well, it's easy to me. Uh uh Lord I lay me down to sleep, and you know. I know those kind of prayers are easy. I know that. Thank you, Lord, for the food that we I I know those kind of prayers are easy. But I'm talking about the kind of prayer where you where you're you really you're burdened for somebody who's lost. I'm talking about uh the kind of prayer that uh that wants to see uh uh a uh a building fund grow to a million dollars. The kind of prayer that uh you know some of the some of the prayer that needs to be d you know will bring a sweat out on your brow When Jesus went in the in the Garden of Gethsemane, I read there that uh he says, What doesn't work great drops of blood? What was that all about? Because of a of of what he knew was going he was going through. Let the father let this cup pass from if it be possible, let this cup pass from. He knew what was ahead of him. He knew that He knew that the separation from his Father was ahead of him. He knew that he was going to become sin for us who knew no sin that we might be made the righteousness of God in Him He knew that and the the the anguish of his of prayer and the work that he was involved with brought as it were great strop uh drops of blood from his sweat glands. Think about that. And that's what I'm talking about. Uh prayer is not, you know, it's not an easy thing. That's this kind of prayer that I'm talking about, not an easy thing, but it's something we need to develop because there's going to be times when we're going to need that. And you don't want to just, you know, no prayer, no prayer, no prayer, and all of a sudden the storm comes in. Okay, Lord, now boy, you're now you're praying. That's not the kind of that's not what we're looking for. What we're looking for is a consistent prayer life so that the the the most natural thing When the hard time comes, when something steps into your life that you can't handle yourself, the natural thing is to say, Lord, can you give me a hand of this thing? And it's just a natural prayer. So the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit is the implement that God uses. First of all, to born you into the family of God. That's the work of the Spirit of God. And to develop your prayer life is a work of the Holy Spirit in your life. I'm looking in the Ephesians chapter six and verse eighteen. Uh-huh. Oh, I've been luke here. Sorry about that. Let me get it back over here where I need to be. There it is. It says, praying always. With all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. You see that See, I think a lot of our praying is just kind of off the top of our head, hits the ceiling, bounces back down. Because the Spirit's not involved in it. Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all the saints. This thing of prayer develops something too. Your prayer life, as it develops, it develops you maturely. Makes a more mature Christian in your life. Which brings us to the next step. It says here, after after he has brought it to the uh water was to the knees in verse four Then in the middle of that it says, and again, in the middle of verse 4, again he measured a thousand, and he brought me through. And the waters were to the loins. Did you notice in each one of these, each step that he he took Ezekiel on was uh uh He didn't take him into the middle of it and leave him, but he brought him through. Brought him through. God When he's working in our lives, he watches our development, and then he helps us move to the next stage in our maturity. I remember when I first got saved. I was in a in another church. They didn't do things like, you know, like your church does and my church. Uh, there in Kentucky. And uh as soon as I got saved, the very first thing the preacher did was he wanted to put me in a Sunday school class. Now maybe I've told this story before, but I'll tell it one more time because it proves the point that I'm trying to make. And that is that During my high school years, uh I I would take a failing grade rather than do an oral book report. I mean I hate to get up in front of people and say anything. I didn't like to get up in front of people. I don't like to get up in front of people. I mean I didn't then. I not too bad now. But the truth of the matter is I I just I mean that was just a fear that I had. Now God helped me by when I went in the army, uh they they pulled me for an instructor. And that's something that's strange. That's before I was saved now. He they pulled me for instructor and I was an instructor in a small arms uh repair uh uh uh division. And uh I taught for uh for two years in in the army. So when I get out of the army, uh next thing I know, I you know, a few years later in nineteen sixty two I got saved. And the pastor said, I want you but see all that army stuff that was behind me and I got getting rid of that. I don't want that Now I'm saved, and now God uh He's listen He's He's measuring a thousand I wish I had read these verses because I didn't know he was going to bring me through. See? There's times when God puts things in your life to help you grow the next step that he wants to take you to. That's what he was doing with me. And even even though the you know uh I think the preacher, you know, he made a mistake by having me as a Sunday school teacher because I was a You know, I didn't know anything about the Bible. It's all brand new to me. But the point is that uh that it made me do things that I didn't want to do. And I think that's what God does to us sometimes, puts us in a position where where we're either gonna, you know, we're gonna sink uh or swim, one or the other. But the thing you need to understand is when God puts you in that situation, He's going to bring you through. You may be going down for the last time, but He's going to bring you through, you know, pop you up and give you a breath and shove you on. He's gonna bring you through. Some of you maybe maybe s uh the preacher uh said at you uh to you one time, uh, you know, I need a Sunday school teacher. And you but not me. You're not going to get me up in front of that bunch of hm kids and well, and give me dry me nuts, you know. You know, maybe that's that's God want to move you up a notch. See? So you need to need the Think twice whenever whenever things get a little bit, you know, getting you out of your comfort zone. We use that a lot, and I'll just use it one more time. Getting you out of your comfort zone Maybe the work of the Holy Spirit saying, hey, I'll bring you through, but I want you to take this step, next step of faith, and get into a little bit deeper water. Maybe he wants you to drive a bus. Maybe he wants you know I don't know all the things he might want you to do, but I do know this, that that God, when God is in this thing, he'll bring you through. I can give you another example. After I got saved, I was working with Coronation Milk Company. I'd worked in the plant there. I was with Coronation 21 years. Yeah? And fifteen of those years I was in the plant, working in the plant, uh dumping milk, testing milk, doing all the stuff that we do in in uh a milk plant and And uh and one day the uh there was a notice came down on the the bulletin board it said the um We are looking for bright young men to train as engineers for our plants. If you're interested in that, why see your supervisor? Well, I'd know something about I mean, I'm just high school education and uh worked in the plant for fifteen years and what do I know about that? But there was something something there and I I said, huh, well I won't hurt say something about it, so I I mentioned to my supervisor and I said, what are you Uh I see this notice up here. I'm I'm interested in looking into it. And uh so they sent down a a book that had a bunch of tests in it. And uh I okay. So I took a day off and went over there, took the test. Now like I say, a high school graduate hated to get up in front of a class There's a lot of things about school I didn't like. I didn't want to go to college because it was going to mean I had to study. You understand what I'm saying? And so, and I'm saved now, you see, in in this situation, I'm saved. And and I just I just knew the Lord Had something more for me, but I wasn't sure what it was. I thought, well maybe he you know wants me to be a preacher. Uh he wouldn't want me because not me And so the next thing I knew why I took the test and test results came back and I'd made, I don't know, real real good real good, exceptionally good grades, matter of fact. And uh Lo and behold, uh, they pulled me. They said, Hey, we want you to go down to North Carolina and we're going to transfer you down there and you're going to go through a a year of uh intensive training. uh to become a plant engineer. Wa me. And uh I talked to Nan about it and uh It was scaring me to death. Scaring me to death. But God was saying, that's what I want you to do. I'll bring you through. I said, okay, but you better. And I meant it too. And so that's what happened. That's how I got down to North North Carolina for a year in training. They sent me to Maysville, Kentucky. That's how I got into Kentucky. Uh they put me as uh the assistant engineer as the uh the largest evaporated milk plant in in the world at that time. Boy that sounds really big, doesn't it? It was big. It's huge But I had a good uh engineer that knew what he was doing and he he knew how to just sort of kinda ease me along and it was it was good. But what I'm getting at is that was that was out of my comfort zone. That was way out of my comfort zone. Way out. But God brought me through it. I remember the I remember the weeks that the engineer would go on vacation. Well, I tell you, I was it scared the daylights out of me. Every day I'd go, God, please don't let anything break down. I don't want you know. I mean because you had to have the answers And I wasn't sure whether I had 'em or not. But God brought me through. There was was some breakdown, but we handled the thing and I had a l a good crew that uh just knew what they were doing anyhow and I just thought, yeah, that's right, go ahead. You know. Do you see what I'm getting at? God has a plan for each one of us, and He He brings us along, He measures a thousand, and then He'll bring us through. And when we've accomplished that the purpose he's he's got for us at that level, he says, okay, it's time to measure another thousand. And he'll bring you through. So the things that he throws into your path to get you to grow, don't be fearful of it because he'll bring you through. Just like I say, he may wait for you to go down the last time. And he'll pick you up and give you another golf of bear. But trust him. Trust him The Holy Spirit that lives within you, he's going to bring you through. He's going to bring you through. And then there's a final stage here. Well, there's two more stages, really. But this one here it says uh Again he measured a thousand and he brought me through and the waters were to the loins. Well, the loins is this area here, and this is your power area. Just nod your head, yes, whether I'm right or wrong. And uh but anyhow, this uh this is the area that is usually you know where the where the power That's what we're talking about. And uh uh there is some you know some wisdom in this, because um the waters were to the to the loins We all know this verse. But you shall receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and Judea, and Samaria, and into the uttermost parts of the earth. You see, a praying Christian is a powerful Christian. A praying Christian is a powerful Christian Because you're in touch with the power. You're in touch with God. Your relationship with Him is at its peak. And the Spirit of God is working in your life. And what you need to be doing in this when the Spirit of God is working in your life, you're going to find that that opportunities will present themselves Just on a regular basis. You know why some of the churches are are dying out today? Yeah, I know. We're all getting old. And some of the churches, that's the truth. In our my whole church, uh our pastor is is uh seventy-some years old and I'm eighty-five. I think I'm next to the oldest one in the church. But there's not very many young people coming on. I see I forgot where I was going on it. I had some some thought going in my mind there, but I just kinda slipped it out. That's the way it goes sometimes. You'll find out one of these times, girls. Yes you will. Oh yeah. Oh yeah, and you're walking around. What was I doing? Why did I come in here? Yeah, there's a lot those things happen. The Spirit of God is working in our in our life, and when he's working in our life Witnessing is a is a paramount thing. And the reason our churches are not growing mainly is because the people are not in touch with the Holy Spirit. Okay, we'll go to the next one after that. Verse 5 says this. And after he measured a thousand, it was a river that I could not Pass over. For the waters were risen. Waters to swim in. Waters to swim in. We're talking about the Holy Spirit. The water represents the Holy Spirit. And when a person is in waters to swim in, there's only one part of that individual that's sticking above the water. And that's the head. And in the scriptures, the Bible says that you're put on the mind of Christ, that he's the head of the church. And so whenever the spir whenever you're filled with the Spirit of God, it's not a thing where you run around and speak in some jar garble or something like that. That's not what it's talked about. What the filling of the Spirit is, is when you have just emptied yourself and said, Lord, I just want you to fill me with you. And I want to be used by you. I want your fullness. And whenever people see you, As they look, they see you're totally submerged in the Holy Spirit, and the head of you is Christ, and that's all they see is Christ. And isn't that what we're supposed to be anyhow? Are we not supposed to be Christ like? And are we not supposed to be in his image? Are we not Christians? Image of Christ How do we do this? How do we have this fullness? It's found over in in Luke 11. It's not a not a difficult thing. And it's not something spooky that happens. It's it's just something that happens when you you just yield yourself to God and you say, Lord, I I just want to be used by you and I and Far as I know, I've confessed my sin. My life is clean. I want you to use me. And the Spirit of God just fills you with Himself. If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? Or if he asks a fish, will he give him a serpent Or if he shall ask an egg, will he offer him a scorpion? If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, How much more shall your Heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him? There it is. It's not a praying through thing. It's just a yielding thing. Just saying, Lord, I just want you to use me. You give yourself to him and and he fills you with the Spirit of God and then He puts the opportunities in your path. And allows you to witness to this one, give a track to that one, smile to this one, encourage that one, and and look for the problems to help in those times of need. That's that's what this Christianity is all about. It's getting other people saved. That's what it's getting that's what it's all about. So this story here in the book of Ezekiel This is a picture of just what you and I need to be doing. First of all, we need to get saved by stepping into the water, an act of faith. And whenever that person has stepped into the water, then he's going to measure a thousand Water's going to be to the ankles, but he's going to bring you through. And then he'll measure another thousand. He'll say, well, it's time for you to move up a notch. And the water's to the knees. The prayer the prayer life. And then well it's time to move up one more notch. The power life. And then the fullness of the Spirit of God. Can you imagine what would take place? If everyone in this auditorium was filled with the Spirit of God, would invade Oakland, Maryland You know, how many do we have? Maybe fifty people in here tonight? Can you imagine what God could do with fifty people filled with the Spirit of God? The people that he could reach. You think about that. Heavenly Father This is your service. I ask your blessings now on this chalk drawing and space to the invitation time. May we search our hearts, Lord, see if there be any wicked way. And if there is, there needs to be the confession. Lord, I pray tonight that we we tonight might determine in our heart, Lord, we want to move up. We want to be filled with the Spirit of God, that we might be used. We ask it in Christ's name Amen. If we have the lights out, we'll show the stroke drawing. These days we're going to spend an eternity somewhere. And the reason that Jesus came is because when Adam sinned back in the Garden of Eden, that sin was passed on through the bloodlines to mankind. So all is sinned and come short of the glory of God, and there's none righteous, no, not one. It means that everyone, everyone, Must be saved if they're going to go to heaven. If they choose not, if they make that decision, I'm not going to step in the water, I'm not going to get saved, I'm not going to trust Christ as my Savior. I think uh you know I can get by on my good works. Well, I've already quoted that verse about three or four times, but there's it's not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. God is not gonna look at your church membership, He's not gonna look at your good works, He's not gonna look at your uh you know doing Good to other people. He's gonna it's a question of whether he knows you and you know him. And the question tonight is this, do you know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior? Has there been a time in your life when you saw yourself an alien with God. You were uh alienated from God because your sin is separated between you and Him. And you said, Lord, I know that I've sinned against you, I've offended you, and I'm sorry, and I'm asking you to forgive me and come into my heart and save me. Has there ever been a time when that took place in your life? If there hasn't, then that's something you need to do. The Bible says that he that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already. Because he has not believed on the name of the only begotten Son of God. If you're a Christian here tonight, I don't know where you are in the water. I don't know whether there's been times when God has spoken to you and you said no because it got you out of your comfort zone. But tonight you need to reevaluate your life and see what you're really doing for God. Because God has a plan. This church is a is a growing church. I you know, I I come in, I'm I'm amazed at uh New people and I you know, I'm amazed at what God's doing in this place. I see a new building that's uh in thinking about building here to raising money for. You know, that's a that's a serious, serious thing. It's going to take a an active people Fill that building. What is it God wants you to do tonight? Number one, are you saved? Number two, are you serving? Heavenly Father, this is the time when the Spirit of God is most often rejected. I pray that you'd help that individual who's here without Christ help them to come and let us take a Bible and show them how to be saved I pray, Lord, for for the Christians that they they've cut you off and have said, no, I'm not going to do that. I pray, Lord, that you'd help them. to come and confess her sin and get this life straightened out and and get on to the next level of growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord. So bless our time around This invitation we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Let's all stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Would you do that, please?