Over to uh Acts twenty two, Acts twenty-two in your Bibles, Acts twenty two and I'll be sensitive to the time. Uh I'm gonna learn my sensitivity training from a a story that I heard one time of a man that was watching his wife's cat. Um by the way, how many white cats in here? Raise your hand, let me see. And how many do not like cats? Raise your hand. Okay, then I'm safe telling this story, all right. Uh but this man was watching his wife's cats. She was over in Europe and uh she called him and she said, How are you doing? He said, I'm fine, honey. Uh how is it going over there in Europe? She said, It's going great And they talked about a couple things and she said, How's my cat? And without any hesitation, he said, Your cat's dead. Long pause on the on the other end of the line. She finally said, Uh, you're insensitive. He said, What do you mean? She said, You should have broke that news to me gently. He said, Well, like how? She said, Well, you could have made up a story. He said, what kind of story? She said, Well you could have said your cat's on the roof. I'm trying to get down from the roof and and uh and I can't. I could have called to the next day and you could have said, try to get your cat down from the roof and it fell and hurt itself. I took it to the vets and I could have called to the next day and You could have said, I don't think your cat's going to make it in that last day I could have called. That's when you could have told me that my cat died. You could have eased that that information to me slowly. She says she said, that's how. He said, okay, well I'll be more sensitive. And so she said, fine And they hung up and he called about a week she called about a week later and and he said, How you doing? And she said, I'm fine. He said, How was the trip going over there in Europe? She said it's going good and and they talked about a few things then She got around to uh talk about some of the things she said, by the way, how's my mom been doing lately? And he paused and said, Your mom's on the roof. So he learned that sensitivity training, but I don't think it turned out exactly the way he wanted to. Okay? But Acts 22, Acts 22 this morning, and uh you've been sitting for a while. Let's all just stand for a minute, take a deep breath, okay? And they say just to let's see, what are you doing, Brother Harding? Just trying to give a little more gray matter to the to the a little oxygen to the gray matter. Okay. Ready? One, two, three, breathe And let it back out. Careful, no wheezing, all right, this morning. You say, well, what is this? Well, it just helps us to be a little bit more alert. And also, that breath that we just breathed, that's the breath of freedom. Someone paid for that. It's the breath of liberty. And we're all stewards of that liberty. And I'd like to talk to you for a little while this morning. on the stewardship of liberty. And so Acts 22, Acts 22, and this is Paul giving his defense before the multitude and he what he's doing, he's recounting some things. And they're giving him attendance because he's speaking to them in Hebrew. And he's talking about the fact that he had an encounter with Yeshua Hamashiach the Messiah on the road to Damascus. And then he also says there's some regrets in his life because he was the one that held the coats of Peter, excuse me, that he held the coats of the men while they stoned Stephen. And then he gets to a point where he makes a transition. It's a little bit of a segue, and he basically is telling them what God has a called him to do and what God has given him as a task. And that's where we're going to Pick it up this morning, and that's in verse 21. And he said unto me, that's Paul referring to God. Depart, for I will send thee far hence unto the Gentiles. And they gave him audience unto this word. What word Gentiles They didn't really like us very much. We were the heathen, and rightfully so. In fact, we are heathen, but we've been grafted in. We're the wild olive branch. Amen. That's been grafted. I don't know about you, but I'm happy that Paul answered the call to the Gentiles. Amen. And it goes on to say Paul talked about and they gave him audience unto this word, and then lifted up their voices, and said away with such a fellow from the earth, for it is not fit that he should live. And as they cried out and cast off their clothes and threw dust in the air, the chief captain commanded him to be brought into the castle and bade that he should be examined by scourging that he might know wherefore they cried so against him. And as they bound him with thongs, Paul said unto the centurion that stood by, Is it lawful for you to scourge a man that is a Roman and uncondemned? When the centurion heard that, he went and told the chief captain, saying, Take heed what thou doest, for this man is a Roman. Then the chief captain came and said unto him, Tell me, art thou a Roman? He said, Yea. And the chief captain answered, with a great sum Obtained I this freedom, and Paul said that I was freeborn I want to speak about the stewardship of liberty. Heavenly Father, thank you now for loving us. Once again, Lord, we thank you for your word, that it is settled forever in heaven Father, that it is eternal, that we hold in our hands a living document that still has the power today that it has had and will always have. Lord, we ask right now, through and by your Holy Spirit, that you would give us that holy unction, that you would allow Father, each and every mind and heart to be open and receptive to thy word. Help the cares and burdens of this life to Dissipate for a while and Lord, create and maintain a hedge of protection around this assembly. Bind off the wicked and the evil one, and Father, help us truly to focus on the eternal. As I step back, Lord, might you step forward and dear God that you would control everything that's said and done. I surrender myself unto you, Lord, that your words and thoughts might And oh God, help us now enlarge and enlighten our minds and our hearts. Illuminate, Lord, we ask, and show us those things to come, and we'll be very careful. To give you all the praise and glory for what you're about to do, for we ask this in the precious name of your Son and our Savior, and by the power and the merit that is in the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. Thank you. May be seated. So I have a question for us today, and that question is this. Do we as Christians, do we as Americans really appreciate our liberty? Before you answer that question, think about what Paul said. Paul said, I was freeborn. The chief captain said With a great sum obtained I this freedom. What the chief captain was saying, I worked for this. I put my life on the line countless times, and because I did that, they granted me my freedom. Paul said, I don't know. I've never been uh in battle, but I was free-born. And and because of that, you see, I think Paul gives us something that we need to contemplate today. And that is this. If we don't work for something, we have to work at appreciating it. You understand? Let me just repeat that one more time. If we don't work for something, we have to work at appreciating it. I mean, I don't care how precious it is. Our salvation, we didn't work for our salvation, God gave it to us, and we need to work at appreciating it. Every single day. That's why we're here Sunday morning to start the week off. That's why we read the Bible every day. To again work at appreciating the fact that God has given to us eternal life. I don't know about you. That gets me excited right there. Amen? Why? Because Because I should be in hell today, but I'm not there. I'm right here with you good folks. Amen? I mean you're sitting on patapews, how's that feel? Pretty good, huh? And not only are we here today and we're gonna go eat somewhere after the service, but we We are on our way to heaven. Now if you can't get excited about that, I one of two things. First of all, take this finger and put it right here on this wrist and just think And listen, because if you don't feel that pulse, you're dead. Okay? And if you're dead, please raise your hand. I want to carry you out before you start sticking up the place, okay? Or you're not saved You've never accepted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. Well, we're on our way to heaven. And it's an amazing thing. We have spiritual liberty. We have civic liberty. And if we can take our spiritual liberty for granted, how much easier Can we take our civic liberty for granted? Now when you look at these things and when you understand some of these things, I know missionaries, they could Tell us we appreciate liberty so much more because we've worked in fields throughout the world that doesn't have the civic liberty that America has I know that veterans could probably say those that have been in battle and those that have served our country, and I know we have a Purple Heart recipient right here that actually was wounded for you and I, so we could live free. They understand liberty because they have served to protect it and preserve it and pass it on. Even those people that have come here as an immigrant I've talked to many of those, and they'll say, Brother Harding, we just don't understand why the people of America don't do something more to hold on to their liberty. We can see it's quickly vanishing Why don't they appreciate it more? And my response is because we have been given something so precious But many people don't work at appreciating our civic liberty. So that's what I want to do today for a few minutes. I remember my dad, he was a World War II veteran. He bought me On the eve of my sixteenth birthday, a little sports car. It was a Vitesi Triumph. We got it at an auction in Virginia. For sixty dollars. Those days are gone forever, amen. It was a nineteen fifty-six Vitesse real wood dash convertible Cross-tread trelli racing tires, four on the floor, I mean six-cylinder and three one-barrel carburetors for every two cylinders. That thing ran like a house on fire My dad and I worked on it together and on the eve of my sixteenth birthday, he said now son, I've been driving for over twenty-five years and I've never received one ticket. I want you to mirror my record. You shouldn't have bought me a sports car Because I turned sixteen, I got my license, and I got my first ticket. I was not enjoying my birthday. I went home to face the music. I told my mama, and my mama said, don't say anything to your dad until he's eaten his dinner Smart lady, my mama. And so sure enough, uh my dad ate his dinner. I was sitting there and there was one other person still at the table. It was my little sister, she knew and she wanted to watch the fireworks So I approached the subject and I said, Dad, I don't think I'm gonna quite match your driving record. And he kind of frowned at me and my little sister started giggling right on cue My dad looked at me and the consternation on my face and my little sister and he said, What happened, son? I said, I got my first ticket today, Dad. And he said, Well, I guess the pressure's off and And more, boy, it was it i it was off. But what I'm saying is I didn't have the appreciation of that little car. I wasn't saved, I was just sixteen years old. My dad didn't really make me work for that car. The first car that I really appreciated was a car that I worked for. So we need to work at understanding first of all what liberty is, hopefully then getting an appreciation for it, and then a commitment to do something to hold on to it because folks if we don't very soon it's going to be gone and our children and our children's children are going to grow up in a nation that we won't be able to recognize. But we can do something about it. The first step today is simply this, to find out, you might say, through and by biblical terms, truly what liberty is. So number one. Liberty comes from God. Its origin is of the Lord. Look with me over to 2 Corinthians 3 and verse 17. Are you with me today? Say amen. 2 Corinthians 3 verse 17 says this. It says, Now the Lord is that spirit. And where the spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. Thomas Cheverson said, the God who gave us life gave us liberty. And that is true. We sing a song. The author of liberty, God, the author of liberty, he is the author of liberty. It's an amazing thing to me when we look to the Bible, we understand that, hey, we're talking about liberty in God's word, and the reason why America has so much liberty. Is because America is and was founded as a Christian nation. It's a wonderful thing that we were born into a country such as this. In every generation, the world has produced enemies of freedom and they've all All attacked America because America is freedom's home and has always been its defender. But where did it come from? When I look at our founding fathers, I see men from a very diverse background. Some of these men were born into great ancestral wealth. Hundreds of years of just wealth handed down from one generation to another. But some of our founding fathers, let's sign the Declaration of Independence. Some of them were self-made men. One of them was an indentured servant and had to actually work seven years. before he gained his freedom. One of the men actually was a mentor, you might say, he was an apprentice to a mentor for the carpentry. trade and and he had to take the scraps of wood throughout the day and gather them so he could burn them at night after he got through working from sun up to sundown to read the books that he had borrowed and he taught himself the law and became one of our founding fathers. amassed a great amount of wealth, but every single one of our founding fathers, those 56 men that signed the Declaration of Independence, whether they were self-made men or born into great ancestral wealth, they actually had something. an element of character in each and every one of them, and that was willing to sacrifice it. They said to each other, we pledge, we mutually pledge for each other our lives and our fortunes. And our sacred honor. Why is that? Why did they all have this willingness to sacrifice everything that they had? I tell you why. They were the boys of the Great Awakening. They were the little boys walking around, and the unsung heroes of the war for independence were those pastors preaching from pulpits. And they were preaching into our founding fathers that sacred fire of sacrifice, that sacred fire of service. Do you understand that at the beginning of this country Most of the churches in America in colonial times were state-run churches. And you had to, as a citizen of England, You had to belong to the Church of England, and the head of the Church of England was the king. And if you left that church, it wasn't just leaving a church and going to another church, it was committing treason. That's who our founders were. The Baptist men of the founding era, they never were never part of the state-run church. They were always the underground church. And many of these men never even had a building. Their only ceiling was the night sky. Their only pulpit was an old stump of a tree. But may I say this, although they were preaching under the open air, you might say, tens of thousands of people Started to flock to them. And what they were preaching from God's word was the gospel of Jesus Christ. And they were saying, being a Christian and going to heaven isn't confirmation to a state-run church Truth has a name, and that name is Jesus Christ. And if you want to go to heaven, you need to accept him by faith, through faith. First nothing, you see And women in their nice frilly dresses coming there in the open carriages of the era, and men in their long frock coats were getting down in the dirt and looking up to God and saying, Oh Lord, please be merciful unto me a sinner. And tens of thousands of people were getting saved. Our founding fathers were watching that. They were seeing that. And what What they noted and what they understood and what God allowed them to comprehend is the very thing that these people were calling upon that gave them a spiritual liberty was the fact that God puts in every man and woman that eternal spark. And if people could accept Jesus Christ personally, Then they made a transition of that thought. And they said these people could actually be self governed if they had the liberty in Christ. They could have a liberty as citizen. And they made that analogy, that transfer. And although the civic liberty that we enjoy together as Americans is not a perfect reflection of the liberty that we have in the Lord Jesus Christ. It is a reflection of that very thing. That's why we have a republic. And that's why this flag wouldn't be sitting right there if that flag wasn't already there, you see Amazing to me how our founding fathers, when they signed the Declaration of Independence, you know what they were saying? They were saying to the rest of the world, when the monarchy was the only form of government in that time They were saying to the rest of the world that we no longer want a king over us. And people of all nations looked at these men and said, The audacity of those colonists, how dare they? But you see, what they were looking at was 1 Samuel chapter 8. Look with me over to 1 Samuel if you would please. Are you with me today? Say amen. 1 Samuel chapter 8. And they were just kind of branching out on their own. And they were looking at biblical principle. And they realized when the people of Israel went from a judge system To a monarchy, what they were doing was going from plan A, where God was their sovereign, to plan B, where they said, we want a king over us And amazing to me, Samuel warned them through and by God's command, warned them about what they're about to do, and that this man will take, he will take, he will take. But then look with me in 1 Samuel chapter 8 and verse 19, where the people said, Nevertheless, The people refused to obey the voice of Samuel, and they said, Now you know pastors understand there's two types of Christians. Number one, there is the goat Christian, and the goat Christian says, Yes, Pastor, and they follow. Excuse me, the the she Christian says, yes, Pastor, and they follow. Yes, Pastor, and they follow. But there's a goat Christian. And the goat Christian says, nay, but Nay, Pastor, but but but but is that right? Sure. See what they said right here? These believers They said, nay, but see, now that's the deeper extrapolation of the word of God. Amen? Now work with me, folks. Come on. No, I'm just I'm just kidding. But they did say, Nay, but we will have a king over us, that we may be like, look at this now, that we may be, that we also may be like all the nations And that our king may judge us and go up before us and fight our battles. You know who was their king? Their king was God, Jehovah. You know who was going out before them? It was Jehovah. You know who was fighting their battles before them? It was Jehovah. And now they want a king? Now get this now. Our founding fathers said just the opposite. They said we no longer want a king over us. We no longer want to be like all the rest of the nations. They were looking at this scripture and they took a lesson from the people of Israel and they said, our king is going to be King Jesus. And when the ratification of the declaration was done, that cry went out, no king but King Jesus And our founding fathers knew that the only way that they were going to win the war for independence was if God fought for them, Thomas Jefferson. Benjamin Franklin, our founding fathers, they all understood something very readily, and that was this, if God didn't show up and do something for them, they were done. In fact, Ben Franklin always having something to say when they finished signing the Declaration of Independence, he said, Well we better all hang together, or we will assuredly all hang separately. But God did show up. And time and time again, God performed miraculous things for them. But this is what we've done very quickly. Look at this now If God, the Holy Spirit, gave us liberty, what we did 80 years ago was we gave this precious liberty to the natural man And we expect the natural man to have stewardship of liberty. It says in First Corinthians two and verse fourteen, but the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him, neither can he know them. So this is what happens. We see the Holy Spirit of God gives us liberty, and we give liberty over to the natural man who receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God. Why? I mean how can we expect them to do anything else but trample it underfoot The Bible says that the natural man receiveth not the things the Spirit of God. If the Holy Spirit of God gives us liberty, How on earth can we trust the natural man that doesn't receive the things of the Spirit? Their foolishness unto them, neither can they know them I have a blind cousin. His name is Johnny. I remember Johnny one day when we were on my grandmother's porch, Johnny asked me a question. Because as a five, six-year-old boy, I was saying, Johnny, boy, it's a beautiful day And he could feel it but he couldn't see it. I said, Oh, the sky is so blue and the grass is so green. I didn't understand what I was saying as a little boy. But Johnny looked at me and said, What's green? And I can remember still to this day, I couldn't put green into words for my blind cousin. I couldn't get Johnny to understand what Green was. You know why? He had no frame of reference from which to begin Why are these people against the life of the unborn? Why are they against the traditional family? Why are they against the free market? Why are they against People building businesses here. Why are they against the nation of Israel? Because the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God. They're foolishness unto them, neither can they know them. Do you understand? That's why we, God's people, are custodians of liberty. We're the only ones that understand what God has given to us, and we are the ones that Every single one of us needs to understand this. It's our responsibility to do something for our country and something for the liberty that someone else died in order to give us. Number two What we have to understand is uh you know some someone said this to me the other day, Brother Hardy, you're not politically correct. I said, thank you very much. I said, but I am biblically correct. And I'm historically correct. And I'm constitutionally correct. And they looked at me and they kind of thought about that Someone said, Well, Brother Hardy, when you say these things, you know, there's sometimes you can kind of draw a division. I said, Well, yeah, definitely. You know why? Because light divides from darkness. Salt divides from putrefication. Amen. And uh but one other person says, but aren't we supposed to be all joining hands? Sing kumbaya. I said, no, no, because well they said, well didn't the Lord come to bring peace on earth? I said, well really he didn't. And they say, well, I don't agree with that. I said, well, let's see what the Bible says. And Luke 12 and verse 51 says this. This is the Lord speaking himself. Suppose ye that I am come to give peace on earth? I tell you, nay. But rather division. That's what the Lord said. Oh, you know what it says? Since there was a division among the people because of him And John 7 and verse 43. And John 10 and verse 19 says, there was a division, therefore, again among the Jews for these sayings. What do you think some of those sayings were? Well, how about the one that God says, I am the way, the life, truth the truth and the life, no man cometh unto the Father but by me. You see, the world says there's a lot of different ways. God says, I am the way. The world says, well, there's truth here and there's truth there. And the Lord Himself in the flesh says, I am the truth. And he said, I am the life. And I love the way God phrases it. He said, if you didn't catch that, no man cometh under the Father but by me. There is people that think they know the way, but the end are of the ways of death. There's only one way to heaven, and that is through the Lord Jesus Christ. And so, number one, we have to realize that liberty comes from the author of liberty, God Himself. Number two, liberty must be guarded It must be guarded. Outside of the National Archives building in Washington, D. C. are these words, eternal vigilance is the price of liberty. Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty. What's vigilance? That's being watchful. That's looking. That's guarding. And what took a monumental effort to obtain takes only a careless lack of concern to lose. Do you know how much liberty we've lost in these last few decades? Do you know why? Because we haven't been educated Because we don't even know the difference between a republic and a democracy. Because we don't know the great stories of yesteryear because revisionist historians have taken them from us. We think Paul Revere rode through the town crying the British are coming. That never happened. He rode through the town, but he wasn't crying the British are coming. Say, why is that? Come tonight and I'll tell you the real story of Paul Revere Where we get our phrase give them what for is because of a pastor bringing out a bunch of song books to men that were using it as wadding to separate the shot from the powder as they were fighting off the British five church See, Christians have had a tremendous critical role in the founding of our nation. But a lot of people say, well, I didn't know. If we don't know, we don't go. We need to get educated. We need to get engaged. We need to encourage others. We need to entreat God's mercy upon our country. We need to do all this so we can continue to see people saved. Go forth with the evangelism of the gospel of Jesus Christ, you see. And so when we look into the Bible and we see that these monumental efforts, these men, these women that have given that last good measure, we realize something that the first Warning of Rome before they fell is again a warning to us today as Americans. You say what are you talking about? I'm talking about history repeats itself. What has been is going to be. There's no new thing under the sun. And what was going on in Rome right before they fell is going on right now in America. Let me just assure just a few of them with you. Number one, ancient Rome, the rapid increase of divorce. The undermining of the dignity and sanctity of the home, the basis of human society, which is the family being attacked, and an increasing desire with sex See that in America today? That was ancient Rome before they fell. Number two, higher and higher taxes and spending public money for free bread and circuses for the populace and increasing desire to live off the state. Ancient Rome. See that today? Free bread and circuses. Huh? Keeping the masses. basically looking somewhere else while our country is going down the tubes and over forty million people on food stamps And most of them don't belong there? What we need is the country that encourages people to get back to work. And I know there are some people that need some assistance. I understand that. But most of the people right now that are on These food stamps and welfare don't belong there. And that robs them of that personal accomplishment and the pride of being able to go out and do something American and then I can. Not I want. Or give me this and look a government that can do anything for you Can't do anything to you. And they're making it easy for people to get on welfare. Too easy. And the reason why isn't compassion, it's control. And we need to understand that. It's not anything new, in fact. It was happening back in the day that our nation was founding. In fact There was a man by the name of Benjamin Franklin that said, they that can give up essential liberty to obtain temporary safety deserve neither liberty nor safety. And this last time too many people voted for free stuff and not for freedom. And our country, our government is not supposed to be giving us free things, they're supposed to be giving us freedom. So we can go as far and fast as we can. You understand? Number three, the mad craze for pleasure, sports becoming more and more exciting, more brutal enthusiasms, pretending to be creativity and freakishness in the arts I was going through the channels the other day and and I came across the World Championship of Poker. Wait a minute, when did poker become a sport? I don't see that in the Olympics. Huh? I mean that'd be pretty interesting to see all these uh professional gamblers in the Olympics with their with their countries backing them up. You know, some people have to fold pretty easily, pretty pretty quickly, because they didn't have the funding I've gone to the National Archives and and I've gone to the National Art Gallery in Washington DC and and I see these paintings, beautiful paintings and and uh some of them are are very, very nice. You need to be careful where you go and what what uh a gallery you go into, but some of these paintings are beautiful, but then some of them look like an accident. Like someone tripped over some buckets of paint and they spilled on a terrace and they hung it up. And I've actually heard conversations that have gone just like this. There is one person that wants to know what it is, and there's another self-proclaimed authority. And and I'm looking and I'm listening to these two people and I'm looking at this painting and it's a spattering of paint and and this one person says, Well well what is that? And the other person says, Well that's a that's a great work of art. Oh Well, how much is that worth? Oh well, uh that's priceless. Oh well what's the title of that? Oh well that that one is entitled Man's Inner Struggle with Self and I feel like saying yes and he lost and he puked right there. Because it's garbage. Another painting, you know, and they're talking and one person says, Well what should the well what what is that supposed to be? And they say, Well, that's whatever you think it is. Uh uh uh Relativism is humanism in the visual form. There is an absolute truth. We find it right here in God's Word. And we are supposed to be epistles of absolute truth. And if we lose our liberty in America, it won't be because a foreign country took it from us. It will be because Christians didn't take earnest heed and we let these things slip. We let them slip John Adams said a constitution of government once changed from liberty can never be restored. Liberty once lost is lost forever. You say, I don't see that in history. Oh yeah, I do. Because there was a type of liberty back, we remember it through the legend of the round table. And they didn't write it down though, but all of these different kingdoms were represented by a particular person, but there was no one person over the other. Just like our representative government today. But then what happened the Normans came in in the Battle of Hastings in ten sixteen sixty-six, they forced The monarchy over the Saxons and Liberty left Great Britain. You can see for the next six hundred years they try to get liberty back. We can see it evidenced in written form such as the Magna Carta and the petition of the rights of the English people and time and time again. But then they gave up after 600 years. And you know what they did? They came here and they started over And this time, they wrote it down in the Constitution of the United States, the greatest governmental document in the history of mankind. Look, folks, this governmental document is miraculous. It's not perfect, but it's based upon a perfect document. That's our Bible. You understand? And most of us have never even read this We don't have any idea of the working nature of this and how the processes work. And you see, if we're going to be self-governed, if we want the government to stop telling us what to do, then we need to get back to the drawing board and read our owner's manual to our country. Amen? That's why it's important to read the Constitution. I'm going to be speaking about the Constitution tonight. I'm going to be showing you tonight the difference between a republic and a democracy And why the Supreme Court of the United States does not have the constitutional right to change laws. And what we can do actually to get that changed. She said, I don't think we can get it changed. Oh yes we can. Do you understand the Supreme Court of the United States is not lifetime tenured? It's in the Constitution. Why we think they are is because we don't know the Constitution. There's a lot of things we can do, but we need to know we can do, and I'm going to show you some of those very valuable things to do tonight. So I hope that you don't stay home watching television because that's not going to help our nation. But what will is if you say, you know what, tonight for once I'm coming back. If you don't normally And I'm gonna listen to this crazy man up here for a little while and find out what I can do for my country. I think That our children are worth it. You look at this little one right here. What's her name? Skyline. Skylin. How old is she? She's four months old. Four months old. You look at this little one. And ask yourself, is this precious little one worth me coming back tonight for a little while and listening to what I can do for my country? Are these young people over here worth coming back so they can grow up in a nation that's free? So that they can actually make decisions without the government telling them what they're going to do? I think these young people are worth our time to come back tonight to church. Because folks, what we need to understand is that liberty is fragile. Look, I'll always be a Christian. Because I've accepted Jesus Christ. I'm bound for heaven. That will never change. But by my choices, I can go back into bondage here on earth. In sin, you understand? I can live far below my needs and and my means by going and making the wrong decision. I can go back into sin. I'll never lose my salvation, but I can go back into sin. I'll always be an American. But we may not always be free Americans. Ronald Reagan said, We don't pass our liberty through our blood system or our DNA. to the next generation. It needs to be very carefully protected, preserved, and given to them, taught to them, you see. Otherwise, there will come a time where our grandchildren will climb up on our knee and ask us, Grandpa, Grandma, what was it like to be a free person in America? I'll guarantee you it's coming. If we don't get serious and do something about it, all of this is going away. But we have great hope because God's still on the throne. And we can still do something for our country. God's waiting to see what we're going to do. He is just waiting and willing to start doing something himself. But we must garner his attention to our country. For brethren, give and call them to liberty. Only use not liberty but occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another. Number three, and I close, true liberty is always at great personal sacrifice. What am I talking about? Well, if someone wants liberty, they put liberty above their life. John Adams said, It seems to be the intention of heaven that we should be taught the full value of our liberty by the dearness of the purchase. George Washington said, You want to know the price of liberty? It's the bloody footprints of the men in the snow at Valley Forge. Because they don't have enough shoe leather to keep their feet from freezing, frostbite, and their toes breaking off. But they're still here and they're still marching. They don't have enough food to eat. They don't have enough clothing to keep themselves warm. And yet they know that there's a purpose that's much bigger than themselves. And so they're here. They're fighting. See, when I look at our flag, I realize something. The red stripe on our flag. That symbolizes the blood that was spilt for me, for my wife. For you and for your children. For this little one that's giving me a little bit of a competition right now. This little one back here, mom's bouncing on her knee. Our veterans. Paid a price. They're still paying it today as we sit right here fighting terrorism. There are people in harm's way at this moment while we're sitting here Liberty is that great personal sacrifice. That means for one person to live in liberty, one person dies. I've had some very unique experiences in my life. As I close, I want to tell you one. I was asked to go over to Normandy, France to lecture in a war college on an aspect of D-Day. So, I mean, any of you guys, wouldn't you have wanted to go? I went Seven hours to Cannes, France. I didn't know I was going to be sitting next to a veteran from D-Day, from the operation. His name was Bill. 84 years old Bill was And we talked all through the night. And I kept on asking Bill questions. And every once in a while I'd say, Bill, you want some rest? He said, No, you have another question. Oh yeah. I got another question. And I asked him one question after another after another. Finally, when we got over there, we were standing on an area of beach that we had called Omaha. And Omaha Beach was where our men came in, first of all, to liberate that part of Europe from The tyranny of Nazism. I was told within 15 minutes, 190 men died right where I was standing. The first A assault team of our boys coming in. 18-year-olds, 19-year-olds, some 17-year-olds that had lied about their age. Men in their early 20s. So they're officers in their early 30s. By days then, that first day, two thousand had fallen for the price of liberty. Bill was standing next to me. It was a beautiful sunny day. The bunkers where the Nazis were firing are were still there Some of the obstacles that they had put into the sand were badly rusted, but they were still there. I asked Bill, tell me, Bill, what was it like? I've never had anyone shoot at me. I need to work at appreciating my liberty. I was freeborn. You could see this 84-year-old man sharp as attack mentally. He starts looking out into the water and he says, well. As far as the eye can see, ships and boats of every size and description. He said sometimes the sky was seemingly almost dark with planes bringing in many munitions. He said I didn't make it in D-Day, but D Day plus one or two I don't know because we were f we were floating around in one of those transport boats for so long, but he said when we did start getting close to the shore I saw a horrendous sight. He's paused for a minute. Kind of felt what he was going to say. He said the bodies of all those young fellas in every type of position imaginable were laying all over the beach. Many of them floating face down in the water. Their lifeblood hebbing out into the sand. Smell of death in the air. When we got close to the beach The plank went down and we disembarked and we tried to be respectful stepping over the bodies of the men that had preceded us. He said some of them were still alive. They were moaning. So we bent down quickly to start helping them and pretty soon our All of the men were scattered helping different fellows and our commander came over and he started talking to us quietly but very firmly. He said, gentlemen, these men are going to have to wait for the next available medic. Our orders are clear. We need to push in and engage the enemy. This is far from being over. Has Bill has told me that story? As I looked at that graveyard there in Normandy, as I go to the National Arlington Cemetery, And I walk among those tombstones. I think of that verse that says, He being dead yet speaketh. Those men and women speak to me. And they say, we died for liberty. And we gave it to you. What are you doing to keep it? making some phone calls, reading something as simple as the Constitution, getting some materials just to learn once again who we are. What are you doing? I gave that last good measure. I wondered what it was in the American serviceman's mind and heart to sacrifice like that. And then it came to me, oh yeah. Christian nation. Greater love hath no man than this. That a man lay down his life for his friends. Oh I'm glad. I'm glad that those men at Port de Hawk, that sheer cliff, those Rangers, throwing up those grappling hooks in the Nazis shooting down at them from the from the top and and they would get halfway up and and they would either cut the rope or they would throw that grappling hook. The men would fall and break their bones and Right behind him, another man would just do the same thing, throw that grappling hook, and they'd start climbing again. I'm glad those men did what they did for me. I'm glad that we today, as we sit here, we don't live under the tyranny of man. But I am even more infinitely joyful. That their sacrifice is a reflection of the greatest sacrifice in time and eternity. Because our Lord Jesus Christ went all the way to the cross And the reason why we're a Christian nation, the reason why the sacrifice that defines us as America is so prevalent in our society and has been and needs to be today. is because we perceive the love of God. Because He laid down His life for us. And we ought to lay our lives down for the brethren For it pleased the Father that in him should all the fullness dwell, and having made peace through the blood of his cross. by him to reconcile all things unto himself. By him I say, whether they be things on earth or things in heaven, oh I'm glad that I'm free from the tyranny of man, but I'm infinitely more glad that I'm free from the tyranny of sin. From its penalty. I was under eternal death penalty and God took my place I'm free from its power. I do not need to live under the power of sin any longer. I can resist it. And one day all of us will be free from the actual presence of sin. Now, when I was five years old, I understood the concept of a gift. From five years old on, I I understood the concept of a gift. My sister, around Christmas time, would lower me down by my ankles to see if the gifts were were there, down the stairs. And I'd say, they're there, and we'd run down. And I knew there was a gift there, it had my name on it. I'll guarantee you I was ripping into that thing. And I think I had an identity crisis when I was younger because every Christmas I would get a cowboy outfit in a fire truck. I think I wanted to be a cowboy firefighter. I'm not sure. But I do know this. I knew what a gift was from the time I was five. Someone had worked for it. Had my name on it. I never one time said, that's nice. And I w I I would never, from the time I was five, turn around and walked away from a gift. It was mine. I'm going to take it. At the age of 21, I believe the word of God was just that. I believe that Jesus Christ was the Savior of the world. I believe there was a heaven to gain, a hell to shun. But the age of 21, someone showed me from the Bible that there was a gift that God had given to me. Had my name on it. At the age of twenty-one he said, Have you ever accepted that gift? I said, Well I believe. No, no, no. He didn't say that. He didn't say that you believe only. Say what? The devil believes. Devil and his angels believe and tremble. Takes more than belief. I believed here. At the age of 21, he showed me how I could, by my belief, accept that gift of eternal life. And y you know, it was very simple. He said, i it's it's nothing but you and God saying, Lord, I I know that you are the Savior of the world, you died on the cross for my sin, you rose again the third day, and I'm turning from my way, that's repentance, to your way. I'm not gonna I don't have to I didn't clean up anything. I just I just right where I was said I'm turning from my way Lord I'm I'm gonna turn to your way and I want you to come into my life be the master of my life and the savior of my soul and I want that gift of eternal life Would you come into my heart at this moment and I'm going to trust you to get me to heaven and nothing else. No one else. Just you, Jesus Christ. And he came into my heart that day at the age 21. And he gave me the gift of eternal life. Now I'll guarantee you this, there's someone, at least one person here today. And you may know that Jesus is the Savior, and the Bible is the Word of God, and there is eternity to spend either heaven or hell, and the choice is yours. I moved it from my head knowledge to my heart. And that day I said, I'm not just believing that there is a Savior, I'm believing Him as my Savior. And I accepted Jesus Christ as my Lord and Savior that day. Because he sacrificed for me. Paul said to the centurion. I was freeborn. A little different invitation today. Two invitations. Number one If you've never accepted the spiritual liberty in the Lord Jesus Christ, there's no one in the right mind that wants to go to hell. So I'm not sure I'm going to heaven, but I'm positive I don't want to go to hell. We can change that today. This morning. Easier than you think. So if that's you in a minute, I'm going to give you an invitation to do just that. And then I'm going to talk to those that have already done that. And what we need to do today for our country. So first of all, may I ask everyone, just close your eyes and bow your heads for a moment. I'm going to ask this question. No one's going to come to you. No one's going to come to you, but if you say, Brother Harding, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven. I'm not sure I've ev ever actually accepted Jesus as my Savior, but I am positive I don't want to go to hell. Brother Harding, I want to know for sure I'm going to heaven today. Here's my hand. Pray for me. Just lift up your hand and let me pray for you. Anyone like that? Anyone do, yes, I see those hands. Yes, that's good, take some courage, yes, I see that hand. I don't know for sure that I'm going to heaven But I don't want to go to hell. I want to be sure I'm on my way to heaven. Brother Harding, would you pray for me? I'm not sure that I've accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior. Pray for me, Brother Harding. Here's my hand. Anyone else? Say I'm not sure that I'm going to heaven, but I don't want to go to hell. Brother Harding, pray for me. Not sure about that. All right. Those that just raised their hand there, if you understood what I said, in just a moment I want you to come forward and take the pastor's hand. And he can give you some scriptures or give you to a person that will give you scriptures to so you can know for sure when you die you're going to heaven. Now I want everyone to look at me. There were men that ran into the face of certain death. I mean the machine guns were just there and they ran out for a few inches on a beach and their friend behind them that went through boot camp saw them fall and die and they continued to run past them for a few more inches up a beach. For liberty. And their friend followed them for, and they gave their lives, never going to be able to enjoy the liberty that they were dying in order to give. But they did it out of sacrifice for you and for me. Let me ask you this. When was the last time you came to an old-fashioned altar and thanked God that you were born in America? Thank God there were people before us willing to give their life for us. And you said, Brother Hardy, uh that's me. It was me too. If they could run to the face of certain death, can we not walk to an old-fashioned altar in humility and say, I just want to come today, Lord, and thank you. For putting into the minds and hearts of our veterans that sacrifice. And I'm going to learn tonight what I can do To keep that liberty maintained for the next generation. I'm going to be back tonight, but right now, Lord, I'm coming to an old-fashioned altar. And I'm getting on that altar and I'm going to do business with you. And I'm going to thank you. And I'm going to ask you. Show me what I can do, and I'll do it. You say that to me, Billy Harring. Would you ever would everyone stand? Would everyone just stand for a minute? Would you join me at this old-fashioned altar? No piano's gonna play. We're not gonna wait. I want you just to come right now. Would you come? And say yes, you know, if someone was willing to do what they did, I can come down to an old-fashioned altar