Yeah, let's see. Let's go first of all, let's go to uh Second Peter. Second Peter. We're just gonna read one verse. Second Peter chapter two, and we're gonna look at verse one. But there were false prophets also among the people, even as there shall be false prophets among you. Who privileged shall bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that bought them, and bring upon themselves swift destruction Heavenly Father, we pray now that uh you'll quiet our hearts and open our hearts. That we might receive your truths, and I trust that uh the message tonight will speak to our hearts and it will draw closer to you We ask your blessings on the chalk drawing and especially during the invitation time I pray that that uh hearts would be drawn to you. That one who's here tonight that has never been born into the family of God. Maybe they're a good person, but they just have never trusted you as Savior. I pray they might tonight. Uh come and let us take a Bible and show them how to be saved. I pray for Christians tonight, Lord. The call to faithfulness, Lord, is is uh upon your heart. And certainly today in the in the day in which we live and I believe that we are living in the days of a apostasy, the falling away. of the church. I and I pray that uh I pray that tonight you speak to our hearts concerning our lackadaisical service to you. Convict us of your of sin and show us the areas that we need to draw closer and and uh confess and get get out of our lives. Bless her time now around your word and we'll give you praise for everything that you do. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Stewardship. Oh, I hate that word because we we always associate stewardship with money. And there does have to do with money. But certainly it has to do with more than just you know, just uh that green stuff that we, you know, work for all our life and spend faster than we make it It's more than just money. Certainly uh the tithe b begins to the uh belongs to the Lord and and uh offerings and uh and all that that's No, that's there's there's no argument about that and I believe every Christian, whether they tithe or don't tithe, I know that they know they should. And I believe that uh I believe we ought to you know ought to be faithful in that area But there's other things and there's reasons why uh we ought to be faithful as a steward. We ought to be faithful uh just simply because of what uh Jesus has done for us. I mean we can you know you can preach all night on on that kind of stuff. I want us to just uh think tonight on uh a couple of things that uh has to do with the Lord's responsibility to us and what we what he expects out of each one of us. The uh the other day I was uh in a Walmart and and and I this has happened several times. But uh I heard this this yelling and screaming and uh it was a mother who was not obeying her kids They were yelling and screaming and she was yelling and screaming back, but they weren't paying any attention to her. I'm not going to uh uh get into this thing of child discipline and so forth. And uh I leave that to the pastor because Uh maybe I ought to because I'm going to be leaving come Saturday, you know. That but I'm I'm not going to. But the truth of the matter is that that I I thought about these children And uh you know, kids they grow up and you know and most of us we're all the same way pretty much I guess. And uh we expect uh we expect as a child, you know, we expect mom and dad to furnish uh the food. Amen. You like to eat, right? And uh the clothes, place to sleep and uh you know, some allowance money and And you could just name all these things, you know, clean clothes every week and you expect mom to you know, to take care of mom and dad to take care of everything, you know, and when you hit sixteen of course m dad's supposed to buy you a car and and make sure that you have everything that uh you can uh that your heart desires. And uh you're supposed to be able to go anywhere you want to, anytime you want to, and stay as long as you want to. And mom and dad's not supposed to say anything. Keep her mouth shut, just take what I give, and that's it. And that's pretty much the way we see a lot of it. And uh I watched uh uh I r run across the dial on uh T V and and uh there was uh one of these uh shows that Uh call 'em trash uh trash T V. Uh you probably know what I'm talking about. And uh in that particular program they were dealing with uh with a uh two moms And well this one mom mom particularly. She had uh two children and uh it showed uh you know it showed a screen with the kids and and what the kids were saying to their mother And that kid was using language that I didn't even hear when I was in the army. They they bleeped out over ninety percent of what the kids were saying was so terrible that they could not even sound it on TV at all. And it was just dip dip. That's about all you could get out of it because they were cussing. And they were calling their mom and uh and their parents, calling them every name that they could think of, the filthiest names, uh that uh according to what the uh host was saying, uh how bad they were And I just thought, uh, you know, we're raising a generation that seems to have that same attitude. It's that you that every everything, you know, y you owe me and and uh it's a it's a gimme uh attitude that we see in the peop in a lot of people's minds And the what's worse is I s kind of see that in Christians today. There's a lot of Christians that that they're they're they they want to be saved and sure and secure. But they don't want the responsibility of faithfulness. They want to do their own thing when they want to do it. And uh uh, you know, the pastor doesn't own me. No, that's uh and that's true, he doesn't. And uh Of course God does. That doesn't make any difference, you know. We uh God's up there and he's out of sight, so we we can just pretty well live our life just how we want to because you know we can get away with anything Do you see what I'm talking about? Faithfulness. Last night I I noticed we had we had a fair crowd last night, but there's a bigger crowd tonight than there was last night. I was kind of wondering why. See, well, this is Wednesday night. We're supposed to be in church. Well, we're having revival week. We're supposed to be in church. Yeah, we we we just like to do what we want to do, don't we? And it doesn't make any difference what God wants. I mean that's the attitude that I see in a lot of Christians. They'll take anything over what uh what God says. They'll use any excuse to stay home, away from a meeting I had a I uh uh had a meeting up in uh New York when I when I pulled into the church. In front of the church is this this big SUV uh uh uh trailer, I guess it was, or maybe it was it might have been a motorhome. But it has a big beautiful motorhome sitting right in front of the church. And uh so I stopped in and and uh spoke to the pastor and got things lined up where I could take my equipment in and set it up. And while I was there I said something about the motor home And uh I said, whose is that out there? He said, Oh, that's one of our members. They're going on vacation. I said, they're going on vacation during revival? Well yeah, they they uh asked me here several months ago when revival was and then they scheduled their vacation. Now is there something wrong with that? Am I missing something Or is that just the way it is? Well, sad to say, that's the way it is. We use any opportunity to keep from serving God. I don't know. I've never felt like that. And I don't understand people who do feel like that. Well, Brother Williams, you've been awfully nice all week. I don't know why you're getting nasty tonight. Well, I have to get nasty one night through the week, okay, and you just happen to hit the one. No, I don't I'm not I'm not planning on getting nasty. I you know, I I uh But I think I think I've made my point though, right? And so we're gonna talk a little bit about this and maybe we can see some reasons why we've we ought to be faithful. Children of God ought to be different than the world. The world likes to make excuses for not doing what they ought to do. But Christians ought not be like that. Those who've been born again by the Spirit of God that has the Holy Spirit living within them, there ought to be a desire inside that keeps saying, hey, we need to get to revival. We need to pray for revival. We need to invite people for revival. Our church needs revival. We need to be stirred up for God. We need to have the power of God in our life. We ought to we ought to serve God the best we can while we have life because one of these days we'll be able to serve Him. Shouldn't we be doing that? Shouldn't we have that attitude? Shouldn't we be uh excited About God wanting to work with us because He does. He does. The Lord has set up in his word certain activities in which we should should and should not be involved, and he has a right to do that because number one, he's supreme. There is no one no power greater than him. He is the supreme one The look at the power of his of his uh lordship, his dominion, if if you will. He created the Bible says that in the beginning God created. I don't know. There's something about creating something out of nothing. Spoke the word and pfft, there it was. A universe that even today with the greatest telescopes and the greatest uh uh radio telescopes that even reaches farther than our optical telescopes. cannot see the end of the universe and God spoke that into existence from nothing The atheists can't figure it out. They say, well, it was a big bang. I just wonder where this little ball strike came from. Well Well it just happened to be there. Now it God, in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth He's supreme. And and he has a right to say yay or nay to you and I. His creation. He has a right. In the supernatural realm, he he's supreme. Miracles. My sister or my daughter in law, or uh actu she's actually granddaughter in law, I should say. And some of you have been praying for her. Katie's her name. Her and her husband are on their way to Scotland. I think they're a little over halfway in their support. And they're getting ready to b they're missionaries to Scotland. Hopefully they get there next year. But they gave Katie uh the death word. I mean, she had cancer. And it was so bad it was in stage four. It was so bad that there wasn't any hope. They just said, it looks like eventually, you know, she's just gonna die. And she's just a little just a little shriveled up thing and just a little skinny thing And Tyler loved her and married her. And they prayed and they asked God for a miracle. Never have any children. Even if you survive, you'll never have any children. Well, she survived. That was a miracle. But that wasn't all. She's had this she's pregnant now for the second time. She has uh has one uh of our grand great-grandchildren and she's pregnant for another one. Those are miracles. He's supreme. He has the power. He's the one that can say yay or nay. He can perform miracles. He can calm the sea. Or he can uh heal the leper. He has that power Does he not have power in our life? Why asked him, what's the matter with us? Should he not be able to say You need to go here or you need to go there. You need to pass out of track here. You need to be faithful in the in the church. You need to give your tithe and your offerings. You these are things that you ought to do, and I'll I'll take care of your life He has the power to do that because he's supreme. I understand. Revelation chapter nineteen, verse six. And I heard, as it were, the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thunderings, saying, Hallelujah! For the Lord God omnipotent reigns. In verse 16 it says, And he hath on his vesture and on his spy a name written. The King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. He's supreme. He has a right. There's a privilege to this lordship. So we need to kind of take a look at it. He gives the slaves their tasks. I can't help but think of Joseph, the story of Joseph. And and Potiphar. Joseph was taken as a slave into Egypt, his brothers put him in a pit, sold him to some slave traders, he ends up in in Egypt and and uh it looks like poor old uh this kid that may be seventeen or eighteen years old. It looks like uh you know he's out of the picture. But a fellow bought him. Potiphar is his name. He took him into his house. He made a slave out of him. And Joseph, then he took a hold of that thing. He was found faithful. And as he was found faithful, Polypher said, hey. I can trust this guy. I can give him more responsibility. And he began to pile the responsibility until the point where he was the second under Potiphar. His wife, of course, caused a problem, and and uh Joseph was put into prison. As soon as he got into prison, you know what he did? He started doing the best he could again. It didn't make any difference where Joseph went. He just dug right in and said, hey, I can help here, and I can help there, and I can do this and I can do that. And next thing you know, he was ahead to honcho in the jail, under the jailer Eventually he was out of the jail. He interpreted the dream goes to Pharaoh's house. And when he interprets the dream properly, Pharaoh says, hey, this guy has something. And so he gives him some responsibility. And the next thing you know, over a period of time, his faithfulness, God honored his faithfulness, and because of his faithfulness, it blessed Pharaoh. I wonder who is missing the blessing because you're not faithful. Did you ever think of that? I believe our lives are so intertwined with other people, perhaps that we don't even know, that that when God blesses us and we take advantage of being faithful And God blesses us, I believe it sort of sprinkles out over other people around us. It happens in your family. I've seen it in our own family. That very blessing, honey. We raised our kids the best we could. Did I make any mistakes? No, but Nan made a whole bunch of them. But we raised four kids and all four of them are saved and they're in fundamental independent Bible-believing churches that believe the King James Bible is the Word of God. They produce some children. So now we have grandchildren, and we have ten of those. And all of them uh are saved. By the grace of God. And and I want you to understand, uh I'm not taking any credit for this. This is what God did simply because I believe because man and I were faithful, best we knew how, failed many times, and made mistakes, but God's blessed. So now we have ten grandchildren. Right now we have three of them in Bible school down in Pizza Cola. We have another that's in Alaska helping a guy start a church up there. And we have one who is a missionary to Scotland that I just mentioned. And because of them getting saved and getting involved in the ministry of God and doing what's right and obeying God Things are happening in their lives, and there's people being saved along the way that would never have gotten saved if I'd been unfaithful. If Nan would have been unfaithful, I'd be changed everything And again, I'm not saying uh I'm not saying look up at dawn, look up at Nan, how wonderful they that's not it at all because I can I could point out the the mistakes they're probably worse than the mistakes you've made But God has just honored our efforts to be faithful God's sovereignty, his power, the fact that he's the creator, that in itself is enough for us just to be obedient. And to serve Him the best we can, to be faithful. To be faithful. Why, that that word, we're saved by grace through faith. That's our salvation. But the fact that we're saved by grace through faith should make us faithful. Faithful. The privilege of the Lordship. He gave he gives the the slaves the tasks. That's what that's what uh you know the Lord is supposed to do to the s to the uh stewards, isn't that right? To the slaves, and that's what we are, we're slaves. The basis of ownership. The basis of ownership is just simply, number one, the cost was the blood. I'm looking at Colossians chapter 1 verse 19. It says, In whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sin. Jesus gave himself. That he paid the price gives him the right of ownership in our life Not just the fact that he was the creator of life, but the fact that he gave his life. He gave himself. He shed his blood that we might have life In Galatians chapter 1, verse 4 says, Who gave himself for our sins that he might deliver us from the present evil world according to the will of God and our Father? And then in 1 Timothy 2 and verse 6 it says, who gave himself a ransom for all to be testified in due time. And I could read a dozen verses that talks about him paying the price. His precious blood paid for our sins. The bottom line is that Christ's lordship is based upon the sacrifice that He made for us. We were slaves that were purchased out of the storehouse of sin. He brought us back from the slave market of sin, guilty and under condemnation, from the dominion of evil and darkness, and he bought us to set us free. Yeah, that's the thing about God. God is not a bully. He doesn't he doesn't save us and then say, all right, now that I saved you, and he doesn't just keep dragging it up And he doesn't bully you and say, listen, you either do this or I'm gonna break both your legs. That's not the way God works. He works by that still small voice that's back here somewhere that calls you to a particular service for him. Just a still small voice. And he just wants you to quiet yourself so that you can hear that still small voice We're so busy, aren't we? We gotta we gotta have everything as loud as we can. We go into the restaurants, go into Denny's down here and and then it's boom bomb boom bomb boom bomb. You can't already hear what's you know, somebody just across the table is talking about because of the noise. And that seems to be our life. That's the way we are. We have to have something, something going all the time up here. And all that does is drown out that still small voice that is calling you to a particular service, to something that needs to be done. To somebody who needs needs to hear about the gospel. To someone who needs to hear the word of God. To someone that that needs to have somebody just simply sit down and and just read through some soothing. verses out of the book of Psalms to quiet their heart and assure them once again that God loves them. You see what I'm talking about? It's it's God God has stuff for all of us to do. And we well Sometimes I I just I I just feel so frustrated because I what you know, what do you do? I can remember when my son was a teenager. There was times that I you know, y you tell 'em and tell 'em and and still somewhere or another they you know they just They just didn't quite grasp it. The bottom line, he bought us. He did not purchase us to bully us, but to set us free from the sin's power. And then finally is uh weren't you glad to hear that word? Finally. When I say finely, you know, there's still three points, but it's finally the three points, you know. These are quick. Some use the freedom to be a prodigal. You know, I could see the prodigal that day when he took off. For some reason or other, he came to that point in his life where it was acceptable for him to have his portion of goods that the Father had. And to him, uh freedom meant he could just run wild. I mean literally, that's just how it was. When he could have taken the money and and he you know, went in town or he could have stayed on the farm, but he could have gone and and found a job, you know, and got him a place and and worked hard and built that money up and been a faithful steward of that money. But instead the Bible says he took it out And uh he wasted it with riotous living. I think that's what we're doing with the salvation that we have. We waste it, we waste it on ourselves All sin is a denial of Christ's lordship and authority. It's saying we will not have this man to rule over us. One of the one of the uh parables uh in the book of Luke, I believe it was, or maybe it was um Yeah, in the book of Luke, chapter nineteen. Had to do with that with that ticker saying. Where the a good man, you know, he he sent uh uh some uh uh his son, you know, into a a group of people to for his venue or something and they said, We will not have this man to rule over us. I remember almost the same thing took place when Jesus was standing there with Pilate on that last day at the day of the of the of the crucifixion. And he said, which m w we have two men here. One is a a a murderer and a and a thief and and uh one who's committed sedition. And he said Uh and then we have this man Jesus. Which one would you have me to to release unto you? And the people unanimously said, Give us Barabbas. Well, what do you want me to do with this man Jesus? He said, crucify him. Crucify him. We will not have this man to rule over us. In essence, my friend, if you're here tonight and you're and you're not and you're saved, and you're not living for God Remember, every sin has within it the seed of rebellion. You're not living for God. You're not you you're you're you're warning, you're found unfaithful. Unfaithful in your attendance, unfaithful in your giving, unfaithful and your witnessing, unfaithful and shh you know, if you're unfaithful In essence, it's what you're saying. I will not have this man to rule over me. Although you are his By creation, you're his because he bought you out of the slave house of sin. And he doesn't I I hope you don't get the the impression that Everything that he wants for us is for our benefit. Everything he has for us is to be a blessing to us. For our good. And yet we'll say, I will not have this man to rule over me. Are you faithful tonight? There was a a little boy and his dad. They built a marble boat. It took months and it was a special time for both of them. They worked together on this boat. And they finally took it out for its day of christening. And what happened was it it got away from them and they lost the thing They were both brokenhearted about the whole thing and they went home, but one day they were walking through town and they saw in the window of this pawn shop his boat. So he went in and he told the guy, he said, uh, that's my boat. I lost it here a month or two ago, and it it got away from me, and I never got it back, and and it's my boat. And he said, well, it's mine now, and it's going to cost you 50 bucks if you want it back. And the little boy looked at his dad, and his dad As a good dad would do. Pulled his money out, gave him fifty bucks, he bought the boat. And as the boy was going out of the store, this is what he said. As he walked out of the door with his prize, he said, I made you, but lost you. And now I've brought you back. That makes you twice mine, and twice mine is mine forever. And I'd ask you this: are you twice his? By the second birth? Have you not only been born into this life, but have you been born again by the Spirit of God? Because he wants you as his child. He wants you to be his servant And you know, it's not a servant like he's gonna take the whip and beat you. It's gonna be like Joseph. And the more that you do for him, the more he gives you The more you do, the more he gives. The more you do, the more he gives, until it's just uh one day he'll change you in the moment, twinkling you in an eye, and take you home with him, and there you'll have eternal bliss forever. Are you a good steward? Are you serving him or are you one of those that's saying, I will not have this man to rule over me? Let's uh bow our heads for a moment. Thank you, Lord. For your goodness to us. Thank you, Lord, that you do take care of us. And Lord, I know we're not as faithful as we ought to be. None of us are. But Lord, I pray for those who, particularly, they exercise their will. To be disobedient. I pray for that one who's lost here tonight. Lord, I pray that you'd reach down, touch their heart, help them to see their need of salvation. And help them to come and let us take a Bible and show them how to be saved. In Jesus' name. Amen. If we can have the lights out, I'll show this chalk drawing