We're gonna get right into our lesson tonight. And uh I'm excited about this new series, Church Family Life. I told my wife, I said, boy, wouldn't you know it? I've been working on this and excited about it, and we get snow that night and knocks the attendance down but um uh that's okay. God knows what's going on and so we'll uh uh uh we'll give it anyway And uh I'm real excited about this as I said. I think this will be very, very helpful. I'm looking forward to the future lessons and um Uh it was good for me. I wish I could say, I wish I could stand up here and honestly say that I have been an exemplary uh model for what we're going to be speaking on through the winter. Uh I can honestly say like most of you would say, you know, we work hard at it. We try or try and be our best for the Lord. But there's a lot of things here that I think will challenge us and uh be a real blessing. As I said, I've been fighting a cold here the last few days, been pretty much knocked out of the system. So we have declared this section up here the toxic zone. And um So uh you gotta watch out. But what I've been doing is I got my own personal thing here and I've been keeping myself doused to nest, gargling with it and everything, trying to keep from spreading We thought about putting them on the altars here, you know, you can get your heart right and get your hands cleaned at the same time. Because James does say, cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Proverbs. Yeah, I think that's what he was talking about. Proverbs seventeen. We're gonna look at a bunch of verses We're not working through a book of the Bible or a specific passage. We're dealing with subjects now, topics. So what we do is we talk let's deal with a specific topic and we go to the verses in the Bible that uh deal with that topic and we learn from it. And our subject, our series is on church-family life and uh get uh working together, functioning together as a body of believers. a family of believers, you could say, and keeping that family functioning smoothly and to the glory of God oiled with the presence of the Holy Spirit and just keeping everything working the way God intends it to work. And so that's the idea of the series. Notice if you would, now our subject tonight, I'm going to get to, I'm going to do through the introduction, and if that doesn't take too long, I want to get into the whole thing. But um our subject tonight is how within the family, and this will apply to home, to marriage, to the workplace, I believe it will apply to A society, although our focus is within the church, is um how to deal with folks within the family whom we disagree with, or when a disagreement comes up How is that dealt with in such a way that the family life is not disrupted, the Spirit of God is not grieved, the testimony of the Lord remains strong. The Bible actually speaks much towards this And I think you'll enjoy it. Let's look at a couple verses, then we'll have prayer, and I'll get into it. Proverbs 17, verse 1. Notice what the Bible says. Now think about what's being said here. So what's he saying here? Just to set the state, she's saying it's better to do without a lot of things and have things running smoothly than to have a house full of sacraments. You've got all kinds of stuff, but man, it's just can't get along Come over, if you would, to chapter 20 of Proverbs. And look at verse number 3. Now notice this is what God says. It is an what's that next word? Honor. Honor. It is an honor for a man to cease from strife. And so God says avoiding strife is better than having a house full of stuff. And it is an honor for a man. To cease from that strife, that uh that discord. And so we want to learn how do I avoid a disagreement Developing into strife, into discord. Bible, as I said, speaks much of that. Let's have a word of prayer. Then we'll we'll get into this. Father, I thank you, Lord, for the folks that have um uh made the effort to get out here this evening. Lord, I know the roads were a little treacherous and uh been very easy to just say I'll stay home tonight. So I'm grateful for the folks that are here, Lord. I pray you bless folks we trust are tuned in on the internet and that you would use the Word of God to bear fruit in all of our lives. I yield myself to you tonight, Lord, as best I know how. I thank you that you gave me the strength to be able to be here tonight, and I pray that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you would teach us tonight on this subject of church-family life. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I've said this often, but the truth of the matter is, there's nothing easy about living the Christian life If anybody suggests that living a victorious Christian life is easy, then I would say they're not very involved in serving the Lord. The Bible speaks of the victorious Christian life as being a spiritual warfare. The Bible speaks of doing battle. With the flesh and with the world and with the devil. The Bible speaks of enduring hardness. Several times Paul makes mention of Him doing this and the necessity of all of us dying to self. Now that's not an easy thing. If it is necessary for me to die to self to live a victorious Christian life Then don't tell me living Victorian Christian life is easy because it is not easy to die to self. Can I get a witness there I mean that's to me the world, the flesh, and the devil, the self, the flesh, is the most difficult of the three to deal with. And uh it's not easy. Two, I believe, thinking this through over the years and working with this, the two most difficult aspects A victorious Christian living, I think, are one is maintaining consistency. Would you agree with me? I mean just stand on top side day after day, week after week, month after month. Um how many people here You're familiar with Tom Sexton. He preached here I don't know, was it eight years ago or whatever? And uh he was uh somewhat of a mentor of mine, worked under under him in the bus ministry down at Highland Park and uh we were became good friends I asked him one time as a preacher boy and and uh I came and I said, boy, you know, I said, you know what I'm finding is hard in my Christian life? He said, what's that? I said, consistency I said, how do you ever get where you're just on topside day after day, week after week, month after month, year after year? Now I looked up to him as a spiritual mentor, as a man of God and somebody help me. And I said that to him. I said, How do you how do you do that? He says, well when you find out, tell me. So consistency is a difficult part. And here is this, and I learned this more after being in the ministry. I believe the second most difficult part in living a Victoria's Christian life is that of interacting with other people. That, to me, in the ministry I found is where the breakdown comes most often within the body of believers Having proper relationships with my brothers and sisters in Christ, or maintaining a Christ-like spirit with others It seems like that is where the rubber hits the road, and that's where a lot of people have the breakdown. Now I mentioned this before. What I believe that is true not just in the church setting, but it's true in the home. People in the home, getting along together, being able to deal with the issues that come up, finances or whatever. And being able to maintain that Spirit of Christ and the presence of the Holy Spirit in there. That's a challenge. In the workplace. So often the workplace, you know, as a Christian, our Christian testimony is hindered sometimes, not necessarily because we're a poor worker or because we don't have a work ethic. But because we can't interact with people in the workplace that we have to work with, and then our testimony is hindered because we're not able to do that out in society and in the church. We're going to come back to Proverbs in a little bit, but if you would, turn with me to Galatians. I want to set the stage here. Come with me to Galatians chapter 5. We got a small crowd tonight, so it feels kind of like Bible Institute-ish. Galatians chapter 5. And notice I'm going to begin reading in verse 16. I'm going to read down through the end of the chapter. And you're going to notice here there are two forces. That dominate my behavior, that are going to, uh I don't want the word dominate. There are two forces that are going to dictate my behavior. One of these two Is going to be control of my behavior. And the Bible makes it very clear here. Look at verse 16. This I say then: walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lusts of the what? Alright, so just that one verse there, the stage is already set. What are the two forces at uh at odds with my life? Spirit, exactly. Holy Spirit and the flesh, my own self. All right, let's read on. For the flesh lusteth against the spirit. Now, sometimes We get thrown there on that word lust. We think sometimes folks will think of the word lust, they'll think of only one thing. They'll think of a sensual desire. That type of thing. But the word lust simply means to desire intensely. So with that in mind, look what it says. For the flesh Lust against the Spirit. Now, does that mean the flesh desires to have the Spirit? No, they're in competition with each other. Let me read on. The flesh lusts against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. The spirit, capital S, Holy Spirit, lusts against the flesh. Now what's he saying here? Says these are contrary one to another, so that ye cannot do the thing that ye would. In other words This flesh of mine, my sinful nature, intensely desires to run my life, to dictate my behavior At the same time, the Holy Spirit of God intensely desires to run my life and dictate my behavior. They cannot both do that at the same time. Either one or the other is running the show. And so, let's read on. For the flesh lust against the spirit, spirit against the flesh, these are contrary one to the other, so that ye cannot do the things that you would. But if ye be led by the spirit, ye are not under the law. Now, look at verse 19 Now the works of the flesh, in other words, if the flesh is in charge, if I'm operating under the control and the the uh lordship, I guess, of the flesh, notice what's going to be true. These are going to be manifests. Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, which is just unbridled desire, no check on the basis desires, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred Variants, that's something about strife. Emulations, that's um envy, intense envy, wrath, strife. Seditions, which is divisions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revelings, the such like, of which I tell you before, as I told you in time passed that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. So if the flesh is running the show, then these This behavior is going to be characteristic of my life. Everybody with me so far? It's pretty obvious. Now, what happens when the Spirit is in control? Verse 22. But the fruit of the Spirit The results of the Holy Spirit being in charge, what that produces is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against such there's no law. And they that are Christ have crucified the flesh. um and the and the affections and the lust. So in there. Alright, so what am I saying? I'm saying one of two forces is in control We're talking about church-family life. You can apply it to your home life, your workplace, out in society. If As a believer, if I am in the flesh, if the flesh is controlling me, then these characteristics are going to be evident in my life If the Holy Spirit of God is controlling me, then the fruits there will be characteristic of my life. So obviously, what we want is what? Yeah, we want to be controlled by the Spirit. If we want to have a family life that's pleasing the Lord, it's a testimony of the grace of God, that is oiled by the presence of the Holy Spirit, then we've got to be filled or controlled by the Holy Spirit of God. Very basic, but I think it is important if we are going to have the right kind of church family life. We need to, as believers, make sure it is not the flesh. that is operating, that is dominating me, but rather it is the Holy Spirit so that I can accomplish what God intends. Sometimes People who have a great desire to serve God have great difficulty interacting with the people of God. And over the years, I've had a number of people that I believe that they loved God with all their heart, and I believe they wanted to live for God and wanted to serve God. But for whatever reason, they had a hard time dealing with the people of God. That's where the statement comes from: boy, the ministry is great, it's the people I can't stand You know, you hear that. And uh I take issue with that, because if it isn't people, if you don't have people, you don't have a ministry. You can't serve God without having people involved in it There's no way. Hey, rescuing baby raccoons from floods is not serving God. Amen? You know, saving the planet from imaginary global warming is not serving God. Picking up trash along the road so the place looks nice is not serving God. If I'm going to serve God, I've got to be involved with people And if I'm going to be involved with people, then I've got to be able to deal with different types of people. Alright? So, fact is, the Christian life is constant interaction with others. Christian service is constant interaction with others. We must be able, and this important statement here. Excuse me, we must be able to maintain a Christ-like spirit when we're dealing with people who, I want to give you a list here, when we're dealing with people who are weaker than we are. Maybe weaker in the flesh. Sometimes in serving the Lord and living the Christian life, we have to deal with people who are weaker, and I don't mean this. To be facetious or comical in any way, but sometimes you have to deal with people who are weaker mentally. Sometimes you have to deal with people who are weaker physically. They can't do. Maybe we're involved out just for sake of illustration. We're out knocking on doors. Maybe we're up in in um Where's Paul Lynn at? McKeysport. We're up there going up and down the hills and maybe there's somebody to come along. They love God just as much as I do. They have as great a burden to win souls as I do, but they may not be they may be weaker than me physically. might not be able to keep up and knock on as many doors. Does that mean they're inferior to me somehow? No. And so I have to be able to understand that and deal with that Sometimes in our interaction with people to serve God, we have to deal with people who are stronger than we are. Sometimes people who are stronger than us spiritually. You know what's kind of hard for a pastor to admit sometimes is that sometimes there's people in the church who are stronger Christians than the pastor is. You know? It's a fact of life. I've heard some of the greatest preachers ever say, I got people in my church are better Christians than I'll ever hope to be. We need to understand that. Present company excluded, of course, but uh now on teasing. That wasn't nice. Um, was it? Um See, I need this lesson for myself, is what I'm saying. Uh sometimes we have to deal with people who are stronger than us mentally. Sometimes we have to deal with people who are stronger than the s Spiritually, personality-wise, they may have a stronger personality, but we need to be able to function with them. We need to be able to deal with them in a harmonious way We have to be able to maintain a Christ-like spirit when we're dealing with people that see things differently than us That just flat out disagree with us. Sometimes you have to deal with people who are even antagonistic. You have to be able to function with people who are very selfish without losing my testimony, without the flesh taking over me Um who sometimes people who are more sensitive to things than I am. You know, occasionally you have to deal with folks. Do you ever have to deal with someone And the best way I know to describe it is like this. You feel like you're walking on eggshells around them. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? I mean just scared to death. Anything you say or do, they're going to be offended. You know, what do you do with people like that? Ah, you just write them off. No. They're God's people. Sometimes Christians are that way. And so I've got to be able to deal with them. Hey, believe it or not, the Bible talks about that The Bible gives us principles to deal with that. People who appear to be insensitive. Some people, their personality size, looks like they just don't care about anything. But you get to know them, you find out they care deeply. But it just they appear that way. You've got to be able to deal with backslidden Christians If I'm going to serve God, if I'm going to be a positive contribution to the body of Christ, then I've got to be able to interact with some believers who are backslidden. in a in a biblical way, a Christ-like fashion. Some people are intense. I mean they're just all out for God and they're just like a bulldozer on Powling through this old world for God. And man, get out of the way or you get run over. And how do you deal with folks like that? The more involved in service of the service of the Lord I get, the more involved I'm going to be in people's lives. The stronger, here's a good thought, I think. The stronger I get. In my commitment to the Lord means I'm going to take a stronger stand on some things. When I first got saved, to be very honest with you, I didn't care what version of the Bible, I didn't know anything about it You know, even the church I was going to there, uh they used a couple other versions. I didn't know. But as I grew in my faith and in my understanding, as my commitment to the Lord got stronger, and I began to understand the issue, I began taking a stronger stand on the Preservation of the Word of God. And what does that when you take a stronger stand on something, then that leads to what? It can lead to strengthening this Lord, but it leads to opposition. And so I've got to be able to, if I'm going to mature in my faith, if I'm going to be strong for the Lord, But I'm going to be filled with the Holy Spirit and mean a Christ-like spirit. I've got to be able to interact with people who disagree, who are opposed to my position Yet without allowing it to become strife and discord is what I'm saying. You follow with? Are you with me? And so our here's this is what I'm trying to say. Our character and our conduct is more important than our opinions and getting my way or proving my point. Now, I am not saying, we're not even talking about compromise, so don't even bring this into your thinking. But I am talking about what I believe is the correct position or the correct thing, and I have somebody who feels differently than I do What I think, and proving my point, is not nearly as important as how I conduct myself and my character In that disagreement. Are you with me? Some people will lose their integrity over trying to win their point I'm saying to you, it's more important that I maintain my integrity than and uh maybe not be able to prove my point as well as I would like to. You with me? I I I think you'll follow along what I'm saying. So, here I am, uh part of the body of Christ. I want to live for God, I want to please the Lord, I want to be the Christian God intends for me to be And now I've run up against someone that I disagree with or they disagree with me. How do I handle that? Well, you know, it's not uncommon. In Genesis chapter 13, Abraham and Lot. Ran into strife. They were both growing faster than the land could handle, both of them, and strife began to fall out between uh th their servants And that worked its way up the chain, and then you had Lot and Abraham, and Abraham says, we as brethren must not strive. So we gotta deal with this. And so they had to deal with disagreement, so to speak, without and Abraham was determined he was not going to let it develop into strife and discord. They were going to have to handle it, and they did In the book of Numbers, and actually Numbers, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers into Deuteronomy, Moses and Israel were constantly buttonheads. And the Bible says several times there was strife throughout the camp. And the sad thing there was instead of the children of Israel, and even Moses on occasion. Instead of dealing with it biblical ways, they've allowed their disagreements to deteriorate into strife and discord. And it ended up costing Moses a place in the promised land. It ended up costing a lot of Israelites their lives because their disagreement was not handled biblically. Judges chapter 12, Israel and Amnon and the Amnonites were had strife. In Acts chapter 15, lo and behold, of all people. Paul and Barnabas, as far as I'm concerned, two of the greatest Christians in the Bible. I admire Barnabas tremendously. They had a falling out. And the Bible says the contention was so great between the two of them, they went separate ways. Now, can I give you my opinion here without opening a can of worms? My opinion is uh Paul handled that wrong I don't think Paul dealt with that whole situation biblically. I think there's some principles here we're going to catch that. Now that's easy for me to say 2,000 years later, look back on Paul and say he did it. something wrong. If he was sitting in the pu in the pews tonight, I probably wouldn't have made that statement because I don't want discord with him. But um So it's not uncommon. Even the greatest of people in the Bible had to deal with this. And some failed, some succeeded. Now let me make this statement up front. I can respect a person who will disagree with me if they will do so in a mature, polite, respectful way. Alright? I can discuss a disagreement with someone if our discussion is done in a mature, polite, respectful way. But if people start getting angry, if the flesh and wrath starts getting in, then suddenly we're no longer operating in what? We're no longer operating in the Spirit. Let me ask you a question. Would you expect your pastor to engage in a discussion with somebody who blasphemed God's name every other word? No. You would expect me to say, hey, I'm not talking to you like this. If you're going to talk that way, I'm not engaging the conversation. And that is what I would say. Now to me, if a person is not willing to discuss a disagreement and they're going to get angry, that's just as much of the flesh as blasphemy Right? And so I said, alright, I'm not going to engage in this if we're not going to be mature and polite and Christ-like and respectful about it. Why don't you take a few Bible verses here and turn to Romans chapter 12? Romans 12 and uh verse 10. Real quickly, I just want to go through a few of these. Romans 12 and verse 10. Be kindly affectioned one to another, with brotherly love, in honor, preferring one another. Alright, come over to Ephesians chapter 4. And verse number one Notice what the Bible says. I therefore, Paul speaking under the inspiration of God, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy with of the vocation whereof you're called. Look at this. With all lowliness and meekness. With long-suffering, forbearing one another in love. Look at verse 3. Endeavoring to keep the what? Unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. In other words, he's saying you've got to be able to deal with people without violating the unity of the Spirit, without violating the peace of God's people. Come over to verse 30, same chapter. We're familiar with these verses. Grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby you're sealed into the day of redemption with all bitterness. Wrath, anger, clamor, evil speaking, put away from you with all malice. Be kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. And then I'll just give the other verse, 1 Corinthians 6, 7. So we must be very careful and work very hard at not allowing a disagreement to deteriorate into strife. Now let me give you a few ways. I went through that as quick as I could. Let me give you a few ways how to do that. And I think I can do this quickly. Everybody still okay? Everybody alright? Listen, it you put all that effort into getting here, might as well not turn around and go home right away, right? That's the way I look at it. Number one I encourage you to jot these down because they may come in handy someday. Number one, evaluate the importance of the issue and the setting of the disagreement Alright, disagreement comes up between two brothers or two sisters or a brother and sister in Christ, husband, wife, whatever. First thing I need to do is stop and think, all right, how important is this issue? Along with that, I need to evaluate, all right, what is the setting where this disagreement is taking place? How significant is this issue? Let me put it this way, some things are just not worth fussing about. You know, they say, well, I don't agree Fine. Big deal. It's not that big a deal if they disagree with me or not, or I disagree with them. It's just not worth fussing about. It's just not that significant. Can I amend that statement? I'm going to suggest to you most things that people end up in strife about are not worth it in the first place. And we could give examples till the sun comes up. Here's another question, and you may or may not agree with me on this, but I think you ought to factor in. Alright, here's somebody, they disagree with me. Alright, how big important is this? The color of the commode scene. Alright, do I really care if it's tan or white? Is it really worth fussing about? No. Now here's another thing. Another factor in all this is how influential is the person with whom I disagree? I mean, if this has to go beyond just here, if it is something that's more significant Then what you know that needs to be dealt with, resolved. If it's something that's social, it needs to be resolved. The other thing I want to ask, all right, how influential is this person? This is what I'm trying to say. If it's a five-year-old kid that disagrees with you Even if it's an important issue, forget it. Alright? It's not that big a deal. In fact, I had one of the kids just last week come up and disagree with me about something we did on the Lord's Supper And they said, I just said, well, it is. Goodbye. I'm not going to blow that thing up. And you would be amazed to me at how many people, grown adults, get all worked up over something a kid said. You follow what I'm saying? If it and this I and I'm I hope you don't misunderstand what I'm trying to say here, but if it's uh uh uh uh somebody off a bus route, a parent off a bus route that's half drunk all the time. And they want to argue with me about our church polity. Am I going to engage that? Am I going to just let them say whatever they want? I don't care. They have no influence on my success or the success or the of our church. Now, if it's someone that's pretty influential in the church and they disagree with church polity, then it needs to be dealt with. You follow what I'm saying So the very first thing I've got to do is I've got to evaluate the importance of this issue and the setting of the disagreement. Under that, write this down. I must avoid a public disagreement. If at all possible. I do not want to engage in a discussion, a disagreement in public unless I absolutely have to If I disagree with someone or someone disagrees with me, I've got to evaluate, all right, is this the right setting for this? In in public, is this really where it should be dealt with? Or do we need to step aside and just one-on-one Try and work this out. I did uh uh and that's true in the church, and by the way, that's true in the home. Hey mom and dad, if you've got a disagreement, don't do it in front of the kids. Get aside, get out. And what if mom says to the child, uh, you can't go out and play in that snow, it's too cold. Dad disagrees. He says, Yeah, they can go out and play in the snow, there's no problem with that. If mom's the one telling the kids you can't go out and s and play in the snow, it's too cold, if dad disagrees with it, he supports mom until him and mom can get aside and work it out and come to a conclusion. All disagreements must be dealt with, if at all possible, in private. That's true in church. That's true on the job. Don't stand up your employer and in front of everybody tell him what you disagree with. Go to him aside if you feel you absolutely have to If it's that important. Must avoid public disagreement at all possible. Ask yourself this. Is this really the time and place to have this disagreement? I did a funeral one time The people were not even out. The family was still in the service. And a person came up to me, they told me right away they were Jehovah's Witness and began challenging me. Well, I was standing down front in the service, everybody's still there, began challenging me on a statement I made in the sermon about heaven. I mean they came right down front. Everybody's out there soft music playing. People are slowly walking out. The bodies in the front. And uh, you know, and uh this person's gone on, I said, well, you know, uh we uh I I believe the Bible. I'm trying to just brush it off. And uh then a little bit, then they came back up. Well, they want to go on about this. Finally, I had to say something to the effect, listen, this is not the time or the place for us to be doing this. You know, stop and think a little bit. So the question is this, before I do anything, evaluate how important this issue is and the setting that we're in. Is this appropriate time and place to do this? Is it worth doing this? Number two, track this down. Evaluate the frame of mind of the one that's disagreeing with me. Evaluate the frame of mind of the person disagreeing with me. In other words, do they Are they sincerely wanting to resolve a disagreement, or do they just like fighting Now, believe it or not, the Bible talks a lot about that. Come back to Proverbs very quickly with me. Come back to Proverbs, and we're going to race down through a few of these. Verse chapter 15, we're going to start there. And when I was working through this, I thought, man, I took up, I looked in the Proverbs at all the verses, and man, it's amazing how many talked about people who wanted to fuss simply because they like fussing Look at chapter 15 and verse 18. The Bible says, a wrathful man stirreth up strife. But he that's slow to anger appeaseth strife. In other words, if that word wrathful means he can't control his temper If the guy that's coming and disagreeing with me is a wrathful man, he can't control his temper, he's all exploded, do not engage them. I'm not going to fuss with you about, alright, whatever you say, fine. I'm not, this is not the time or place. You're not in a frame of mind. Look at chapter 16, verse 28. A forward man soweth what? Strife. This kind of man So strife. What is the word forward? It's interesting. That word forward is translated other places in the King James Bible, perverse. It has this idea, one who does not think correctly, one who does not think rationally. In other words, the guy's what? He's nuts. I'm thinking of some of there not in this church, trust me. But I've come across them a number of times over the years out visiting. He actually lives in Mount Lake Park. That's all I'm gonna say He's never been to this church. I think I can safely say he's never going to be in our church. And I seriously doubt he listens to anything we say on the internet. This guy, every time, he's nuts. If I see him, I run the other way anymore. Because no matter what happens, no matter what, we're it's going to end up in a big fuss. The guy doesn't you can't even discuss rationally with him. Forward in the biblical sense. And so, just, you know, you know, if he's not if he's not hitting on all eight cylinders You know, don't worry about it. All right. Chapter 17, verse 19. Again, the Bible says He loveth transgression that loveth strife. Some people just like fighting. They just like an argument, man. They'll just look for anything in the world and try and get an argument. Don't even bother with that. Look at chapter 22 and verse 10 Cast out the scorner, and contention shall go out. Yea, strife and reproach shall what? So here you've got a guy that's a scorner. This is somebody, or I say guy, it could be a woman, could be anything, but they just criticize everything Doesn't matter what you do, doesn't matter what you try and suggest, it's no matter what you're introducing, no matter what decision you make, they're going to find everything in the world wrong with it. You know what you do with that Just cast it out of your mind. Don't let it affect you. It's just, all right, that's the way they are. Understand that and deal with it. Look at chapter 26 and verse 21. Chapter 26 and verse 21. As coals are to burning coals and wood to fire, so is a contentious man. To kindle strife. In other words, here you have another guy, he likes to fight. He just likes to argue So I've got to. I'm in a situation. I'm trying to live for God. I'm trying to do right. I want to please the Lord. I'm getting involved in people's lives. And whatever And there's a disagreement that comes up. I don't want it to deteriorate into strife and discord. I want to maintain the harmony of God. Alright, first thing I do, is this worth even discussing? All right, sure, fine. Do whatever. Is this the right setting for us for me to even do this? Maybe if it is something that needs to be dealt with, all right, let's Get it in the right setting to do that. Second thing I need to do, all right, what's this guy's frame of mind? Is he all worked up? Is i is there any legitimacy to what he's saying? Is he nuts? So you just want to argue. So I've got to determine the other person's motives. And by the way, I put this down in my notes. I need to check my own motives also. I need to make sure I'm not just being contentious. And that leads me next. Number three, if you'll bear with me here, I put this down: keep my tongue. Now use the biblical term for that. The way we might say it is, I need to bite my tongue. Look at chapter 30, or we're look at 21, Proverbs 21. And I want to give you scripture for these. I want to give a biblical basis, principles for this. Proverbs 21 and verse 23. Whoso keepeth his mouth and his tongue keepeth his soul from what? Troubles. Come over to chapter 13 and verse 3. Chapter 13 and verse 3. He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life. I put in the margin of my Bible, hush up. He that openeth wide his lips shall have destructions. Paul put it this way, dying to self. I want to suggest to you that most strife is the result of the words used in a disagreement rather than the issue of the disagreement itself. Do you catch what I'm saying? Here's me, here's my wife. We have a disagreement, which we never do, but just for imagination, we have a disagreement. Alright, I'm being facetious. Um, which we anyway, uh here's my way. Let's say here's my neighbor. Here's myself. And we have a disagreement over, let's say, where the fence goes. You know, tall fences make good neighbors. We had a we have a um Disagreement over to where the fence is. Now I don't want that to deteriorate into strife and discord. I want to be able to discuss this disagreement in a way that it doesn't. But you know how it ends up deteriorating? By the words I use. Are going to determine whether that disagreement deteriorates or not. And the best thing for me to do is simply bite my tongue. Keep my tongue is the Bible term. Most strife, most people get hurt not by the subject of the disagreement, but by the words used around the disagreement. I venture to say, even a small crowd like this tonight, I venture to say there's some folks here that you have somebody you think of And it hurts to think of them. You don't remember what it was that caused the fuss in the first place, but you sure enough can't forget what they said. You know what I'm saying? It wasn't the issue of the disagreement at all that caused the pain. It was the words used in the disagreement that caused the strife and disharmony and so keep your words few. I put this down. I am not obligated to express my disagreement If I if I say something or somebody else says or does something and I don't agree with that, nowhere in the Bible to when it's helpful, to when it's asked for In other words, he says, listen, I don't need to tell people everything I think. Did you ever hear somebody make this statement? I've made this statement about some people. You never wonder what they're thinking. Didn't they tell you? Well, what's the Bible says? A fool utters all his mind. Listen, if Brian is doing something I don't agree with, I'm not obligated to come and tell him what I think about what he's doing. Now, if he comes and asks me, that's a different story. Curtis Hudson put it this way, unsolicited advice is criticism. So if I'm going and telling people what I think about what they're doing, or what I think about that or the other, I disagree with this, that, and the other, I'm criticizing them. I am not obligated to express my disappointment with people. In fact, I would suggest it is never good to make this statement. I'm disappointed with you. I don't think that's a good statement to make. I do not believe that enhances the harmony in the spirit of Christ. You think about some of the things the disciples did, how they failed Christ And yet he never made that statement. I'm disappointed in you. Now, sometimes he rebuked them, but that's a world of difference. A rebuke is an attempt at correcting. Disappointment is an opinion. You with me? A little bit? Unsolicited advice is criticism. So just keep your tongue. Bite your tongue. Ow. Number four. Recognize other people's areas of expertise. Maybe they have more training in this area than I do. Maybe they have more experience in this area than I do. If Brother Jerry or Brother Tom comes and says something on my truck that I need to put a different kind of spark plug in or something's not right, then I say, you're an idiot. I don't know. I disagree with that. I'm not very smart. What I need to do is stop and say, wait a minute, these guys have been doing a whole lot longer than I have They've done this a whole lot more than I have. I ought to at least listen to what they have to say. If I disagree with them, chances are they're probably right and I'm probably wrong If it comes to putting up drywall or or uh building something, I got Mark and Ronnie here and maybe others. If I disagree with them how the best way to put up the trim on a sound rim is And uh I if I'm smart, I'm going to say they probably know more about it than I do. That would be their ex area of expertise. If it's plumbing or electrical. Got other people, all right, that's their area. Uh uh I need to recognize the fact. Who is the most likely to be right in this issue? If it's mechanics and I'm dealing with Jerry or Tom, it's probably Jerry or Tom most likely to be right You follow what I'm saying? So stop and give some thought to that. Number five. This is number five, real quick. Do not respond with a negative statement. Somebody says or does something, don't step in and say, you're wrong. I disagree with that. You're right away drawing battle lines. Just by those words, you're establishing a conflict Listen to Colossians 4:6. Let your speech be always with grease, seasoned with salt, that ye may know how ye ought to answer every man. It doesn't say that ye may know what to answer him. The issue isn't whether you have the right thing or not. It's how you do it. We would use the term be tactful Use words that are not confrontational words or battle words, especially in dealing with believers. Use words that can work. You say, well, how do you do it? You could say something like, well, what do you think of this idea? Or, well, how about this? Did you you know why you know I was just thinking about this here? What do you think about this? I'm I'm interjecting my idea without confronting or condemning theirs. You follow what I'm saying Somebody calls, I use this illustration line, called and challenged us on our position in the King James Bible. I said, listen, I'd be glad to have you come in and sit down. And it went through different things, went through, and we just pressed it and pressed and pressed it. And finally I say, well, you know, this is the way we see it. This is the way we understand it. And gave him some things. And when it was said and done, the guy said this He says, wow, you guys actually have reasons for what you believe. Or I could have said, you know, you guys are just a bunch of liberals. You're wrong. Would I have been able to have any kind of positive influence there at all? No. And so do not respond with negative attitudes. This is especially true if dealing with authority. If you disagree with something your boss says, don't go storming in his office and say, I disagree with you, you knucklehead. You're going to be out in the unemployment line here pretty soon Sit down with them and say, hey, you know, boss, I heard what you said and how we should do that. And you know, I'm not sure I understand where you come from. Did you think what what would you think about this? I had this idea You know what he's going to do? He's going to respect you. And you may actually make a difference. You may get a promotion out of it. Who knows? Let me give you the last one. This is the one that hurts. This is the one I don't like. But it's true. Allow for the possibility that they're right and you're wrong. Huh? Yeah. Allow for the possibility that they're right and you're wrong. Let me give you one more verse and we'll shut this down. Proverbs 17. I enjoyed studying this. I got convicted. I got encouraged. Proverbs 17 and verse 14. Knows what the Bible says. The beginning of strife is as when one letteth out water What's the idea? You've got a dam. Remember the little story of the little boy in Holland plugged his finger in the leak in the dam? You know, keep it from getting worse. What's the idea? If you've got a little leak coming out the dam and you let it go, what's going to happen? It's going to get bigger, it's going to wash out, it's going to get worse and get worse and get worse. That's what he's saying. If you have a disagreement and you don't deal with it biblically, It's going to degenerate into strife and discord and it's going to get worse and worse and worse. Next thing you know you've got a split church. Next thing you know you got a divorce on your hands. Next thing you know you're thrown out of your job on your can and uh everything's destroyed. Look what it says here. The beginning of strife is as when one letteth out water. Therefore, because that's what happens. Leave off contention. That word leave off is translated other places for sake. It means literally walk away from it. Just walk away from it. A vast majority of cases, the best to simply avoid the disagreement altogether. Just walk away from it Now, Proverbs, or Philippians 4 and verse 2, Paul mentioned two women, and I'm not going to try and say their names, but he told them that they are to be of the same mind. And if you study it there, I think what's happened in the church at Philippi, one of the best churches in the Bible, there were two women who got a disagreement. And they were not dealing with that disagreement scripturally. The flesh was involved, the spirit was being quenched And Paul, for all eternity, in the inspired preserved letter to the church at Philippi, he mentions these two women by name, and he says, tell them to be of the same mind. In other words, their testimony, their integrity, their character was more important than them proving their point or winning their argument. Christians are to work towards harmony. Not compromise, but maturity. Our local church should be a haven of shelter from a strife-riddled world. Listen You don't have to watch the news very long. You don't have to be out in the world very long to know that this world is a world of strife. Right or wrong. Nobody gets along. Nobody sees. I mean it is just fussing and discord and chaos out there. There ought to be one place where some folks can come on Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. Some place may come when there's special revival meetings or fellowships going on where all of that can be left aside, and we all are patient with one another. We all work together in the spirit and presence of the Holy Spirit, on the fullness of the Holy Spirit And even when a disagreement comes up, we can deal with it as mature Christians, and God's glorified, and our hearts are at rest. Amen? Isn't that good? And the home ought to be that way too Let's pray. Father in heaven, I hope I didn't overload here tonight. Lord, I know you stirred my heart as I've been preparing these lessons. I pray that you would just help me to be a good example and help us, Lord, to live by the Word of God and be filled with the Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.