2 Peter 1, verse 13. Peter says, Yea, I think it meet, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up By putting you in remembrance. He's writing to believers, as we say every time we come here, that have been through the fire. We sang about going through the fire. They've been through the fire. They've been persecuted intensely, violently. And uh for an extended period of time to the point they had to leave their homes, leave their even the area where they lived, went into whole new regions That persecution has died down now, as we keep reminding. Persecution's died down. They're settling in. They're new areas, they're new homes, they're re-establishing churches, local churches here around where they're at. And Peter is cautioning them. If you'll remember, we said last week, the two dangers they're facing now are false teaching that will creep in. We're going to notice that in chapter 2. By the way, we've been talking about this in Sunday school hour in the book of Jude. So he's going to deal with that. But right now, as he's in the beginning stages of this letter, this book He's warning them about losing, I guess I'll put it this way, losing their momentum in their spiritual growth, losing their fire. For the Lord and their service to the Lord and getting cold and laxadaisical and little indifferent. How many how many people know what I'm talking about? He just kind of, it cools down a little bit. And he's writing to him here, and as he's dealing with all this, and uh he keeps he comes and he says, listen, I need to stir you up It's meat for me that I stir you up. And so that's what we want to look at tonight. Stirred up. Let me say this, just start. We need to be stirred up again, don't we? We need stirred up. Let's pray. Father, I pray you bless now as we take a few moments, look in your word And I ask, dear Holy Spirit, as the author of this book, as the author of this text that we're looking at, that you would speak through me, fill me and speak through me, and help us to get what's being said here And I pray you'd show us, Lord, very clearly on our hearts and minds how it applies to our lives, our home, our ministries, our church. And so I yield my will to you. I present my body so that you can use me to do that. And I ask, Lord, that you would stir up Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church anew. Stir me up. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. It's mostly aware my wife grew up in the hills of West Virginia. I mean mountaintop. She was born and raised uh on Hinkle Mountain, West Virginia. And we were just down there over Christmas. And I'm telling you, it is back in there. And um I I better just leave it at that right there. But it's great. Her family's fantastic and I'd love going down there. I mean it is back in there. They're back in the hills. She grew up in homes that were heated with either a wood stove or a coal stove. Her daddy was a coal miner. They uh if I understand if I remember correctly, uh part of the deal working at the coal mines, he could bring a truckload of coal home and used to heat his home. And so when I first met her back in around around the Civil War, sometime around there, um I went up there. Of course we grew up in Philly. We uh we didn't have wood stove. I don't know if I ever even saw one except hunting camp And uh so she grew up with that, coal, stove, or wood stove. They'd go back and forth But one thing I learned in being around that is those fires in those wood stoves, in those coal stoves, had a tendency to die down. How many people heat their homes with wood stove or coal stove? Anybody here? Now they have the the um uh pellets, they use the pellets. But that fire has a tendency to die down And you have to give it attention. And sometimes when you're putting that fresh coal in there, or that fresh wood or pellets, whatever it may be, You have to stir it up a little bit. Get those embers, shuffle it around, get the wood in there where it can burn. How many people know what I'm talking about? There's a tendency for these fires to go down. And you have to periodically stir it up. Uh to stay warm. Now, when we got married, we haven't had a wood stove anywhere we lived since we've been married. We've had various other, you know, electric or gas, oil, heat, that type of stuff. And so I I've got to I'm treading very carefully here. But um when we first at first, if she didn't see flames Or if that if she didn't see something glowing, she was cold. It could be 98 degrees in the room. But if there wasn't a fire there, she was cold. I don't know why I said that, but um I'll be right back. Yeah. Peter mentions here in his letter to these believers about stirring up the believers. Verse 13, here are our text. I think I meet as long as I'm in this tabernacle to stir you up. If you would come over to chapter number three of the same book, 2 Peter. He says again, he repeats himself. Now chapter 2, he talks about false prophets coming in, false teaching. It's wicked people creeping in. But then verse chapter three he comes back. And he says, this second piss epistle, beloved I now write unto you, in both which I stir up your pure minds. They were in danger of becoming indifferent. They were, and if maybe not in danger of it, maybe they had actually become indifferent in their Christian life. They lost the fire They lost the enthusiasm about walking with God and serving God and being a child of God and the excitement of that and the enthusiasm of that, and the joy of the Lord was gone. And he says, I need to stir you up. I need to stir you up. Paul told Timothy in 2 Timothy 1 and verse 6, and we're going to look there here in a little bit, Lord willing. But Paul told Timothy, stir up the gift of God that is in you. And so the word stir up, I got looking at that. And it means kind of what you would imagine it to mean. It means to return to an earlier action In other words, you used to do this, you were involved in this, you were uh this was part of your life, and you've gotten away from stir you up, get you back. To where that used to be. It has the idea of returning to an earlier enthusiasm. It's not something that's missing. It's still there, but it's just died down. They didn't have any enthusiasm. It's not like their enthusiasm was gone. It just died down. It just had faded. I need to stir it up, get it back up to where it ought to be, where it used to be. It means to return to an earlier passion. Oh, they still love the Lord. They didn't hate God. They loved the Lord, but that love had grown cold. That love had died down and didn't have the effect. On their thinking and their behavior and their interaction with one another and their service that had died down. And he said, we need to stir that up again. Get back. Returning to an earlier zeal or an earlier dedication. Now I want to notice three things. I want to jump right into my outline. My first thing I notice here in verse 13 Is Peter's admonition to stir them up? Look, I'll show you what I mean by that. He says, Yea, I think it meet, as long as I'm in this tabernacle, I think it meet That phrase, I think it meets. It means it's fitting. It's the right thing to do. It has this idea, it is necessary. It is necessary, Peter writing to us says, listen, it's necessary, seeing your condition, it's necessary for me to stir you up. It's me. He has an admonition, something, the Spirit of God stirring him to stir them up And then he says this, this is a kind of an aside a little bit, but he says, I think it is me, I think it me, as long as I am in this tabernacle. Now, somebody help me out here. What does he mean, as long as I'm in this tabernacle? Yeah, as long as he's alive. He's not talking about some building he lives in He's talking about as long as I'm in this body. In other words, as long as my soul and my body are united. As long as I'm dwelling inside this physical body, I need to stir you up. He said, as long as I'm alive. As long as I'm still living. Peter doesn't have long to live at this point, and he knows it. If you would, look at the next verse. He says, knowing that shortly I must put off this, my tabernacle, even as the Lord Jesus Christ both has showed me The Lord told him back in John chapter 21, verse 18. The Lord told Peter that he was going to die, and he told him in general terms how he was going to die. So Peter was not, I think I might have mentioned this last week. Peter was not looking for the rapture. He knew that he was not going to be alive when the rapture took place. The Lord made that clear to him. By the way, I think that's why, if you remember back in Acts when they were going to they they killed uh Her Herod uh killed James And uh and he was and that pleased the Jews. And then he said, well, you know what? The Jews liked it when I killed James. I'm going to kill Peter too. So he got Peter, put him in prison, they were going to kill him the next day. Anybody want to or anybody remember what Peter did the night before they were going to execute him? What did he do all night? He slept How many people, if you knew your head was going to be chopped off tomorrow at ten o'clock, would sleep soundly tonight? No, I didn't think so. I would sleep like a baby. You know how babies sleep? They wake up every two hours, go to the bathroom. Peter wasn't looking for the rapture. He knew he was going to die. He knew he had a limited time left here on earth. And he says, in that little bit of time I have left, I am committing myself to stir you up To get you back on fire for God, get you back on track for living for the Lord, get you back stirred up in love with Jesus again like you once were. So he has this admonition that's on his heart and mind, this necessity that I need to stir you up. Peter understood the necessity for God's people to be stirred up. I think in many ways we tend to be lazy in our spiritual life. And the Christian life is not designed for the lazy man. Nothing about the Christian life is enhanced by laziness. We don't grow by being lazy. The Christian light. Look with me if you would at verse number five here of uh Chapter 1 of 2 Peter. Look at verse 5. And we preached on this before. It says, and beside this, giving all what? Would you agree with me, diligence is the opposite of laziness? Man, he says you've got to apply yourself If you're going to be the Christian God intends for you to be, if you're going to be victorious in your spiritual life, if you're going to be strong and healthy spiritually, you can't be lazy about this. You've got to be diligent. You've got to apply yourself. Here in verse 13, he says, yeah, I think it means as long as this tabernacle to stir you up. Look at uh I'm sorry, verse 10 is what I wanted. Wherefore the rather brethren give what? Diligence. There he says it again. Diligence To make your calling and election short. Look at verse number 15. Moreover, I will endeavor. That word endeavor comes from the same word as the word diligence He says, I'm going to be diligent about this. I can't be indifferent. I can't just lay around. I've got to be about this. Look over in chapter 3 and verse 14. He says, Wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things, be diligent That you may be found of him in peace without spot and blamelessness. I say again, the Christian life is not designed for a lazy person. Victorious Christian life requires diligence. It requires a consistent effort. It requires focus on my Lord and what He's called me to do. It requires commitment. We preach earnestly for commitment on the part of God's people. Listen, the church, I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, the church service is not to put on a show. The special music was tremendous tonight. The choir of the day was excellent. And we uh we we have tremendous music here, in my opinion. And it's not designed to entertain. And the preaching and all we do in the services of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is not designed to entertain. It is designed to draw us to dedication and commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what it's all about. So there's no place in the Christian life and Christian growth for laziness, for indifference, requires commitment, requires discipline. A laxidaisical attitude is not going to produce a victorious Christian life. We are not going to be effective in reaching the unsaved. If we're indifferent and lazy, laxadaisical. Are you with me? So he says, this is laid upon me. This is a necessity. This is an admonition on my heart that I stir you up That you're not just going through the motions. You're not just getting lazy and indifferent in your Christian life. We need that fire back. We need that commitment back, that focus Victorious Christian living goes against the grain of this world. This world is not a friend of grace. This world is not going to help us live for God. Let me say this: there's nothing on that television tonight that's going to help anybody live for God the way God intends for us to live for Him. So we live in a world that is opposed to Christian world. And so because of that, there's a tendency on the part of the Christian to become indifferent. Because we're just fighting it, fighting it, fighting it all the time. And we tend to say, oh, you know, we back off A victorious Christian living goes against the grain of our flesh. My flesh is no friend to the grace of God, my sinful nature. There's a part of me that is opposed to everything this book tells me I should be. Now you look at me so piously, you have the same nature I do. There's a part of you that is opposed to living by faith and trusting the Lord and pressing on. And so we have this, we're going against the grain of our own old sinful nature. We're fighting that. We have a world that we're swimming upstream against And then throw in the mix, we got the devil. And he is certainly not a friend of grace. He's not a friend of us living for God, brother. He doesn't stir up the fire of passion for the Lord. He pours water on it. And so we we go against that. Somebody asked me years ago when I was youth pastor Uh one of the young people, somebody I don't remember who it was, but somebody had asked me this question. They said, What is the devil's will for my life? What is the devil's will for these young people's lives? What does the devil want for them? So, oh, he wants them to be drunk and drugs and involved in fornication. I don't think that's necessarily the case. What is the devil's will for your life and my life? I'll tell you what the devil's will for your life and my life is anything except the will of God. I don't care what I do as long as I don't do what God says He doesn't care how I live as long as I'm not on fire for the Lord. As long as I'm not stirred up. About praising God and reaching the lost and doing right and being pure in heart and mind So Peter has this admonition that's upon him. He says, It's meat that I write to you and stir you up. I've only got a little time to live. We have a tendency to be lethargic. We have a tendency to be apathetic. And Peter says it's meat, it's a constant necessity To be stirred up. So number one, the admonition Peter has to stir them up. My second thought is this: the avenue that Peter uses to stir them up. In other words, what does God use to stir his people up? No, let's look here at the verse again. He says, yea, I think it is meet, as long as I am in this tabernacle to stir you up. Who's doing the stirring up? Peter is. Um look over at chapter 3, verse 1. The second epistle, beloved, now Beloved, I now write unto you in both which I stir up your pure minds. Peter says, it's my job to stir you up. Now, there's an exception to that. Keep your place here. We're going to look at a few verses. Come over to 2 Timothy 1. I referenced this a little bit ago. As Pastor Matt pointed out this morning, Second Timothy is right after First Timothy. And notice in verse number six, he says, this is Paul writing to his young protege, his young boys mentoring, young man. Wherefore, I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God as in thee. In that case, who's the one doing the stirring up in this verse? Timothy himself. So there's an aspect of the Christian life where you and I need to stir ourselves up. We need to stay stirred up. Let me make a decision. I'm not going to let myself become cold and indifferent. I'm not going to let myself become lazy in my Christian life. I'm not going to let myself lose my passion and lose my fire and lose my joy I'm going to keep this thing stirred up. And so we do have a personal responsibility in that. But Peter is saying, back in Peter now. He's saying, I'm the channel, I'm the avenue that is going to stir you up. Now, what was Peter's position in the church Who remembers? Come back to 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse number 1, he tells us. 1 Peter chapter 5, he says, the elders which are among you, question, what's another term for an elder? Pastor! The elders or the pastors which are among you. They're scattered. They're re-establishing churches. There's pastors out in this crowd that have been persecuted, run out. The elders which are among you, I exhort, then notice what he says, who am also an what? He says, I'm a pastor too. Peter was a pastor. He was an elder in the church. And he says, I, my responsibility in the position I hold in the church is to stir you up, stir you up, stir you up. I think, if I understand this correctly, I believe I do, I think a major responsibility of the pastor is to keep the flock stirred up. Keep the flock on fire for God. Keep that spiritual coal, keep that spiritual wood in the stove, burning, burning, burning for the Lord. Major responsibility of the pastor is to keep the flock stirred up, keep the flock passionate for the Lord. A major part of preaching. Just to rekindle that fire for God. Don't let it go out. Don't let it grow cold. You you have a wood stove or a coal stove or I don't know how these newfangled stove works, but I know When with my wife when she was uh when we first met living at home, have to get up sometimes in the night, they'd wake up and it'd be cold in the house. Somebody was designated to get up, usually her dad, in fact not usually, all the time, her dad. He was designated, he'd get up and stir it up. Had gone down, gotten cold, and you go in there and stir those co uh uh embers up and throw some coal in there, a shovel full of coal, or stick a few blocks of wood in there, get that thing up and burning again An hour later it'd be 197 degrees in there. And that's the part I I believe, if I understand scripture correctly, part of my responsibility to pass the Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. is to keep Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church stirred up for the Lord. Keep us on fire for winning souls. Keep us on fire for doing right and loving the Lord and loving one another. Serving him and being pure and clean and right. And husbands loving our wives, and wives loving their husbands, and training our children. Pastor, Peter says, uh uh, it's my job. I I need to stir you up. And it's through God uses people. In our lives. One of the young people testified this morning. Thank God for the people God brings into our lives to help us. I say amen to that. I look back over my years as a Christian and certain people, preachers in particular, but others, stand out that God used to stir me up And keep me going for the Lord. How many of y'all can think of someone in your mind? You look back, I can think of different people God used. Stir me up, live for God. Thank God for that. God uses people God was using Peter to keep these folks stirred up. And so the preacher, a big part of the preacher's responsibility is to rekindle that fire, keep it burning. Rekindle that love. By the way, you and I have a responsibility to one another to help each other stay stirred up We're to admonish one another. We're to exhort one another. We're to keep that fire. You know one of the best ways you can help. You know one of the best ways each of us can help one another stay on fire for God? To stay on fire for God myself. I've noticed something about fire. It spreads. And when this stick is burning, you put another log in there, man, not long that one catches fire. And so the admonition, he says, I've got to do this. We have a tendency to get cold. We have a tendency to get indifferent. We have a tendency to lose that fire and that zeal And so I have an admonition to stir you up. And then the avenue is we have responsibility ourselves. The preacher has a big responsibility, but we have a responsibility, one with another, to keep one another on fire. And then thirdly, my last thought is this: the approach. Notice how he does this. The admonition is I've got to stir you up. The avenue is the preacher. for the most part, but then one another, ourselves. But then the approach. Look how he does this. And he says it very clearly Yeah, I think it meet, as long as I'm in this tabernacle, to stir you up how? By putting you in what? Remembrance. Remembrance. You know how we stir each other up? You know how pastors are supposed to stir the church up? It's by continually reminding them who God is, what he's done, what he's told us. Look with me if you would, verse 12. He says, Wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in what? Remembrance. I'm just reminding you. I'm just reminding you. He says, verse 13, put you in remembrance. Verse 15, moreover, I will endeavor that ye may be able, after my decease, after I'm dead and gone. To have these things always in where? Members. Members. Back chapter three, verse one. We've looked at this a couple times. Look again what he says. He says, both in which I s last part of the verse, which I stir your stir up your pure minds by way of Remember, remember, remember, remember, my job is to remind you and remind us of what God has said and who God is and what he's done for us. Forgetfulness is the great enemy of spiritual passion. Forgetfulness is the great enemy of Christian growth. We forget what God has done, and we forget where we came from. And we forget God's goodness, and we forget God's power, and we forget God's holiness. And we grow indifferent. And the fire dwindles down. And we need to be stirred up. Stirred up My job as pastor is not to give to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church something new My job as pastor, and every Sunday school teacher, bus worker, you name it, our music, every aspect of the church, our responsibility is to remind everybody what God has already said You watch out for these crackpots on TV, say, well, I've got a new word from the Lord. Eh, noop. Not interested. Remembrance, remembrance, remembrance, remembrance. Got your Bibles? How many people brought your Bible? We got it, we might as well use it, right? We finish up here. Let's look let's buzz through here. First Corinthians chapter four, real quick. First Corinthians chapter four. Ready, go I was tempted to have the first person find it. Stand up. But don't do that. 1 Peter chapter 4. Did I say 1 Peter? 1 Corinthians. I'm sorry, First Corinthians chapter four. Are you there? Look at verse seventeen. For this cause I have sent until questioned Corinthian church, good or bad. Terrible I mean they were a disaster. And notice how pe how Paul is going to address their carnal condition. For this cause, I sent unto you Timotheus. Here's this young man, who is my beloved son Faithful in the Lord. Now look, who shall bring you into remembrance? Of my ways, which be in Christ, as I teach everywhere. He says he's going to come back and remind you what I taught you. He's going to remind you where you came from. He's going to remind you what Christ has done for you He's going to remind you the price that was paid for the salvation of your soul so you don't forget. Come with me if you would to 1 Timothy chapter 4. Now we looked at 1 Timothy 1, verse 6. Look at 1 Timothy 4 and verse 6. Did you find it? That was about one percent of the crowd. Look at First Timothy 4, verse 6. If thou, he's talking to Timothy again, Timothy's involved in all this. If thou put the brethren in what Remembrance of these things, thou shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ, nourished in the words of faith and of good doctrine whereunto thou hast attained. He says Timothy, you just remind those people and you remind them and you remind them of what that book teaches. You remind them of the doctrines of the Word of God. You remind them of the truth that that book tells us. And if you do that, you'll be a good minister. You'll be a good pastor. Come over to 2 Timothy chapter 2. And look with me at verse 14. Again, Timothy. Of these things, what he's telling Peter, or Timothy, of these things, put them in what? Remembrance, charging them before the Lord that they strive not about words of to no profit, but to the subverting of the hearers He says, you just remind them, you just remind them, you just remind them. One more. You will come with me to the little book of Jude, second last book of the Bible. We're studying it in Sunday school There's only one chapter in Jude, so it's verse number five. And we've talked about this in Sunday school. But I want to point it out again here, verse 5, Jude. I will therefore put you in remembrance. Listen, we don't have anything new to offer. We have anything new to offer this world? What we got is an old, old story. We've got an old old word of God that has proven itself Century after century after century after millennium, that book has proven itself to be the very Word of God. Our message is nothing new. It's just reminding. Remind you what Jesus Christ has done for you. Remind you who he is and what he's done. No, we have nothing new. We just keep coming back to the old book Wednesday night, we're going to have midweek service. Guess what we're going to do? We're going to open up the old book We're going to look at it again. Next Sunday morning, Lord willing, we're going to have Sunday school. Guess what we're going to do in Sunday school? We're going to open the old book. Tell the old old story again. Sun next Sunday morning in service, Lord willing, we're going to open the old book. We're going to sing the old hymns. We're going to preach the old message, the old King James Bible. We're going to give an old invitation We're just going to remind everybody, remind everybody, remind everybody. It's nothing new. We don't have anything new to offer. According to the Bible, nothing else stirs up God's people. Like just remembering what the Lord has done. What the Lord has done. I don't think there's any other way to revival And I appreciate and Pastor Matt's running for school board. I I I'm thrilled about that. We say we want we need Politicians, all that, Christian politicians. I say amen to all that, so don't misconstrue what I'm about to say. But I'm telling you the answer to the problems of our world and our nation. Are found in this same old book that's been preached for years and years and years. I thought of this this week. I hope you'll bear with me I'd like to see America get back to what it once was, wouldn't you? You know how that happens? You know why America was what it was? When we want to get back to? You know what made it that way, what it was? Well what it was, we need to get back. You know what it was It was a revival taking place under George Whitfield and Jonathan Edwards and the powerful hell fire and brimstone preaching of the Word of God. It's what made America what it was that we want to get back to. America wasn't what it was because of its politicians. America was what it was because of its churches. We need to remember that. We need to get back. We need stirred up. I'll tell you, I love George Whitfield. I want to read about George Whitfield. I tell you, God used George Whitfield to stir up the churches. Tens of thousands of people saved under that one man's preaching. Power of God upon them. Stirred up, stirred up. There's only one way back to revival is to get back to the basics. Get back to the preaching, the old truths this book has right here. And we don't need new versions. We just need to keep preaching the old book. Keep preaching the old book. Get back to the basics. Peter said it's it's meat for me. I have to do this. I need to stir you up by reminding you of what God has said and what God has done. Christians grow cold when we forget. Christians grow cold when we forget who God is, what he's done. Churches die. When they forget who they are and what God's done for them. You know why God gave us the Lord's Supper? To remind us. Remember, remember, remember. I tell you these denominations out here, and I can name them, you don't I don't have to, you know what I mean. All these denominations that once were on fire for God, preaching the gospel, winning souls. uh power of God upon them. You know why they've gotten cold and dead and dried up and have sodomites in their pulpits and messed up, rock and roll in their platforms. You know why? They've forgotten. Where they came from and what Christ did. They need to be starred up, start up, start up. Peter knew what it was to forget He knew what forgetfulness in spiritual life will do. The Lord told him the night before the Lord was crucified, he said, Peter. You're gonna deny me three times before the cop crows. How many people remember Lord telling them that? And Peter forgot that the Lord told him that. And he did exactly what the Lord said. Until the top crew, and then he remembered oh Lord told me. Lord told me I would do this. He knew what it was to forget. I'm telling Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, let's never forget what Christ has done for us. One of the reasons we named that new building the Edmund Will Building. We named it after Edmund, because I don't want us to ever forget the man that God used to establish this church. They don't ever want to forget, we want to go back before that, we don't ever want to forget the people that God used to hold this thing together through the years. We don't ever want to forget the price that Jesus Christ paid so that we can be a body of believers. Stir you up by remembrance, remembrance, remembrance. Get up in the morning. Just remember who God is. Remember to get your nose in that book and let God remind you what He's done for you. It'll make a difference. Amen. Father, I pray you'd bless now. And I ask, Lord, as we go into a new week, that you'd help us remember. Help us remember. And maybe we can make a difference in someone's life this week. Maybe somebody, Lord, that's on their way to hell tonight, we because of our witness, because we remember. They would come to Christ the next Sunday be on their way to heaven. So help us, Lord. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many people would say, Preacher, I need stirred up? I need God to stir me up. I know, I know I've gotten cool. I know my jets have cooled. I need God to stir me up spiritually. Anything like that, preacher, pray for me. My hands raised. I need it all the time I want to some say, preacher, I tend to forget. I need the Lord to remind me what He's done for me and what He has for me and what He's called me to. Any like that? Uplift the hand. I need to remember. God bless you. I think an old altar is a good place to start remembering. Good place to get stirred up. Used to be years ago, those old altars were pierced, powerful places where people got stirred up. Let's bring that back again. Father, bless our imitation I ask in Jesus' name.