Seven Psalm one hundred seven. I'm gonna start reading in verse fifteen. I'm gonna read down through twenty one. And the bulk of the time we'll be looking at verses 17 and 18. But verse 15 Oh that men would praise the Lord for his goodness, for his wonderful works to the children of men, for he hath broken the gates of brass and cut the bars of iron and sunder. Fools, because of their transgression, and because of their iniquities, are afflicted. I'm going to read that verse again. Fools, because of their transgression, and because of their iniquity are afflicted. Their soul aboureth all manner of meat. They draw near unto the gates of death. Verse 19 Then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble, and he saveth them out of their distresses. He sent his word and healed them, and delivered them from their destruction. Oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness and for his wonderful works to the children of men. Verses 17 and 18 are really where we're going to spend most of the time tonight. I will read those again and then I'll pray. Verse 17, fools because of their transgression. And because of their iniquities, are afflicted. Their soul poureth all manner of meat, they draw near unto the gates. The title of the message tonight is is is it's kind of it's kind of corny, but then again I'm the one that wrote it, so that's why it's corny, I guess. But the title of the message tonight is Stop Hitting Yourself Stop hitting yourself. Yeah, the y y you know when we were younger we used to do that to each other. I guess we can still do it when we're older too. But you know you'll take someone's arm and you'll be like Stop hitting yourself and you'll you take his arm and punch him in the face. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Say stop hitting yourself and that's how we would play around. Jamie's shaking his head, Derek shaking his head. Maybe it's a guy thing. Maybe that's what that is. I don't know. But uh tonight we're going to be looking at that stop hitting yourself. So uh let's pray. Derek, you want to open us in prayer? Amen. I like the way verse 17 is word fools because of their transgression, because of their iniquities, are afflicted. Now, um when we think of the word afflicted, what do we think about? We think about good things or bad things? Bad things. Bad things. I got uh the the definition from Webster's dictionary here. It says state of being afflicted Makes sense. State of pain or distress or grief. I don't like pain. That's you. I don't like it. I mean if I have to go through it, I'll have to. But I try to avoid pain. You know what I mean? I don't like it Uh distress. I I don't like being stressed. I don't like being in distress. I don't know of anyone that's like, oh yeah, I love distress. I mean that'd be kind of dumb, you know. So uh pain uh uh say the pain, distress, or grief. Man, I hate grief. I hate grief You know, when when your heart's just overwhelmed and you just f you're just all filled with grief because of uh maybe a tragedy or because of some some circumstances out of your control, maybe even. Uh but but we don't like grief State of pain, distress, or grief, the cause continued uh the cause of continued pain of body or mind, as in sickness, losses, calamity, adversity, or persecution. That's what affliction is. We don't like it. Everyone goes through it at one time or another. I don't like it. You don't like it. If you do like it, you're weird. Okay? We don't like affliction. Affliction is uh we w normally we think of it in in physical or emotional terms, maybe, uh some sort of pain we're going through You break an arm, you break a leg, there's physical pain, or maybe there's uh there's a cancer, or maybe there's a disease, or there's some sort of physical pain. Uh but also we think of it a lot in terms of emotional pain Um, you know, if there's something going on in the family and the family splits up, there's a lot of affliction there, there's a lot of heartache there, or maybe there's a loss in the family, and because of the loss in the family, there's a lot of grief There's a lot of affliction. No one likes it, but it's a reality. And there are many forms of affliction. And we just named some of them. I mean, uh if you accidentally maybe staple someone's leg with a nail gun or something like that, that would be an affliction, right? That wasn't targeted at anyone. But uh or or may or maybe if you you fall off a ladder or something, that would be affliction. Or maybe or or maybe um You just have someone in your family just crush you. Something they do, something they say. Maybe your friend uh does you wrong. And there's there's all kinds of affliction. Now, there is a question that has been asked throughout all of time, and that is the question of why. Why? And uh last Sunday, two Sundays ago, Sunday night, we looked at uh Job. He asked the question of why. The whole book is the question of why, and it's never really answered. And sometimes that's just going to be the way it is. You might have a struggle in school, you might have a struggle with friends, you might have something going on at home. It's not in And you there is just completely out of your control. It's just completely out of your control. Uh maybe someone in your family does something wrong to you, or maybe someone uh takes advantage of you and and you know There could be an endless number of possibilities. And it's out of your control. But sometimes it is in your control. Now, and I'm going to make this statement again probably later, and it it's I I don't want to make the statement that all suffering is because of our sin, because it's not. But all sin does bring suffering. Sometimes something will happen that's not my fault. Sometimes I'm going to go through affliction that's not my fault. Job was the perfect example of this. It was not his fault. In fact, the words that Christ used to describe, or that God used to describe Job. He's perfect. He's upright. There's nothing wrong with Job. But he's going through that intense affliction Intense suffering. And what this is what we do. We try to figure out why someone's suffering, like what's the cause of it, you know, like the disciples did. It's like, whoa, was it was it uh this man's sin or is his parents that he was born blind? You know what I'm talking about? Or uh or i i it we we always we always do that. Oh, well it could be it could why what did he do? What what was his sin that God allowed this to happen to him? Might not have been a sin. And so not all suffering is because of something that I have done. It is a result of sin. But it may be not necessarily mine. So the affliction that the Jews went through during the Holocaust was not their fault, but it all it was a result of sin. The s the sin of of of the the party that wanted to get rid of the Jews. And so there's suffering. You know, talking about innocent civilians and people and if you watch the news, people are like all these all these innocent civilians Okay. So maybe it wasn't that person's fault, but it was a result of sin that was done to the Jewish state. So there is sin, and because of sin, there is suffering, but not all suffering is because of your sin. Does this make sense? So the- but with all of that aside, the suffering I want to focus on tonight is the suffering that is my fault. Okay, that was all just I want to just kind of get that out of the way. I don't want anyone to think that I'm saying the reason for your affliction is purely because of sin. It may or may not be. But I do know this. If I sin and live a life of iniquity, I will bring affliction to myself. Not everyone that's in the hospital is there because it's their fault. But there's a lot of people that it is their fault. Does this make sense? And I don't know what the percentages are and I don't want to get into um uh uh you know that kind of thing tonight, but I do know this. Psalm 107, we just read it. Fools. Fools, because of their sin, transgression, iniquity, are afflicted. I'm not saying I can avoid all suffering in life because I can't. I live on planet Earth and I live in a sin-cursed earth and a sin-cursed body. I can't avoid all affliction. But I can avoid some. I can't avoid some. There's a lot of affliction that comes with with a life of sin. And I think we understand that. So looking at it here, there are three avoidable things that bring affliction mentioned in these verses, and then once I go through those. We're going to uh go through a few applications, but one is is this foolishness. Foolishness. Fools, because of their transgression, because of their iniquity, are afflicted There's a lot of people that suffer just because they're fools, acting foolishly. So the greatest remedy to that would be to give wisdom. This is just, I'm just thinking. If I know that foolishness is going to cause suffering in my life, wouldn't it make sense for me to gain wisdom? I think that's why it's important that we that we read Proverbs very often. Every day would be good. You know, there's a chapter that corresponds with each day of the month, and I think that's a good system. I think that's great if you read one every day. It's a book of wisdom. And if we gain wisdom, which by the way, God says He'll give liberally If we gain wisdom, we'll be less likely to be bullish. I think this is just like this is just elementary thinking. This is basic level thinking Fools are afflicted, therefore I should gain wisdom. I think this just makes sense. Proverbs 28-26 says, He who trusteth in his own heart is a fool. So, if I trust in my own heart and to do what I feel is right, push God's word aside, I'm going to be more likely to have affliction in life. Psalm 14, verse 1, the fool has said in his heart, There's no God. Fools reject God. Fools say there is no God. So anything that would be considered foolish is something I should avoid. Because wisdom is the opposite of foolishness, and foolishness brings suffering, I should seek wisdom. Wisdom is the principle of the thing, therefore get with get wisdom with all the get and get understanding. I think that's why we read our that's one reason we we we we really try to pump it into to uh the young people, but we try to pump it into everyone. We need to read our Bible every day. You need your wisdom every day. We have so many tools to help you read your Bible every day. There's something in the bulletin. We put out the calendars. Um at the beginning of the year we have the the Baptist breads. We have we have so many methods. We give the kids the glow in the dark, we give the teens the PCMs. There's a countless number of resources online. You can find Bible reading calendars. We have different different um methods, different ways to do it. The important thing is just us to do it Just just do it. If you're reading your Bible, that's better than not. You know, and so uh you know I'll I'll have someone ask me, well, how much of my Bible should I read? Well, how much are you reading now is my question And if you're not at all, just pick it up. Just do it. Grab the Gospel of John, go through it. Grab grab Proverbs, go through it. Just do it. And you'll be far better off than nothing. So wisdom is the principal thing, and if I want to avoid affliction in my life. Now let me give you some examples. There are some things that I have done that are just absolutely stupid In foolish and because of it I was in great affliction. Alright, thing one. I um I was probably eight years old, nine years old, something like that. Every day my dad would get home from work, I'd run down the driveway. We had a fairly steep driveway, I'd run down the hill, and I was in this this mode. I was having some sort of identity crisis and I thought I wanted to play soccer. But I better be careful. I'm not in youth group right now, am I? So I better be careful. But uh anyway, so I I was in this I was on this soccer kick and I was on this soccer team and and whatever. So I was wearing my cleats and I was in the backyard with Kicking the soccer ball around. Anyway, Dad got home and I decided to run down the driveway in cleats. Apparently you're not supposed to do that. Yeah, and I slipped, man. I slipped and I broke my arm. Why? Because I was being foolish. That was just dumb. But I then learned something. Don't run down the driveway and cleats Alright? So fast forward two years, you know what I did? The exact same thing. And I broke my left arm. First I broke my right arm, then I broke my left arm. Foolish. First time, alright, you're c you know second time, I knew better. Just being foolish. Broke my arm. And it was uh I don't know, it was like three or four months as in a cast. It wasn't that bad, I guess. But fast forward a little bit, I can think of some things I did that were pretty dumb. That cause suffering, cause pain, not just physical. And everyone can probably point to something in their life. That man, it's just foolish. And it caused affliction. Now, not all affliction is because of our foolishness. I know that. But all foolishness will bring affliction. Self-afflicted. Stop hitting yourself. That's where I got the title from. Stop hitting yourself. So foolishness brings affliction. Transgression. What is that? That's just to disobey. It's to break the law. When I break God's law, we'll call it sin. When I break God's law and willfully disobey That's a transgression. I know that I know that it's against the law to s to steal. I know it's against the law to do this or that. But I do it anyway. Willful disobedience, willful breaking of the law. That's a transgression. And again, I can think of some times when I was being foolish Going, you know, fifteen twenty over a speed limit, and I was afflicted. I got a bill. I got a fine. Not a bill. It was a fine. Now, is every time I've had some unexpected expense come up in my life, is that always because of sin? No, but that one was. That one was. And so affliction, not all affliction is from transgression, but all transgression brings affliction. This is just something I just thought of. He was Wounded for our transgressions. At the very least, my transgression brought affliction to Christ. It's pretty heavy. And so my iniquity, my foolishness, my transgression brought suffering and affliction to Christ. So foolishness brings affliction, transgression, but then also it says iniquity. Verse 17 again, fools because of their transgression and because of their iniquity Now, transgression and iniquity we both uh say mean sin, and that that that that that's true. They're both sin, but it wouldn't Um put both in there if they didn't have slightly different meetings. They do a little digging and the word iniquity has the idea of the word used here has the idea of being involved with it, being deep involved with it, and and not really caring about it So, you know, if you willfully break the law, you feel bad about it, but you do it, that's transgression. Iniquity is I don't see a problem with it at all. That's what I gathered from that definition. Man, if you're living that kind of life, total disregard for God and not even caring, there's gonna be problems that come in your life. There's going to be problems that come in your life. You will bring affliction. And not just to yourself, to your parents. Think that'll bring grief to your mom and dad if you're living in the in in an open kind of sin, knowing you're doing it, and not even caring to change? You think that'll hurt mom and dad? You think that'll hurt people around you, siblings? Sure. You know who else it'll hurt? Ah no, I'm talking to them for just a second. I'll be back. You know who else it'll hurt? It'll hurt your future family. You can't live a life of iniquity, a life of sin, and not even care, think it's no big deal. I'll get it figured out later. And it not affect your future spouse, your kids. It will affect you. You'll bring affliction to the family you haven't even met yet because of junk you're involved in now There's stuff you're meddling with now that you're going to get addicted to if you're not already. And then your spouse is going to have to help you beat the addiction for the next 30 years. Meanwhile, the kids suffer through it. It's not a game. Iniquity brings affliction. Now, is there affliction that's going to come in your life? It's not your fault. Yeah. Part of living on planet Earth Not all affliction is because of your iniquity, but your iniquity will bring affliction. It will. It'll mess you up. It brings suffering. And and that's the thing. We think it just affects us. It doesn't just affect us. It affects people we don't even know. So, three three avoidable things that bring affliction foolishness, transgression, iniquity You know, I had this thought. We go through enough beatings, don't we? We go through enough affliction. I mean we we go through A family member dying's hard enough. Bills are hard enough. You know? Something that's not even your fault. That's hard enough. Why would I put myself through more abuse and more torture just by being dumb? I've got enough to deal with. No why would I knowingly bring more affliction on myself? If I know the Bible's true Okay? And if I know that it says foolishness, transgression, and iniquity will bring affliction to my life, I've got enough affliction in my life. You've got enough affliction in your life. You have enough problems. Why ask for more? We have enough people hitting us, why hit ourselves? So, with all this information in mind, there's a decision that you'd have to make. I'm not ignorant to think that people aren't struggling with things in here. People struggle with addictions. People struggle with Pers uh attitudes, people struggle with substances, people struggle with what they're looking at, people struggle with all kinds of stuff. Addiction's real Sins are real. Apathy is real. Like the iniquity. I know I'm in sin, but I don't care. Knowing everything that we've just looked through, knowing the affliction this will bring, and we didn't even dive deep into it. We just looked at the basic facts. Affliction will come from this. Wouldn't it make sense to try to just not be foolish? Now we're When we compare ourselves to God, the wisdom of God is uh the foolishness of God is wiser than men and all this guy. You know, I understand that. But why would I willingly Reject God's word, reject God's warnings, not care, be apathetic. Knowing the affliction I'll bring to my family. I'm thinking again about uh just characters in the Bible that brought affliction to their family. I think about David. E uh even though he was a man after God's own heart, did he bring affliction to his family? You bet he did. Because of his iniquity. I'm thinking about Amnon And the affliction he brought to his family and to himself. He died. He got killed. I mean, we gotta think through these things. So if you decide to go down that road of I don't care. If you decide to go down the apathetic road of, I know this is wrong, I'll worry about it later. What you're saying is, I'll take the affliction. Not just for myself, but for my family. For my church and church family, for my community, however it affects, I don't know. But whatever that is that you're in, whatever that is that you're doing, you gotta stop it tonight. It's not easy. In of our own strength, we can't. Without him, we can do nothing. But we've at least got to get past that apathetic stage. And start making some progress here. Okay? We've got to at least get past that, I don't care, whatever. We have to recognize the destruction that we're going to bring. Does that make sense? So then once we recognize, okay, my actions are bringing affliction, what comes next? Look at verse number nineteen. Then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble. You've got to recognize you're in trouble before you cause a guy in trouble. And that's the part I think we struggle with sometimes. We don't want to admit that we're wrong. We don't want to admit that we have a problem. Oh I don't have a problem. Oh I don't have an addiction. Oh I'm just I'm just Whatever Now you gotta admit you have a problem. Because you can't cry out to the Lord in your trouble if you don't think you are in trouble. Okay? But I also want you to think about this. Look at verse, and I totally skipped over it, forgive me for that, but verse 18, their soul appointh all manner of meat. Now you guys know me well enough. I like meat. Right? I don't care if it's chicken, turkey, beef. Or more beef. I love it. I love it. Um I I'm very carnivorous. There is nothing like bacon and sausage for breakfast. with a cider ribeye. I love it. I I just absolutely love it. Um in fact that's all I eat and I love it. And there's nothing wrong with that. It's is is great. I love America. I love capitalism. I'm gonna go get me a stake and it's gonna be great, okay? Oh c he abhors all manner of meats? I mean that's a problem. If you can't find satisfaction in the the most high class These. I mean if someone if someone brought you there, a nice, you know, Ygu ribeye, you know what I'm talking about? I mean I mean that marbling is perfect. It's like 32 bucks a pound I don't think you'd abhor it. That'd be great. Man, uh turkeys. That's even well, that's not better. You can't know. You ca it's hard to beat that ribeye. It's hard to beat. Oh, we were we were down in Fairmont and uh they had a sale down there at their at their store. I'm always looking for For when I was a kid I and mom would say something's on sale, I'm like, I don't even know what that means, you know. They'd get all excited because there's a sale. Now I understand. I mean that's awesome. The whole filet was $6. 99 a pound. Normally that stuff's like twenty-something a pound You better believe I bought that, Jimmy. That was nice. And so I and I'm cutting them up into steaks and I was all excited because that that's the filet. That's that's the good stuff. And oh man, I love it But you know, when you're living this life of iniquity, you're living a life opposed to God and you know it, nothing tastes good. I mean it doesn't matter the the amount of money we spend on entertainment, doesn't mat matter the amount of money we spend on the nicest Waiku ribeye, doesn't matter what we do. We're miserable. We abhor all manner of meats. You know how to be careful here, but you know how to tell if you are in this category is if nothing makes you happy. Someone could say, oh well we were having that we're having a feast. It's Thanksgiving. We're having the turkey. We're having More turkey. I mean what what do you eat besides meat? I mean turkey people what do people have? Mashed potatoes I guess? Do people do that? Ham? Ham. Yeah. That's what I'll do, turkey and ham. Yeah Forgive me guys, I have fun, okay? Half of the jokes I tell are for me, so just let me laugh at them, you know? But um what was I talking about? Huh? Something? I know, I'm getting hungry now. Let's let's go eat now, alright? No, but um um let me go back to my notes how about that I've been doing this a lot lately, have you noticed? It's okay. But oh board all manner of meats. If you are if if you can't find satisfaction in and and The greatest of foods, if you can't find satisfaction and and be content with you know whatever whatever it is that God has given you, if He's given you the very best and you're not happy with it, you probably ain't right with him. There's probably something going on. You know, um one of the s I keep talking about addiction tonight. I don't know why, it's not in my notes, but one of the one of the things that goes along with addiction Is nothing will make you happy unless you get that one thing, that one fix. Whether it's a substance, whether it's an action, whether it's whatever, whatever that is. Unless you get that hit, you get that that hit of dopamine, nothing else matters. Someone can give you money, someone can give you a car, someone can give you uh whatever the the the the best uh dish, it doesn't matter. That's the only thing your brain craves, that's the only thing you want. Which means you're quite miserable. Quite miserable. And then moving on, it says, look at verse 18. They draw near unto the gates of death. The idea there is of depression. Depression. If you want to know what the affliction in your life looks like, it looks like depression. It looks like never being satisfied, always chasing something and never getting there. You ever feel like that? You ever feel like you're always just chasing somewhere and you don't even know where you're going, like you're like a hamster on a wheel and you don't even know where you're running? That's one of the symptoms of sin, of foolishness. So moving on, moving on. You'll enter depression. You'll have affliction. If you decide to go down this road of I don't care, I'm going to do what I want, then then this is what happens. Verse 19, then they cry in the Lord in their trouble. Which means trouble comes, affliction comes. See, what happened does this and I'm getting I'm jumping around, that's okay. Um God does this. Verse 20, he sent his word God will give you his word for the sake of healing. You see that? He said his word healed them, delivered them from their destruction. God gives us wisdom. He gives us his word. If we take heed to his word, we're delivered from some of the affliction. Not all affliction. I understand that. We already talked about that. But God's trying to warn us why. Because He loves us and doesn't want us to go through the affliction we're going to put ourselves through. But what we do is then we reject it. We say, nah, I don't want it. I know it's wrong. I don't care. I can do what I want. Then we go through depression. Then we go through trouble. We go through affliction. And then sometimes later on in life we finally wake up. Like the the the prodigal son. He came to himself. When was that? It's when he was in the hog pen. See, God's given us his word, so we don't have to go to the hogpin. But so many of us choose to go there anyway. Only to start back over, recognize the problem, and then then try to make things right. And that there's nothing new under the sun. We'll see this over and over through history, in our own personal lives, our own families. We'll see where people will get the warning. Not care, mess up their lives, and then come back. Wouldn't it be easier to just take the warning to start with? We don't like affliction, we don't like grief, we don't like sorrow, we don't like pain. So let's just take God's word, apply it, so we don't have to go through it. You'll experience brokenness. And then if you experience the brokenness and you cry out to God, you will experience the deliverance. Verse number 20: He sent his word and healed them and delivered them from their destruction. From their destruction. You know, I love it because even when we mess up our whole life, God still loves us. God still wants to deliver us. Now, I understand there is lasting consequence for things that we do. I understand that. But isn't it nice that he still loves us and wants to restore the relationship? That's pretty awesome. One of my favorite verses, 1 John 1:9. We confess our sins. He is faithful. And he is just. Even when we're not faithful, he is to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. I love it. I love it. So if you are in this spot where you're in this transgression, you know you've done something wrong, just make it right. Take his word tonight as a warning. Just make it right. If you're living in sin, don't care. You've gotten warnings in whatever. You don't care? Just know that you're going to bring affliction to yourself and those around you. You're gonna bring trouble, you're gonna be depressed, and nothing will satisfy. And if you're in that spot right now where you're broken, That is the perfect time to cry out to God because he wants restoration. He wants it for you So here the really the only question is, are you going to listen to his word? Are you going to listen to his word? Are you going to are you going to actually apply the wisdom that he's given? If there is no brokenness, I don't see deliverance Because verse 19, then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble, and he saved them out of their distress. If they don't fit to admit the trouble, if they don't want to admit it, they're not crying out. I don't see him coming to the rescue until after they cry out I don't see I don't see that. Now what does his deliverance look like? It's his word. You know where we're supposed to go when we mess up? To his word. Because there we'll receive the instruction that he wanted us to get in the first place. To help us avoid the mess to start with. No matter where you are in your Christian journey, go back to the Bible. It's as applicable at year fifty as it is at year one. Is it applicable or applicable? How do you say it? Applicable? We'll go with that. It's the point. Yeah. So, as I'm wrapping things, if you can close your Bible, I'm pretty much done. I told you we'd end earlier tonight. I do want to mention this one more time. Are you are is there suffering? That has nothing to do with your fault. Absolutely. Could you be going through suffering and it's not your fault at all? Absolutely. My niece was born today, about three and a half, four hours ago. She was born, that's where Miss Courtney is. She's down there with her sister in Winston-Salem. And born very early, premature, and can't breathe on her own. Is that her fault? No. No. Her name's Ella, by the way. She's adorable. She's like the size of my hand. Of course I haven't held my hand next to her, but judging off the pictures, you know what I mean? I think they said she was like five pounds or something. To me that's little. Is that little? That's little, isn't it? Five pounds. Anyway. I was born uh five weeks early, and I was the smallest in my family, and I was like nine pounds, three ounces. Serious. My my sister, which she's probably not listening since it's okay, she was like ten and a half. My other brothers were over eleven. You know, I was the runt, and you can tell. Actually, I am the runt. It is true. Ross, he's like 6'8. Mark, he's only like 6'5. He's a little bit shorter than me But I'll know I'm on this now. The point is, is there suffering that happens? It's not our fault. Yes. But you can be sure. That if you're foolish and stupid and reckless, you're just bringing on more trouble. Not everyone that has liver disease is because they're an alcoholic, but don't most alcoholics get liver disease? Same principle. Same principle. So are you suffering? It's not your fault? I still see where if you're in trouble, you can cry out to God and He wants to help you. It's never a bad time to cry out to God. Are you suffering from something that is your fault? Best thing to do is just to get it right. And he's given us his word, the blueprints, the instructions to get things right. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed thereto according to thy word. Heads bowed, eyes closed. We're going to have invitation here in just a moment. Really, uh uh I don't even know how to give an invitation here. I don't even know what questions to ask. I just this is just something that I don't know, the Lord has put this on my heart today, but I feel like we're hitting ourselves. I feel like we're beating ourselves up. I feel like we're We're our own worst enemies sometimes. We got enough afflictions in life. We got enough problems. We got I mean, just What why would we have to make our life more difficult? Why would we make our families' lives more difficult I I guess I guess the way to ask the the the the the way to do the invitation is this. If there's something that you got going on in your life that you need to get rid of, I suggest you do it If you need help, I suggest you get help. If it's something just between you and God, I suggest you get it right with God. The alternative is miserable. No one wants a life of sin. No one wants a life of affliction. No one wants a life of depression, anxiety. No one wants that. And if there's a way I can limit some of it, I'm going to do it. I hope this makes sense. But if there's something going on in your life, no one's looking around, I just want to pray for you. If you say, you know what, Pastor Matt? I got some iniquity or transgression in my life I need to get rid of because I don't want the destruction that comes with it. Could you just slip your hand up? No one's looking. I just want to pray for you. I just want to pray for you. That's all. See a couple hands. Good. Good good. Good. I'll pray for you, you pray for me. How about that? Live invitation here, if you go ahead and stand to your feet