Psalm sixty-six, great song, thank you, gentlemen. Appreciate it. Psalm sixty six. And I do know what time it is. And I don't care. I mean I do care. I do care. No. I'm just having fun with you. I want you to notice Psalm 66, verse 18. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. But verily God hath heard me. He hath attended to the voice of my prayer. Blessed be God which hath not turned away my prayer, nor his mercy from me. Let's pray. Father, we're grateful for the time we've had tonight. And Lord, here's the truth. All the planning politically won't change our country. We've got to be aware of it because we have a stewardship as citizens to be salt and light. But Lord, what our country needs above all things is revival. And revival doesn't start in the White House, that's for sure. Doesn't start in the Congress or the Senate or the Supreme Court. It doesn't start in the State House. It starts in this House. Starts in the hearts of people who know you. And Lord, I pray tonight that you would speak to us and We say we love our country, we say we love the thought of having revival, but are we willing to go beyond just words? Speak to us and help us to see it, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Our only hope is revival. And the hope of revival isn't a law that is passed, it's hearts that get right. Every great revival, though they might become national revivals or even worldwide revivals, every revival finds its beginning Not in the mass, but in the solitude of a single heart. And you and I, we're good at seeing what is wrong in our world and our country and our government. But we're not as careful to see what is in our own hearts. And I want to leave you with this tonight and this message that if we're going to see revival Then we have got to deal with our hearts. The key to revival is prayer And the key to prayer is not only having a plan to pray, but it is the condition of the heart that prays. And I think sometimes we pray from hearts that are not in the condition they need to be in for God to answer our prayer. That's what this verse says. I wish I could pretty this verse up. I wish I could find some Hebrew word that would make it not say what it says, but it says what it says. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. You say, you mean a believer could pray and the Lord not hear him? Oh, the Lord will hear And I'll explain later the Lord may not be moved to action. The surest way to a powerless prayer life is to regard iniquity in our hearts. John Bunyan, who was the author of Pilgrim's Progress, said this: prayer is a shield to the soul, a sacrifice to God, and a scourge to Satan. In a later time, he added to that statement, and he said this: prayer will make a man cease from sin, but sin will make a man cease from prayer. We need prayer. What is it to regard sin in my heart? Now listen to me Regarding sin in my heart very simply means this. I looked in my heart, I saw that there was sin And I left it lay there. Well, I can't imagine anyone ever doing that. I think we do it almost every day of our lives. I looked in my heart, I saw there was sin there, and I decided to leave it there. In a sense, the word regard means that I've accepted it. I have viewed it. I approved it, I accepted it. I've chosen to let it lay in my heart It's not that I stumbled into sin. It's not that I fell into sin. It's that I saw it. I knew it was there. And I've chosen to let it stay in my heart. Oh, we use all kinds of excuses to leave it lay in our heart After it's been there for a while, we'll even come to the place where we say, well, you know, that's just who I am. And I say to you, if there's sin in your heart, stop being that. God gave you the Holy Spirit to stop being that. We'll say things like, well, you know, everybody else has their deal, I got my deal. Stop it. Well, say things like, well, you know, I know I shouldn't do that, but you know, the Lord gets me. Oh, he gets you. And I am suggesting to you that we at times regard iniquity, we accept it into our hearts, and we say it's just who I am. It's just how I am. It's how my dad was. That's how my mom was. Hey, it's how I was raised. Hey, you know, it's just in there, and there's nothing I can do about it. Stop it. Our deceitful hearts will convince us that godly living is consistent with approving the sin that we know is in our hearts. Now don't misunderstand me. There is never a day where I do not sin. And I'm I'm don't worry, I make that confession knowing I'm talking to a bunch of you too that do the same thing. I'm not saying there are days where we live perfectly without sin. That's not true. And every day I have to, in the morning, I have to be attentive. When I'm reading, I have a time of confession in my prayer time. But I'm going to be honest with you, by evening and and all through the day I try to if I know that I've just done something I shouldn't do, I try to stop and ask God, forgive me, Lord, help me In the evening I have a contemplative, a meditative time, and before I pillow my head, I try to review my day and say, Lord, will you forgive me? I'm not saying That's what I'm talking about. God knows we're dust. God knows we're sinners. God knows we fail. God knows that when we come and confess it to him He will forgive our sin. He will restore the fellowship. I'm not talking about being a sinner. I'm talking about having a pet sin. I'm talking about having one in there that we just let lay. When I got saved, I don't think I was the most wicked man on earth, but I had some really bad habits. And those really bad habits began to fall off pretty quick. You know, I smoked and I quit smoking and I would drink some and I quit drinking and and man after I got saved I lost about 60% of my vocabulary because I was a cursor. And I stopped those things. And I'm not saying that to puff myself up. I'm just saying that's the easy stuff. And now after I've been saved for so many years, I'm dealing with the hard stuff. I'm dealing with the stuff that defines who Mike Edwards is. I'm dealing with the stuff that I've been for a lifetime I'm dealing with the stuff that just hangs on to me, that was trained into me, that became part of me. And God is not satisfied with me being me In the sinful way, he wants me constantly working on getting those things out of my life. And when we come to the place in our lives where we say, well, yeah, no, yeah, I know I've got a bad temper. But it's who I am. Stop it. It may be who you are. It is not who God saved you to be And whether we like to admit it or not, those things that we pet and hang on to in our life I wish I could pretty it up. I wish I could make it all okay. But I'm just telling you, when God calls it sin and you leave it in your life and accept it as who you are, God says, I don't hear you. You really believe that, preacher? I really do, because that's what God says. If I accept sin in my heart And just say, it's okay, it's who I am. God says, what? Somebody talking? I didn't hear him. I want you to see something else. My sin that I regard in my heart is not somebody else's fault Notice a couple words with me in verse 18. If I regard iniquity in my heart. The Lord will not hear me. I, my, me. In our generation it seems that nothing is our fault. We can do something because everyone else does something, accepting and approving sin in our personal lives. Somebody made me do it. When I was growing up, there was a comedian called Flip Wilson, and he used to say, the devil made me do it And I think sometimes we live our lives like that, just accepting, regarding sin. Well, you know, it's not really my fault. But I want you to understand that it is your fault. You're the one holding on to that sin. You're the one that's refusing to change who you are or give God The ability to change who you are. And the insidious nature of that accepted sin is ruining your prayer life. David in his life could have blamed a million different things than himself. He could have said, well, you know, I was just a little boy. I didn't understand what I was getting into when Samuel came and anointed me. And man, Saul treated me so bad. Preacher, if you knew my background, there was a guy that chased me all the time and treated me unfairly and treated me poorly. I know I don't do everything right today, but man, if you'd a had Saul, well you yeah. Stop it Well, preacher, you you just don't understand that Joab, man, he did a lot of stuff that affected me and I didn't know he did it, and he killed Abner, and he did this, that. It's not really my fault But instead, here's what he prayed. Search me, O God, and know my heart Try me and know my thoughts and see if there be any wicked way in me and lead me in the way everlasting. David said, I don't need you to examine Saul. I know he treated me bad. I don't need you to look into Joab. I don't need you to look into the others. Would you just please examine my heart Because Lord, I want you to hear me when I pray. And God, I'm tired of holding on to these things. I'm tired of looking like everything is okay in my outward life when I know in my own heart and my family knows and others know that there is that stinking rotten sin That is corrupting everything I see and think and do, and God is not hearing me. No wonder we don't have great prayer lives if we already know that God is not listening. What's the motivation to pray? David says, Look at me. Examine me. Try me And Lord, if you find something that is wrong there, God expose it to me. You already know it's there, but expose it to me so that I can get it right in my life. I'll tell you, when we pray for our families, I want to know God's hearing me, don't you? When I pray for my church, I want to know God's hearing me. When we pray for our nation, I want to know God is hearing me. And a lot of us claim to be doing it, but is God hearing what we say? You say, preacher, what are you talking about? I'm saying there's people in this room tonight that have held a grudge for 25 years. And they think they're justified in holding that grudge and being bitter against that person And they think that was just something that was done to them, and they're allowed to hold on to that. And listen, again, I wish I could pretty it up. I wish I could tell you that your bitterness doesn't separate you and ruin your prayer life, but I'm just telling you that's not what the scripture says. And when you hold on to that grudge and that bitterness and you bow your head and you want to beg God to do something in your son's life or your spouse's wife or something in your church life or something in your nation, God would be would be okaying your sin if he answered your prayer Folks in this room that have great jealousy problems, problems with envy Their whole life is colored by what somebody else has, what somebody else gets to do. There's young people in here that are rebellious towards their parents. They don't honor their parents in the way that they should. There are wives in here that lack submission There are husbands in here that don't love their wives like Christ loved the church. There are men in here. I've never lived in a more angry generation. And and there are men in here that lose their temper in the presence of their wife or in the presence of their children frightening them. They use words when they're in that in that moment that they would never use and shouldn't use. And after it's all over, they say, ah, you know, hey, sorry, that's just a bad moment. Ah, that's just who I am. Stop it! You're not allowed to be like that. It's not okay. And when you start accepting it And excusing it and justifying it because of what happened to you, or because of it's just who you are. Listen, my Bible says God doesn't hear you. Say, well, preacher, what do I do? You confess it and you forsake it. And you plead with the Holy Spirit of God to help you leave it behind in your life. There are men in here that burn with lust. Well, they go through the motions of being at church. They might even teach their Sunday school class. Why they might even carry the right Bible and they might even tithe. But they know in their hearts they burn with lust. And they've just accepted it. Well, it's the world's fault. Look how women dress. Look at what's on the post. Look at this. Look, it's it's it's not my fault. It is It is. I'm telling you, we gotta deal with that We can't have we can't from hearts that are not pure and right. Oh listen, I know we sin. I'm not talking about Sinning, we get that right. I'm talking about sinning, knowing it's there, accepting it, justifying it, and letting it lay. God says, I don't have to hear you And maybe revival is not breaking out in our churches, in our homes, in our nation. Maybe revival isn't breaking out because Christians have gotten off praying ground. There's women in here that gossip. There's men in here that gossip. We're ready to hear every negative fact. We're ready to hear every evil report. And we always couch it in well. I'm only going to tell you this so you pray for them. If you're gossiping, you're already off praying ground We've got to deal with it, folks. If we're serious about revival, we've got to deal with it. We've got men in here that don't tithe. Perhaps. I shouldn't say I know, I don't know. Tything's Bible, man. Well, I can't. Yes, you can. We've got men in here and women in here that have no love for the lost. I'm just saying, folks We've allowed things into our life that we've accepted as who we are and what we're going to do, and then we think that God has to bend to us and be what we want Him to be when we're not interested in being what He wants us to be. We live with prejudices, with bad attitudes. Say, preacher, what do you think? We can be sinlessly perfect not one single day. But I am telling you, we've got a struggle with the sin that is in our life Let me take you back and I'll be all I'll be done. When I got saved, man, I I smoked. And that was the I'll just be honest with you, it's one of the hardest things I ever quit in my life. I got called to preach and went in to see my preacher, telling him I thought I was called to preach with a pack of cigarettes in my pocket. And he said, I think we've got to deal with some stuff. I would throw them out and drive a block down the street and buy another pack My wife hated it and she'd love me, but she hated that habit. She'd say, man, you need to quit. What can I do to help you quit? And I tried to quit and tried to quit and tried to quit and tried to quit. Until finally I I just it's just who I was. And I know you don't know it, but I still smoke today. Aren't you hoping that ain't true? Because it ain't true. You wouldn't let me stand here and preach to you But you'd let me stand here and preach if I had prejudice so rotten that I hated people. You'd let people that have grudges that go back 40 years teach Sunday school class You let men that burn with lust come in here and sing in the choir. I'm not saying you are, don't hear me wrong. I'm just saying God doesn't have to put up with that. And God doesn't have to bless that. God loves us. He knows we're dust. He'll help us. But like David, we've got to say, God, man, if it's there, I don't want to just let it lay there. I want to deal with it. And just like old Edwards throwing pack after pack after pack out the window, even though he went down and bought a pack and threw it out and bought a pack and threw it out and bumped cigarettes off others and then felt good because he didn't buy a pack. But I said I'm not quitting quitting. You heard what I said? I'm not quitting quitting And then one day God's grace took it away. Have you approved of a sin in your life? Have you accepted it into your life? I'm telling you, it's time to let the bitterness go. It is time to deal with the anger. It is time to deal with the lust. It is time to deal with the gossip. It's time to deal with With the way that your temper scares your family. It's time to love your wife like Christ loved the church. I'm just telling you, we have got to deal with the sin that is us. And we've regarded it, and we've approved it, and we've justified it, and we said it's not my fault, it's somebody else's fault, and it's in there, and it's just going to be it. God doesn't have to approve it. And if you and I ever want to be on revival ground, it won't just be because we get a plan to pray. It will be because we pray from hearts that are in the right condition to be heard of the Lord. Not a perfect heart. It's a heart that will not regard iniquity. Now let me finish out. Notice the last two verses The psalmist was in that condition. He said, God's not hearing me. My prayers aren't getting answered, but verily God hath heard me. He hath attended to the voice of my prayer. Blessed be God which hath not turned away my prayer, nor his mercy from me. God is so ready to give mercy. He's got plenteous mercy. He is merciful. His mercy endures forever. His mercy is new every morning in the amount we need if we seek it. And God will take that old confessed sinner. Hear every word he says and answer that prayer. But that old, prideful, hard heart that says, I'm hanging on to it I don't hear ya. What are you holding? What needs to be done? It doesn't have to be some wicked thing. I I sometimes regret saying lust because everybody will think, well I'm not going down there. People think that. People think I don't tithe. People think no, people will think, wow, whatever it is. It's more important to be right with God than to think about what somebody else might think. If I regard iniquity in my heart God will not hear me. But he's got mercy. If I will come to him and confess that and ask him to help me forsake that He'll hear every prayer I pray. Father, help us to see it. And Lord, I pray that as we allow your Holy Spirit to examine us, we will have no pride in this matter. We will simply want your blessing, your help. Preaching's been done. Lord, we know if we need to do something, would you speak to us and help us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Would you stand to your feet?