Ecclesiastes chapter seven. I really appreciate the um biography on the missionary to the Muslims. And um I was not familiar with this fellow, but I tell you what, my heart was stirred by faithfulness By faithfulness, twelve converts. We should never, ever, ever determine the success of something by the numbers it produces. Now we talked about it. We're all after numbers. We want to get crowds, we want to go after as many people as we can But that never determines whether we're successful or not. That is simply a motivation for us, a goal to shoot at. God gets the glory for all that. And I would venture to say He's had a whole lot more say than those twelve that recorded through his infant influence and indirectly. And so I thank God for that testimony of faithfulness, just staying at it. And I thought when I was down in New Zealand twice now, this past time and the previous time I was down, I met uh two missionaries, Filipino missionaries. out of the Philippines going out that were into the Middle East reaching Muslims and both of them had to flee the countries for their lives at a number of converts. I was talking to a young man, I think it was in Sydney. and uh or actually an older man, probably about my age, sho young man, and um but uh he had been in the Middle East, I think in Yemen or one of those countries and had reached a significant number of Muslims with the gospel And so what a challenge. Ecclesiastes chapter 7. Just want to look at one verse. So if you remember, the first six chapters of Ecclesiastes, Paul uh Solomon is giving uh testimony Or he's relating how he was trying to find meaning and purpose under the sun. He was living a life. He had gotten to the point where he was living his life with God was excluded from him completely. And he was simply living for that which is under the sun. And he gave account. He had worked hard. He had gotten tremendous wealth. He had lived in wicked, wicked sin. And uh he had sought to have worldly wisdom, and all of that left them empty, uh, with vanity of vanity, it said, vanity of vanity, always vanity, vexation of spirit. Now we get to chapter 7, and really through the end of the chapter, I believe what he's doing is he's relating some of the things he learned. when he was living his life under the sun. Now he's still giving it from that world's perspective, but he has some significant things to say and he has some some some tremendous truths to give us and some profound warnings. And we get to verse number 26. He mentions something here, and we're going to stop and look at this a little bit. Notice in chapter 7, verse 26, he says this. And I find, now after all he's been through He says, I find more bitter than death the woman. I just want to stop there and say things. Lord help me. I find more bitter than death a woman whose heart is snares and nets, and her hands is bands. Whoso pleaseth God shall escape from her, but the sinner shall be taken by her. Now I joke around a little bit, but what he's talking about here is very, very serious. And what I believe he is referencing here is a is the strange woman, the Bible's term, strange woman. So we're going to take a look at this a little bit. And you'll be amazed. The Bible talks a lot more about this subject and what you might think. And so let's pray, ask the Lord to help us and see what we can learn from this. Father in heaven. We uh thank you for the Word of God. Lord, there's some tremendous promises in here. And Lord, some great truths about your love for us, your care, and what is in store in glory for us and in the millennium and all these wonderful things. But Lord, you've also given us some very sober warnings, and we want to take these seriously. And so I ask that you would speak to our hearts tonight. Lord, I've been praying all afternoon that you would just take me And that you'd fill me with your spirit and speak through me and really challenge us. Lord, we live in such a wicked day and such a perverse, sensualized day. And we really need these truths here tonight. So I ask that you would please fill me with your spirit as I present my body anew to you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. It's surprising how foolish a wise man can become. And how foolish a wise man can be. Solomon, in all his wisdom, Yet he behaved so foolishly, it is surprising how weak a strong man can be. I enjoy boxing as you know, I try to uh don't get to watch it a whole lot, but uh if I get a chance I like to watch boxing. I think it's a terrible sport, it's violent, it ought to be illegal, should not be involved in, but until they outlaw it I'm gonna watch every fight I can see. Because I love it. But I thought of some of these boxers that are tremendous, very disciplined in in their physical development and their skills. And and it there is tremendous skill involved in that sport and uh tremendous uh of course physical development is necessary. And I thought of a fella, you'll recognize the name no doubt, Mike Tyson. And if you would follow him early days in his boxing, that guy was an absolute boxing machine. That guy was powerful, and I think the majority of his knockouts were in the first several seconds of the fight. He just go over and knock the guy out. He's a very strong man, but he was very weak. He's very weak. He destroyed himself. He could not control his lusts. He could not control his mouth. He acted so foolishly. It's surprising how weak a strong man can be. And how foolish a wise man can be. I put this down. It's surprising how small a great man can be. I think of great men, and I'm thinking right now of a particular preacher who was a tremendous man, had tremendous opportunity, and um, but yet he behaves so small So petty, and he destroyed his life and ministry completely. Solomon was a very wise man that acted so foolishly He was such a strong man in so many ways as a leader. I think Solomon was a tremendous leader, but he was so weak. And he was such a great man. God, Jesus referenced Solomon and his greatness. Yet he was so small in some ways. Solomon made some very, very foolish decisions, and he acknowledges that If you would notice in verse 26 here, the first few words he makes, and there's tremendous truth, I think, a lesson to be learned in the first few words of this verse. He says, and I find. I looked at that word find and how it's used in different things, and it has this idea. The word finder has this idea, to discover by experience. To learn, we might put it this way, to discover something or learn something firsthand In other words, I didn't just hear this from somebody. What I'm about to say, what I'm about to share with you, I learned firsthand. I have found by personal experience this to be true. How many people agree with me, if somebody says something by personal experience, they say, I know this to be true by personal experience, that carries more weight than what they're saying. Sure. And that's what Solomon is saying here. He's saying, listen, I'm telling you by first-hand experience what I'm about to tell you is true. There's two ways to learn something. One way to learn something is by hearing or seeing it or observing it from others. Right? We do a lot of learning that way. At least we should, if we're smart, we're going to learn from others The other way of learning is learning it by my own experience, by going through it myself. Now I don't know about you, but I would rather learn from someone else's, someone else making that mistake than me having to make that mistake and learn the consequences. You follow what I'm saying? Solomon's saying, I made these decisions, I made some foolish decisions, I took some foolish actions And this is what I learned. This is the consequences. This is what I found to be true personally. Now, I don't know about you. But I would rather look and learn from Solomon making that than making that same decisions myself and learning personally. You know where I'm going with that? You see what everybody follow what I'm saying? And my admonition to the young people is this, don't be so stupid to ignore what others have been through it already, what they're trying to tell you. Now I need you to amen me or something here on this. And it just grieves my heart sometimes to see young people just disregarding what folks who have been around for a while and folks that have made some dumb decisions and made some smart decisions And we know what the consequences are, and we felt the sting of sin, and we felt the blessings of obedience And we try and portray that and teach that and pass that on to the next generation. And the next generation says, no, I just want to learn this myself. How foolish is that? And so as I read what Solomon is saying here, I think, I don't want to say I find. I want to say I've learned this from him. I learned this from him. I don't want to have to experience that. So it's a pretty significant statement when he starts out here. And he says, now I find more bitter than death the woman. And when he uses that term, the woman, he's talking about not a particular woman. He doesn't have one, you know, uh what's a name, what's a woman's name of somebody that's not here? Is there any berthas here? So he's not talking about a particular woman. I'm not talking about Bertha. I think I'm safe on that. He's saying, I'm talking about a woman with particular characteristics. He's referring to a woman that has certain characteristics that are true of that. And as I studied this, this is the woman he's talking about. He is talking about the woman who is described in other portions of Scripture as the strange woman. And I believe you could put in the margin of your Bible and put down there the strange woman. I find more bitter than death the woman. And then he goes on and describes the characteristics. And he is describing the characteristics of what the Bible refers to as a strange woman. Now If anybody knew something about strange women, it was Solomon. Take your Bible, if you would, turn to 1 Kings. And when you come back and we want to look at his record, how we know that he knows what he's talking about. 1 Kings chapter 11. I'll give you a chance to find it there. 1 Kings 11 And I want to begin reading in the first verse of the chapter, and we're going to read about seven, eight verses here. 1 Kings chapter 11. If anybody's going to uh talk about strange women and know what they're talking about, it's King Solomon. He knows what he's talking about. He has found this to be true firsthand. He's experienced it And again, it behooves us to be wise and say, I want to learn from somebody else's mistakes and not make those same mistakes myself. Look at verse 1, 1 Kings chapter 11. But King Solomon, look at this, loved many what? Here it is. He knows what he's talking about. Together with the daughter of Pharaoh, woman of the Moabites, the Ammonites, the Edomites, the Zidonians, the Hittites Of the nations concerning, look at this, of the nations concerning which the Lord said unto the children of Israel, ye shall not go in unto them Neither shall they come in unto you. For surely they will turn your heart after their gods. Look at this. Solomon did what? Clave unto them in love. And he had 700 wives, princesses, and 300 concubines. And that would be like girlfriends, living girlfriends. And his wives, look at this, his wives turned away his heart. For it came to pass when Solomon was old, all right, that's Ecclesiastes. When Solomon was old, that his wives turned away his heart after other gods, and his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God, as was the heart of David his father. For Solomon went after Astareth, the goddess of the Zidonians, and after Milcom, the abomination of the of the Ammonites And Solomon did evil in the sight of the Lord and went not fully after the Lord as did David his father. Then Solomon built him high a high place, and high place for Chemosh, the abomination of Moab And the hill in the hill that is before Jerusalem, and for Molech, the abomination of the children of Ammon, and likewise did he for all his strange wives, which burn incense and sacrifices sacrificed unto their gods. So when Paul, when Solomon says in Ecclesiastes 7 and verse 26, he says, I find this to be true. I have experienced the sting of this. I've experienced the consequences of this behavior. He knows what he's talking about. And we have a very clear record of his downfall here This, these decisions he made here were the downfall that led to his dismal view of life, really. Says he claved to them in love. We live in a day and age where they want to tell us you we should not limit our love. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You hear it if you're paying attention to what's going on in society. You can't limit love. What do they mean by that? Mmm. That's the just yeah, anything goes. It's the justification for sodomy. And when the world says you can't limit love, what they're really saying is don't limit your lust. And my Bible says that we ought to very much limit our lusts, our desires. Our love is to be controlled by the love of God and the Word of God. We are told to hate evil and love that which is good And so Solomon just barreled over the perimeters that God had established for love and interaction and intimacy. And he destroyed his testimony. His unwillingness to restrain his desire for forbidden pleasures, and he made foolish decisions. So he knew what he was talking about. Now I want to come back here and this idea of these women, when he says here again He says, I find more bitter than death the woman whose heart is snares and nets. Her hands are and her hands as bands. Whoso pleaseth God shall escape from her, but the sinner shall be taken by her, this strange woman, all through Proverbs. You find Solomon warning his son. Now, Proverbs is a fascinating book. I try to read a chapter every day, and I very seldom do I miss. I try to read chapter correspond every day. And over and over, and he makes this statement, a little two-word statement, particularly early on in the book. He says it repeatedly, my son, my son, my son, my son. The book of Proverbs is a divine advice given by a very wise father at the time to his son. And it's interesting in the book of Proverbs, he's warning his son repeatedly of a number of things, and I've kind of boiled it down to three. Now he touches all areas of life. It's a tremendous book. He touches all areas of life. But he boils down his advice and he warns his son in particular three things that I see. Number one, he warns his son about sinful associations. You'll see him refer to wicked men, wicked men, wicked men. So sinful associations, he also warns his son about strong wine. And he talks quite a bit about liquor and about strong wine and drinking. So sinful associations, strong wine. But the majority of his warning to his son If you want to categorize it as as I see it, as I studied it out, the majority of his warnings to his son, he warns about strong wines, sinful associations, but the majority is strange women. Strange women. I'll tell you two things that destroy a lot of young men, strong wine and strange women. I destroyed a lot of young men. A lot of young men. And so he gives these warnings and he comes down through here. There are seven, in the book of Proverbs, there are seven direct references. I mean by using that term, strange women, strange woman, seven times directly passages. And there are many, many others that refer to this type of woman repeatedly. Now, I hope you understand. I feel kind of now maybe I ought to say this, but I hope the woman understands. We're certainly not picking on women tonight Alright? Or certainly not. I thank God for women. My mother was a woman. I married a woman. I mean people are glad for that. So uh so I I want to say I love women, but I don't mean it that way. I mean I But the Bible does caution, and there are certain types of men we need to watch out for. Alright, so But the Bible talks about this strange woman. So I want to look at three things. We're not going to get to them all tonight. But I want to look at, first of all, the distinctions of the strange woman. What is she like? What is this woman like And then I want to look at the dangers of the strange woman, what happens, and then our defense against a strange woman. So obviously it'd be referring to a lot of the men, but I think it applies to all of us. So number one, the distinctions of a strange woman. Turn with me if you would and we'll get as far as we can tonight. Proverbs chapter number two. We're going to spend this whole study is going to be in Proverbs. Proverbs chapter 2. And I want to begin reading in verse 10. I'm going to read down through verse 19. Proverbs chapter two. Now before we read this, let me give you my definition of a strange woman. I tried I looked at different ones and different definitions I come across and I kind of put them together and try to come with my own in my own understanding what God is referring to here When the Bible refers to a strange woman, first of all, he's not referring to a woman that's odd or that's weird Okay. Hey, I just got the victory right there, all right? Praise the Lord. It's not talking about an odd or a weird woman at all, like that. The word strange actually is translated other places in Scripture as foreign, a foreigner. Now, as we look at the context, we know he's not talking to just about a foreign woman. There are many godly, you read through the book of uh read through the Bible, Israel, there were many godly foreign women that came in And that we're honored of God in great ways. So we can't take it in the literal definition of the word. That's not what he's referring to. So we have to look at the context. And so this is the This is the definition I came up with. A strange woman would be one who interacts with men in ways outside of the will of God. A strange woman would be a woman that interacts with men in ways outside the will of God. And it is not, and some of the definitions, commentaries I looked up and different things, they were suggesting, well, it's a harlot. But as I study it, it's not limited to simply a harlot. It's any woman that interacts with men in ways outside the will of God. Now look at Proverbs chapter 2 and verse number 10. Again, this is under inspiration, Solomon writing to his his son, advice. When wisdom enter into it thine heart, And knowledge is pleasant unto thy words, discretion shall preserve thee, and understanding shall keep thee. Now look at this, to deliver thee from the way of the evil man. From the man that speaketh forward things. So here's that wicked association he's warning. And the way the evil man speaks perverse things. The word forward there means perverse. Who lead the paths of uprightness, to walk in the ways of darkness, who rejoice to do evil, and delight in the forwardness of the wicked, whose ways are crooked, and they forward in their paths. So, by the way, our associations are important. And he's telling them, listen, be careful who you hang with. Be careful who you allow to influence you. Then he says, second of all, he says, discretion will preserve you, understanding will keep you, deliver you from the evil man, but also, verse 16, to deliver thee from the strange woman. Here it is. Even from the stranger which flattereth with her lips, which forsaketh the guide of her youth, and forgetteth the covenant of her God. For her house inclineth unto death, and her paths unto the dead. So What are the characteristics? What are the distinctions of a strange woman? I put this down, number one, she's manipulative She's manipulative. She knows how to manipulate a man. Look with me, if you would, at verse 16. To deliver thee from the strange woman, even from the stranger, which what? Flattereth with her lips. Flattereth with her lips. What does it mean to flatter somebody? Now think this through a little bit. Here's this strange woman. She wants to flatter, she's flattering this man with her lips. What does it mean to flatter somebody? Talk to me, what? Butter 'em up. Butter 'em up. Alright, that's the way to put it. What? Flirt, alright, that would be a part of it. All right, compliment. That's what I anticipated, and that was my first thought. If you're flattering someone, you're complimenting them. But I want to suggest to you, flattering is not complimenting Complimenting is a positive thing. Complimenting is saying this is something about you that I appreciate This is something about you that is positive. This is something about you that is helpful, that encourages me and helps me be a better person. That's what complimenting somebody is Flattering, on the other hand, let me give you my definition the way I put it down. To praise someone for the purpose of manipulation. Flattering is at its root a very selfish act. It is not to lift up the other, it is not to encourage the other, it is not to uh encourage the other. It is when I flatter, when I am flattering someone, as it's mentioned here, I am trying to manipulate that person for my own gain. I am saying these things not to build them up, but to be able to accomplish something, use them to accomplish something. Now, not all used salesmen are this way. But a some used salesmen or used car salesmen or things like that, some salesmen are very good at flattering. And their goal isn't to praise you or exalt you or compliment you. They want to get the money out of your wallet into their wallet. Right? Oh, you obviously have a great ta you have a great taste in suits. I mean I can see that right now. You have a phenomenal taste in suits. Let me show you what we have. He didn't think you have a great taste in suits. He's buttering you up Right? And so this one of the characteristics of a strange woman is she will manipulate. She's very manipulative. And she knows how to use words, and she knows what to say to get that guy into her grips. Turn with me, if you would, over to chapter number five of Proverbs. Verse three, chapter five, and verse three. For the lips Of a strange woman, drop as what? Honeycomb. And her mouth is smoother than oil. Wow. She knows just what to say. And we'll get to chapter 7, and here's a young simple man. And she, with her words, she manipulates him. But uh she her lips are drop as honeycomb. Her words, uh let me get here, let me look at again, verse three. Uh but uh for the lips are so drop as a honeycomb, and her mouth is smoother than oil. She can make sin seems so desirable. Oh, I know it's sin, it's wrong. But man, she can say the right words and she can say it in the right way. And it's like honeycomb. And uh it is smoother than oil. Um come with me if you would to chapter 7. And this whole chapter 7, just about the whole chapter, is addressing the strange woman, verse 5. He says that they That they may he says the first part, keep my words, keep my commandments, bind them on your fingers, uh, write them on the table your heart, say the wisdom, Thou art my sister, call in uh understanding thy kinswoman. Why? That they may keep thee from the strange woman. Look at this, the stranger which flattereth with her words Come over if you would uh to chapter 22. Well actually well hold on, let's just stay here. Um uh come down here and verse number 10. Let's let's go in verse six. For at the window of my house I look through my casement. I beheld among the simple ones I discerned among the youths a young man void of understanding. This is Solomon writing to his son Passing through the street near her corner, the strange woman's corner, and he went away to her house in the twilight, in the evening, in the black and dark night, and there, behold, there met him a woman with the attire of a harlot, and subtle of heart. She's loud and stubborn, her feet abide not in her house. Now is she without, now in the streets, and lieth in wait at every corner. She caught him and kissed him, and with an impudent face said unto him, I have peace offerings. Look at her words. I have peace offerings with me. This day have I paid my vows. Therefore I came forth to meet thee diligently and to seek thy face, and I have found thee. Flattery, I've been looking for you. You're just the one I've been looking for. You're exactly what I want. I decked my beds with coverings of tapestry and carved works with fine linen of Egypt. Apparently she was wealthy. I have perfumed my bed with myrrh and aloees and cinnamon. Come Let us take our fill of love until the morning. Let us solace ourselves with loves, dropping us honeycomb, smoother than oil. For the goodman is not at home. He has gone a long journey. He had taken a bag of money with him and will come home at the day appointed. Now there's verse 21. Look what this is what I was getting at. With her much fair speech, she caused him to yield. What did she use to cause him to yield? Her speech, her words. With the flattering of her lips, she forced him. Now I got looking at that. I wonder if that young man wasn't resisting Catch that? With her much fair speech, she caused him to yield. Sounds to me like he's saying, no, no, no. It sounds like to me he's resisting, resisting. But boy, she could use that flattery. She could use those words, and she caused them to yield with the flattering of her lips. She forced him. She's very, very manipulative. Come over to chapter 22. I got another verse here Wait a minute, let's stop at chapter 9. I'm telling you, it's all through here And I wouldn't spend as much time on this if the Bible didn't spend so much time on it. Look at verse 13 of chapter 9. A foolish woman is clamorous. She is simple and knoweth nothing. For she sitteth at the door of her house, on a seat in the high places of the city. Look at this. To call passengers who go on their way. Whoso is simple, let them turn in hither. As for him that won her standing, she saith to him, stolen waters are sweet. You could write in the Margin Bible that stolen waters is a reference to adultery. Chapter 5, verse 15. Stolen waters are sweet. Bread eaten in secret is pleasant. Honeycomb, smoother than oil. But he knoweth not that the word that the dead knoweth not that the dead are there, and they guess are in the depths of veil. Now come to chapter twenty-two And uh verse number fourteen The mouth of a strange woman, here it is, is a deep pit. He that abhors of the Lord shall fall therein. So a strange woman is manipulative. Manipulative. Somebody said this, if stolen waters weren't sweet, nobody would steal them. Right? And she knows that. She knows there's a lot of pleasure in this. There's a lot of sweetness in this. There's a lot of enjoyment in this. And she uses that with her words to entice them and draw them in. The only woman I find in the Bible, now take this to heat to heart, and maybe the young ladies who would be important for the young ladies, the only woman I find in the Bible chasing men is a strange woman. The strange woman. I don't find anywhere in the Bible a godly woman chasing after men. It's only the strange woman. She pursues them. She's aggressive. So she's manipulative. Let me give you two others here as quick as I can. Number two, she's mutinous. She's mutinous, the strange woman Uh what does it mean if somebody commits mutiny? If they're out in the boat and they commit mutiny, what are they doing? They're going against the rules, but they're what? It's a mutiny. Abandoning, it's more than abandoning. They're rebelling against authority. They're taking over the captain. He's no longer going to have an authority. We don't respect that authority. We're not going to follow his authority. We're mutiny, we're taking over. Come with me back to chapter two again, if you would. And look with me at verse seventeen It says again, this woman, she forsaketh the guide of her youth. To forsake there means to abandon, to walk away from. And I found this definition I thought applied to this, to get out from under the authority of. In other words, mom and dad ain't telling me what to do. She's abandoning, she's forsaking the guide of her youth, the authority, the natural authority, the God-given authority that parents had over her. She forsakes that She gets out from underneath it. And then she says, She forgetteth the covenant of her God. Now that word forget there doesn't mean a oh yeah. Oh, by the way, back up. What would the covenant of her God be? What would that be referring to? She forgetteth the covenant of her God. What covenant does a man and woman take? Marriage vows. It's a reference to the marriage vows there. And it doesn't say, it's not saying, oh, I forgot I was married. It's not that. Nobody forgets they're married. Right? The word forget it there means this, to deliberately abandon. To deliberately ignore her marriage vows. And so a strange woman is characterized by a disregard for legitimate authorities, the authority of her parents. and the authority of that covenant, that marriage vow. That marriage vow. Let me give you, and we won't have time for this one. Let me just give you the next one. She's a manipulative, she's mutinous, and she's immoral. And we'll go to Proverbs chapter 7. And again, a whole chapter here on this subject. She's immoral in her dress. Verse 10. And behold, there met a woman, there met him a woman with the attire of a harlot. Notice it doesn't say she is a harlot. It says she has the what? The attire of a harlot. She's dressed like one. Now my question is, how does a harlot dress? Hmm? How does the hard does how we dress matter? Does how we dress communicate anything? Sure. They saw this woman on the street corner and they says, oh, she's a harlot. How do they know by the way she was dressed? She wasn't a harlot, but she was dressed like one Man, I'm telling you, we live in a day and age where dressing like a harlot is considered dressing up. Now, if you'll bear with me a little bit, I do funerals a lot. And I see people come and they sincerely want to dress right. And they sincerely, not dress right, they sincerely want to dress up. I want to dress up, this respectful thing. And I'm finding this world has convinced an entire generation that dressing up, dressing fancy means dressing like a harlot. And I see more female skin at funerals than you see than you used to see years ago in nightclubs And I'm telling you, if we're not careful, it's creeping into our churches. Listen, we Christians ought to have some standards concerning dress. What is right and what is wrong. And it's true for men also. But particularly for women, it is so vital. And so she's immoral in her dress. What does it mean she's dressed like a heart? She's sensuously dressed. It's to draw attention to her figure, to draw attention to her body. She's immoral in her deceit. Look at verse 10. And subtle of heart. She is very skilled at lying. She is very skilled at seduction. I mean, she can lie without batting an eye She's subtle of heart. She's immoral in her demeanor. Look at verse 11. She's loud and stubborn. Her feet abide not in the house. She's outspoken. Now is she without, now in the streets, and lieth in wait at every corner. So she's uh uh she's outspoken, she's aggressive And she's immoral in her demeanor. I'm just going to stop here. I read this in one of the different books I was using to study this. A preacher made this statement. He said, don't get caught up in the greener grass myth. All that you need and all that can give you joy is on your side of the fence. You get what I'm saying? Don't get caught up on that greener grass. Oh, if only. Solomon is maybe saying this. This is what I've found to be true. Can I tell you what I find to be true? Fantasy never lives up to reality. And we think, oh, if only this, oh, if only that, if only I was on the other side of the fence, if only I was outside of my pasture. And I had this and I could enjoy this. Don't get caught on that. Everything that we have to have joy and rejoicing is on our side of the fence. And the strange woman tries to get the man over the fence. Over the fence. And she'll use all this manipulation. It's not a pleasant subject. As I studied this, I saw how much the Bible, how much of the Bible addresses this subject. I thought this is something important that we need to address And so let's be careful. Those of us that are married, let's be very, very careful. Our eyes, our affections, guard our hearts, keep it with all diligence. Those that are not married, learn from others. Be wise. Find a godly woman. My advice to a young man would be: I would never marry a woman that chases men. I would never marry a young lady that's chasing boys everywhere. I tell you what happens when they get married, it doesn't stop. Part of the makeup, part of the thing. And same thing, girls, a young man that that wants that type of thing, you better stay away from him because he'll want it after he's married also. And so learn from others. I hope this made sense. I don't know. It's not a real pleasant subject, but it's Bible. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us in our homes, our marriages, our hearts, our minds. Our televisions and computers, our books, all these areas that are drawing us away outside of your will for us, I pray you guard us and help us to be wise. Help us to learn from Solomon and Lord that we can give you the glory and we can end our life and stand before you and hear you say, well done. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, you know, I just want to give some attention to this and be very, very careful? Maybe some young people say, preacher, pray for me. I want to marry the right one. I want to be careful about this. Maybe husbands say, I want to be careful. Ladies say, I want to be careful. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. Or give an invitation. Maybe the invitation isn't just to pray for ourselves, but maybe we ought to pray for our young people. God will guard them and protect them, bless and use Professor Brett. He teaches them and helps them and counsels them. And see stop this process of homes breaking down and adultery, fornication. Maybe God can turn this thing around and send revival. Father, please bless us and help us on this difficult subject. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.