So um Leviticus chapter ten. We already read the first seven verses. I do want to read the first couple here again. And uh Leviticus is one of those books, when you hear the preacher say, turn to Leviticus, you go, hmm, that's going to be interesting. And uh it's it's kind of fun though. And can I encourage you, don't don't just overlook the first few books of the Bible. There's some really good stuff in there. some really good stuff. God put it there for us to read it, so I think we should. And we're going to look at Leviticus chapter 10 this morning, verse number one. Says And Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, took either of them his censer and put fire therein, and put incense thereon, and offered strange fire before the Lord. Which he commanded them not. And there went out fire from the Lord and devoured them, and they died. before the Lord. Um I'm gonna pray and then and then I'm we're gonna look at this at this thought this morning of strange fire. Let's pray and in the message this morning. Heavenly Father, we thank you again for all you've done for us, Lord, and you've been so good to us. And I pray now, Lord, that you would uh just completely take over the service, Lord. Fill me with your Spirit Lord, if there is anything that I'm about to say that goes against your word, I pray that you would keep me from saying it. And likewise, Lord, if there is something that needs to be said that I don't have written down here in my notes, please bring it to my mind, Lord, the best way I know how I'm just giving myself to you. I pray, Lord, that all of us would have hearts, our hearts open and receptive to what it is you have for us this morning. Lord, and it's in Jesus' name. Amen. So here we see in verse one these guys, Nadab and Abaihu. They're the sons of Aaron. Aaron, of course, was the brother of Moses. So these were his nephews. uh Moses's nephews. And we see here something they have they have done, something they have done wrong. They took either of them, it says, his censer, put fire therein, put incense thereon, and offered strange fire before the Lord Which he commanded them not. And um there went out fire from the Lord and devoured them. Um a lot of times people will look at that verse too and think, Whoa, that is a pretty s stiff punishment for making a mistake, making you know just messing up. Well, I'm gonna tell you that it was not a mistake. It was not an accident. was done on purpose. Someone purposely did something God told them not to do. Bear with me for here for a few seconds. We're going to look at a little bit of background here, and then we'll jump into the message from there. But again, like I said, the Old Testament has some pretty awesome stuff in it. Um Genesis of course tells us how we got here. Tells us about the flood and how that changed the earth and everything. And then the the birth of the Hebrew nation and everything that went went on there Um in the book of Exodus uh we is where we get the the law, the Old Testament law. Um specifically we get the Ten Commandments from uh chapter twenty of Exodus. Uh but the law was given in great detail, which by the way, God cares about details. And we're going to see that quite a bit this morning. But in the book of Exodus, law is given in great detail, and uh again the Ten Commandments were summed up there in uh um Exodus chapter 20. Basically, Exodus is what I want you to do and how I want you to do it, and what I don't want you to do is what God is saying. And I think that's important to know what God wants us to do and what God doesn't want us to do. I think that's very important. One reason I think a lot of people make a lot of mistakes is because they don't read the Bible and therefore they don't know what God wants them to do, so they do the wrong thing because they didn't know it because they didn't read the Bible Um then we get to the book of Leviticus. Exodus was instructions on the law and and and what to do and what not to do. Leviticus is instructions on worship, instructions specifically on sacrifices. The first five chapters of the book of Leviticus deal with uh the five various uh uh sacrifices or offerings. Chapter one Chapter 2 was the meat offering. Chapter 3 was the peace offering or sacrifice. Chapter 4 was the sin offering. Chapters five and six talk about the trespass offering and everything that was entailed there. And um I will not go uh into great detail on each on each one this morning. But the point is, is God had specific uh uh instructions for how the sacrifices were to be done, specific instructions for the worship. Chapter six through nine talk about how these different sacrifices or different offerings were supposed to be performed, the details of them there. And with that in mind, I do want to make that a very strong point this morning, is God does care about the specifics. God does care about the details. I'm really trying to make this bottle of water last through the service. It might, it might not, but I have more, so it's okay. But um got God cares very much about the specific instructions. And by the way, I think it is best to follow God's instructions. God has specific instructions here in the book of Leviticus for how sacrifices are supposed to be performed, how worship was supposed to be conducted. But equally so that it's not just an Old Testament thing. God has specifics and instructions on how we are to live our lives today. God has specific instructions on marriage, on how to work, on how to on how to handle your finances, on how to raise children, on how to go to church, and how to conduct ourselves while we're at church and how to conduct ourselves out in the workplace and whatnot. But God cares very much about the specifics and about the details, and I think it is best that we just follow God's instructions. when we run into problems is when we don't follow the instructions. But anyway, so once we get uh through the first nine chapters there of Leviticus, we're brought to verse 23 of Leviticus chapter Verse 23 of Leviticus chapter 9. This is after all the instruction had been given on the various sacrifices, how they were supposed to be performed, how instructions of worship, if you will And then once all the instructions were given, and um Moses Aaron prepared the sacrifice there, in verse 23, and Moses and Aaron went into the tabernacle of the congregation and came out, blessed the people, and the glory of the Lord appeared unto all the people. Verse twenty four, and there came a fire out of he uh uh out from heaven before the Lord and consumed upon the altar the burnt offering and the fat which the um when the people all When all the people saw, they shouted and fell on their faces. They were happy. God put his mark of approval on them on what they did because they followed his instructions. They did things the correct way So then God sent down the fire from heaven. There was an approval, and the people rejoiced because God had approved of what they had done. Does that make sense to everyone so far? We good? Okay. So um anyway here in verses 23 and 24, God sends the fire down. And the people were happy. And again, this is just another by the way. I think the happiest people are the people who does what God says. That that we've talked about that a little bit in Sunday school this morning. We were in Proverbs chapter 24 and it's just w we live a better life if we just do what God says. I'm not saying we have more money, we have more things or more popular or anything like that But we're happier. We're happier when we do what God says. We have joy about us that no one else can really put their hands on. Um it's because that joy uh comes from Christ So when we follow God's instructions, when we do things the way God says, then God approves of it because we've done things correctly, then we're happy because we have God's approval. Make sense so far? Now uh just as a kid, which was so long ago for me. I was waiting to see who would laugh. So um th thirty is that it's like am I a kid? Am I a kid at thirty? How many of you say yes? Thank you so much. I appreciate that. Anyway, now I lost my train of thought. I do that all the time. Ask the teenagers all the time downstairs. I lose my train of thought. So When I do what God says and He and then He puts His approval on it, He's happy with me, just like when I was a kid, and um if I did what mom and Dad said, they would say we're proud of you, you did a good job, and then I would feel good, I'd feel happy because I did what they said. Makes sense. So we get here now to chapter ten in verse one. And these guys, Nadab and Abihu, sons of Aaron, they don't do what God says. And I read through several different commentaries and everyone has their own opinion of of where the fire came from that they offered and how they performed it and how it what made it strange. The point is, at the end of the verse Which he commanded them not. Whatever it was they did, however it was they did it, it was clearly put that they did what God said don't do Clearly put that God said, don't do this, this is not how I command you to do it. They did it. Okay. Um that's bad. That's bad when we do something that God says don't do. And this is this is interesting. He says, took either of them his censor in verse 1. Only one priest was supposed to offer incense at a time. That's just a side note there. But anyway, they did what they were not supposed to do. And then in verse 2, there comes a fire from the Lord again, but this time it's not because he approved. It's because he disapproved. See, see in verse in verse 24, just just just a couple verses earlier of chapter 9, verse 24, there was a fire that came down from the Lord. That was the fire of approval. This was the fire of disapproval. And the outcome obviously is totally different. One brought happiness and joy in the people shouting, the other one brought death. So that's a very serious thing. Now there would be those that say that is a very harsh uh punishment. First off, you're not God, if you have that opinion. God God has the authority to do what he wants. He's God. But let's think about this. Go to chapter 6. God actually gave very, very, very, very specific instructions on how this how the worship was supposed to be conducted. How this was supposed to be done. Verse number eight. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the law of the burnt offering. It is the burnt offering because of the burning upon the altar all night until the morning, and fire of the altar shall be burning in it. And the priest shall put on his linen garment, his linen breeches shall he put upon his uh his flesh, and take up the ashes, which the fire hath consumed. with the burnt off offering on the altar, and he shall put them beside the altar, and he shall put off his garments and put on other garments, and carry forth the ashes without the camp, unto a clean place. And the fire upon the altar shall be burning in it, it shall not be put out. And the priest shall burn wood on it every morning. And so every morning they're supposed to put wood back on and take the ashes out. I think we all know that's how to keep a fire going, right? Put wood on. Don't let the ashes smother it. Okay. Every morning and lay burnt offering in order upon it, and he shall burn thereon the fat of the pieces of offerings. The fire shall ever be burning upon the altar, it shall never go out. Very specific instructions on what was going on here. They knew these instructions. It hadn't been that long ago that they had gotten the instructions And they did something they weren't supposed to do. They ignored the instructions. They let the fire go out. Maybe they didn't take the ashes up. Maybe they just whatever it was. They offered strange fire before the Lord that did not come from him. Okay. Let me find my spot here. Offering strange fire didn't just happen, right? They did this on purpose. And again, those that say this is a very harsh thing, oh, they just made an accident, it wasn't on purpose. No, no, no. They knew what they were doing. Verse 1 of chapter 10, they took either of them his censor, put fire therein. These are like this is on purpose. Put incense thereon and offered it. This this this this was not, oh they messed up, so God killed them No, this was on purpose. I am willfully, completely, knowledgeably. Is that a word? Knowledgeably? Is that a word? Cool. On purpose, going against what God said. I think it's kind of similar to Cain. Remember Cain and Abel? God accepted the one sacrifice, the other he did not. He did not Cain's sacrifice was not acceptable. Like Nadab and Abaihu, that was not acceptable. Right? So Without getting too far ahead of myself here, it just the fact that we're worshiping God isn't isn't enough. It has to be something that He accepts. It has to be something he recognizes. But they they took their sensors, put their fire, everything was on purpose, willfully went against God. Now this is interesting. The word strange here It says they offered strange fire before the Lord. This is the the definition if you look in Webster's dictionary. Odd Foreign, not belonging, out of place. Now, this is the same word that is used in Proverbs when it talks about the strange woman. The act of a woman committing adultery, something that is not belonging, something that is out of place Not where it belongs, not from the correct source. We follow you follow me? So The Bible, I think, though, is its own best dictionary, and the definition of strange is given here in verse 1, which he commanded them not. If you're doing something that God commands not, if you're trying to please him in a way that he says not to, or if you're offering up worship in a way he says no, that's not from him, that's strange. It's not acceptable. So, a few points this morning with this story in mind, with this thought in mind. First thing is this, it doesn't just matter that you worship, it also matters how you worship. It doesn't just matter that you worship. It also matters how you worship. Now I don't mean to pick on anyone by any means. That's not my goal. But you'll hear people say it doesn't matter where you go to church just so long as you go. That's not completely true. In fact, it's not true at all. Okay, it doesn't matter what songs you sing, just as long as your heart's right and you want to please the Lord. Well, it does matter It doesn't matter, you know, what what you do, what you don't do. It's just as long as you have the right motives. Well, it does matter. God has given very, very specific instructions on how he is to be worshipped God gave specific instructions here in the book of Leviticus on how he was to be worshipped, how the sacrifices were supposed to be conducted, how the offerings were supposed to be conducted, uh why they were supposed to be, when they were supposed to be, by whom, and how Very, very clear instructions in the first nine chapters of the book of Leviticus. But God's instructions did not stop with the ninth chapter of Leviticus. We have a whole lot more Bible after that with instructions for us. Instructions for how we are to live, how we are to conduct ourselves. God gave very specific instructions for how he's to be worshipped today. Communion. Very specific instructions on how that worship is to be conducted. He says this do, that's that's a command, this do in remembrance of me. Very specific instructions. You'll find all kinds of instructions in the New Testament as far as um as far as uh requirements for various offices, uh who they can be, who they can't be. Um How to con uh various ways of how to conduct services, instructions on tithes, instructions on offerings and givings, instructions on prayer. You know, Jesus gave instructions on prayer, right? You know, pray in this manner, our Father which art in heaven. That wasn't the Lord's prayer. That was his him teaching us how to pray. Okay. So he gave very, very specific instructions. And and Paul, uh take his word for it here In 1 Timothy 3, verses 14 and 15, he says, These things write I unto thee, that thou mayest know how thou ought to behave thyself in the house of God. We have very specific instructions. My goal is not necessarily to preach on any single one of those today, but just to make the point It's not just important that we worship. It's not just important that we serve God, but it's how is very important And we're going to get into a little bit more detail on that here in just a second. Now, does God want a good heart? Yes, absolutely. Please don't misunderstand me. God wants us to have the correct motives. We have to have the correct motives, you know? God wants us to do that. God wants us to have the correct heart. But you you can't use that as an excuse to do things your own way. And that's what Nadab and Nabaihu learned. That's what Cain learned. That's that's um that's what they learned. So John 4. 24. Can you go there please real quick? You might recognize that passage. I don't want to preach on any specific one instruction that we're given on how to worship God. But I think John 4. 24 sums it up pretty good. Let me turn there myself. Once you see it, you'll recognize it. Good thing we're not racing. John 4. This is the story of when Jesus is talking to the Samaritan woman there at the well. Actually, look at look at verse number Twenty two twenty-one. Jesus said unto her, Woman, believe me that the hour cometh uh when ye shall neither in this mountain, nor yet at Jerusalem worship the Father. You worship you know not what. You know what we worship, for salvation is of the Jews. But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father seeketh such to worship him. What does God seek to worship him? Those that worship him in spirit and truth. Verse 24 God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. There is a lot of instructions given on how we are to worship God. I think that sums it up pretty good. God is a spirit, they that worship him must worship him in spirit. And in truth. Not spirit in something that's false. Not in the flesh in something that's true. Spirit and truth. Spirit and truth. John four twenty-four there. And now the um any worship That comes from us, whether it be spirit and something false, or flesh and truth, or or or maybe they're both wrong. Then that's strange fire. That's not the fire that came from God that we were supposed to keep burning, that we were supposed to keep fueling. That that that's not from God. We came up with that on our own. You ever hear someone make the comment, well I know this, but I feel like I feel like God doesn't care what songs we sing just as long as the you know that they're good as long as there's good words. I feel like it doesn't matter how I live my life, God will accept me That's just not true. Now any that comes to him he will know wise cast out. But that's not the point I want to make this morning. The point I want to make is it does matter How we worship God. If it's not correctly, then it's strange. Is everyone with me so far? Okay. So it is possible for me to worship God, but incorrectly, and in which case he does not recognize it. Now, it may look like the same stuff. It may look like the same stuff. So you might have fire that comes from God and fire that they brought. It's both fire, right? It looks like fire. It's hot. It burns. Don't touch it But it's not the same thing. It's not coming from the same source. And a lot of people think, oh, well, you know, if this looks the same, feels the same. But if it's not according to his instructions, then it's not correct. It's not correct. Um let me keep let me move on here. Another point I really want to make, well before I go further, let me just make this point. And I I don't want to go too far into detail. I think we understand this. There are certain types of music that are designed The whole point of the design is to get the flesh excited. We know that. There is no way I can worship God with that kind of music, even if the lyrics are truth. It's not possible. That's strange fire. Let's keep going. I feel better now, by the way. Uh verse uh verse number Well, hang on one second, I'll get there in just a moment. But number three, the third thing I want to point out, God cares about the details. We've already mentioned this, but let me explain a little further. Again, there is a group of people that may say that God doesn't really care about the details. He only looks at the big picture, but that's not true. We see God pays attention to details. He pays attention to the little things. And someone may say that God only cares about our motives and not our actions, but that is not true. It does matter what our motives are It does also uh uh matter not that just that we do things, but that we do them correctly. God cared about details in the Old Testament and He cares about details today. You ever read um uh the instructions on how to build the ark that he gave? To know what very detailed, very detailed. Uh I think God cared about how that boat was built. Very detailed Um, if he would have just said, Build the boat any old way you want, do you think uh he really would have built it the way it needed to be built? No, they never they had never seen anything like what was coming. But God knew what was coming, so he gave him the instructions to build. Very detailed there. There is a lot of detail in the law. Let's read through Exodus. It's very, very detailed. We think oftentimes just about the Ten Commandments, but read though there is so much detail in that book. There's detail in the prophets and the seers. There's detail in the crucifixion. Have you ever read Luke's account of the crucifixion? Very detailed. Very, very detailed. There is detail in the Gospels, detail in the uh uh uh epistles. So if God cares about details from Genesis all the way to Revelation, why would we think he doesn't care about the little details in our life? He does. He does. Oh, well, that's just not a big deal. Yes, it is. God cares about the details in our life. God cares about the little details in our marriage, in our work. In our relationships at home, in our finances, God cares about the details. In our own heart, in our own motives, the things that we think no one else knows about, God cares about that thing. He is paying attention to it. He is aware of it. God does pay attention to the details. Next thing I want to point out, we're moving along here. My feelings don't change God's rules for worship. My feelings don't change that. If I feel like that's okay, I've heard people say this. I feel like that was a harsh punishment from God. It doesn't matter what I feel. It doesn't matter what I feel. What matters is what God's instructions are I think and again to be completely honest with you I still kinda struggle with this sometimes. Remember when they were bringing the ark back on the cart and it started r uh uh it started um getting uh shrooking around and it fell off and that poor guy reached up to try to catch it and he died? Was it what is it? Uzzah? Is that his name? God said don't touch it. Again, now he had the correct motive, but he broke the rules. And yes, uh some sometimes I look at stuff and I say, man, I don't I don't get it. It doesn't matter if I get it or not. Do what God says My feelings don't change God's rules. And you could apply that to any area of life. Any rule that God has in here, and there's there's several. My feelings don't change it. My feelings don't change it. And there might be something going on in your life right now. You know what God says. You know what the Bible says. Well, I just don't feel like. I know what God says, but I feel don't let your feelings make your decision because that will mess you up. It messed up Nadab in the Bayou, messed up Cain. Our feelings don't change God's rules. Couple more observations about this. I think this might be a um a little practical here. It's it's possible to have fire and it not be from God. Now it's the wrong stuff, right? Did Nadab and Nabai have fire? Did they have fire in their senses and they took it? Yes. Was it from God? God had already sent the fire, correct? Verse 24. The fire they were using was not from God, but they had fire. Now, let me make an application here. It is possible to have fire and it come from the wrong source. It is possible to stir up our own Flames, kindle our own flames, throw our own incense on there, give our own flare. But God's not in it It's possible for me to get up here on a Sunday morning and pull the buses up, drive a bus on my own fire. You follow me? It's possible for me to work up in my own flesh, my own way, my own method, my Sunday school lesson You follow me? It's possible and everyone else will see fire. It's possible to sing my heart out in my own fire, in my own flesh. It's possible to preach, teach, whatever, serve the Lord, pass out tracts, and that's all good stuff. But it's possible for me to do that in my own strength, my own fire, my own flesh. God's not going to accept it. Now, is it possible for me in my own flesh to give the gospel to someone and then they hear the gospel and get saved? Yeah, God will do that in spite of what I've done. The the reference has slipped my mind, I should have wrote it down. Um where they're say w in the Old Testament where he's saying you've done you that that they've done all those things for him, but he said I knew it not. Does anyone know what I'm talking about? It's possible for me to do something Christian in my own strength, my own fire. I was talking with my wife about this a couple days ago. I wonder how many times I've done that. Have you ever read the Bible and the conviction just hits you right in the face? You know what I'm talking about? How many times have I ran a youth activity or drove a bus or something with my own strength? I didn't even pray over it. You know what I mean? Does God accept that? That's strange fire. Let me give you a little hint here. If you have fire, but it did not come from God, then it's strange. If there's fire, but God didn't give it to you, it came from somewhere else. Whether it be someone else or your own self. Anyway, um it's possible to have that fire. Now with that in mind, go to Romans chapter eight, verse eight. If I operate in my own fire, in my own flesh. Let's see what happens. Romans eight Verse eight See that's just Old Testament, Pastor Matt. No, Romans is in the New Testament, and I'm gonna read this in Pretty much says the same thing. Romans 8 verse 8 says, So then they that are in the flesh cannot please God. When I operate in the flesh, I cannot please God. That's what it says I can have fire but it not please God. You follow me? So Another observation here to make. I've got just a few points left. I'll be done here shortly, but just hang with me for just a few more minutes If there's fire and it's not from God, then it's strange fire. How can you tell if it's strange and I already talked about that? Did God put it there or not? But but but but work with me here for just a second. Why did they offer Strange Fire to begin with? Why was there a need? Why was there a need for them to to to get Strange Fire? Because the other fire went out. The fire that God sent was gone. God sent the fire in verse 24. It was there. But then he gave specific instructions on how to keep it in chapter 6. Go back there to chapter 6. Verse number Ten. And the priest shall put on his linen garment, his linen breeches shall he put on upon his flesh, and take up the ashes which the fire hath consumed with the burnt offering in the altar, and he shall put them beside the altar, then he should put on his garments and put on other garments, and carry forth the ashes without the camp unto a clean place. And and and the fire upon the altar shall be burning in it, it shall not be put out And the priest err uh and the priest shall burn wood on it every morning and lay burnt uh and lay the burnt offering in order upon it, and he shall burn there on the fat and the peace offerings The fire shall be ever burning upon the altar. It shall never go out. Specific instructions were given here. God supplied the original fire. I've supplied the fire, God said. Now you keep it going. How do you keep the fire going? You've got to get the ashes out, and you've got to keep putting the wood on. If you quit putting the wood on, will the fire go out? If you don't take the ashes out, will the fire go out? It'll smother it So now you don't have a fire. You'll have to come up with something on your own, because you let the fire that God gave you go out. So now I've got to come up with something. And a lot of times I think we even though our intentions may be good, we're still disobeying God. We're still not offering them the fire that he required. We're still not uh uh uh uh uh performing the worship the way he said because the original fire had gone out. The original fire had gone out. Can I just again just work with me here for just a second W when we put wood on the fire keeps going, right? If I keep reading my Bible, the fire will keep going. If I keep coming to church, if I keep going, if I maintain Christian relationships here in church, if I maintain that godly counsel from my pastor If I keep feeding the fire, it will keep going. But if I neglect all that, if I never put any wood on The fire will go out. And then I'll wonder, well, I gotta get fire from somewhere. So this looks spiritual. We'll try this. Or that sounds like good Christian advice. Let me try that. That's not what God instructed. So let me just ask you here for a second Think back in your mind to a time when when the f when God sent the fire down. Okay, not like literally when you're, you know, but but think about this There might be someone, you you remember that one message, maybe it was when you were younger, maybe older, whatever, but you remember that one message when God spoke to you. called you in ministry, maybe it was when you trusted him as your Savior or or you made some decision for God. You remember that. You remember that service where the Holy Spirit was speaking to you. You can't explain it, but you know he was he was doing something in your life, doing something in your heart. You remember that. You made a decision. I'm gonna read my Bible every day. I'm gonna never miss a service again. I'm I I I've surrendered to this mission field. I re- you remember that But then you quit putting the wood on. You didn't get the ashes out of your life, all that sin that you need to remove every day. How do you remove that? By confessing it to God. God, I've done this. Please forgive me. Let me get the ashes out of this fire. Put the wood back on. Get it burning nice and hot again. And you let that die And you remember there used to be a fire, but it's gone So now we gotta work something up. It'd be a whole lot easier if we just kept the wood on the fire. You're starting to feel like the fire is going out in your life. You're starting to lose interest maybe or maybe things aren't quite as important to you as they used to be. The Bible's not important to you as it used to be. I remember when I was a Kid, I was in church every service and I went to all all the the track month road trips. We went soul winning. But you know, that was when I was a kid. And put that wood back on Put that fuel back on the fire. Don't let that go out. Could be there's some sins that have been piling up, some ashes piling up in your life, smothering. That fire that God put in you. Get rid of those. Clean them out. So strange i strange fire is offered, I believe, when God's fire goes out. Whether it's put out, whether it's left unattended, if the ashes aren't removed, whatever. Proverbs 26:20 says, Where there where no wood is, the fire goeth out. It's so simple, but kind of profound at the same time. There will be no need for strange fire if you keep feeding the fire that God gave you You know why it's important to not just read your Bible like while you're in church while pastor's preaching? Is because you need it every day, right? The wood was supposed to go on the fire every day. Joshua 1 8, um Thou shalt meditate therein. Or how's it go? This book of law shall not depart out my mouth, thou shalt meditate therein day and night Day and night, continually. You gotta keep that fire burning. Gotta keep gotta keep God's word in your life. Now, this is uh the last point I want to make We've already made the point that if there is fire and it's not from God, it's strange fire. If we do something other than the way God Gave us the instructions to do it, if I'm saying that right. If if we do something contrary to what God says, he does not accept it, it's strange. It's not legitimate. If someone Wants to get to heaven some other way. If there is another salvation, then it's strange. There is only one way. Sirs, what must I do to be saved? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. And if we come up with another way, if we try to offer up our incense and offer up our strange fire, hoping that God will accept it. He will not. He will not. His way is actually very, very simple. I think we try to overcomplicate it. We like to use the Romans Road in our in our soul winning class, and now most of the tracks that we have that uses the Romans Road. It's pretty simple. Romans 3. 23, all have sinned. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Romans 6. 23, the wages of sin is death. See, because I've sinned, I deserve to both die physically and spiritually. The second death is whosoever is cast in the lake of fire, Revelation talks about that. That's the second death. But Romans 5. 8 says, But God commendeth his love toward me, towards us. Towards me, towards you, towards us. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. In Romans 10:13, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. If I understand these things, I'm a sinner, I deserve hell. Christ died for my sins, I'll trust in him. Shall we say? If I try to offer up any other kind of salvation, God will not accept it. Whether it be through the catechisms, whether it be through baptism, whether it be through Um good works, good deeds, uh through prayer much prayer or whatever, God will not accept it So if you're here this morning and you've been trying to get to heaven another way You were counting on being good enough to get to heaven. You're not. Strange fire, God won't accept it. You're counting on another religion or a church even. To save you, to get you to heaven. And you're offering that up to God, He'll say no. That strange fire. I gave instructions on how to get to me. I gave instructions on how to be saved. And that is the only way. So if you're here this morning and you you you don't know for sure you're saved, there is only one way you can be. And if you say, Pastor Matt, I know this. I know I'm saved. I remember when I got saved, I trusted Christ. I believed in him. I trusted in him. Good. What's your worship look like? What's your service to him look like? What's that Sunday school class look like? That the bus route look like? Is that your own fire? Is that strange fire? Or are you following his instructions? Does this make sense to everyone? Do we see the difference? Heads bowed, eyes closed, no one look around for just a few moments, a few questions to ask. Question number one, how many of you would say, you know what, Pastor Matt, I I don't know for sure that I'm saved and going to heaven. I I don't know that I have put my trust in Christ, but I I'd like to. I'm concerned about where I'm going to spend eternity. Would you pray for me, Pastor Matt? If that's you, could you just slip your hand up? No one's looking around. I'm not going to call you out, not going to bring you up here or make you give a speech or anything like that. I just want to pray for you. Pastor Matt, I'm not sure that I'm going to heaven when I die and I'm concerned about it. Could you raise your hand? Alright, yeah, I see it. Thank you. Next question is this. Say, Pastor Matt, I know for sure I'm saved. I remember when I trusted Christ as my Savior. I know I know I'm going to heaven. But I've got some strange fire in my life that God does not accept. Could be in your marriage, could be at work, it could be It could be in the way you're you're trying to worship God. I don't know. But you say this Pastor Matt, God is pointed at something specific. Could you raise your hand? My hand's up. Amen. Thanks. Last question is this. How many of you say, you know what? I've got some ashes in my life I need to get rid of. Because it's smothering the fire. Pray for me, Pastor Mather. Get rid of those ashes. Would you raise your hand? Again, my hand's up. Maybe put your hands down. Thanks. You can stand to your feet. However the Lord is dealing with your heart, still no one looking around or anything like that, but um as as as she starts playing the altar is