First Peter, we're back in First Peter. We're working our way through the book of First Peter. We're in chapter two. And I want to read just two verses tonight. I hope you have your Bibles with you And uh once you follow along, I'm going to read verse 11 and 12. 1 Peter chapter 2, verse number 11 and 12. Give everybody a chance to find it there and uh get settled in And um uh let's uh uh you follow along as I read. Verse 11, 1 Peter chapter 2. Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims Abstain from fleshly lusts, which war against the soul, having your conversation honest among the Gentiles. Now listen to this: that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, They may, by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation I've entitled the message tonight. I get it from verse 11, the first part, Strangers and Pilgrims. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to bless our message tonight. Father in heaven, we thank you for a good day. And uh Lord, just the beautiful weather. We sure do miss our church folk, Lord, and uh we look forward. We can get back next week and and uh see uh one another in flesh and blood. But until then, Lord, we want to be faithful. And we ask you, Lord, to keep working in our lives and keep pressing forward. And we know that you are active in our world and our in our church, in our home. And so help us, Lord, to be sensitive to your leadership in our lives. And I pray now as we try to preach on this passage That your Holy Spirit would fill me, Lord, and speak through me as I present my body anew and yield my will and pray that you be the preacher and give us open hearts and minds. And as I said, Lord, I pray you would help every one of us, myself included. to be sensitive to your Holy Spirit addressing our spiritual condition and then making adjustments, Lord, and prompting us, Father, is what I ask to Step forward in our faith and grow in our faith and become stronger Christians. So again, fill me, I ask Lord with all my heart. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Quite a few years ago, it's been a little while now, we got a uh card uh in the mail from a lady, not a member of our church. She lives in town here, and I knew her husband a little bit And uh but she wrote a sent a little card, and in the card was some money. That's always a blessing. We like those kind of cards. But um the card was thanking us For our radio station, she apparently had listened in quite a bit, and I guess still does, I trust. And um She uh was was just writing to thank us for the radio station and she made a few statements about what it meant to her and as I said she included a financial donation and of course we applied that to the radio expenses And uh but she made this statement in her card, she made this statement that caught my attention, and uh it's uh I've never forgotten it She said this. She says, your station, 88. 7 FM, Fundamental Broadcast Network, she said your station is distinctively Christian. Distinctively Christian. She said, when I listen, when I tune into 887 and I listen to the FBN programming, there is no doubt that I am listening to Christian programming. Now, I don't know about you, but that stirs my heart. And that is exactly what we want our Christian radio to be, and that's what we want our church to be distinctively Christian And you say, of course you're a church, you'd be distinctively Christian. I tell you, I know some churches uh they aren't distinctively Christian. And uh some are more like nightclubs than uh churches, I think. But nevertheless, uh She may use that phrase, distinctively Christian. Peter here in our text is writing to believers. uh fairly new believers, we understand, who are have been uh severely persecuted. They've been driven from their homes Uh some have uh the some of these are family members of people who paid the uh with their lives for their faith in Christ. They're being persecuted They're being driven out, they're being uh uh uh treated badly because of their faith in Christ. And Peter's writing to these persecuted believers And I believe in this section here, beginning in verse eleven as we go down through the rest of the book, he's uh challenging them to be distinctively Christians, to do not allow the persecutions and the trials, the adversities of life, the difficulties that we face in life, do not allow those to uh to wear away at our Christianity, be distinctively Christian. Now I have about four or five observations here I want to share from this passage. I want to get right into our text And the first thing I notice is Peter is writing to these believers, again, persecuted, they're out of their homes, they're just living out the best they can, fleeing from persecution. And the first thing I notice is his compassion that he has for these believers. Look at verse 11 with me here. He says, the very first two words, he says, dearly beloved. Dearly beloved, now that is a term of endearment. Peter loved These Christians. He loved these believers. That phrase, dearly beloved, he uses it twice in 1 Peter. You get over to 2 Peter, he actually uses that phrase six times in 2 Peter And so uh he's referring, in fact the phrase dearly beloved comes from one Greek word, as I understand it, uh, and that is this, and a word familiar maybe if you've uh been around Bible preaching much You're familiar with that term, agape. This is a love that is a God-like love. This is a love that finds its source in God, in unconditional unending uh uh love. And so he's writing to them, and uh he uses that phrase, I believe, dearly beloved. Because he wants them to understand, in the midst of their persecution, in the midst of the mistreatment, in the midst of uh the trials they're going through, he wants them to remember that God loves them still God hasn't abandoned them. He hasn't stopped loving them. And he's using this term in reference to himself. Also, he wants to know that he loves them. uh very dearly. Uh they were precious to the Lord and they were precious to Peter. And uh you know I got thinking about that. We could sure use a little more compassion in our world today uh in our society, uh uh a little compassion. Uh uh we could use a little more compassion in our churches today, uh just caring about others, loving people. Uh we could use more compassion in our homes. And just loving and and uh unconditional love for other people. That's the that's what uh Peter is expressing here. He he has great compassion for them You know, people who are hurting, people who are hurting ought to be shown compassion People who are struggling ought to be shown compassion. People who are slave enslaved to sin. Too often, I think, uh, we uh uh though we we want to understand that the sin is sin and we need to speak against it. It needs to be condemned, sin does But we need to show compassion to the sinner. And Peter's writing to these folks, and they are hurting, and they're struggling, no doubt, under the heavy hand of uh violence and abuse and and persecution. And he wants them to know that they are loved. He wants them to know that he cares for them and loves them and of course the Lord does also. So the first thing I notice in this passage here is his compassion for these believers. The second thing I notice, again in verse number 11, is his concern for them. Notice he says, Dearly beloved, I beseech you. Now that word beseech is a strong word. He's not just asking them. He's not just saying, hey, I'm asking you to do this. He says, I beseech you. I got looking that up. It's used various places in the New Testament. And it simply means this, a passionate plea. He feels very, very strongly about what he is about to say to them. He has uh what he's about to say to these believers in the next few statements In Peter's mind is very, very important. And so he says, Dearly beloved, listen, I love you guys. I care about you. God loves you dearly. You're going through all of this. Now listen to what I have to say. I'm about to say something to you that is very, very important. That we need to be passionate about. That's the idea behind that word beseech to To plead with somebody passionately. I tell you, living the Christian life is not just going through a routine. I'm afraid sometimes Our Christian life is just something we go through a lot of times. And it's grandpa went to church and he did this and he did this, Christian that, and Christian this, and then daddy did and now I do and and it just ends up just seeing being some routine. I want to suggest to you the Christian life should be more than just the lifestyle. Now it should be a lifestyle But I think it should be something more than that. I think it ought to be a passionate pursuit for the will of God for my life. And he's beseeching them. He says, I'm pleading with you passionately This is so important. This aspect of our Christian life and our spiritual well-being is vitally, vitally important there And uh when I was in Bible college, and I've shared this uh often uh a number of times over the years, but uh I had got down there my first year I lived in the dormitories and I was a little older, I'd gotten there a little later Um and so I got in this dormitory and I've said it often, one bedroom apartment had eight uh fellas living in there And I was just about the oldest. There was one other Navy guy that was a little older than I. He got saved in the Navy and he was going to school to prepare for ministry. But most of the other fellows in there were just fresh out of high school and And one of the fellows in particular was younger. He was about seventeen. And so uh we're in there and uh it'd just been a week or so. We're just getting to know each other and uh getting settled in in the school and the classes and all. And uh I got this bright idea that, you know, there's eight of us in here. Saturday nights we were usually sitting around studying or whatever down the library and uh just getting our schoolwork done. And um I had a great idea on Saturday nights at ten o'clock We could all guys get together, we read some scripture and just have a prayer meeting every Saturday night and uh share prayer requests and pray for Sunday and and uh I just thought that was a great idea. I I didn't know as a fairly new Christian and And um and I tell you this one fella, this young fella, seventeen, uh, he absolutely he got his hackles up when I suggested that and I told him what I had in mind and he made this statement to me He said, um, Dennis, when you've been saved as long as I have. Now he's 17 years old. When you've been saved, as long as I have, you'll get tired of devotions and Bible reading and praying also. Now what an awful thing to say. And I thought to myself, I don't remember how he responded to him, but I thought to myself, I thought, I don't ever want to be saved that long. Where I'm tired of reading my Bible, I'm tired of prayer, I'm tired of devotion time. And um Peter is passionately pleading, beseeching these persecuted believers, these young believers in Christ, young in the faith And uh he is a passion about them and and he's wanting them to be distinctively Christian and not lose that zeal, not lose that passion for God. And I want to challenge us as Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Some of us have been around here for a while. Some of us have been saved for an extended period of time. And we have to be very, very careful that we don't let the fire in our soul for the Lord die out. We've got to keep that passion going. We've got to keep that fire burning. We've got to keep that zeal alive And our love for the Lord and our desire to have his will accomplished in our lives. So I see, first of all, Peter's compassion for them, dearly beloved. Then I see his concern for them. I beseech you. He's very s he's very feels very strongly about this And then the third thing I notice, working our way down through here, is his clarification for them. Now, this is where it gets a little bit interesting. Look with me again at verse 11. He says, Dearly beloved, I beseech you, then he puts this little statement in here before what he's actually beseeching them to do, as strangers and pilgrims. I think what Peter is doing here, he's clarifying something in the minds of these believers. He's reminding them that this world is not their home, that uh this this is not all there is to life. They're having a rough time. They've lost their jobs. They've lost their homes. They've lost their fortunes. No doubt their family savings. Some of them lost family members Because of their faith in Christ, the hatred and persecution from the world. And he wants to remind them, this is not all there is to this. This world is not the end. It's not an end in and of itself There's a popular song for believers. Most of us, I think, are probably familiar with it, but it goes, this world is not my home. I'm just a what? Passing through. My treasures are laid up somewhere beyond the blue. And that's what Peter is writing to these believers. He says, listen, don't you forget, don't you forget, we are strangers and we are pilgrims. This world's not our home. I got looking up that phrase stranger there. I thought this was interesting. The word stranger there has this idea: one who is living in a country that they are not a citizen of. They're living in a country, but they're not a citizen of that. Many of our missionaries are strangers in their countries. They live in that country. Lewis Howe down in New Zealand. He's not a citizen. He's an American citizen, but he's living in that country. And he's telling them, listen, we are living in this world. You and I as believers, you and I as children of God, you and I as citizens of heaven. We are living in this world. We live here, but we're certainly not citizens of this world in the sense of any permanency. And then that word pilgrims there has this idea. Now strangers was, is one who is living in a country that he's not a citizen of Pilgrim is this, one who is passing through a country that he is not a citizen of So he refers to them in with both words. Strangers, you're here, you're living here, you've eaten, sleep, and you got your homes and whatever, your your family's here, you're here, but you're not a citizen of this And then you are pilgrims. And by the way, you're not staying here either. We're just passing through. We might live here for now, uh, but this is not all there is. I tell you, if we could just get people to understand That life here on earth is not all there is to our existence, that after death there is another place, there's heaven or hell And every one of us, whether we're saved or lost, are just passing through this life right now, and we're heading to an eternal destiny of either heaven or hell. Now, of course, these folks as believers, they're passing through this world on their way to heaven. If you're listening in tonight and you're part of the service this evening and you hear this message and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, you've never been born again. If you're still in your sins, to use Jesus' term, uh I want to remind you, this is not all there is to this And when that heart stops feeding and those lungs start uh pumping air, stop pumping air, and you go out into eternity, they're just passing through here. And so he's writing to them, and he wants to clarify in their minds, in the midst of their persecution, in the midst of their trials, to not forget that we as believers are outsiders. Passing through this world, we're not a part of this world, and uh we don't fit in. I say this often and I'm no doubt many of you all feel the way I do as a believer. The longer I live in this world, the longer I've I've been saved, the less I feel like I fit into this world I feel like odd man out in this world. I go to a mall, you go to some uh unsaved uh person's wedding or or some uh uh uh some event going on And uh I tell ya, I feel like I am a stranger and a pilgrim. Uh uh this is uh I don't fit here. This is not this is not uh This is not home for me. I don't feel at home in this. And many of y'all no doubt know exactly what I'm talking about. And Peter is reminding them. Hey, listen, don't put your roots down too deep. Don't hold too tightly to the things of this world. Don't allow the persecutions, the trials, the afflictions. the difficulties that this world is throwing at you. Don't let that derail you. I want to clarify in your minds. Remember, we're just going through this thing. And we're coming out on a better side one of these days. Um I like what the girls saying, farther along. We'll know all about it. One of these days we'll come out on the other end. And we'll be able to look back to our years here on earth, and I think a lot of stuff that we didn't understand, uh God will clarify for us and we'll we'll understand it all uh by and by So number one, he shares his compassion, he expresses compassion for them. Then he's concerned about them. He's beseeching them. And then he clarifies, hey, remember, you're just passing through. Now last of all, I notice his charge to them, and this is what he's getting at. He leaves a charge or a challenge to these believers. Look with me again at verse number 11, the second part. Dearly beloved, I beseech you, as strangers and pilgrims, look at this. Abstain From fleshly lusts, which war against the soul. His first charge to them is this. I put it this way: to live holy. As a stranger, as a pilgrim, just passing through this world, don't allow the sinful desires of my flesh to get drawn aside and get attached to this old world. We're just passing through. We need to live holy lives. Let's look at the terms he uses. That word abstain. I circled it in my Bible Abstain from fleshly lusts. That word abstain means this, to hold myself back from As I studied that word, how it's used, I got this mental picture of the word in my mind, is you have this horse, this runaway horse. Have you ever seen an old Western movie and they got the stagecoach? And the horses are spooked and they're running away. And it's a runaway stagecoach and some hero comes riding up and he jumps over on the horses and he grabs those reins And he pulls those things back. That's the idea of the word here abstain. He's saying, You got fleshly lusts, you better get a hold of them and rein them in. You better pull them back. I tell you the problem in much of our Christianity today, rather than abstaining and reining in our fleshly lust, we have people just indulging in them. And just let them go. Abstain from fleshly lusts. Now the next question is: what are fleshly lusts? It's referring to the sinful desires that our fallen nature craves. There's a ath we we all have a part of us that we refer to as the flesh. or the sinful nature, a tendency to do wrong, uh uh uh an attraction to sin And we see that throughout our lives as Christians. And by the way, getting saved does not eradicate that old simple nature. It's still there. Those tendencies are there. And if you're an honest Christian, you'd say, yes, I know. In part of my being is this tendency, this longing, this sinful, uh, this attraction to sinful things And he says, we need to rein that in. We need to abstain from that. Reminded me of Proverbs 4 and verse 23, where Solomon writing to his son, under the inspiration of God, he says Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. What he's saying is, son, you better rein that heart in. You better keep that uh heart, that sinful heart under control. Keep that thing reined in. That's the idea here, these fleshly lusts. And by the way, when he says fleshly lust, we see that word lust. We think of sensual sins. We think of sinful intimacy uh between two people. It's not limited to that. The sinful uh lusts are any desires, any sinful desires uh are of old sinful nature. And that can take many different forms. If we had time, we won't take time, but let me give you a reference. Galatians chapter 5, verse 19 through 21, Paul references the works of the flesh. And he gives a horrific picture of just terrible things, the works of the flesh. Murder, drunkenness, lasciviousness, I mean, just a whole list of terrible, terrible things. Those works of the flesh are the result of feeding these fleshly lusts, these fleshly desires. If I give in to a sinful desire, then that produces these works of the flesh. And so he says we need to live holy. It says, in this life, as a stro pilgrim, as a stranger passing through this world, as we go through this world, as we live as foreigners, as outsiders We need to live holy lives here in this world. And then he look what he says. He makes this statement. Now, this got interesting to me. Abstain from fleshly lust That garbage on the television, that music, this dishonesty, uh uh uh whatever form it may take, abstain from them, you bring that in. Don't let those don't let that fleshly desires take over Look what he says here at the end of verse eleven, which war against the what? The soul. The soul. Um These sinful desires, we indulge them, it wreaks havoc on our soul. I put this down. Our battles as Christians are not so much external, are not so much in trying to deal with others. But are rather more internal dealing with our own sinful nature. I said uh years ago, I made a statement, I said, uh tonight I'm going to announce and expose the person that has caused the most problems for me as pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I'm going to expose the person in this church that has given me the most problems And what I announced was this that person is Dennis Leatherman me. Our struggles, our our battles in our spiritual life are more internal with our own sinful nature than it is with other people out there. I put this statement down. I like this statement. This is original with me as far as I know. And this is great. You might want to write this in the margin of your Bible. This is a good one. It really is. Listen to this. Catering to the flesh. Brings carnage to the soul. I think that's what he's saying here. He says, Abstain from fleshly lust, which war against the soul. I'm telling you, when we indulge in sinful things, we say, well, I know it's not right, but you know, I really like that. And we give in to that, I'm telling you, it wreaks havoc on our spiritual life. It wreaks havoc in our heart and soul and our relationship with the Lord. And Peter's writing to these believers, he's saying, listen We don't live in this world. We don't belong in this world. We're living here. We're not citizens. We're passing through And we have got to keep our hearts and minds holy. We cannot give in to these sinful desires. This old world draws on that and attracts that and entices our sinful fleshly desires. And he says we cannot allow that. We've got to keep that reined in And then he makes one other statement to him, one other charge he gives them. Number one, live holy. And then verse number twelve, I put it this way, live honest. First be holy. Look at verse 12. And then live honest. Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles Uh live honest. That word conversation. Now we use the word conversation like uh we're talking. Vern and I were talking about deer hunting and and uh how he hasn't shot a deer yet I thought was interesting. And so we have this conversation going on. And uh that's what we think of the word conversation, just talking back and forth. But the word conversation in the Bible isn't just talking back and forth. When he says having your conversation, now it would include my talking, my speech, my communication that way, but it also is much more than that. It is my entire lifestyle It's how I live my life, my behavior, my actions, and all of these things communicate to others around us how we live our lives. How we conduct ourselves, how we respond to different issues and people's actions, how we respond. All of this is communicating a message out there. And so he uses the word conversation, and he said we should have our conversation honest. Now, when I saw the word honest there, I thought, well, that means don't lie, you know, tell the truth. But I got looking it up and how it's using it a whole lot more to that word honest than simply not telling lies. Now how many people agree with me a Christian shouldn't tell lies? Raise your hand. Up there in Internet world, raise your hand. We should Christians should not lie. If you're lying, stop it. Christians should not lie. Be honest. Amen or not? Amen. But it means a whole lot more than not lying. It has this idea. I like this definition. To be beautifully excellent As I took some others, I uh uh definitions, I kind of just boiled it down to this, to be attractively excellent. It has this idea that my character and my integrity is such that it is attractive, not harsh, not repulsive, not arrogant. But an honesty, an integrity, a quality of character that is attractive, that is admired and respected He says, listen, your lifestyle, my lifestyle as a believer, in the midst of persecutions, we're just passing through this world And our character ought to be such that it is respected, it is looked up to, and uh it is attractive is actually the idea behind it. How we live our lives, our actions, our words, our attitudes communicates to this old world a message. Now, what is that message to be? Now look here with me at verse 12. He says, having your conversation, your lifestyle, your attitudes, your actions, your words, having your conversation honest. Uh integrity, attractive integrity there, character among the who? Among the Gentiles. Now he's not talking to a race of people or a nationality. He's talking about unsaved here He's saying we ought to live our lives among the unsaved in a very particular way, in a way that communicates a message. And look what that is. Have your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, brother, we live in a world where Christians are spoken against as evildoers. I'm telling you, we're getting to a point and the way it's looking, it may intensify where Christians are considered the enemies of the state. Oh, some of our leaders are talking about Bible preaching churches being hotbeds of hatred. And uh, you know, they speak against us as evildoers We have experienced that here at Mountain Lake. I've experienced it personally. They speak against us as evildoers. He says, listen, have your conversation. You live your lifestyle. You live your life, the words, your actions, your attitudes, in such a way, with such integrity and Christian character. That when they speak against you as evildoers, they say, accuse you of all this stuff, they may by your good works, now that's referring back to the conversation, it's more than just words But how we live our life, our good works, that they may, by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. He's saying here that we are to live our lives in such a way that the evil things they say about us, the accusations they make, the stuff they accuse us of Is uh how we live our lives will either confirm that what they're saying is true, or it will contradict what they're saying. I hope you follow what he's trying to say here. I'll try to explain what he's saying here. How we live our lives either confirms their words against us or it contradicts their words against us. I had a fellow years ago, and I mentioned this a number of times over the years, this is many years ago, we had visitation, uh one of the fellows showed up and for visitation and we were back in the fellowship home and we were kind of sorting out who was going where and I had some names to visit. And so I took this one fellow and I paired him up with somebody. I said, here's a good prospect for you. And I don't remember who it was or how we came across, but I have a good prospect for you. I gave him the uh the card. I said, you guys go visit him, try to talk to him about the Lord, and uh And uh Shrine shared the gospel with him. Well, this fellow that showed up, he got it and saw the name. He says, I know that fellow. And he says, I can't go visit him. I said, What do you mean you can't go visit him? And he said this. He said, My testimony is so bad with him, he wouldn't listen to a word I say. I thought, what a shame. How sad is that If there's anybody in this world that I cannot share the gospel with because my testimony is so bad with them, I tell you, I need to get before God and humble myself and confess and repent that sin. Peter saying to them, saying, listen, your conversation, your lifestyle, your words, actions, deeds, attitudes ought to be such That people they say evil things about you and they accuse you of being hateful, they accuse you of this stuff, that your lifestyle ought to be such that it is very, very obvious that what they're saying is not true That's what he's saying to them. The objective here. Now notice what the objective. Well, why should I do that? That they may glorify God in the day of visitation. That word visitation has the idea of accounting, judgment. What he's talking about here is someday we're all going to stand before God. As believers, we'll stand before the judgment seat of Christ. The Gentiles, the unsaved, they're going to stand at the great white throne. And he's saying when they get there that they will be up, they will have to say that uh that uh brother, sister, so and so, that Christian lived their life in such a way God, I saw you in their life, and they'll give glory to God. Even the unsaved will give glory to God because of how you and I lived our lives. That's what he's telling these believers. Don't you let that persecution Don't you let that bitterness and hatred, those false accusations of this whole world. Don't you let that affect the honesty, integrity of your life, the character of your life. You stay true, you stay honest. Live honest. And then when they throw those accusations, they won't stick. I read about Pluto Plato, a philosopher of years ago, and there was some man slandering Plato And Plato's response was this: I will live in such a way that no one will believe this man's slanders against me. I thought, boy, what a challenge, what a challenge. Whether we like it or not, we are advertisements for Christianity. Let me ask you, what kind of advertisement are you? What kind of advertisement for Christianity am I? My attitudes and my actions, the words I say, how I live my life. Does it bring glory to God? Does it save people? Does it prompt people to say, hey, I see God in that man's life? Man, God's done amazing things. God's been good to us. I can see God in his life. Or do their slanders stick? And do their accusations uh do we confirm them? Peter's writing to them, he's saying, Listen, you're strangers and pilgrims. That's what we are. We don't belong in this world. We don't fit in. We're not citizens of this world. We're just passing through, and one of these days we're going to be over on the other side and we'll be with the Lord. And we need to live our lives holy. We can't give in to the sinful lusts of the flesh, the fleshly lusts of our old fallen nature. We've got to rein them in, abstain from that And we've got to live honest. We've got to live in such a way that people's accusations, this world's hatred towards Christ and his people, that it has bears no fruit, it finds no place there. To be above reproach, I believe, is what he's trying to say. Gordon McMaxwell was a missionary to India many, many years ago, and he had found a Hindu scholar that he wanted him to teach their language to. He found this scholar and uh he showed up as a missionary. He says, I want you to teach me your language. He had actually been there for a while. He's learning a new language in a different region. And the man's response, this Hindu scholar's, this Indian scholar's response, Hindu scholar's response was this: No Sahib that was teacher, I will not teach you my language. You will make me a Christian. Gordon Maxwell replied, You misunderstand. I'm just asking you to teach me your language I am not trying to convert you. I'm not trying to uh evangelize you. I just want you to teach me this language. And the Hindu man replied, the Hindu scholar, he said, No, Sahib. I will not teach you, because no man can live with you and not become a Christian. I thought, wow, what a testimony. This man had such a reputation, such a testimony, that when people got around him and spent time with him, they could not help but be attracted to Christ and end up becoming Christians. Let me ask you a question. Are you saved? You know Jesus Christ, your personal Savior? If you do, if those of us that do, This world's not our home. We're just strangers. We're citizens of a heavenly country living here temporarily on this earth. We're just passing through. And while we're here, while we're here, we're an advertisement for Christianity. And people see our lives whether we're holy or we indulge in fleshly lust. They see whether we're honest. Or whether we're no different than the world. And Peter's challenging him. He says, listen, let's be holy. Let's be honest. And this coming week, as we go into a new week, whatever our situation is, wherever we find ourselves, let's remember, we're just passing through. And I am a billboard, I am an advertisement, how I live my life, for the Lord Jesus Christ. And someday at the visitation, at the day of accounting, I want other people to say he was the real deal, he was for real. And God be glorified. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask, dear Lord, that you would help us to follow Peter's challenge to these New Testament believers. And Lord, we uh we think we got it rough and we have inconveniences. I tell you, Lord, help us to remember that what we're going through is nothing even remotely compared to what these New Testament believers were suffering. And I pray you'd help us to be holy, to be honest, and how we live our lives. And Lord, any that are listening in that are unsaved Lord, I pray that they would turn to you and trust you as Savior. I wish so badly, Lord, we could give a personal invitation and respond to an altar. But I pray that you'd help us in our hearts and our homes. To respond to how you've spoken to us. Blessed now we ask in Jesus' name, amen