We began this uh oh it's a couple weeks ago and uh kind of a strange message for Easter because preach on strange women on Easter. And so um sa a number of years ago, I just remembered this. I mean it's been many years ago uh on I try to follow the Lord's leadership as I understand. I believe, you know, I pray what the Lord would have me to preach on, and particularly Sunday mornings. And um It was Valentine's Day and I really didn't think a lot about it. I was just praying the Lord direct me and I felt like God was pre teach leading me to preach on the subject of hell on Valentine's Day And I got home, my wife said, Really? Hell on Valentine's Day? So well it's kind of romantic, but um But I want to follow the I sincerely want to follow the Lord's leadership in my preaching. I'm joking around a little bit, but I'm I'm serious about that. But when you're preaching through a book, verse by verse, You can't really control what the subject is. You just work your way through. And so this is where we're at on this one verse here. And you say, well, we already dealt with this a little bit. And I really didn't intend to spend this much time on this subject. However, I got studying the book of Proverbs, and it is amazing how much of the book of Proverbs is devoted to this very subject. As I got studying on it, I thought, well, we need to spend more than just one message on this. And so I hope you'll bear with me. Ecclesiastes chapter 7, notice verse number 26. Solomon, of course, is writing this, and this is a point in Solomon's life, just a reminder for us, this is a point in Solomon's life, for he is very, very far from God. It is amazing, as I said before, it is amazing how foolish a wise man can be and how far down a great man can fall. And Solomon has gotten so far from God, and this is kind of the record of the first six chapters of his what was going on in his mind that brought about that fall from his walk with God, his relationship with the Lord And then these are some lessons that he is kind of giving us from this condition. And verse 26, he makes this statement. Now this is given to us under the inspiration of God from the writing of Saul of Solomon. I find more bitter than death The woman whose heart is, I find more bitter than death, the woman whose heart is snares and nets, and her hands as bands. Whoso pleaseth God shall escape from her, but the sinner shall be taken by her. It's an odd statement he makes here, but when you go to the book of Proverbs and you start looking at cross uh references on this passage, There's one conclusion. He's referencing what the Bible refers to as a strange woman. So let's pray. I'm going to briefly go over what we already touched on, then give a few more thoughts, and we'll bring this to a close. Father It's been a good day. You've blessed us. Lord, you're so good to us. I'm so glad that uh you are a living Savior, and we're not just going through motions and not just some ritual we do, but it's a living relationship. Lord, I've experienced that for so many years now, as many others have. I pray now as we look here now on a pretty serious subject, a little sobering. I pray that you would stir us, help us in this old sinful world, this sensualized world we live in, that our hearts and minds would be pure and our relationships would be right. I yield my will to you again, Lord, tonight. In this hour, I present my body anew. I ask you again with all my heart that you fill me with your Spirit, that you would teach us and speak through me This would be more than just a little sermon. God, it would be something very, very helpful for all of us, from the young people up through the oldest of us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. He references this. Woman that he finds more bitter than death. And I wrote in the margin of my Bible, strange woman. There's no doubt that that's what he's referring to. If anybody knew anything about strange women, it was Solomon. He had married a slew of them. And uh the Bible says they were the ones, they were these strange women from these foreign countries, had false gods. did not share his values, did not share his priorities, did not share his principles of life. Nevertheless he fell in love with them. He said he loved many strange women, the Bible says And the Bible says they drew his heart away from the true and living God. So Solomon knew a little bit what he was talking about. When uh he referenced these strange women. Now most of his instruction concerning strange women is given to us in the book of Proverbs. The book of Proverbs is, again, given under the inspiration of God, but it is Solomon writing a advice, a book of advice, so to speak, to his son. He repeats throughout the book of Psalm, he says, my son, my son, my son. And so he's given this instruction to his son, and he warns them very sternly. about this type of woman that he refers to as a strange woman. Now, let me say this. I'm not picking on women tonight. This is the particular characteristics of a very particular type of woman I want to say this. There are men that are equally as dangerous as the strange woman. The Bible refers to him as the whoremonger. And the Bible refers to that man throughout the book of Proverbs, but Solomon is writing to his son, again, under the inspiration of God, and he's warning him about this particular type of woman. And the first thing we noticed, as we looked in the previous message, we noticed some distinctions about this type of woman. We said, first of all, she is very manipulative. And she flatters with her tongue these men that she's trying to manipulate. She pours it on. It says that her her words are sweet and smooth. And she is able to use flattery, she is able to use her words to manipulate these fellows, convince them that everything's fine, we can get away with this, nobody will ever know. It's going to be alright And then use them to her gain and her advantage. So we pointed out that she was very manipulative. We pointed out, second of all, she was mutinous Now I use, I get that word from on a ship, you know, the the sometimes the sailors, these shipmen would uh would have a mutiny And they would rise up in rebellion against the authority on the ship. The Bible tells us, and I'm not turning to all these references, but the Bible tells us that this particular type of woman that God refers to as a strange woman is very mutinous. In other words, she is resistant to authority. Proverbs 2. 17, it says she forsaketh the covenant of her youth She uh uh deliberately abandons or ignores the authorities that God has placed in her life. She is characterized by a deliberate disregard For the deliberate authorities God has placed in her, even in Proverbs 2. 12, even the covenant of her God. And that is referencing her marriage vows. And rather than recognizing those vows as having an authority, a binding authority over her, she simply disregards them And uh and engages in that lifestyle. So she's manipulative, she's mutinous, and we said she is immoral She's a very deceitful woman. She is very deceptive. We said she's immoral in her dress. She dresses, and Proverbs 7 tells us she dresses as a harlot, very immodest. uh revealing, to attract attention, not to her character, not to anything good about her, but to her physical features, and she uses that to manipulate and use men. She's uh immoral in her deceit, she's very skilled at lying. She's very skilled at seduction. Again, to manipulate men, and she's very immoral in her demeanor. And we ended the last message with this statement. And I got this from another preacher. He said this: He says, Don't get caught up. In the greener grass myth, all that you need and all that can give you joy is on your side of the fence. And the strange woman is the greener grass on the other side of the fence. You follow what I'm trying to say? And she will convince men deliberately, deceptively. manipulative these people to convince men, oh, you'd be better off with me. Better off on this side of the fence. And the Bible is very, very clear, it's best to stay on our side of the fence. God has given us all we need, and that's another subject. Now I want us, and well I want to try and be as quickly as I can on this, I want us to consider the dangers. That's the distinctive distinctions of a strange woman. What are some of the dangers? And again, you're going to have to come to Proverbs with me. And I'm going to try and let the Bible speak for itself. And we're going to just work our way down through here the dangers of the strange woman. And let me say this. A strange woman is a very effective tool that the devil uses to draw men and destroy men. A lure. The men that were here for the men's stakeout several weeks uh a week or so ago when Brother Um uh Edwards here. How many fellows were here at that stakeout? And you'll remember he referenced the Johnson lure. Anybody remember that? And it's a lure he uses when he fishes up in Minnesota for those northern pike and the walleye. And he said it's so effective. He says that little flash, it gets their attention and they don't think, and whoom, they're up there, and before they know it, there's a hook in their mouth. And that fish is duped. And a and a s and uh uh a strange woman is a very effective lure In the hands of the devil to lure men and destroy, and many men have been destroyed by the strange woman. One of the I'm going to give you a little series of quotes here before we look at some verses. I came across this quote: The power of sin lies in its pleasure. The power of sin lies in its pleasure. If there was no pleasure in sin, how many people would pursue it? Satan knows that. And um he is very he is very effective at at um uh baiting his hooks with something very appealing Very pleasurable. But the Bible says there's a s great danger in uh in toying with a strange woman. If you would Go to Proverbs chapter two and verse number eighteen with me. And again, I just want to try and highlight a few things here. These series of verses that we're going to look at are kind of like Beacons of light out on the rocks of the sea of desire. I like that quote. I kind of came up with that. The beacons of light out on the rocks of the sea of desire. How many people knew this, that years ago, the ships, before we had GPS and all this type of stuff, radar, uh, the ships would sail and there'd be rocky shores and very, very dangerous areas and they would put beacons of light, lighthouses out there, and they would spread a warning. Not only did they give direction, but they would warn many times of the ships of dangerous areas. Well God has given us some beacons of warning on the sea of desire Natural and powerful desires God has given to all of us, yet there are some warnings where there's dangers involved with those desires. Notice Proverbs chapter 2 and look with me at verse number 18 The dangers of this strange woman, verse 18, Proverbs 2, and uh let me get here, says this. He says, For her, referencing this particular type of woman, her house inclineth unto what? death, and her paths unto the dead. None that go in unto her return again. Neither take they hold of the paths of life Would you agree with me? That sounds to me like this guy's life is destroyed. Would you agree with me? Says they uh her house inclineth unto death, her pay as go unto de unto the dead. None that return none return again. Neither take they hold of the paths of life. I mean this guy is derailed. Come down, if you would, to chapter five of Proverbs And verse number 4. Now you're going to notice a word used here in this passage that we're going to come up several other passages we look at. Proverbs 5, and look with me at verse number 4. But her, verse three, the strange woman, verse four, her end is bitter as wormwood. And sharp as a two-edged sword. Would you agree with me? It sounds like when the guy's done here, he regrets it. Very regretful. Bitter as wormwood. Sharp as a two-edged sword. Look at this next statement. Her feet go down to death. Sounds like what we just read, but look what he says here. Her steps take hold on what? Hell Now you're going to notice that reference, that word referenced a number of times, associated with a strange woman. Come with me, if you would, to chapter 6, just a page over. It's amazing all through here how Solomon is warning his son over and over and over about this strange woman. I'm sorry, come back to chapter 5. I missed a reference, verse 9 Back to chapter 5, verse 9. Verse 8 he says, Remove thy way far from her. Come not nigh the door of her house. We're going to look at that in a bit. Verse 9: Lest thou give thine honor unto others And thy years unto the cruel, lest strangers be filled with thy wealth, and thy labors be in the house of a stranger. And thou mourn at the last when thy flesh and thy body are consumed. And say, How have I hated instruction, and my heart despised reproof? Sounds like God was warning him. Sounds like he's been warned and warned. And he hated that instruction. He hated that reproof. And had not obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined my ear unto them that instructed them. I was almost in all evil in the midst of the congregation and assembly. Come with me now, if you would, to chapter 5 and verse number 4. I'm sorry, chapter 6, verse 26. He doesn't mince his word he doesn't mince his words here. He says, For my by means of a whorish woman, a man is bought to brought to a A man is brought to a piece of bread, and the adulteress will hunt for the precious life. I put on the margin of my Bible there, she's on the prowl. She's on the prowl. She's out hunting. But I saw that phrase where it says, by means of a horsewoman, a man is brought to a piece of bread. I thought, what in the world does that mean? He's brought to a piece of bread. Anyone have an idea? I'm open. I got looking this up and I found that is actually a phrase that was pretty common back in the day when this was written It referred to somebody that had come on hard times or whatever, and they had lost all their wealth, and they ended up in extreme poverty. It's kind of like you've heard of rags to riches But this is the opposite of that. From riches to rags. He's brought to a piece of bread He was in a place of influence. He was very successful. He was somewhat wealthy. He had things going his way. Everything was coming together. Then he got tied in with a strange woman, a whorish woman is the term here. And he wasn't careful. He let his guard down, and now he's brought to a piece of bread. His life has been destroyed. His testimony is gone. His influence is like a piece of bread of no value. I want to suggest to you it also would include a spiritually Brought to poverty. Anybody here, and I don't mean to pick on anybody, but anybody here recognize the name Matt Lauer? Famous news fellow, right? Here it comes out. It's been mess around whorish woman. He's a whoremonger himself, apparently. I want to be careful here, but that's by all appearances, right? You understand what I'm trying to say? I saw a read in an article just a week ago. He's having to sell off houses. He's struggling. Things are going down. You know what? I think that is an illustration. I don't mean to pick on him. I don't want to be unkind. But I think that is exactly what this is talking about. He's going to a piece of bread. brought to a piece of bread. It means to go into spiritual poverty. I could um man as I was studying this, there's a number of uh preachers, some of them pretty significant men. That I've known over the years. That were not careful. Ryan probably you probably know some and others that have been around for a while. That we're not careful And through not keeping their heart diligently, through types of maybe a type of woman like this, they weren't careful, and their whole testimony, their whole witness, all their influence is brought to a piece of bread The dangers of this type of woman, the dangers. Look there with me. Let's read on. That's in verse 26. Let's read on. It says For by means of a horse woman's brought Look at verse 27. Can a man take fire in his bosom and his clothes not be burned? What's the answer? No, you're going to get burned Can one go upon hot coals and his feet not be burned? No. So he that goeth in to his neighbor's wife, whosoever toucheth her shall not be innocent. I put in the margin of my Bible, he cannot escape the consequences of that action. He will not be innocent. He cannot escape the consequences Men do not despise a thief if he steal to satisfy his soul when he is hungry. But if he be found, he shall restore sevenfold. He shall give all the substance of his house. In other words If he steals food, he can always pay that back. He can always make it right. He can always restore that back to the way it was and even make it better. But, verse 32, whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding. I put in the margin of my Bible, he's a fool. He's a fool. He that doeth it destroyeth his own soul. I put this in the margin of my Bible. Adultery is self-destructive. He destroys his own soul. A wound and dishonor shall he get. His reproach shall not be wiped away. Who does that make you think of? David? A wound and dishonor? For jealousy is the rage of a man, therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance. He will not regard any ransom, neither will he rest content, though thou givest many gifts. I put this in the margin of my Bible, it is impossible to it is impossible to restore that which adultery takes away. And we're talking about the strange woman, but here it is laying a great responsibility on the man, on his lack of discernment, his foolishness. And allowing himself and deciding to go in and engage in this. I put this as a little aside. What kind of man commits adultery? What kind of man commits adultery? I notice five things here. I put this, one a foolish man. Verse 32. A self-destructive man, again verse 32. A shameful man, verse 33, wound and dishonor shall yet his reproach. shall not be wiped away. It's hard to respect somebody that commits adultery, or to have much respect for that person And then a hated man, verse 4. Jealousy is the rage thereof. The one that's cheated against hates him. And then five, a hurtful man. When a person commits adultery, they hurt people. They hurt people. Right? It hurts people. They hurt themselves. They hurt the one involved. They hurt the children. They hurt family members. And so the dangers of a particularly a strange woman, but this whole activity. Come with me if you would to chapter 7 here quickly. Chapter seven, and look with me at verse twenty-six. For she Have cast down many wounded. Yea, many strong men have been slain by her. Now look at this next statement. Here's that word again. Her house is the way to what? Hell. Going down to the chambers of death. Come over to chapter 9 real quickly with me, and then we'll go on to the last thought. Chapter 9, verse 17. Verse thirteen says, A foolish woman is clamorous, she is simple, knoweth nothing And this is what she says. Verse 14, she sits at the door of her house. Verse 15, she calls passengers who go on their ways. And this is what she says. Verse 16, whosoever is simple, let them turn in hither. For him that wanteth understanding, she saith to him, stolen waters are sweet. If stolen waters were not sweet, no one would steal them. Right? So she knows. Stolen waters are sweet, and bread eaten in secret, that would be sexual sins. Stolen waters would be adultery. But he knoweth not, look at this, but he knoweth not that the dead are there, and that her guests are in the depths of, there it is again. I see four or five times in this whole context of what we're talking about, this unpleasant subject, hell, hell, hell, hell. Why does he say that? Is it just a figure of speech? I think it could be. I mean it makes life miserable But I think we have to be careful about arbitrarily saying, oh, that's just a figure of speech. Is he saying here that if someone commits adultery, they go to hell? We have to be careful about that. Because we do know some folks that commit adultery in the Bible that were saved, obviously saved. David. I think what he's saying here is, and this is my take on it, I think what he's saying here is this a strange woman and every and man is responsible for his actions, so don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But a lot of strange women have kept men from getting saved. Kept them from coming to Christ They're so seductive, they're so powerful, they're so flat, they're able to keep draw that person, and they're never willing to let go of that and come to Christ to find forgiveness. I've seen that. I've told you a number of times about the fellow years ago came in my office, said, I love another woman, she's not my husband. She was he was crying, crying. She's not my wife, she's another uh another m uh man's wife And I love her, and he's crying, crying, and he's wanting me to say it's okay for her to go to her. And I rebuked him sharply. And I said, What you're doing is sin. You're breaking God's law. And that had such a powerful draw on him that he refused to turn from that and turn to Christ. He refused to turn to that and submit to the Lord. And I think perhaps that might be what Solomon is warning his son here about. Listen, you need to be very, very careful. You engage yourself in this and you indulge in this could possibly keep a person from coming to Christ. Now, can God forgive adultery? Yes, there's not a sin in the world God can't forgive. I mentioned this morning the young lady trusted Christ yesterday. Horrendous sin. And yet God can forgive. God can forgive. Perhaps, God forbid, speaking to somebody tonight. In your heart and mind, you're saying, nobody knows but God. It's my hidden skeleton in my closet. I don't think God could ever forgive me for this I'm here to tell you we have a risen Savior who has shed his blood so that every sin can be forgiven. But it is a very, very powerful sin and it's a very, very destructive sin. And we need to be very, very careful about that. And I don't think it's I I think it's deliberate that he uses that term hell three or four times in reference to this. And we need to be very careful about that. And I'm not suggesting in remotely that if a Christian commits this sin, that they lose their salvation, they go to hell. The Bible clearly does not teach that. The Bible does say this is a very destructive thing. The depths of hell. A strange woman can and often does keep a person from salvation. Can a saved person uh let me touch on one more thing here. Can a saved person commit adultery? Yes. But let me say this. This is my understanding. Somebody might have a different take. I do not believe a saved person can continue on in adultery Continue on. I believe God, I think Hebrews 12 tells us very clearly, God will step in and bring severe chastisement on that person's life, severe conviction, a saved person. And so God deals with that very s very severely. We see that in King David, the death of his son. God didn't horse around. God didn't play around with that. God took it very seriously. And so when you see that word hell, that is a very uh one where that gets our attention. The most expensive thing in the world is sin. How many homes have been destroyed by this very thing? How many marriages? How many children from their futures And been destroyed by this very thing. So the dangers of the strange woman, let me give you last of all, and I've got to do this quickly, the defense. Against the strange woman. He tells his son repeatedly, listen, this is what you need to do. This is what we have to do so that these types of things don't happen. You don't end up this way Again, come back to chapter 2 here in Proverbs, all the same passages, but look in a different part of it. Chapter 2, verse 10. He says this, when wisdom entereth into thine heart, and knowledge is pleasant unto thy soul. Look at this. This is a great verse, 11. Discretion shall what? Preserve thee. Discretion shall preserve the understanding shall what? Keep thee. There verse 12, to deliver thee from the way of the evil man. Then come down to verse 13, to deliver thee from the strange woman. So verse 10 and 11 tells us that discretion and wisdom Will keep me from this whole situation, getting involved in this whole type of situation, this type of sin I came across this quote. I thought this was pretty good. A wise person checks his destination before he buys the ticket. Do you get that? A wise person checks the destination before he buys this ticket. Wait a minute. If you're going to indulge in this, if you're going to step into this, if you're going to pursue this, Stop and think about where is this going to end up? Where is this going to lead me? What is the destination of this action? What are the consequences of these actions? And a wise person stops and says, wait a minute. Before I buy this ticket, I want to know where this train is heading. Before I buy this ticket, I want to know where this plane is heading. Before I buy this ticket, I want to know what this sin is going to do to me. And so one of the defenses against this whole thing is using some wisdom. Having a little forethought foresight, a little uh thinking it through and understanding and saying, wait a minute, that is not where I want to end up And using that as a hedge. Wisdom and discretion are a hedge. Let's look at chapter five real quickly with me. And verse number eight. So wisdom and discretion are a defense against this whole thing. Verse number eight of chapter five: remove thy way far from her. Come not nigh the door of her house. I put in the margin of my Bible how to treat a strange woman. Stay away. You're at work and that gal's coming on, turning it on, that strange woman at work, the secretary or whatever, she's turning on or out somewhere, and boy, she's pouring it on, and she's kind of, you know I've got to be careful. You know what the Bible says you ought to do? Put distance between you and her. Keep far away from her. Years ago, we had a guest speaker. I mean this is in the early days that I was here, a guest speaker, and had a visitor as a woman. She came by herself And um she wasn't dressed the most modestly. And she approached the preacher afterward. He told me about this the next day we were having lunch. He said, uh remember that gal so-and-so? I said, Yeah, I I I said, I know who you mean And uh he said, she came talk to me afterward after the crowd thinned out, and she says, I really need to talk to you. And she says, I think you could help me. And he says, um, okay, how's that? She goes, she said this. A husband hasn't been much of a husband to me. Ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding He said, I got away from her as fast as I could. She was setting him up for trouble And so one of the defenses against that type of situation is separation. That word remove put means put distance away. Look at chapter 6 and verse 23. This is Solomon telling his son, teaching his son. Verse 23, chapter 6. For the commandment is a lamp, and the law is a light, and reproofs of instruction are the way of life. To keep thee from the evil woman, from the flattery of the tongue of a strange woman. Verse 25, Lust not after her beauty in thine heart, neither let her take thee with her eyelids. I notice there's verse 23, one thing that helps in the defense of this, pay attention to the Word of God. Keep my heart. Keep my heart. Discipline my desires. Proverbs chapter 4, the end of the chapter 4 says this: keep thy heart with all diligence. And part of that is saying, don't let your heart fall in love with this. Don't let your heart gravitate to this. Stay away. Keep your heart. Keep your desires in discipline. Pay attention to the word of God. Let me give you two more verses and we're done. Chapter 7 and verse 24 and 25. Again, the only reason I'm spending so much time on this is there's so much scripture dealing with this. Look at verse 24. Hearken unto me now, therefore, O ye children. Attend to the words of my mouth. He just described this young man that fell for this strange woman. Let not thine heart incline unto her ways, go not astray in her paths. I put Proverbs 4. 23 right beside that. Keep thy heart with all diligence. Separation. Stay away. Stay away. Stay away. Years ago, and I I'm not real familiar with this, I've read of him and heard of him, but apparently there was some sort of street preacher, a kind of a rogue uh uh uh lone ranger type street preacher down in New Orleans. And it's very proud, very public of this ministry he had with the women in the red light district. Anybody hear of this guy? He was very popular. I don't remember his name. And oh, he was reaching these women, he was reaching these women, he was reaching these women, and these women brought him to destruction. Lo and behold, here he was. Wasn't ministering to them spiritually. You know what the best thing for him to have done is stay away from that. Stay out of there. He said, well, who's going to reach them? You know what? Get a good, godly, pure-minded lady down there and help those dear gals come to Christ. Follow what I'm saying? And Solomon is telling his son, you stay away. You stay away. Don't get mixed up in that. I'm going to give you one more verse. Come back to the book of Job. I learned something about Job in preparing this message. How many people agree with me, Job was a good man? How many people agree with me? Job was a man of incredible integrity Man, God says some things about Job that he doesn't say about very many people in the Bible. He's perfect in all his ways, upright and just. You're going to find few people God bragging on like he did on Job. But look with me, if you would, at chapter 31, and I learned something about Job. I think I'm correct on this. Job makes a statement in verse number one. As we're studying this, I thought, hmm He says in Job chapter 31, I'll give you a chance to find it here. He said, Job speaking, he says, I made a covenant with my eyes. Why then should I think upon a what maid, young gal A couple things I learned from that statement. One, I see a connection between what I see and how I think. What I see and how I think. Again, this is, boy, we could spend time on this, but David was a godly man, a man through his own heart, and he got up on that roof. And he saw a woman bathing herself. I can't speak for Bathsheba. I have my own ideas, but I can't speak for her. But when he saw her bathing on the roof, he started thinking differently. He started thinking about how he can pull something off. That I'm assume hours before never would have entered his mind. What he saw affected how he thought. And how he thought then affected what he desired. And Job realized that. And he said, if I get looking at these young ladies It's going to affect the way I think. And when I get messed up in my thinking, I'm going to get messed up in my living. So how he I notice here it says that how he thought how what he saw affected what he thought and what he saw affected what he desires. I put this down. If I look, I will think. Now this is what I think I learned about Job, Brian. I don't know. But I got the sneaking suspicion Job struggled with this I think he said this because this was something that he struggled with. And he wanted to be very, very careful about it. Solomon says in chapter 7 of the book of Ecclesiastes, more bitter than death, Is this woman, this strange woman. Now here's my admonition to all of us. Number one, ladies, be very, very careful. You don't even remotely Behave like a strange woman. Amen? If I was, I mean we ladies, we you want to stay as far away from that type of person as we possibly be. Am I right or wrong? Y'all just looking at me We don't want to be that way, ladies. We want to be that way. Don't let Hollywood and media convince you that behaving that way and looking that way is somehow appealing. It is not. It's destructive. So we want to be pure and modest and clean and right in every way. We want to be the exact opposite of that. And the Bible talks about that. You say, well what is that? Read Proverbs 31. There you'll find it. Virtuous woman. The polar opposite of the strange woman. And what about us men Let's do what Job did. Let's make a covenant with our eyes. Let's be very, very careful. I'm going to keep the distance. I'm going to follow Solomon's advice to his son. I'm going to be very, very careful about that. We preach against sodomy and we should. It is abomination. I don't take that back. I don't apologize for that. That is clear Bible preaching. But wait a minute. We ought to be preaching just as strongly against adultery and impurity in these areas also. Because I'll be honest with you, what we're talking about now, impurity, sexual impurity is destroying more churches than sodomy is Has destroyed more preachers than Sodomy has, destroyed more ministries and marriages than Sodomy has. And as abominable as Sodomy is, God preaches just as much, if not more, about this very thing. Say this isn't much of an Easter message, no. I'm telling you, it's a Bible message. Very clearly in Scripture I believe our young people, I know Pastor Brett agrees with me on it, our young people need to be warm. We are saturated Our society, we're carrying around, the young and old, we're carrying around in our pockets something that opens the door to this very sin. We're carrying around with us. I'm telling you, we need this. We need these warnings. Father, I pray you'd help. I trust I've been Lord, I trust I've been true to your word and been faithful to your scriptures. I know, Lord, many of us know we we've seen the sting of this sin. We felt the sting of this sin. We think how it grieves you. We want to be pure and we want to be right. I'm so glad you love us, that you cleanse us from all sin. If we just bring it to you, you can turn this around So protect, help, give us wisdom, we pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed