I want us to, if you don't mind, uh, uh go with me if you will to your Bible and and go to Philippians uh chapter two. I'm sorry, chapter three. Philippians chapter three And I'm going to start reading in verse 4 and uh we'll read down through several several verses. I I want us to I want us to get the whole whole uh context here and the thoughts of uh that I'm trying to get across. I'm looking in verse 4. The Word of God says in Philippians chapter 3, in verse 4, though I might also have confidence in the flesh. If any other man think that he whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more, circumcised the eighth day, and the stalk of Israel, and the tribe of Benjamin, the Hebrew, of the Hebrew of the Hebrews, as touching the law of Pharisee. Concerning zeal, persecuting the church, touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless. You know, those are pretty heavy credentials for anybody And uh it's obvious that this was a religious man dedicated to to uh what he uh thought was his calling But what things were gained to me, those I counted loss for Christ. What a tremendous verse. Yea, doubtless, and I count all things but lost, for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord For whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but domed that I may win Christ. And be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. That I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his suffering, being made conformable unto his death. If by any means I might attain to the resurrection of the dead, not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect. But I follow after if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus. Brethren, I count not myself as apprehended But this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forth into those things which are before, I press toward the mark of the prize of the high calling of God. In Christ Jesus. Our Heavenly Father, we come to this portion of the service and feel very inadequate. To fulfill your calling in my life. But how I thank you, Lord, for this church and this pastor. These people, Lord, who have uh who have worked and and uh sacrificed to participate and and to accomplish all that is being done here. The name of Christ. I thank you, Lord, for the Apostle Paul, one who has sacrificed everything just for the cause of Christ. Surely as we preach this message, we can learn something from this great man of God. I pray, Lord, that your hand would be upon me as I preach, and Lord, that you'd speak to all of our hearts here in this place. May we draw nigh to you tonight. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. The Apostle Paul was showing us the secret of his success as a Christian. What a wonderful thing to be able to at the end of of your life to say, I've you know I've fought a good fight and you know and and be ready for God to take him on home. to to take the s the stands that he took and and to uh fight the battles that he fought and still at the end of it all why uh he gives it all all to God said everything that I had Uh it was just nothing but j but dung. I just count it dung for the cause of Christ. Maybe these the the things that uh uh we learn here can be used in our life I want us to look at the verses that uh we want to talk about. And it starts here in this this uh tenth verse. And it starts actually in the twelfth verse. It says not as though I had already attained. Either were already perfect, but I follow after that If that I may apprehend, that for which I also am apprehended of Christ Jesus. Brothers, I count not myself to act if appreh apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth into those things which are before. I press towards the mark of the prize of the call high calling of God in Christ Jesus The things that that I wanted to talk about this uh this evening is first of all, uh He made God's God's aim and desires for his life his own You know, we read the Bible and and uh uh and we read uh the the wonderful truths and the things that God wants us to be But sometimes we we take these things in, but we don't really apply them to our heart. We don't really put them into our life and and actually work them out of our life as we're supposed to do. One thing that he did, he had a a similar focus, I call it. When I say a similar focus, I mean similar to God's focus on his life. The mark that's mentioned there in those verses is the object of his effort. The mark of the prize of the high calling of Christ, Jesus. And we need to have goals in our life. if if we're to accomplish anything, there needs to be goals set up so that we have something to work towards. It doesn't necessarily have to be uh something that's so far over our head that we'll never reach and some most of the time uh sometimes we set these goals in our life uh to do more exercise, to eat only certain things, or to or the Or to read our Bibles through in a year. Or you know, we we have all these ideas and things, but sometimes we set uh set the goals so high that we have a hard time uh reaching that goal. The Apostle Paul Had uh uh had God's goals in his mind, living for him. The prize is the is the uh result of of successful effort. God's aims and Paul's were exactly the same. In verse 12, it says God's purpose is calling, and Christ's purpose in redeeming him. Were his great objects in life. In other words, God's aims and Paul's aims were identical. What is God's aim for your life? What are the what are the the the goals that you have set in your life as a Christian? I know I'm I'm looking out there and I see uh Uh I see young people sitting here in the front and I see older people, uh gray hair here and there and and uh no hair every once in a while. But my question is this, what what I mean, uh sometimes we get a little bit older. I know how that is. In my life, I'll be uh eighty-six this year, and uh As I got older I realized that uh I had a tendency to s to start backing off because I'm I'm old and I use that as an excuse and my wife's always fussing at me because uh I say, well you He she'll say, Well you y why don't you do this? Why don't you do that? I say, Listen, I'm eighty-six years old and I'm getting old and it's decrepit and everything and I don't want to do that But uh, you know, God has a purpose for us. And it's amazing what God can do with somebody if we just let him let him work in our life And the Apostle Paul found that he wanted his focus in his life to be the same that God had for him. Each one of us needs to uh take uh an account of what you know what God is looking for in our lives. Because uh He's not finished with us. And there's uh there's plenty to do, Lord willing. We know that, don't we? What is God's aim in all the that uh that he's done for us? Uh He wants uh he he wants us to be godlike and he wants us to have a God pleasing character. Now you may feel like that that's uh that's hard. How can we be God like? Uh that's what this book is all about This book here reveals God to us. And uh the things that that are in this book are and are not over our head. The things that are in this book uh are things that are uh we can apply to our lives and and God can use them uh in our life if we're willing to to yield to them. So we need a we need a godlike character. We need to be seeking those things which are above where Christ said at the right hand of the Father. There ought to be uh the goals in life ought to be spiritual goals and not just the carnal goals that that uh we have a tendency to to make for ourselves. He wants us to to have a singular focus, to concentrate all of our effort on this one aim, whatever that that goal is for uh that God has set for you. This one thing I do, he says. Uh uh the let's see, we're Where he uses that in verse 13. He says, Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind. And reaching forth unto those things which are before. The Apostle Paul saw that things in his past could be a hindrance to him. I suspect that uh uh that all of us have things in our past that God can bring up to our foref uh uh uh uh forefront and and uh bombard us with all kinds of accusations. That's one of Satan's uh one of the things that Satan constantly works at, trying to bring our past up before us and and hammer us down to keep us from serving God. But he uh Paul says I I forg uh forgetting those things which are behind. Take those things out of our minds and put 'em in the back burner and say, uh, Lord, these are things that w that I dealt that you dealt with on the cross. And uh so I I'm asking you to to wipe them out of my mind and and let the uh let the good things come to the forefront We uh we have a tendency to uh you know to let these and uh uh let the good things I guess uh go and not uh and not be uh uh my mind just uh just did a backflip on me, so you just have to put up with me some I took a half a stick of uh uh what is that, caffeine gum That's supposed to do something for you, but all it does for me is to give me the shakes. This one thing I do. You can you can uh pursue this goal no matter uh What talents or what work he or she is called to do. I'm losing my train of thought in this whole thing here. This was one of the problems that I have uh uh I guess uh taken to myself after after the this minor stroke that I had. It just seems to give me a brain fog and and give me some problems that way to to remember stuff to uh to say Uh Well, uh you uh I I I assume that you're uh taping this, right? Sending it out in the air. That really that helps out a whole lot there Uh you know the other problem is uh the the the no the notes I have are the ones that I wrote before I had the stroke. And now it's difficult to read my own writing from those days. Of course, my writing after the stroke was worse, so We need to we need to to to uh have a uh ha to we need to concentrate all our effort uh into one aim. Uh what is the what is the aim? Let's let's do it this way. What is the is the gold of every Christian The goal of every Christian is to glorify God. That's the main thing. In Romans chapter 15, in verse 6, it says this. That ye may with one mind and one mouth glorify God. Even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now I have several verses. I'm not going to read all of them, but Matthew chapter 5 and verse 16 is the same thought. What is it? To glorify God. Our goal in this life is to lift up the Lord Jesus Christ. He says that, and I, if I be lifted up, I'll draw all men to me. So we know that the main goal of every Christian is to lift up the Lord Jesus Christ. And why is that? Well, uh we see the reason for it in these boxes here. to get the gospel out to people who need to get saved. Glorifying God is the is the the the main focus of uh of every Christian or ought to be So we need to have a singular focus on that one thing in our life. Can you do you have a goal in this life to glorify God? How do you do that anyway? How can you glorify God? Well you glorify God by by taking this book here and and uh and reading it every day. And in this book you find tidbits of information and knowledge and wisdom of the ages that God can use in your life And as you read this book and as you start applying these things in your life, you find that the things that you do are going to honor God, that they are going to glorify God. And that's the that's the whole purpose. That's what it's all about to begin with. You talk about winning souls. This church is is if it's if it's one thing, it's a soul-winning church. It's people who care about people, enough to to embarrass themselves if need be to witness to them, to tell them about Christ. These are things that that that uh uh only Christians uh can be involved with. The uh The second thing that I would say is that uh this thing of of seeking and forgetting, uh I've already mentioned There's so many things in in our past lives that Satan can can pull out and and uh put before our eyes and try to bombard us But the simple truth is that uh most of that garbage that he brings up in our in our past life are things that God's already dealt with and has already said, hey, I forgive you. I forgave you that years ago. Why are you bringing it up today? You don't even need to need to mention it anym any longer. You know, uh we have a tendency to tra and I tendency to remember stuff that just is just real garbage that floods your mind that Satan through uses to uh to try to to tear you up. And uh we need to get to get back to what the Bible says, that if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us, cleanse us from all unrighteousness. That's what those verses are for. It's not to give us a license to sin and so we can get out and do whatever we want to and then just confess it. No. But it's to relieve a guilty conscience and to let you know that God is concerned about you as an individual. So, pursue this end with wise forgetfulness. Forgetting those things which are behind. Forgetting our past failures and faults. Satan used them to discourage us. But don't forget God's goodness to us. Don't forget God's forgiveness never fails. Don't forget God's promises of victory. And don't forget to be thankful of a God that has forgiven you and cleansed you from all unrighteousness. Seek it with eagerness. That's one of my uh points here. Pursue with vigor. Well, okay. That sounds great Reaching, notice, reaching for. Let's get back over here in into into Philippians. He says, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forth. The picture that I see is when I see the those two words reaching forth is that the uh what I see at the Olympics in the races and here's uh two guys coming down to the finish line. And boy they're pumping away. I mean they're going at it. But when they get down to that finish line, you see these two guys who are already at about this angle. All at once you see them lean over just a little bit farther. reaching for that finish line. And that's what God's trying to say to us. We need to to put some effort and to reach forth or the prize that God has for us. The Apostle Paul was a man of great character He was a man that had suffered a lot for the cause of Christ. But when he came all down to it, his mind was focused on one thing. That was to glorify God and to meet Him one day. You and I, one of these days, are going to stand before the Lord. And uh when we stand there Are we going to be able to say like the Apostle Paul, you know, I've finished my course, and therefore there's lived for me a crown of righteousness? Or will be ashamed. Let us make men in our own image. That's what God did Back in uh in the Garden of Eden. Formed men out of the dust of the earth and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and he became a living soul. And ever since then, after the fall, the one thing that God has been trying to do is to build men and women in his own image again. And that's that's what uh this this these scriptures are all about here. Is allowing God to do a work. We're his workmanship created in Christ Jesus. He he is wanting to do a work in our life. That'll make us more godlike and with a with a character that mimics God. And that's what we we need to be s uh striving for here tonight. If you're maybe you're here tonight and and you're uh maybe you've uh allowed some habits to slip into your life. These things are are things that Satan keeps bringing up in your mind and trying to destroy you and trying to discourage you. Well, it's time tonight to do something about that. Maybe you're here tonight and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior. I look around and I you know, everyone I see look like they're you know, people that uh I've seen all these years that we've been coming up here, most of 'em, and and uh so you've trusted Christ and but uh let me ask you a question. Are you glorifying God in your life? Are the things in your life um uh uh emanating Christ. The Bible tells us we're we're to put on the mind of Christ. Wow, that's that's pretty heavy stuff. To put on the mind of Christ? How do we do that? Now there's only one way I know about it. Whatever Christ's mind is found in these books, this these pages of this book right here. And so if we we hide the Word of God in our heart, That we might not sin against God. Those are just one or two of the ways that we can. The idea is to put so much of God in our life. then it starts to come out and people uh start bragging about uh how you're somebody that you know that uh helps and takes care of people. Well, we may have made a mess of this message, but the truth of the matter is uh I believe we all want God to be eminent in our life. Just like I mentioned this morning, John the Baptist saying, said, he must increase and I must decrease And that's where we're at today. We're trying to try to uh uh decrease a little bit and uh let God do some increasing in their life. And I hope you feel the same way about it. Let's bow our heads and close her eyes. Our Heavenly Father, uh we always feel like we are so inadequate But we know, Lord, that uh you take the small things and the insignificant things, the little things in life and and can apply them to in ways that we know nothing about it. So I pray that tonight that you'd take what uh whatever truths are found in the Word of God that I've mentioned tonight, that you would take those truths, apply them to our hearts, help us to See maybe some areas in our life where we're really we're not really glorifying God. We're just living a life. So often, Lord, we just uh uh go through life with a smile on our face and the Bible tucked under our arm, but it really doesn't mean anything. But Lord, I pray that you'd give us a purpose each day when we climb out of the sack. As we eat our breakfast and say our prayer over our breakfast, may our prayer be, Lord, help us to glorify you somehow today. Let people see Jesus in my life So Lord, do a work here tonight. Perhaps there's some that need to come and let you work in their life over a special thing that uh is that they're dealing with. And maybe there's one here that's never been saved, never trusted Christ, and they don't know what this new life in Christ is all about. And uh they need to have some questions answered, I prayed. You'd help them to come forward and let's take a Bible and show them what the answer to their problem is. Then Lord, uh, we just ask you here tonight. Uh Uh help us to glorify you. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Heads bowed and eyes closed, nobody looking around. I wonder if there's smoke's here tonight. Say, Brother Williams, uh I'd like for you to remember me in prayer. There's some things in my life that I'm concerned about, and and I'd just like for you to mention me whenever you pray. Would you slip your hand up? Just raise it up. Amen. God bless you. Put 'em down. A couple of hands here and there. All of us have something, I know that. But it may be that uh God has spoken to you about something special. Maybe you're here tonight and you've never been saved. And you'd like for this preacher just to remember you in prayer, would you slip your hand up and let me see that hand? All right. Heavenly Father, thank you. I saw a hand back there. Heavenly Father, thank you, Lord, for these folks. Been so uh uh good to uh uh put up with us. And we just ask you to bless our time now in this invitation. Let those who need to come and deal with something in their life help them to come. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen, Amen. Let's all stand with their heads bowed and eyes closed.