When I hear that song, we used to sing that when I was a kid at camp. I like the song, I just hated camp. But um if you would take your Bibles, turn with me. We're gonna look at a lot of verses tonight So I hope you got your Bibles. I hope you're ready to use them this evening. We're going to start out in 1 Corinthians chapter 8. Corinthians chapter 8. When you find that, then find also help save a little bit of time, Romans 14. 1 Corinthians 8 and Romans 14. I've uh enjoyed preparing this message. Uh I I enjoy studying period across the board, but uh I really enjoyed this. I've never uh really studied this subject. Um in any f uh uh detailed way. And so I was surprised, as I usually am, how much the Bible deals with this subject and how it is throughout Scripture So many illustrations and um uh I hope you enjoy this as much as I enjoy prepared. I hope it helps us. But I want to look tonight. We've been we've been talking for the last month or so about getting along and functioning with other believers, other people, primarily within the church, but our study is really spilled outside the church and working with folks in general And tonight I want to look at the subject, and the Bible, as I said, deals a good bit with it, but uh dealing with folks who are stumbling blocks to us Uh folks who uh and I think we all uh have dealt with them, I've no doubt, at some point in our Christian life, and no doubt we'll continue to, but folks that for whatever reason we get around them, we end up Saying or doing things we really don't intend to. Afterward, we say, oh man, how'd I get caught up in that Or folks, we get around them and we end up neglecting some things that we know are right, that ought to be a part of our life, and they just become stumbling blocks. in my walk with the Lord in my Christian growth. Look with me if you would. 1 Corinthians chapter 8 and verse number 9. The Bible says, but take heed, and I circled that phrase, take heed. It's a warning here. Lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to them that are weak For if any man see thee, which hast knowledge, sit at meet in the idol's temp in the idol's temple, shall not the conscience of him which is weak be emboldened to eat those things which are offered to idols? And through thy knowledge shall the weak brother perish, for whom Christ died. For when ye sin so against the brethren and wound their weak conscience, ye sin against Christ. Wherefore, if my if meat make my brother to offend, I will eat no flesh while the world standeth, lest I make my brother to offend. That word offend there is very similar in meaning, almost identical to the word stumbling block. Now come over if you would to Romans chapter 14. Now if you've been in our adult Sunday school class, we've been dealing with this passage the last month or so Pretty much in depth, but look with me at verse 13 of Romans 14. Let us not therefore judge another anymore. But judge this rather, that no man put a stumbling block or an occasion to fall in his brother's way. The Bible's talking about being the Well, let's pray and then I'll get into this. Father in heaven, please bless our study of your word. And uh I pray you'd help us to do as the word we just read said, to beware. Beware that we not be a stumbling block, and beware that we not stumble by others' actions or inactions. Fill me with your spirit, I ask, Lord. And speak through me. Apply this to our lives so we can be victorious. And when it's all said and done, you will be pleased with our lives and our testimony. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Now the context in 1 Corinthians 8 and Romans 14 is the same. As I said, if you've been in a Sunday school, you know that Romans 14, Paul is addressing a situation that was fairly common then, which is it may seem kind of strange to us today. But what it was is these had new believers, they had gotten saved, they wanted to live for God They wanted to do right in every way, and their conscience was very tender, very sensitive. That's a good thing What was the situation was in both of these passages is of course idolatry was a big thing then, false gods and all that type of thing, and there were sacrifices involved And what would happen was these idolaters, these pagans, would worship these false gods, they would offer a sacrifice, a goat or a ram or whatever, and then they would take that meat and they'd sell it in the marketplace. They would invite their friends and neighbors to come over and they'd have the meal. And they would eat that meat that was offered to a sacrifice. Now Paul says that there was nothing wrong with eating that meat. There's no such other gods. They're false gods. They don't exist. And so there's no real consequence of eating that meat. But some Christians were what Paul called and the Bible calls weak Christians, and they were very sensitive to that And they felt guilty. They felt it was wrong for them to eat that meat that was offered to an idol. And so a fuss came up between the two. And they got into Romans talks about doubtful disputations, the stronger Christian who understood that there was nothing significant about it whatsoever began to uh look down on the weaker Christian who was very sensitive to eating that and the weaker Christian began to judge the stronger Christian and say, well you're not a very good Christian if you're eating this type of thing and it just went on and on. So that's the context. The principle given here is this in both of these passages. Is that I never have the liberty to do something that directly hinders another person's walk with God. And he was saying this. You stronger Christians, listen, if you eat that meat, which you're free to do, the Bible doesn't address that. There's nothing wrong with it. You have liberty to eat that meat if you want. But if that is going to cause the weaker Christian to stumble, if that's going to hurt their walk with God, if that's going to cause them to get off track, so to speak Then you ought not to eat that meat. Don't let your liberty become a stumbling block to the weaker Christian. And so we're introduced here to this idea of my actions hurting another person's walk with God Now, if you would, turn with me to Luke chapter 17. Now those two passages in Roman Corinthians It's talking about me and me not causing a weaker Christian to stumble or another Christian to stumble. Now we get to Luke chapter 17. We're kind of shifting over to what I want to zero in on, and that is this. How do I deal with people who their actions influence me and hinder my walk with God? Look at Luke chapter 17 and verse number 1. Jesus speaking here, then said he unto the disciples. Now there's two important truths in this I want to pull out to get us get started here. He said unto the disciples, It is impossible, but that offenses will come. That word offenses is actually translated other places in our Bibles, stumbling blocks, stumbling stones. It is impossible, but that offenses will come Now look at the next rest of it. But woe unto him, what's that next word? Through whom they come. It were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck and he and be cast and he cast into the sea than he should offend one of these little ones Now, as I said, I see two very important principles or truths here. Number one, it is impossible to get through life without having to deal with offenses. Did you see that first part? It is impossible. The word impossible means it can't be avoided. You cannot avoid offenses in life. You cannot avoid stumbling blocks. You cannot avoid going through your Christian life and not having to deal with things that will trip you up Not having to deal with things that can interfere and hinder and hurt your walk with God gets you to do things you know you should not do, gets you to not do things you know you should do. You cannot avoid that. That's part of life. The word offenses there, I thought this was interesting. I got looking it up. It uh is translated sometimes stick, a stick. A trap or a snare. I mean it's literal, very narrow meaning. And the idea is this, you're walking down a And there's a stick or a root sticking up, and it catches your foot, and you stumble and fall. And your walk is impeded. You fall. Or a snare, a trap. You're walking along and you step in that snare and it grabs you by the ankle and you can't go forward and you get hung up right there That's the idea. It is anything that causes me to stumble or impedes my walk with God. So he says it's impossible. First thing here, we've got to accept the fact: no matter where we go, no matter what we work, no matter what type of family we have, no matter what community we live in, no matter what church we're a member of. We're going to have to deal with offenses. There's going to be things people say, there's going to be things people do, there's going to be influences by others that are going to be there and become possible offenses for me. possibly cause me to trip and fall or snag and hurt my growth and my walk with God. So principle number one, it's impossible to get through a Christian life without dealing with offenses. Second truth I see in this is this. The last thing we want to do is be an offense. To someone else. Look what he says. Look at the last part of verse 1. Now, this is Jesus speaking. But woe unto him through whom they come He says, you can't escape them. They're out there. That's part of life. But you make sure you're not one of those stumbling blocks. You make sure you're not that stick. Woe unto the one through whom these offenses that you can't get away from, woe unto that one they come from. The word woe means misery, unhappiness, and sometimes it even has the idea of judgment upon him. Then, if that doesn't convey the seriousness of the issue, he goes to verse number two And he says it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck and he cast into the sea, than he should offend one of these little ones The Lord said, listen, it's b how many people like to go swimming? I like to go swimming. I don't anymore. Every time I jump in the pool, all the water goes out. But um Uh I like to I I used to go swimming a lot when I was a kid and all that. But I I n I I how many people ever l went swimming in the ocean? In the sea. Yeah, I love it. Surfing and all that. I never surfed, but we body surf and all that. And um but uh I never wanted to go in the water with a millstone around my neck That would be bad. Right? Can I get a witness? That would be bad. And so the Lord, I'm being a little facetious here, but the Lord is being very, very serious. The Lord's saying, you better make sure that you yourself do not become a hindrance to somebody else's walk with God. And the Lord knows we do not want to become a hindrance to somebody else coming to Christ. Can you imagine? I mean I don't even want to, but can you imagine standing at the great white throne judgment when God is going through the book of life and people whose names are not in there are being cast in the lake of fire and I see someone and because I had a pitiful sorry testimony That person ends up being cast in the lake of fire. I was a hindrance uncoming Christ. Can you imagine the horror of that? He says, whoa. unto him through whom those offenses come. So he deals with this matter of stumbling blocks. Now I have two things, two thoughts tonight, two approaches to this whole subject. Number one, I'm going to look at characteristics of folks who are stumbling blocks. Three different types that I see Three different types of stumbling blocks or people who will hinder our walk with God. I think we need to be aware of that. Number one, the first type or characteristic is someone who is a deliberate stumbling block. Someone who deliberately, on purpose, premeditated, does everything they can to try and mess up my Christian testimony. I mean, they are out to destroy my testimony. They are out to hinder and ruin my walk with God and keep me from being a Christian. Now, as much as we hate to admit it, there are people like that. There are people for whatever reason. They hate God, perhaps, they hate the Bible, they hate Christianity. And perhaps the very fact that you're a Christian trying to live for God and have a good testimony irks them? Personally, I think it's c could often be an indication that they are under conviction that what you have is good and right and true and they don't have it, and rather than submitting and accepting and trusting Christ They become bitter against it and they begin to oppose it. For instance, the Apostle Paul. Would you agree with me? He tried to hinder and destroy Christians' testimony and their walk with God before he got saved. Sure, he was hailing many, the Bible says, and casting in prison. Women and children. No doubt he was responsible for the murder of many Christians. But when the Lord confronted Paul on the road to Damascus, he said, Paul, Paul, why persecutest thou me? And Paul said, What? Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said this, it is hard for thee to kick against the bricks. He was saying, Paul, you're kicking against that thorn. And it's hurting you. You know what I believe the Lord was saying to Paul? Paul, you've been a stumbling block. You've been trying to hurt people and hinder their walk with God. And you have been fighting conviction the whole time. So there are some folks who are deliberate stumbling blocks. Those are the most obvious. I would say those are probably the least dangerous because we say them. They're obviously out against us. Turn with me, if you would. Now keep your place here in Luke. We're going to end up back in Luke towards the end. But if you would, come to the book of Proverbs. Believe it or not, amazingly so, Proverbs deals a lot with this subject. And the more I got studying it, the more passages from Proverbs came to light Turn with me if you would to Proverbs chapter 1. By the way, I've been looking lately, and I'd be interested if anybody knows where I could get one. I'm looking for the book of Proverbs in booklet form. I can't find it. I called a number of publishers in different places, book Christian booksellers, and uh nobody has any, but I wouldn't don't you think that would be great? Book of Proverbs in booklet form. So if you ever come across it, let me know. But look at Proverbs chapter one and verse number ten He says, My son, the whole book of Proverbs is primarily directed towards Solomon's sons. It's directed towards young men. But look what he says: My son, if sinners entice thee Consent thou not. Now notice it says the sinners, if they entice thee. The word entice there means to draw off the track, to lure away from He says there are some people, he's pointing out right in the book of the beginning of the book of Proverbs, he says there are some people that will deliberately try to pull you off track. There are some people who will deliberately try to allure you away from that which is good and right and which is pleasing to God. They'll try and keep you from fulfilling the purpose and plan that God has for your life. If sinners entice thee, consent thou not. Come over to Proverbs chapter 7. This whole chapter is A uh is uh an account of an event that a woman of a woman becoming a stumbling block to a young man. Look with me if you would. We'll begin in verse. Number six. For at the window of my house I looked through my casement and beheld among the simple ones. I discerned among the youths a young man void of understanding. Not very impressive young man, is he? Now look what he says. Passing through the street, a young man void of understanding, passing through the street near her corner, and he went away to her house. Speaking of the strange woman, verse 5. Now look what it says. In the twilight, in the evening, in the black and dark night, and behold, there met him a woman. With the attire of a harlot and subtle of heart. Now, I don't want to get too far off track, but it's interesting here. This woman is not a harlot. She's a married woman, we find out a little bit later on. But she has the attire of a harlot. You know what that tells me? Without getting off a rabbit trail too much here, you know what that tells me? The way we dress says a lot about what we how we are. Huh? She was dressed like a harlot. She wasn't a harlot, but she sure enough looked like one Now read on. And subtle of heart, she is loud and stubborn. Her feet abide not in her house. Now is the uh now is she without now in the streets and lieth in wait at every corner. And she caught him and kissed him, and with an impudent face said unto him, I have peace offerings with me This day have I paid my vows, therefore came I forth to meet thee, and diligently to seek thy face, and I have found thee. I have decked my bed with coverings of tapestry, with carved works and fine linen of Egypt I have perfumed my bed with myrrh and aloes and cinnamon. Come, let us take our fill of love until the morning. Let us solace ourselves with love. For the goodman is not at home, that's her husband. He is gone and a bag of money with him. He hath taken a bag of money with him, and will come home at the day appointed. Look at this. With her much fair speech she caused him to what? Yield. She pulled him off track. She got him out of the will of God. And it goes on and gives the tragic story, and how her house is the way to hell, and the dead are there. And would you agree with me? This woman was a stumbling block to this stupid young man. That's the whole story. She lured him away. She got him off of the right straight and narrow way. She drew him away from God's will and what was right and destroyed his life in testimony Some people are deliberate stumbling blocks. They don't care about your God. They don't care about your testimony. They don't care about whether you're pleasing the Lord or not. They don't care about whether how you're going to stand at the judgment seat of Christ. They just want to pull you over to where they are. Deliberate. Let me give you another one more passage. Proverbs 16, verse 29. Proverbs 16 and verse 29. A violent man enticeth his neighbor and leadeth him into the way that is not what? Good. Here he says there are some people who are going to try and entice you, they're going to try and entice me. Whatever their motives are, it's insignificant, but they are out to get us off track. They are out to get us out of the way that is good. And so we need to be aware The Lord said in Luke 17, it is impossible, but that offenses will come. It is impossible, but there are people that are going to deliberately try and hurt your and my walk with God. Out of selfishness, out of sensuality, out of whatever motives they may be, but they are out to draw us away from God's will for our lives. Then I see a second type of stumbling block, person that's a stumbling block. Not a deliberate necessarily, but I put it this way, a diluted stumbling block. In other words, this person thinks they know what is right, but they really don't. They think they know what is best. They think they know what God wants. They think they know what you and they should do. But they're wrong. Again, the Bible speaks of that. We're in Proverbs. Come with me, let's see. We'll go to the back of the book and work our way front. Go to Proverbs 28. Proverbs chapter 28 and verse 26. These are folks who they think is right. Listen, I've preached over the years. I've said this statement uh who knows how many times, scores of times. I always say this. Don't do what you think is right. Do what God says is right. Now these are people who don't know or really don't care what God says is right. They think they've got it all They think they know what is right and what is best and what's pleasing to God. Look at Proverbs 28 and verse 26. He says, He that trusteth in his own heart is a what? Fool. He's saying, listen, if you do and what you think is right, you're a fool. Now that's a strong statement. There are some people out there who are trusting in their own heart. And you're trying to live for God, and you're trying to do right and you're trying to obey the Bible, and they'll come along and say, you know You know, this that that's not so let me tell you how it really is. This is the way I say, and I've got this over the years. People come, I mean, there's a passage of scripture, clear as can be And they'll come and say this, well, this is how I interpret it. We better watch out for that. Especially on clear passages of scripture. Come to chapter 15. We're working our way backwards here a little bit uh Proverbs chapter 15 and look with me at verse number five. These are people, they may mean well, but they just Think that they know what is right and they really don't. Proverbs 15, verse 5. A fool, look at this: a fool despiseth his father's instructions. Now let me put it this way. Now again, the book of Proverbs is primarily addressed to young man, Solomon's boy, he's writing to. But you know what he's saying here? He's saying this guy thinks he knows more than daddy. Huh? How many of us have been there when when we were young? Ah, he's an old fuddy dad. He don't know nothing. And uh you know what I'm finding out? I'm finding out I'm talking and thinking more like my dad the older I get. Huh? Can I get a witness? Um you know my boys are starting to say to me, they're saying, Dad, I'm catching myself saying stuff that you say. Um this guy, he's got it all together. I know what Daddy said, I know what the old fogies say, but Let me tell you, I know how it is. This is the year 2011. Uh the younger generation, those old folks just don't see it. Tell you what, that's the one that's going to get you off track. They think they know better than everyone else. They've got it all figured out. And they don't want to hear what God or anyone else has to say. They're going to tell you how it is. Well, you don't have to do that to be right with God. You can do this and you can still be right with God. Wait a minute You better hold it up to the light of Scripture rather than that guy's own understanding. And so let's go to chapter 12, just a few verses back. These are diluted stumbling blocks They're not necessarily out to destroy it. They just think they know better than God. Proverbs 12, verse 15 Look at this. The way of a fool is right in his own eyes. But he that hearkeneth unto counsel is wise. It's interesting if you go to Proverbs chapter 19, that word counsel is used repeatedly to refer to the Word of God. And what he's saying here is: listen, you try and live the Christian life the way you think you should, and you establish your own standards and your own convictions. You're a fool. But if you listen to what God says. And you establish your life and your convictions and live by the principles of God's word, then you're wise. And some people out there are just going to do it the way they think. One more passage, chapter 3, and verse number 7. Proverbs chapter 3 and verse number 7. Notice what he says here. Of course, chapter 3, 5, and 6 are classic. But look at verse 7. Be not wise in thine own eyes. Would you agree with me? Some people are wise in their own eyes. Right? They think they know. Hey, you can go to your average Christian bookstore, and there are hundreds of books written by people who are wise in their own eyes They're telling you what Christianity is, they're telling you what this is, they're telling you what that is. Can I be bold enough to suggest to you the vast majority? of uh contemporary Christianity is people being wise in their own eyes. We're deciding how the church decided can be run. We're deciding what's right and wrong. We're deciding what pleases God and what doesn't please God. We're deciding what our purpose and uh in life is and uh what uh uh we're deciding what the purpose-driven church is And we're all leaning on our they're all leaning on their own understanding of all of this and not coming to the Word of God. What happens is they pull people off track. And they cause people to stumble. By the way, these folks can be awfully persuasive I mean they can justify and excuse and explain away. Let me go, let me throw a little um Just a little nugget out there to you. Anytime somebody takes a passage of scripture, now you have to be careful. I don't know you can do it across the board, but Watch out when folks start saying something like this. Well that just dealt with the customs of their day. Watch out for that There may be some things in there where very specific for like the Israelites or whatever, but I venture to say in every passage of Scripture, if it doesn't deal directly with something I need to deal with, there's a principle there. You follow what I'm saying? And watch out for folks explaining away clear and obvious passages of Scripture. They're leaning on their own understanding. Now, there's a third Stumbling block, typo stumbling block, and I'm not going to get to the second half of this message. I can see it. I thought this message would last about 12 minutes. Boy, was I wrong. I think every message is going to last 12 minutes. Let me give you a third one. And next week we'll have to actually it won't be next week because we got Brother Fluge coming in, but the next time we'll come and look at how to deal with them. But let me give you this third. type of stumbling block. We had the deliberate. They're just hateful. They're out to hurt you. For whatever reason they're out there. Then you have the diluted They think they're helping you. They think they know it all. And boy, they're going to tell you and give you all their advice and you're going to be end up messed up You're going to end up doing stuff in your heart you know is wrong. You're going to end up not doing things that in your heart you know you should be. They're deluded. And there's a third one, and I put it this way, the dead weight stumbling block The dead weight. Now we don't have to turn there, but I think we're familiar, most of us are familiar with Revelation 3. 16. Jesus is rebuking the church there, and he says, I would that you were hot or cold. But because you are what? Lukewarm, I will, what's he say? I'm going to spew you out of my mouth. You make me sick. The lukewarm Christian he's talking about there is the one they're not helping you live for God necessarily, and they're not openly opposing you living for God. They're just dead weight. They're like dragging an anchor behind you. You're trying to live for God and do right, and it's just uh they're dead weight. They're not against you going to church. But they're sure enough not going to help you. And they're not against you going to church, but hey, if they can come up with something else to do on Wednesday night, hey, come on over. They're not they know you should man tonight's church night. I know, but come on, it's the only night this game's on. And they're just dead weight. Just dead weight It's just kind of I always gotta defend my actions. I've always got to explain why I'm trying to do what the Bible says. They don't try and talk me out of it, and they don't oppose it, they just do nothing to help me. And you've got to watch out for folks like that. That just drag you down. And you find yourself around them, and their influence is such that you read your Bible less. Your church tenants drops off, your witnessing fades out, your love for God and your concern about doing right and living for God becomes less and less of a priority. And it's just dead weight. Now, here's the thing, and I'll end with this. You know who hurts us the most, usually, a lot of times? It's people who we consider friends. And this is why I say that. I look back, now this is before I was saved. But I look back. Guess who introduced me to smoking cigarettes when I was a kid? A friend. Friend. Guess who introduced me to drinking? It was a friend. Wasn't an enemy showed up. It was a friend Uh guess who got me smoking pot and doing stuff like that? It was a friend. Somebody I hung around with, somebody I was spending time with, somebody I like. They like me. And you can go down the list of things that destroyed my life. And every one of them, every one of them without fail, was a friend. Now that tells me something that applies to our subject here. The people we choose to be around have a tremendous influence on us. And what I need to do is I need to evaluate: is this person that is influencing me so much, are they a stumbling block to my walk with God? Or are they a stepping stone? When I leave the time I spend with Him, am I closer to the Lord than I was before? Or is my love for God a little colder? Am I closer to God because of their influence, or am I more like the world because of their influence? Now, some people will deliberately try and get you out away from God into the world Other people are fools, but they think they're wise, and they'll come up with all these reasons why you've got to not do what God says, and you can still be right with God. And then some people are just lukewarm, and they just drag you down, drag you down, drag you down. Now, believe it or not, the Bible gives us about three or four principles to apply to people that are one of these three. And how to deal with that. And so we'll have to get that next time because we don't have time. Father in heaven, please help us. Lord, help us number one not to be a stumbling block to others, but to be a stumbling block Stepping stone, help other people grow and be a positive influence in their faith in you and their walk with you. God, I ask you to help us to watch out for folks That do not help us, that drag us down, that hurt our testimony and our faith in you. Lord, we don't want to get to the end of our lives and find out that we messed up. And so help us, Lord. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. And we're going to deal with this matter of being judgmental and all of that. But I wonder if there's some here tonight would say, preacher, you know, you're preaching that, you're talking that And there's people that are coming to mind, and they influence me. And it's not in a positive way. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me, that God will give me the grace and the wisdom. to deal with folks who are negative influence. I mean maybe it's folks at work, maybe it's folks in the community, at home, could even be in the church. But you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me be wise and God will give me grace to deal with folks who are really, in some ways, are stumbling blocks. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. There's names, there's faces, there's people come to mind. God bless you. Bunch of hands around Now we'll talk about how to deal with that without being judgmental, but it's a reality of life. The Lord said it's impossible it's going to happen. We got to deal with it. How many would say, preacher, you know, I look at myself in the mirror Man, the Lord dealt with my heart. There's some ways that I've been a stumbling block to others. I can see it. And God's dealt with me about that. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I will not be a stumbling block But I'll be a help. I want to be a blessing and encouragement to others in their walk with God. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. I can see it in the mirror and God's dealt with my heart. God bless you. Let's ask the Lord to help us. Let's ask Him for wisdom and grace. Father, bless now our invitation. A lot of us raised our hands, Lord. It's a reality in life. So Lord, we're asking you to give us the grace and the wisdom that we can recognize this. And then take the necessary steps to correct it so that our lives are pleasing to you. Our witness is clear. Our influence is strong for the gospel. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together.