Oh you do have a special, I'm sorry. And it's Mark, I guess. I'm satisfied with just the climate below. A little silver and a little gold, but in that city, well the wrist and will shine I want a gold one that silver line. I got an answer Tres open of hills up in that pride land where we'll never grow old And someday yonder, we will never more wander, but what the trees have our curious old Though what content, tormented and tested, and like the prophet, my fellow was stone And though I find here no permanent dwelling, I now will give me While I'm making my air, I'm going to mention just over the hills up. In that bright land where we'll never grow, and someday under We will never more wander, but walk the streets, and our cure is gone Don't thank me for deserted or ball me. I'm not discouraged. I'm heaven bram, I'm just a pilgrim in such a city I want a mention, a heart and a friend. I got a mention Drifts over the hills up in that bright land where we'll never grow, and some may yonder We will nevermore wander the walk the street are pure and Very good. That was good singing, wasn't it? You can say amen even when it's a small crowd. Ephesians chapter five, if you would turn there. I um We're not going to keep you long, and I mean that tonight. We um I know the weather could change very easily out there, and uh I want to uh just give you basically the outline of what I had tonight And uh Ephesians chapter 5. If you'll remember, we've been by it's good to see Dave and his family out. God bless you. We're glad you guys are here tonight. And um if you remember we've been looking at uh operating within the church family and you know any church, regardless of its size It's made up of different people, people with different personalities, different backgrounds, different preferences, and different stages of their Christian growth And so uh we need to understand not everybody thinks the way we think necessarily, although we agree we're all committed to the fundamentals of faith and but uh as far as life is concerned Uh we have different takes on things, we're at different stages, and so we got to be able to interact with others. Um we talked about what about somebody that is antagonistic towards me? What if for whatever reasons Our personalities clash. And uh, you know, and uh I think we all have folks, you know, you just can't get along with. You try to, and uh it's just a clash of personalities Now don't look at your spouse when I'm saying that type of stuff. You know, you've got to get along with them. But uh how do you deal with that? You know, the Bible gives us instructions on that, how to get along with people who would be our enemies. Um How about folks that have messed up really bad? You know, what about somebody that really sinned? Thank you, Mark. And uh how do I sometimes you get real self-conscious, you know, how do you deal with them? What do you say The Bible gives us instruction on that. Tonight I want to look at this matter of folks being a follower And I'm not necessarily talking about interacting, but understanding my role as a follower and what it means to be a follower in the church. I think this will really, really help. Notice Ephesians chapter five. I don't think I'm on, Dave, am I? There we go. Thanks. Ephesians 5, verse 1. Look what it says. Be ye therefore what? Followers of God as dear children. In Corinthians, Paul says, Be followers of me as he's instructing the church, be followers of me as I follow Christ. So that tells me a few things. And we're going to look at others. I don't think I prayed yet. Let's pray real quick. Yes, Lord, bless the lesson. Father, thank you, Lord, for the folks that came out tonight. God, it was ugly. A lot of folks had reason to stay home, and we understand that. But uh those of us that are here, I pray you'd speak our hearts. Fill me with your spirit, I pray. Use this message to help our church to be everything you intend for us to be as a church. We want to be successful. We want to please you, Lord. We want to get to heaven, hear you say to our church that what we did was well done. And so fill me and use me and use this truth, these truths tonight, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Ephesians 5. 1. Notice, come over to chapter . Stay in chapter 5. Come over to verse 22. And he begins a section here that runs into chapter 6. That is very interesting if you'll notice the order of the people that the Lord addresses. Look in verse 22. Who's being addressed in Ephesians 5. 22? It's the wives. He's talking about the marriage situation, and he deals with the role and the responsibility of the wives. Then come down to verse 25. Who's being addressed there in verse 25? The husbands. Now, isn't that interesting? Who does he deal with first? The wife He addresses the wife, he deals with her responsibilities, her role in the home, then he deals with the husband. From our understanding of scripture, in the marriage setting, from God's perspective Who would be the leader and the follower? Who would be the leader in the home? The husband, and the follower would be the wife, from the biblical perspective. Yet in this passage, he addresses the wife first Come down to verse number or chapter 6 in verse 1. Who's being addressed there? The children. He deals with the children's role in the home, the children's responsible. Which is very, very simple. The child's role and responsibility is as simple as it gets. Just do what you're told. Basically what it is. Children, obey your parents. Then come down to verse number uh four, and who's being addressed there? The fathers. Oh, here we have it again The father would be considered in the parent-child relationship, the father would be considered the leader, the child would be the follower. Everybody would agree with that. Nevertheless, in the Bible, God addresses the follower first. The child. Then he addresses the father. Let's go a little farther. Look at verse number five. Who's being addressed in verse five? Servants come down to verse number nine, who's being addressed there? The master. Again, we see this repeated The servant, or what in our society today, our context, best for us to understand it, would be the employee and the employer. And he deals with the servant first, the follower in this relationship. Then he addresses the leader. Now I think that's significant. I don't think it's just coincidence that God dressed addressed the follower than the leader I think there's a principle behind this. I think there's a truth. That's important for us to understand. I was for five years, I was a member of the Highland Park Baptist Church down in Chattanooga, Tennessee Dr. Lee Robertson, for several of those years, was my pastor. Some of you are familiar with Dr. Robertson. He passed away. Huge church, great leader, great man of God around the world. He had a famous quote that he was well known for. Does anybody besides my wife recall? I mentioned it several times here. I don't know if it's stuck in your mind. But he had a famous statement, a fate a statement he's very famous for. Does anybody remember what that was? I I didn't know if any Betty? Okay, yeah, that was his r th theme he repeated. That was one. But he's one that he's well known for. I'll start it. Everything rises and falls Does anybody remember it? Well, I've got to quote him more, apparently. It goes like this. Everything rises and falls on leadership. Back in the day, by the way, I was looking at some pictures, current pictures, of guys I went to high school with. Man, they are all old. I can't believe those guys got old. But um back in the day, uh uh that was all the independent Baptists knew, Dr. Lee Robinson, everything rises and falls on leadership, he'd talk like that And uh I agree with that. I say amen 100%. But Mike, as my gained some experience, and if I studied the Bible, I believe there's another statement we can tag on to that Everything does rise and fall in leadership. We cannot overstate the importance of leadership. But I want to suggest to you that followship is just as important as leadership. We cannot overstate the importance of leadership, but I believe we can and often do underestimate the importance of fellowship. Now I'm going to very quickly give you just a few observations that I've made in studying scripture, some statements I've come across about this matter being a follower. And I think when we get to the end, you'll see how it fits into our church relationship and how it helps us uh recognize and deal with one another. Number one, if you want to jot these down, I think they're very helpful. Number one, I noticed that everyone is a follower Look at chapter 5, verse 1 again. Be ye therefore what? Followers. That is a command of God God expects us to be followers. We are created as followers. What animal does Jesus refer to believers as more than any other animal? Sheep. When you think of a sheep, do you picture a follower or a leader? Sheep is a follower. They need a shepherd. They need someone. That's the way God describes us, all of us. We were created by God to be followers, to be followers of God, to follow his instructions, to follow his guidance So we are followers. That's what we are. In our makeup, we're designed to be followers. God designed us that way. If I fail to see the fact That I'm a follower, I will mess my life up. If I get in my head, nobody tells me what to do. Brother, you're just a train wreck waiting to happen. I've got to understand God has created me to need leadership in my life. All of us Mankind needs leadership. So everyone is a follower. The pastor of a church is a follower. The president of the United States is a follower. We say, boy, we need some leadership in the White House. And I say amen to that. And I'm not commenting on the parent resident there. I'm simply saying yes, we do need leadership. But wait a minute I want somebody pastoring my church or running my business or being the president of my country. I want somebody that is able to listen to good advice Huh? Somebody that is able to say, all right, be able to have the wisdom to discern who I should listen to, whose advice I should take. Nobody knows everything. Right? And so I have got to be wise enough in whatever role I am as a leader, and we're going to notice in a little bit, we're all leaders also. But whatever my role is as a leader, I may be the ultimate I may have the ultimate responsibility when it's all said and done, I've got to answer for the decisions made But I've got to understand there are some people that know things about things better than I do that I've got to be able to listen to them and be able to be wise enough to know whose advice to take And so we're all followers to some degree. Even the most powerful man in the world, the President of the United States, if he's smart He recognizes there are some men that know a little bit more about military strategy than he does. And so he follows the advice Of his military advisors. Now he has to be wise. He's probably going to get several different scenarios, and he has to be wise which is the best to go with, but he's following somebody's advice Uh he needs to know the best economic advisors in the world. I think he should get him around. Some of our greatest presidents uh were not necessarily that intelligent in all these areas, but they were smart enough to bring smart people around them. I like uh what Bob Jones Sr. said years ago. He's And I'm kill- I'm I'm I'm murdering this quote, but uh it is something to the effect that uh you've got to be smart. How does it go, Donna? Borrow other people's brains You don't remember nobody remembers all these folks. I'm the only one around here that remembers anything. But um uh he said that uh you've got to be able to borrow other people's brains. You know what he's saying? You've got to be a follower You've got to learn to listen to advice. So all of us are followers. Second point I put down, everyone, I said, first of all, everyone's a follower. Point number two is everyone's a leader. He said, Oh, wait a minute, Pastor, I'm not a leader, I'm leader. Yes, you are. In some area, you are a leader Husband says, bless God, I'm the head of this home. Amen. That's Bible. When you walk in the kitchen, your wife becomes a leader. For some of you She says, get out of here. You like what she eats, but you don't dare go in there and tell her what to do. You know, that's her area of leadership. That's her area of expect expertise In some areas, all of us are leaders. In some situations, we all become leaders We're going to do some construction. We put that sound room back there several years ago and we decided what we're going to do. And I said, yeah, let's go with that. And suddenly when Ronnie and Mark or whoever was involved with that started working on that, I became the follower. They were in charge. I had no idea. And so they say, I don't even know if I was around. I think I was in Bottle Bit. You hand me that board? I hand them the board. Get out working on the buses or something. Tom or Jerry are working on the bus. I come out and they become the leader. That's their domain. That's their expertise. You take anybody in any situation at some point you get the you get the computer, the kid becomes a leader. He knows how to run that thing. Hey Dan, how do I fix this thing? And uh they become in that situation In that circumstance, they become the leader, and if mom's dad's smart, you're going to listen to them how to how to set the VCR. Remember BCRs years ago And um uh so everybody's a leader. Hey, when it comes, did you know that Shirley and Doreen they're not here night's I'm gonna use them for an illustration? That's what happens when you don't come to church. You get used for illustration Do you know their leaders of pastor when it comes to cleaning the restrooms and stuff like that? Shirley Uh, how do I get this spot off of this floor? Uh oh pastor, and she'll come over and uh show how we don't I don't know where the cups are And she becomes the leader in that area. So everybody follow me? So we are all followers. If we're smart, we recognize that in some areas and various things. But on the other hand, we're all leaders And by leader we mean someone who has more experience, more knowledge, more responsibility. Now, number three, the best leaders today were the good followers yesterday. You know that that lady that's an expert in the kitchen And I mean that is her that is her kingdom. And she rules it with an iron fist. And uh you know how she got that way? She followed her mother. Her mother taught her those things, or somebody taught her. She gained that experience or whatever. She became a follower. The best captains and military leaders Today are those who were good soldiers yesterday that knew how to say yes, sir, that knew how to follow the directions and leadership And uh so the best leaders today were good followers yesterday. Uh you get a guy that gets in autome mechanics And somebody's trying to teach him how to do it, and he won't pay any attention. And he knows better than they do, and he does this. He's not going to be a very good mechanic, is he? He's going to have to listen to those who have more experience and more knowledge, learn from them, and then he will someday have experience and knowledge and be a good leader to others It's true in every every area, every field. That's why I think it's a good thing young people coming out of Bible college, going into ministry. I think it's a good thing to work under someone for a few years. For four years we worked out in Indianapolis, three years I was out in Bible time under Brother Homesher, and uh what an experience. I learned from them, I was a follower of them Number four, look how fast we're going through this. There's only five, and we're already at four. Jot this one down. Followers should get the same loyalty as leaders. Now you hear a lot of talk. You ought to be loyal to your leader. I think citizens of the United States ought to be loyal to our country. Amen? And this is a unique setting, and some might bristle with this, but I think we ought to be loyal to the President if for no other reason, simply for the office that he holds. You follow what I'm saying? It bothers me. I don't care who's in the White House. It bothers me when representatives, senators, and representatives go to other countries and trash our country at another when they're in another country. Uh listen, as far as I'm concerned, politics ends at the c at the borders of our country. You get out of the country, we're all Americans Now we can fuss all we want within here and debate things and we should, and that's what makes our country great. But when we get out there, there ought to be some loyalty to our country. And uh I believe that's true in the church. You know, we we have little things, but uh uh you get somebody that goes out in public and hangs all the don dirty laundry of a church up for the whole public And tells everybody, oh, this, that, and the other. You're hurting the church. There needs to be a loyal loyalty. By the way, every church in the world has dirty laundry. Huh? You know why? Because it's made up of people. And people are dirty. A little bit. So what I'm trying to say is this. We want loyalty to our leaders. I thank God for the church that's so loyal to me as their pastor. But I have an equal responsibility to be loyal to the followers. A child ought to be loyal to their parents, but a parent ought to be loyal to their children also. Huh? Sunday school teacher, the students, you ideally want those students to be loyal to their Sunday school teacher, but that Sunday school teacher ought to be loyal to the students also The wife ought to be loyal to her husband, and the husband ought to be loyal to the wife. And so followers and leaders should get the same loyalty. And our church will be strong when we understand some people are in leadership positions and some people are in followership positions in various situations and that changes depending on the situation. But they all want to be loyal to each other. Our common goal is to bring glory to God, is to advance the gospel, the Lord Jesus Christ. And if this person has more experience or whatever in this area, then I am uh become the follower, they become the leader in that situation, I am loyal to them, they're loyal to me, and across the board. Does that make sense? So number four, I put this down. Followers should get the same loyalty as leaders do. And last of all, number five, I put this down. Leader, and it kind of goes with number four Leaders and followers are equals. The follower is just as important to the success of the ministry as the leader is. I bounced this off my wife the other week, and I've probably mentioned this before, but this is hypothetical, but it helps me in my thinking. I am of the opinion, I kind of think this way, you can have the greatest leader in the world, let's put it in a church setting. He can have the great greatest leader in the world as pastor and have poor followers. And I believe that situation, a great leader with poor followers, is more handicapped, is more limited on what they're going to be able to do than if you have a church situation where you have very good followers. But you have a poor leader. I think the church with good followers, poor leader, can accomplish is less handicapped than the church with a great leader and poor followers. You follow what I'm saying? Because if you have good followers, they would understand the limitations of the abilities of the leader and be able to Shore that up and become strong where he's weak and carry the thing forward because you have more followers than you do leaders And they can make up for the weakness of the leadership and carry it on. You follow what I'm saying? But if you have a great leader in the power sail, We don't care. Uh, you know, if they're apathetic and indifferent. One guy said to the pastor, one guy said to the church member, what do you think about all the apathy and indifferent what do you think about all the uh uh apathy and indifference and he says, I don't know, and I don't care. Oh, the ignorance and forget it. But anyway, here's a classy illustration of poor leadership and good fellowship. You laugh even when it was really dumb Uh so uh followship and leadership. When my heart is yielded to the Lord, And that's what chapter 5, verse 1 in Ephesians was saying. Be ye followers of God. What's he saying? Yield your will to the Lord's will. Don't go your way. Follow God. So this matter of following the Lord, we're all followers, it's talking about submitting to the Lord's leadership in my life. In all of life, we all have to submit to one another. In fact, in chapter 5 it says that about around verse 20, I think, somewhere around there. Submitting yourselves one to another In some situations, comes to the sound room, I have no idea. I'm back there Sunday mornings trying to, because Dave's late, trying to turn things on and whatever. And uh I have no idea what I'm doing. Dave walks in, I submit myself to Dave. Now he doesn't know a whole lot more than I do, but he knows more than I do. So I submit to him. And um uh so when I submit to the Lord, when I follow the Lord Then I'll have no difficulties submitting to those whom God has placed over me. You follow what I'm saying? The people God brings into my life And so I think in our church, when we all understand, hey, she has a little bit more experience and understanding in this area than I do. I need to pay attention to that. I need to listen to that. I may be their Sunday school teacher, but um when it comes to that area, boy, they're my whatever teacher. I become follower of them. And if we just die to self, don't feel threatened, let me ask you a question. Is it a threat to my position as pastor? If Days knows more about the sound system, how to run the sound system than I do? No. I'm still pastor. I answer to God for my responsibility as a church here. But so many people feel threatened If they're not the one in charge, if they're not the one making they're not the one doing this, I feel threatened. And then you get defensive, and then fusses break out, and next thing you know, relationships are broken Follow what I'm saying? So I've got to recognize that. That was one of the problems with uh in uh in the workforce United States with unions and labor Um, you know, it's just uh years ago the management, and I'm not a pro-union kind of guy, but uh the management years ago back in the coal mines and around in the early 20s Man, they just had no respect for the employees whatsoever. Ephesians 6 applied to them, and so then you had an overreaction. And so and you have this huge division and all these fussing and fights going on because we fail to recognize some of these principles. Alright, let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you, Lord. You said our we're we're followers. That's what we're created to be. You've given us Varying areas of leadership abilities help us to recognize that in one another. Help us to be wise And Lord help us to function as a machine in a sense, each piece doing the part that you've given it to do, and all working together for the glory of God and the cause of Christ. Uh we ask this in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stay