Second Peter chapter three, Peter is addressing folks that were creeping into those early churches and uh they were bringing in some false doctrine. They were trying to change what the church believed. Trying to draw draw the church away uh from Bible doctrine. And he's warning the churches to watch out for it and impose that and uh Do not let that happen. Now chapter 3, he's addressing folks that are infiltrating the churches and they're scoffing. The doctrines of the church. To scoff means to make fun of and ridicule and to try to demean what the Bible teaches. And there was one particular they were ridiculing The uh return, the promised return of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you would notice with me, uh verse number five, he says this, for this they willingly are ignorant of. Now this is referring to these scoffers that have come in. And they're just making fun, ridiculing. This they are willingly ignorant of, that by the word of God the heavens were of old. And the earth, standing out of the water and in the water, whereby the world that then was, being overflowed with water, perished. But the heavens and the earth, which are now by the same word, are kept in store, reserved unto fire. Look at this, against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men. If you notice that phrase in verse 5, for this they are willingly ignorant of. Willingly ignorant of something. In other words, they are stupid on purpose. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you bless now in the time we have that you would be able to take these passages here and help us glean some principles, some truths here that would help us in our faith And our walk with you, our witness. So please fill me with your spirit, Lord. I yield myself, my mind, my heart, and I pray you guide my preaching as In the next few moments, fill me with your spirit. I yield my uh present my body to you and pray that you would help us, Lord. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Peter's primary concern right here is their ridiculing of the second coming of Jesus Christ, his promise that he's coming back again. And not only they were going by ridiculing the promise of the second coming, they were really rejecting it. And they rejected this whole idea uh that Jesus would come back again. You know when an individual or a preacher or some uh college professor or a pastor, somebody, when they reject or they make fun of the fact that Jesus Christ is coming back again, what they're doing is they're attack they're attacking the the integrity of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because he promised he was coming back again. And to mock that truth and to ridicule that doctrine and to reject that fact that Jesus coming back is to reject the integrity of Jesus Christ. It's to call him a what? A liar. And that's what these guys were getting at. And they're scoffing this whole idea. Peter responds To their ridicule of the second coming of Jesus Christ. He responds to their rejection of the second coming of Jesus Christ by referring to three stages of world history Now let me show you here. Look at verse number 6. He says, whereby the world that then was, that's the past world, that would be pre-flood world. And then, if you would, come down to verse number seven. And he says, but the heavens and the earth which are now. And all the way down through verse 12, he addresses the current world, the condition, the stage that the world is in now. And that is from the flood, post-flood. all the way to the end of the millennial reign of Christ. He references that long period of time from after the flood to the millennial reign to the end of the millennial reign of Christ. So you have the past world before the flood, you have the present world from the flood to the millennium reign. Then if you would, come down to verse 13 And he says, nevertheless, we, according to his promise, what he's promised us in his word, look for what? A new heaven and a new earth. And so in responding to the ridicule, he references the past earth before the flood from creation of the flood. And then he references the current stage that we're in from flood to millennial rain. And then he references the future Earth When the new heaven and new earth are uh created by God and given to us by God. So he references these three stages, and we'll look at these as in the coming weeks as we work our way down through here. Now I want you to notice Uh three things he says here in verse number five about these folks that are stupid on purpose. How many are impressed with how quickly I'm working my way through here? Yeah, I'm already done page one. How about that Miracles still happen. Number one, I want you to notice this. Their planned ignorance Their planned ignorance. Or he could put it this way. They are deliberately ignorant of this very of some truths given here. Notice how he words it. Of this He says, for this they willingly are ignorant. I looked up the word willingly. It means what you would think it would mean. It means deliberately. In fact, it has the idea it's used sometimes the word resolved. They have absolutely decided and resolved That they are going to be ignorant about some facts. Deliberately. I mean, not just, I mean, they are set their heart against it And so it says they are willingly are ignorant of. Now that word ignorant simply means to be unaware of. Or it has the idea of hiding something, keeping it out of my mind, not allowing myself to be exposed to it. They are deliberately keeping their minds, keeping their attention from some truths that are given to us I got that phrase stupid on purpose from a preacher I heard years ago. He said, these guys are stupid on purpose. Now nobody wants to be considered stupid, right? What do you want to be when you grow up? I want to be stupid. You know, nobody does that. We don't like to be considered stupid. What you you call me stupid? Yeah. Oh yeah, let's fight. You know? I don't want to be called stupid. But some people are. Some people are ignorant. Now, I don't mean this in a derogatory term as I'm using it now. But sometimes people are ignorant. They don't grasp some truths. And there may be because uh, and this would be true in my case, they're just not that intelligent You know? What's the next stage up after algebra? Geometry, and what's after that? Trigonometry. And um uh how many people like me? I just I'm mentally handicapped when it comes to that stuff. I mean I was going to be, I study, you believe this or not, when I was in high school, I studied to be an architect. And I found out to be an architect, you've got to be able to add 5 plus 5. And um Some people are ignorant of some things. They just can't grasp it. And I'm not being ridiculing. That's just the truth. It's true for me in some things. Some people are ignorant of some truths because they never had opportunity to learn it. They've never been exposed to it. They never had that opportunity. These scoffers, they were capable, they were perfectly capable of knowing and understanding what the Bible teaches They had ample opportunity. They had the Word of God. They had worked themselves in a church, but they deliberately refused to let themselves be exposed to it. They would not listen to it. They would not read it. They would not let themselves be exposed to it. They were willingly ignorant of some teachings in the Bible. They consciously chose to avoid or ignore Vital information that is given to us in the Word of God. They deliberately would not look at it. They would not expose themselves to it. I believe we live in a day when the media deliberately withholds truths, particularly of God's Word, from people, because they do not want people exposed to the truth of the Word of God. I think that is a big part of the move of the push in our society, which has been going on now since the 1960s. To keep the word of God out of our government and out of our schools and out of society and out of that, I think the whole motive is so that people will be ignorant of the truth that God gives us. They are willingly ignorant of it, willing, resolved, that I am not going to be expose myself to this biblical truth and I'm not going to let it affect my thinking. Willingly ignorant of. Much of our world is ignorant of God's Word. Much of our world is ignorant of God's Word because they do not have opportunity to learn God's Word. There are thousands. Listen to this. There are literally thousands of languages on this planet where they do not have the Word of God in their language. They have no opportunity. They're ignorant, but not willingly. They don't have that opportunity. I wish so badly, and some of you have been able to do this, but I wish so badly. I could take the whole church when we distribute these Romans booklets we assemble and go into villages down in Mexico that never, ever Have been exposed to the gospel and the Word of God and to see the people take that and read it in their Spanish language and for the first time in their life read about Jesus Christ dying for their sins, being buried, rose again When I was in uh uh Mexico with Brother Hummel one time, we were going through a little village and giving them out, and Brother Wheeler told us before we went in, he said, These people have never been exposed to the Word of God They've never been exposed. This is an untouched village as far as that goes. And so we went in and we're giving them out and uh we're going down and uh there was a lady who's a very strong Catholic teaching and Catholic control. They couldn't read the Bible, was not allowed to read the Bible. All they knew is what the Catholic Church told them. And we're going down the street and we're giving us out and people were taking them and there was this uh there was this older lady and she came out and she was literally walking behind me going like this. And it's biblically gnashing her teeth at us. She did not want the Word of God coming into that community so people could read for themselves what God has to say. And she just followed us around, followed us around. These guys were willingly ignorant. They would not Allow the Word of God, allow themselves to be exposed to what the Bible says about some truths. They were stupid on purpose. So their uh the planned ignorance, number two, I want us to consider the point of their ignorance. What was it about the Word of God that they refused to let themselves be influenced of? What was this book teaching? That was such a threat to them that they would not expose themselves to it. Well, the Bible tells us, look there at verse number five. For this they willingly are ignorant of. What? What are they willingly ignorant of? What are they being stupid on purpose about Uh that that by the word of God the heavens were of old. In other words They were deliberately ignorant about the creation of the world by the Word of God. They were deliberately ignorant. They did not want to see what the Bible said about the creation of the world. We're not going to hear it. We are resolved to be ignorant of what the Bible teaches about the creation of the world. If you would, real quickly, and I'm rushing here, if you would, go to Hebrews chapter 11 with me, just a few pages towards the front of your Bible there. Hebrews, you go backwards, you get 1 Peter, James, and you'll run into Hebrews. And chapter 11. And I want you to notice with me verse number 3. How many people believe the Bible is God's Word? Amen. Absolutely. We are convinced this book is the very Word of God. And what it says is so. And notice verse 3 of Hebrews chapter 11. Through faith. We understand, look at this, that the worlds were framed by what? The Word of God So that the things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. Would you come back to Genesis very, very quickly with me? Genesis chapter number one Now you should be able to find Genesis chapter 1. Genesis chapter 1 Now these these guys are stupid on purpose. They said we don't want to see what we don't want to see what God says about creation. We don't want to hear how the Word of God, the world was created, but we don't want to hear that. We don't want to hear that. Nope. We're not going to hear it But look what the Bible says. The Bible says in Hebrews, that by faith we believe this world was created by the Word of God. Look at verse number 3, Genesis 1. And God what Said, let there be light and there was light. Look at verse 6. And God, help me, what's it say? Verse 6, and God Said, let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters and the mi and uh let it divide. So verse 3 is day number one. God said, let there be light and dark. Day number two, God said, let there be land and sea. Look at verse 9. And God said, let the waters under the heaven be gathered together. And he goes down, verse 11, and God said, let the earth Bring forth grass, a vegetation. And look at verse 14. And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament that heaven divide the day. Day and night, sun, moon, and stars Come down to verse number 20. And God said, let the waters bring forth abundantly. Here you have fish and birds and And all of that. And then verse 24, and God said, Uh let uh earth bring forth the living creatures after its kind, and the beast, verse 25, and the cattle And uh those little creep creepy things uh that creepeth upon the earth. And God said, Let us make man in our image. God said, God said, God said, God said, God said, Everything we see around us was originated with the Word of God. God said it. What kind of power? Think with me. What kind of power does our God have? What kind of incomprehensible power rests in a God that can just speak? Life into existence. Just speak planets and galaxies into existence. That's the God that you and I pray to every morning. Incomprehensible. The power of our God. The power of our God. And they were ignorant of this. They said, nope, we don't want to hear we don't want to hear it. Come back to Peter. Notice they were uh they were deliberately ignorant. of the of the creation by the Word of God. And another one, they were deliberately ignorant about the judgment of God on a universal flood. Come back there in Peter. Look at verse 5 It says that by the word of God the heavens were of old, and the earth standing out of the water and in the water. Look at verse 6. Whereby the world that then was being overflowed with water perished. They said, we don't want to hear about the flood. If you remember, their argument initially was everything continues the way it was from the beginning. There was no changes. And Peter's saying, listen, you guys won't even read what the Bible says. The Bible's clear. It says a lot of things changes since the beginning of time. The flood hit. And they didn't want to hear it. They don't want to hear it. They were deliberately ignorant about the Bible teaching about the flood. I'm telling you, we live in a day where society doesn't want to hear about the flood Oh, for Pete's sake, that's just some old Bible story. That's just a myth. No, no, no. It's the facts of God. Either the Bible's true or it isn't. If John 3. 16 is given to us by God, then Genesis chapter 11 is given to us by God. Genesis chapter 6 is given to us by God. And these guys say, mmm, nope, we don't want to be ignorant. We don't want to hear about that. That's going to affect our thinking. That's going to affect us. Deliver it. They scoffed at the incomprehensible power of God. They just scoffed at that. They scoffed at the inflexible holiness of God, that God would judge the world for its sin, the flood. And they refused to consider the scriptural record of both. They were wrong. And the Bible proved they were wrong, and they refused to look at it. Deliberately ignorant on purpose. And then last of all, why would they do that? Why would they refuse to look at what the Bible says about God being the creator and God being the judge? Why would they refuse that? Look what it says here. Look with me at verse 7. But the heavens and the earth, which are now, by the same word that created this and brought the judgment of the flood, are kept in store reserved unto fire against the look at this the day of what? Judgment and perdition of ungodly men You know what I believe he's saying here? I believe he's saying the reason they're rejecting this, the reason they are deliberately being stupid about creation and about the flood The reason I do not? Because if they accept that, then they have to accept the fact that they're going to answer the God at judgment And I think that is the underlying basis of the majority of the rejection of the Word of God, because if I believe that book is true, then I'm accountable to the God that created me. And they've convinced themselves, and we live in a society that has convinced itself, if I just don't believe it, if I just am not aware of it, if I can just put it out of my mind and out of my thinking. then it's not true. Listen, whether if something's true, whether I believe it or not, it is still true. Like you go down uh some guy goes down to sheets and he goes in, he pulls a gun out and he says, Give me all your money, puts the gun to head, give me all that money, and the person behind the counter says, Pfft, I don't believe that gun's true. You better believe it's true. You follow what I'm saying? Just because I reject something doesn't mean it's not true. Doesn't make it go away. The fact of the matter is, the Bible is incredibly clear. There is a God. He is the Creator, and every one of us are going to answer to God someday. And every person alive is going to answer to God someday. He is the judge of all the earth And we can ignore that. We can keep it from people all we want. We can try and cover it up and hide it and deny it and ridicule it and make fun of it all we want. But it doesn't change the fact that it's true. It doesn't change the fact. The whole purpose was their accountability. That was their problem. They thought, if we can just be ignorant of this, then we won't be held accountable to God. Ignorance is no excuse. We can just reject this. Rejecting God's judgment, rejecting death and hell Does not make it not so. I think there's a lot of people refuse God's word, not because it's incorrect, but because it contradicts their sinful life. And we don't want it. We don't want it. We don't want it. Um a lady came to our church. I don't remember how it all played out, but there's a lady uh lived here in Mount Lake Park. This was years ago. And she said, I don't have a Bible. Can I get a Bible? I think maybe she called the church, asked for a Bible. So we got her information, and I had somebody take a Bible down to her. They ran it down, dropped it off, talked her a little bit. It wasn't four or five days. May have been a week at the most. I don't think it was a week. Four or five days. We got a phone call. It's this gal. I answered it. She said, um, I need somebody to come down here and bring the take this Bible back I said, what do you mean? She goes, I don't want it anymore. I want you to come down and get it, take it back. I said, well, why would we do that? She goes, because I read it and it made me feel bad and I don't want it anymore You know what happened? She had the Bible, she got convicted. God was showing her she's a sinner. She came up short of God's standard. If she would keep reading it, she would find that there's also a Savior for her sin. We couldn't convince her. She did not want that Bible. She did not want to be exposed to it. My wife led a lady to the Lord, this was years ago. And she was a hundred years old. Kathy was working downtown This lady was a hundred years old and they were having a big to-do there at the work and and uh she said she got talking, oh, she went by her house after the after she was done work, she swung by her house and um She had given her a tract earlier in the day, and then she went by her house, and the little tract was setting there. And Kathy asked her, Did you get to read that tract? She goes, Yeah, I read the whole thing. She goes, Do you know for sure when you die your sins are forgiven, you're going your way to heaven? She goes, Well, I hope so. I'm trying this, I want to do that. And she was a very religious person, just a sweet lady, hundred years old Kathy said, let me show you. So she got her Bible and used the track a little bit and went down. And that dear lady, 100 years old, bowed her head and trusted Christ as Savior. And Gathy asked her, she says, all these years, did you ever give it any thought? Did you? And she said this, every time I thought about dying and facing God, I just put it out of my mind. I just put it out of my mind. Now I'm glad she finally came to Christ. But I'll tell you, that's a dangerous way to live. I just put it out of my mind. I just put it out of my mind. Listen, we got to take this book for what it says. Whether we like what it says or we don't like what it says, it's God's word. And we come in faith, believing that what God says is so. Let not one person that's a part of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church be stupid on purpose. Let's not be ignorant of what this book teaches. Let's apply ourselves to learn what God has to say and then grow in our faith and live for Him and serve Him. Amen? Father, I pray you'd bless now and help us to learn from these scoffers. God, help us to take your word and trust it with all our heart. And let you lead us and direct us this coming year. I wonder, with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, this coming year, I just want God's will to be done in my life. I want his word to lead me and direct me that I can live for him, that my life will please him, and that when he comes back, I could hear him say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Is there any like that say, preacher, oh, that's my heart's desire to please God with my life? Sure, what Christian wouldn't want to do that What Christian wouldn't want to please God? And maybe tonight, this last Sunday night of 2024, maybe we'd want to kneel at an altar and say, God, here I am. Lead me and direct me this way. Teach me. Show me from your word, your will from my life, and I'll take it by faith. Father, bless now our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand