So I thought that one was pretty good. First First Peter Chapter 2, verse 13. We actually began this message last week, and I really wish I could preach all this together in one message. I wish I could have last week. Time didn't allow for that And so if you didn't hear last Sunday night's message, I really want to encourage you to go to the website on their Sermon Archives. You can listen to just the just the sermon itself where you go to the uh Facebook. I think it's still on there, Jamie. And uh you can have the whole service. Last Sunday night service is still on there, Facebook. But um I wish, like I said, uh we could preach this together. Time didn't allow. So I'm just going to bring the last thought of this message this evening. So, but I want to read the the entire passage together so we can keep our thoughts coherent here. Ready? Verse 13, the Bible says, submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. Whether it be to the king as supreme, or to governors, as unto them that are sent by him, God, sent by God, sent by him for the punishment of evildoers and for the praise of them that do well For so is the will of God, that with well-doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men as free and not using your liberty or your freedom, your liberty for a cloak of maliciousness. But as the servants of God. Honor all men, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king. Just entitled the message, Submission. And let's pray, and we'll finish wrap this up tonight, Lord William. Father, I ask you to bless now or time back in your word. Sure was a good day. Father, as a pastor, I'm so proud of our young people and the training they're getting and how they're taking that, investing themselves in others and winning others to Christ I pray you would bless them for that and use them in a great, great way. Challenge all of us, Lord, to be more aggressive, more effective, more fervent soul winners That we can see people one to Christ. Our community needs Christ, our country, our world. And now, Lord, I pray as we look at this area that you've addressed in your word, this area of our life and submission to authorities. That you would help us to take this as from you. Lord, I pray that you would teach us and stir us not just to know what you tell us to do. But to trust you and obey you and follow your instructions. Fill me with your spirit is my prayer as I yield my will to you. I present my body anew And ask that you be the preacher through me tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Submission is one of the uh vital um attitudes for a Christian to have if we're going to grow and if we're going to develop and be what God wants us to be. Now we worked this over last Sunday or last Sunday night. But I want to just point out and remind you that the Apostle Paul, who was perhaps in my mind, no doubt, the most effective Christian in the history of the church How God used him and the price he paid for the gospel with his own life ultimately, but beaten and stoned and rejected and imprisoned and scourged Because of his commitment to Christ. But the interesting thing was on the way on the road to Damascus where he was saved when Christ appeared to him and and confronted him. His first statement was, Who art thou Lord? I believe that's when when Paul got saved. And when he saw Christ, realized who he was and put his faith and trust in him. But the very next statement that Paul made to the Lord, if you look at it in Acts chapter 9, the very next statement that Paul made to the Lord was this. Now listen to this. What wilt thou have me to do? And I believe that attitude, that desire, that submission in the heart and soul and mind of Paul Set the pattern, set the uh the ball in motion for this man to be used of God in such a phenomenal way. What wilt thou have me to do? Wouldn't it be great to start every day Wake up, spend a little time with the Lord, and then just approach God and say, God, what wilt thou have me to do today? Lord, I'm submitting myself to you Part of my daily prayer routine is I have a little routine I follow, worship the Lord, and then praise the Lord, and then um uh and then uh I have a time of confession, very short time confession is not And um have a time of confession. And then I take a little moment and uh I just pray this prayer. Lord, not my will, but thy will be done today. I want to be yielded to you, I want to be submitted to you, and then I go make my requests. And that was Paul's pattern. That was his mentality starting off his Christian life, submission. So that brings us to our passage here, where the very first word in verse number three is submit. Yourselves. Now here he gives us some very specific area that we are to submit ourselves And my first point last week, I don't want to repreach it, but the first point, just to get the ball rolling here, to get the context, was the instruction given. It's a very clear command, it's a very strong command It's not guidelines, it's not a suggestion, it's a command of God, very clear instructions, submit to place ourselves under the authority of someone else, an authority that God has ordained. And we looked at that very carefully, and we recognize, as Christians, Bible believers, we recognize the necessity of law and order in society, and law and order requires authority. And God has ordained governmental authorities. And so the instruction given to us here is very clear. Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man And then the extent of that submission we looked at, verse 13 and 14, he says to every ordinance of man, the word every there, as we pointed out. has no exceptions. It means the this was my definition of it, the whole kit and caboodle. How many people have ever heard that term before? The whole here's another one. The whole shebang I have no idea what those words mean, but we get the idea. To every ordinance of man. And then the ordinance of man are simply the laws and the institutions that develop laws and instructions and enforce them. And then he lists two in particular kings as supreme and governors. And uh and so uh we're given this uh instruction, very clear instructions given And then the extent of those instructions, every ordinance, a man, kings, whether it's a king making that ordinance or a governor making that ordinance, then we pointed out that there are some exceptions to this. And uh the exceptions we find in Acts chapter four and Acts chapter five. Again, we can go back to Daniel chapter one where Daniel uh resisted the authorities and disobeyed the authorities, but the exceptions are very very rare and very clear What exceptions God gives to us whether we obey or disobey the ordinance of men. And the exceptions are this, simply this. If the ordinance of man violates the ordinance of God, we obey God. That's what it comes down to. It's very simple. Does God forbid what the uh king or the governor, what the authorities are requiring of me, does God forbid that? For instance, if the government would pass uh like they have in China, I think at least they did, I don't know if they still do, forced abortions. Uh would we be obligated to submit to that ordinance of man? No, that violates the clear command of God, thou shalt not kill. And so there are some instances, there are situations where we say, no, we will not submit to that ordinance of man because it violates a clear ordinance of God. And I think we all understand that. Now here's the thing. Our problem is there's a lot of stuff. We don't want to obey what our government says, but there's real no scriptural basis for disobeying it. Follow what I'm saying? There's no scriptural basis. I can't just say, well, I don't like that, so I'm not going to obey it. No, I have to have a scriptural precedent that is being violated if I can justify disobeying that command. So there are exceptions, but I put a caution here because this can very easily and is often very easily abused We do not have the liberty to pick and choose what we obey and disobey unless there is a clear scriptural violation um that the state is asking me uh to to violate. All right, so now I want to get to this. Here's our final thought in this passage. I want to look at verse 15, 16, and 17 And look, and this is the title I gave to this point here is the explanation of this submission. I got looking at these three verses in this passage, 15, 16, and 17, and it looks to me like Peter is pausing here, and he's kind of going back and he's explaining what he means When he said, submit to every ordinance of man, whether it be for kings or governors, and he goes down through there, and he kind of comes back and he expands on that a bit a little bit. He gives some explanation And uh the first thing I notice that he explains in verse 15 I see here, he gives a reason for this submission He gives us a reason for that. Look at verse 15. Actually, he gives two reasons here in verse 15. He says uh he says uh 13 and 14, submit yourselves, every ordinance of man, whether king, governor, da-da-da. Then verse 15. For or because or for this reason, it so for so is the what It's the will of God. Say, preacher, why should I, as a Christian, submit myself to every ordinance of man? Well, one reason given here is the will of God. It's the will of God. This is a very simple, but I think profound statement. It's important for us to get a hold of. All of our actions as Christians begin and end with the will of God. Amen or not? All of our actions. If it's God's will, then we do it. If it's not God's will, we don't do it. Amen Very simple, very basic concept, but yet it is the very root of the Christian life. Not my will, but thy will be done. And Peter writes to them, and now think about these dear Christians. They are being intensely persecuted. As we point this out so often as we work our way through this book, they've lost jobs, they've lost homes, their families have run them off. No doubt, most, many of them, if not most or all of them, have lost their possessions for no other reason than their faith and commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. And they have paid a heavy price and they are living under a very oppressive government. Nero is the king is the Caesar, is the uh uh is the king at this time, uh bitter enemy of Christianity, bitter antagonist to faith in Christ. And yet Peter writes to them and says, Submit yourself to every ordinance. And then he says this, for it's the will of God. Now think about these dear Christians living under that type of government. And Peter Wright said, you obey those laws, you obey what they tell you. They're like, man, are you kidding me? Now, that's I'm adding that. But I can imagine if it was me, I'd like, what are you, what? And then he says this, it's the Dennis, it's the will of God. It's the will of God. Oh, okay. God's will, then that settles it. Amen? That's a good quote right there If it's God's will, then that settles it. Then that settles it. So the reasoning he gives for this instruction in verse 13 and 14, verse 15 he says, for This is the reason I'm giving it, because it's the will of God. Every as all of our actions as Christians begin and end with the will of God. But then he gives a second reason in verse 15. Look what he says. For so is the will of God That with well-doing, this is description of verse 13 and 14, well-doing, ye may put to silence The ignorance of foolish men. Anybody here ever run into the ignorance of foolish men? You say, yeah, every day at work, I run into that. The ignorance of foolish men. I thought that was an interesting way to put it. But he says here's the second reason that we ought to submit to every ordinance of man, whether it's a king or whether a uh uh governor is one it's the will of God two it silences our critics it silences our critics Look what he says here. He says, For so is the will of God that with well-doing ye may put to silence. Now I looked up that phrase, put to silence. It kind of comes from one word, really And uh it comes from the word that we get, our word muzzle. Anybody here ever have a dog that wouldn't stop barking? Just barks and barks and barks. And so you put a muzzle on that thing, and what does it do? It shuts it up. Right? It puts it to silence Put a muzzle on it. Did you ever hear somebody say that? They're saying, be quiet, hush up, shut her down. And he says, by you and I submitting ourselves, the authority, God ordained authorities that he has established over us Now the context here is the government authorities, but whatever authority we have in the home or in the church or in government, three or institution God has ordained. He says, by doing that, we are muzzling, we are putting to silence this ignorance of these foolish men. Now, who is he talking about when he refers to the ignorance of foolish men. We could summarize it this way. Critics of Christians and Christianity, the people that criticize it. I had the b I had the tremendous privilege when I was in Bible college to be under Dr. Lee Robertson for a number of years as pastor. And uh the last year that he taught a class to the preacher boys in school and that At the time it was probably, I don't know, a thousand or so, twelve hundred preacher boys. Uh, he taught a leadership class. He did for all the forty years he was there uh however long the school was, he taught all the time. And this was the last one. He is he was retiring from the pastorate and he was teaching the last preacher boys class. I got to get in on that for a semester. What a phenomenal experience And he would say over and over to the fellows that were preparing to go into ministry, he would say over and over, he'd say this, critics are a dime a dozen. Critics are a dime a dozen. And what he would tell us was you get in the ministry, you are going to have to deal with criticism. People are going to criticize everything you do. Everything. You want to be criticized, get criticized, criticized, everything you do. And you need to be able to deal with criticism. Well, Peter here is writing to these believers And they have got the communities that they are living in, and they have got the world that they are living in on their backs. And ignorant, foolish men are criticizing and finding fault with them. And he says, I'll tell you how you shut them up. I'll tell you how to put to silence your critics You do right. You just keep doing right and keep doing right. Living a blameless life and living a submissive life to the authorities God puts over us Does more to silence our critics than it does trying to debate our critics. Tell you what, you can get in a fuss with an ignorant fool, and you'll come out ignorant and foolish yourself. Um when we uh when we uh first moved here we were only here a week or two well it was Thanksgiving week actually now that I think about it we came in September ninety three And uh we had uh Sunday service. I think it was the Thanksgiving night service, if I remember. No, no, no, take it back. Um I'm just making this up as I go, actually, no Uh it was the Sunday night after Thanksgiving. We had all our Thanksgiving meal and in our trash can inside our garage, just inside the door of the garage We had the carcass of the turkey, you know, the bones and all that, the leftovers we had in there to go out in the trash and a day to be get hauled off the day or so. And when we came home from church that night, we pulled over. We had a long way, so we drove. And um We pulled up in the driveway, and do you know what was right in front of our garage door when we pulled up there by that where that trash can was, you could smell the turkey, I guess. There was a a skunk I put up and said, oh no. And so I jumped out of the car, ran and grabbed that skunk and wrestled and fought with it, and I beat the daylights out of that skunk. How many people believe that? No. You know what up you know what? You can get in a fight with a skunk and you can win a fight with a skunk, but you'll walk away stinking like a skunk And you can fuss with your critics, and you can debate and argue and get in a fuss with ignorant fools, and you'll walk away smelling like an ignorant fool. You know the best way to muzzle your critics? Just do right. Just do what God says and just keep doing it and just keep doing it and just keep doing it. An impeccable testimony will do more to silence our critics than any argument or rebuke or response you and I can give back. And he's writing to them. And he says, I tell you what, the the government's all over you. The authorities, the religious authorities, they are all over you. You submit to every ordinance they have, as long as it doesn't violate God's, we understand that You submit to everyone they have, and you know what? It'll shut up the critics. It'll hush them up. It'll hush them up. So the reason for this submission, he gives two, one, it's the will of God. How many people agree with me? That settles it It's the will of God that settles it. All right. But he adds on there, and he says, uh for so in so doing, uh uh you'll put the silence. With well-doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. You'll hush up those critics. So verse 15, we see the reason for this submission. Number two, we see under verse 16 the restrictions on our liberty. Now remember, he's coming back. He's explaining the submission to the ordinance of men. One, uh, it's uh the reason, he gives the reason. Now he says These restrictions on our liberty. Look at verse 16. As free, as free, submitting, as free, and not using your liberty For a cloak of maliciousness, but as the servants of God. In other words, the submission to every orange of man as a servant of God. Now, I had to study this and I said, what is he saying here? And this is what I believe is happening. Peter, I think, is anticipating Pushback from these believers he's writing to. And he's anticipating that they might be saying this: wait a minute. We are free in Christ. We are no longer under the bondage of man. We are no longer under obligation to man. For believers, we are free in Christ. And that is true to some extent. We are free in Christ. But I tell you, man is very good At taking Bible teaching and distorting it to justify and excuse and allow him to disobey God. You follow what I'm saying? Man is awfully good at trying to find loopholes in God's instructions to us. And I think Peter is maybe he's anticipating these believers he's writing to, because this is not an easy thing to do. It's easy to talk about, it's easy to read about and study and preach about, but you get out and start doing it, and he's anticipating then maybe giving this response back, well we are free, we don't have to obey man, we don't have to submit. to the ordinance of man. We're free in Christ. And I tell you, we have to be very, very careful about taking instructions of God and the teachings of God and the doctrines of Scripture and trying to twist them around to allow us or justify us disobeying God or finding loopholes in God's instructions to us. And so they say we are free. The word free there has this idea. As free, it has this idea without obligation. Here's their argument. We have no obligation to human authority. Now, if that's what they were saying, if I'm interpreting this right, if that's what they were saying, they were wrong. Because we do have obligation to human authority. God's made that very clear. We are obligated. Now here's the breakdown. This is how he plays it out here. We'll look at this. I am obligated to submit and obey human authority because, as a believer, I am obligated to submit and obey God's authority. And if God instructs me to do this, then I am obligated to that. Follow the reasoning here? And I think that's what he's saying to them here. Notice what he says: as free And not using your liberty. All right, you're free in Christ. Yep, we're under the Lord. But don't use that liberty, that freedom, for a cloak of maliciousness. Alright, here I'm free, so I can put this cloak on of maliciousness. Now the question is, what in the world is maliciousness? What does that word mean? How many people walk around using the term maliciousness Well, it's a very simple meaning. It simply means this, and depending on the context, there's variations. But the idea basically is this lawlessness To live without law. He's saying, all right, you're free, you're free in Christ, you're free from that. But don't put that liberty, don't take that liberty and use that to justify Disregarding the laws of man. Not a cloak of lawlessness, maliciousness Now quickly, if you would, let's look at some verses. Because this is this or if some form of it is used number of times throughout Scripture. Go to Romans real quickly with me. Romans chapter 1 Romans chapter 1 is a very dark passage, particularly the second half of chapter 1. I refer to Romans chapter 1 as bad neighborhoods in a city. Anybody here ever been to a big city and they got really bad neighborhoods You don't like to go through. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's just dirty and dangerous. That's kind of Romans chapter 1, the second part. It's just, it is unpleasant. And notice with me, if you would, in verse number twenty-nine, he's here, he's describing, he's uh uh he's he's laying out, charting out the the uh degeneracy of man, the downf the uh the um uh what's the term I want the the progression of man downward And verse 29, he says this. He's describing mankind without God, being filled with all unrighteousness Fornication, wickedness, covetousness, what's the next word? Maliciousness Well, that's an ugly list. He goes on and has a few others there, full of envy, murder, debate, deceit, malignity, whispers, backfighters, haters of God, despiteful, proud boasters, inventors of evil things Disobedient to parents, without understanding, covenant breakers, without natural affection, implacable, unmerciful. Good heavens. How many people agree with me? That's an ugly neighborhood right there Wow. And right in the middle of it, he uses the same term that he's rewarning these believers that are being persecuted. Not a cloak of maliciousness, lawlessness. Come with me if you would real quickly, Ephesians chapter 4. Ephesians chapter 4. And notice with me verse number thirty-one, towards the end of the chapter four. Now we all know and like verse 32. Be ye kind one to another, tender hearted. But look at verse 31. And let and uh verse 31, let, what's the next second word in there? All I circled that, let all bitterness and wrath, anger Clamor, evil speaking, be put away from you with all malice. That word malice comes from the same word as maliciousness. It's another variation of it Put it off. Colossians chapter 3 and verse 8 says the same thing. Put off malice, maliciousness. We are not, the freedom we have in Christ does not allow us to live lawlessly. To live lawlessly. We are to submit to the authorities that God has ordained and delegated authority to. Now, come back here. Let's look at this. So there are some restrictions on our liberty. I wish we had time to look at this more. And 1 Corinthians chapter 8 verse 9, write that down. Look that up sometime. Paul is there addressing the Corinthians where they were eating meat. That was offered to idols. And he says, idols are nothing. They're just imaginations. They're no God but the true God. And he says, this meat that's being offered to the idols in these uh pagan uh rituals they would sell in the marketplace. He says, you can eat that. I can eat that. It's nothing. It's just meat that was offered to some imaginary God. It's nothing. However, he says, some Christians struggle with that. And some Christians, you know, they s they give credence to these idols. And he said this if me eating that meat is going to cause my brother to stumble, if that liberty, that freedom I have to eat that meat and he was free to do it. If that causes, if that hurts someone else, then I'm not going to do it. I'm not going to be malicious. And hurt others with my freedom. And that's the idea here, Peter is saying. Peter is saying, listen It's the will, it is, uh you're free, yes, but don't use that liberty for a cloak of maliciousness As Christians, we submit to man's authority because we're submitted to God's authority, whether it's in the home or the government or the church How we live our lives has a profound influence on other people, on other people. And they see us pick and choose what ordinance of man we're going to obey or not obey. And then that influences others. You know, it's hard to justify a father getting all over his kids for not obeying him. When he doesn't obey the authorities God has placed over him. Right or wrong? What or wrong? What's my message saying? What's my actions? What am I teaching? What am I communicating? He says, don't use that freedom you have, don't use that to hurt others, to influence others. Christians submit to the will of God because we're the servants of God He says there at the end of verse 16, but as servants of God. Now, uh real quickly, verse 17, notice what he says. Now he restates. Number one, he gives the reason for this submission, verse 15 He gives restrictions on our liberty. Yeah, we're free, but we we can't let that uh we don't use that freedom to live lawlessly. And number three, then he restates God's instructions back up in verse 13. He kind of restates it a little bit in a summary form. Honor all men, love the brotherhood. Fear God, honor the king. Now, when he says honor all men, the word honor means show respect to, place value upon. And the word all means what it means. All, and no exceptions. Honor all men. According to that verse, how many men are we supposed to honor? Oh. How many men are we supposed to dishonor? None, according to that verse. Honor all men. We show respect. We place value on all men. The way I found that the way to gain respect is to be respectful. Make sense? I remember when I was youth pastor, there was a teen girl. She used to always say, nobody respects me. She was the most mouthy. r rebellious, hateful little brat uh I ever come across. And finally she always say this, you don't respect me, nobody nobody respects me. Finally I said, you know why nobody respects you? Because you're so disrespectful. You honor people, you might get some honor. You respect people, you treat people with respect, you'll get some respect. That's what he's saying here. You want the people to respect you? You want the world, your community to respect you? You honor all men. You show respect. We'd once a year we'd go down in March down to Washington. They're not going to do it this year, I got word, with the Capital Connection, they're doing an online version of it, so I don't know how that's going to work. That's disappointing But every year we get to go down and we get to meet with our elected officials, our kings, our governors, the ordinance makers And we go down, we go down for no other reason than to honor them and do everything we can to share the message of Christ with them. Now I'll be honest with you, everyone that we met from Maryland, I think without exception, everyone we met from Maryland, I adamantly disagree with their policies. I adamantly disagree with their positions. I mean, strongly disagree. But we made a decision before we go in. We're going to go in with respect We're going to go in with honor. We're going to go in with humility. We're going to do everything we can to do exactly what that verse tells us. To honor those who are in authority. Honor all men. You want respect? Be respectful. Want to be trusted? Be trustworthy. Want to be honored? Honor all men. And then he goes on, he puts this. He says, love the brotherhood. The word love there is agape, means unconditionally. In other words, the brotherhood is Christians. Brother, the starting point for Christians, our witness to this world is loving each other. That's where it starts. And alive. If we can't get along with God's people, how in the world are we going to be a witness to the world? You know how Jesus put it? By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, John 13, 35 By this shall all men know that you are my disciples if you carry big black King James Bibles. Uh no, that's not what he says. Now I think you ought to carry whether it's black or blue, I don't care what color you ought to carry King James Jesus Bible. But that's not how all men know you're my disciples. By this shall all men know they're your disciples, you have a fundamental haircut. Brother, you can't get more fundamental than mine. I'll tell you that right now. That's not how you that's not how uh all men know our disciples. By this show all men know you're you are my disciples, if what You have love one toward another. Agape. Unconditional love for one another. He puts that in here under the subject of submitting to government authorities. Loving one another, loving one another. Then he goes on. He summarizes, he goes on, fear God. The word fear means, this is my definition, all-struck reverence. I mean, just in awe of God's power and holiness and immensity and wisdom, his love. And I just, I mean, in awestruck reverence to God And he says, fear God. Our submission to man is not based upon fear of man. We don't submit to The man's ordinance because we're afraid of man. Fear of man brings a what? Snare. We submit to the ordinance of man, not because we're fear fear of man, but because we fear God. We fear God, we reverence God. And then he ends with this, honor the king. Again, that word honor, value, respect. We have to be careful. I believe we need to be careful in our disagreements. When we have disagreements with the policies and practices of our government leaders, we have to be careful. That we don't dishonor them while we disagree with them. That's where I was saying about we'd go down and visit. I got a little ahead of myself there. We go down and visit. I I disagree adamantly with them. And in a different setting, I would no doubt have a perhaps a different approach in what we would be talking about. And in letters and phone calls, I've addressed some of these things. But we're to honor the king. Honor the king. Respect. Value. We have to be careful. We disagree with them about this, that we don't become disrespectful. Name-calling. I tell you, our government, our government has become awfully ugly. In these elections, awfully ugly. And as Christians, you and I need to be above the fray. We live by a higher standard. We don't call names, we don't slander. We honor and we respect. Now we disagree, but honorably, respectfully. We confront, we oppose. But we do it honorably and respectfully. That's what he's telling us here. John Adams, I think it was John Adams He made a statement that, boy, it's a rallying call back in the early days of our country and our revolution against England, and I'm all for it, so hear me out. I'm all for it, and uh I agree with what he was saying, the principle behind what he was saying. And he used a statement that became a rowing cry And basically it was the whole point was we are not going to have a kingdom in America like they do in England. We're going to have a representative government. But they use the statement that I believe is unscriptural And it was this. We have no king but Jesus. Now, I understand the context and I agree With what they were trying to accomplish. But the fact of the matter is we do have kings. Jesus is King of Kings. So there are kings that God has set up, authorities. Now I know what he was saying, so don't come and fuss at me. All right? I know what he was saying, and I agree with it. I supported what the whole concept. But in reality, God has placed kings over us, authorities over us. Now he's the king of all kings. He's the governor of all governors. He's the ordinance maker of all ordinance makers. But there are government authorities that God has said, and he tells us here, he's telling these New Testament believers, he's telling you and I, submit to every ordinance of man, whether it's a king or a governor. God's will puts the silence the critics, be a testimony, use as a witness, honor the king. A lot of great great men of God have fallen and fallen hard Because they pick and chose what commands they were going to obey of God. Because they decided, they pick and choose what God's instructions I'm going to obey and disobey. Great men, some that I know personally, that have fallen and fallen hard. Because they had this idea. I'm going to choose which of God's instructions I'm going to obey and which I'm not going to obey. We can't be that way If it's God's will, then that settles it. Then that settles it. The opposite of submission is what? Think with me as I finish it. Rebellion. The opposite of submission is rebellion. And the great prophet Samuel told the king Saul, King Saul Rebellion is as the sin of what? Witchcraft and idolatry. I don't want to be a practicer of witchcraft I don't want to be an idolater. I want to submit to the will of God, whether it's easy or not, whether it makes sense or not. I want to submit to the will of God the will of God. Will of God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask dear Lord that you would help us. To live submissive lives. Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? I know so many times, Lord, I just make up my own mind about something before I ever come and say, Lord, what would you have me to do? Lord, what was what's your instructions in your word? And whether it's in the home or in the society or in the church, wherever it is, Lord help us to trust you and follow your instructions. I wonder with heads bowed and eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, boy, this submission business, I need work on that in my life. I really need to work on that. Now, if you're a human being, you've got some pride to deal with, and pride is the root of unsubmission. How many would say, preacher, pray with me? I've got to work on this. My hands raised, I'm telling you, my hands raised. Maybe we just need to say, Lord, help me. Lord, help me. Help me. Work in my life, help me. Father in heaven, bless our invitation now. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.