Or 2 Peter chapter number one, verse number one again. We introduce our um series in the first in uh second Peter last Sunday night and gave some introductory thoughts about it and the importance of the book. By the way, I probably shouldn't say this yet, but um I got everybody's attention now when you say that. But we are working on taking all the messages from 1 Peter, the whole series, and making that available on a MP3 drive, a little uh jump drive. So If you're interested, it's not ready yet, but uh brother Jane Brother Jamie's working on that. But we started 2 Peter, gave some introductory thoughts. I want to just look at verse number one, a little statement that actually caught my attention some time ago when I first started uh considering this ch this uh book for a series. In first one it says Simon Peter and then notice the statement and I want you to notice the order of the wording. This is what I'm getting at. Simon Peter, a servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ. A servant. And an apostle of Jesus Christ. Then he writes to them that have obtained like precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and our Savior Jesus Christ But notice the order there. I don't believe God puts words in the Bible just to fill space. I believe every word. In fact, Jesus said every jot and tittle. will not pass away. Every just the slightest little uh notation on a letter is vital. So God doesn't put words in the Bible just to fill space And then along those lines, I believe the order that things are stated are significant. And Peter says, this is what I'm trying to say, Peter says, I'm first and foremost a servant. And an apostle. And I'm entitled the message, and if you just get the title, if you can get a get a hold of what the title is saying, you'll get the message. Submission before position. Submission before position. The world likes to have position, don't they? World likes to have titles. The world likes to, oh, I got this position, I got that. In God's economy, in God's administration, position is secondary. Position is is secondary to submission. So let's pray. And I'll try and explain what I mean. Father in heaven. I ask you to bless now our study as we begin this series on 2 Peter. Looking forward to it. I believe you have a lot to teach us. And a lot teach me. And I pray that tonight as we look at this simple little thought here right at the beginning of the book, that you would challenge us. And I pray you'd help all of us that know the Lord Jesus as Savior to consider our submission to you and not be so concerned about the positions we hold. And so fill me with your spirit. This is my prayer. I've been praying all afternoon, Lord, that you would fill me with your spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body. Lord, it's just an instrument in your hands For you to use to communicate this truth here in your word. So please bless and help us in Jesus' name. Amen. We pointed out last week that Peter penned this book under the inspiration of God shortly before he was martyred. He was crucified. Legend uh has it that he was crucified upside down. But these are the last recorded writings that we have of the Apostle Peter. And um it's what we might call his swan song. Now you've heard that term before, I imagine. We talked about it previously, what a swan song is. And that little phrase, uh somebody tell me, what if you say this is their swan song, what are we saying? It's the what It's what I just said. It's the last one. It's the last thing they wrote. That little phrase swan song is interesting. It comes from, and I know I mentioned this before, but it comes from an old legend from Greek Old Greek legend that a swan, for the most part, is kind of quiet. I don't know, I'm told that. But just before they die, the legend has it, just before a swan dies It'll sing a beautiful, beautiful song. When that swan sings that beautiful song, you know they don't have much longer to live. And Peter, under the inspiration of God, writes this tremendous, this tremendous book of 2 Peter. And shortly after the ink dries. Not long after the ink dries, Peter is martyred for his faith. So this is his swan song. And uh old Peter had his share of ups and downs. Uh we can read through the Gospels and he was known to put his foot in his mouth. And um anybody here, anybody can relate to that? Uh putting Yeah And uh he said some things I'm sure afterward he regretted and was very impulsive. And um even after uh uh even after the resurrection and ascension of the Lord, even after The church is being established. He messed up in Galatians. Paul had to confront Peter about his association and disassociation from the Gentiles. And so Peter had his share of ups and downs. But the thing about Peter is he was faithful to the Lord to the end of his life. And I'm telling you, and I've been I was talking with some folks this week about it, the older I get, the more concerned I am that I stay faithful to the end. I want to end well. I want the last, I don't know how many years the Lord give me, whatever, but I want the last years of my life to be used for the glory of God. I want to be faithful. And Peter was faithful right up to the end. 1 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 2 says it's required of stewards that a man be found what? Faithful Faithful. He was faithful to the Lord. He was active in his service right up to the end of his life. Now, y you know, sometimes age takes its toll. These old bodies weaken and decay and Well, how active we were, maybe younger in life. We can't be that level of activity for the Lord. But I'm telling you, we can be faithful and we can do something for God. Even if it's just even if you say, well preacher, I'm kind of shut in, there's not much I can do. Maybe folks listening online, you say, it's not much I can't get out. I'll tell you one thing you can do, you can pray, and prayer is a powerful, powerful ministry. Just staying faithful to the Lord, staying active in those spiritual warfare, even if it means prayer. And I I hate to say even if it only means prayer. I don't mean only. Prayer is powerful. Very powerful. I thank God for older folks that pray. Pray for me, pray for our ministry. So Peter was faithful. Peter was faithful. And regardless of our family history, we have reason to believe that Peter came out of somewhat of a rough family. At fishery, work in the fisheries. And uh some of the language he used when he denied the Lord. Uh perhaps he picked up that picked up that language in his early years How many folks here were saved out of bad language? Anybody here got saved? Man, before you were saved, the mouth was nasty. Anyone know what I'm talking about? And even to this day, years later, sometimes that thought will come to mind. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's there. And so Peter comes out of a maybe a difficult or rough family history, but he could still be faithful to the Lord, regardless of family history, regardless of past failures. He could remain faithful to the Lord, regardless maybe of limited abilities. We could remain faithful to the Lord. In Acts, I mentioned this in Sunday school this morning. In the book of Acts, they took note of Peter and John that they were unlearned and ignorant men. Every time I read that, I am so encouraged That an unlearned and ignorant man can still be used of God. And all the unlearned and ignorant men said, Amen for that. So he's faithful. We can stay active in the Lord's service. We can stay faithful to the Lord. Two points, two thoughts tonight. Let me jump right in. Number one. I want us to notice that Peter introduces himself as Simon Peter. In 1 Peter, he just said Peter. The second letter he says right there, Simon Peter. Now Simon is the name that was given to him at his physical birth. That was the name his parents assigned to him when he was born. Simon. Sometimes it's spelled Simeon. Two or three different spellings in the New Testament. Same guy, Simon. Simon Peter. Peter, however, was the name given to him. by the Lord Jesus Christ, which I believe could have been at his spiritual birth. Now if you would keep your place here. I just want to real quickly digress. Come over to Matthew chapter 16 And we have the account of Simon being given the name Peter by the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, most of the time throughout the New Testament, Peter is referred to as Peter Overwhelmingly, occasionally he'll be referred to simply as Simon. A number of times he's referred to as Simon Peter But notice in Matthew chapter 16, and if you would, come down with me to verse number 18. Actually, back up in 13, Jesus comes out and he says, Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? And the disciples offer some suggestions. Oh, you're John the Baptist, resurrected, you're Elias, you're Jeremiah, one of the prophets. I think it's interesting sometimes liberal Christianity, quote unquote, will portray Jesus as some meek, as some uh effeminate Weak sissified preacher. I'm telling you, I can't stand sissy fied preachers I want to when I shake a preacher's hand, I want a shake a man's hand. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And I sometimes they get out and they'll go, oh hi, I'm Reverend so and so. And it's like I don't know how I got on that, but um But I think it's interesting who the people thought Jesus was. The people, they said, well, we think maybe he's John the Baptist. I tell you one thing, John the Baptist won no sixty-five preacher. Good night. Ah, Elias! Elijah, one note says he find preacher, he's chopping off heads. He's preaching powerful. Uh Jeremiah. Jeremiah, powerful preacher. Every one of these folks that Jesus was identified with were old school, leather-lunged, hellfire, and brimstone. window rattling, shingle pulling, devil hating, King James Bible preachers. Now I wasn't sure it was King James back then, but uh But they were men of God. And don't come and tell me Jesus was sissified Don't come and tell me Jesus was was a a man be pamby preacher, brother. He stood up and told it like it was. Nobody preached on hell hotter than Jesus did. Nobody preached against sin stronger than Jesus did. And nobody preached on the love of God more tenderly than Jesus did. So he says, who do men say that I am? Oh, you're one of these old-time leather-lung preachers. He goes on. He says, Who do you say I am? Verse number 15. Simon Peter answered, of course, he's the first one to speak up, but his answer's spot on. He says, thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. I'm telling you, you can't get a better answer than that. Peter nailed it. Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus responds, and Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona For flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. And I say unto thee that thou art Peter Upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Here's Peter's open confession of Jesus Christ, Jesus as the Christ. Now, did he get saved? Is this the point of his salvation? Perhaps he was saved before this? Possibly, maybe likely he was saved before that. But this is where he comes out and publicly declares, thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. And Jesus says, your name's Peter. Peter. And so Peter's writing this letter. He starts off and he says Simon Peter. Simon Peter. So the name he uses, Peter identifies himself as Simon Peter. Now come back. And look at the second statement he makes. Simon Peter, a servant, and an apostle of Jesus Christ. As I said in my introduction, I find it interesting that Peter identifies himself as a servant before he identifies himself as an apostle. And I believe this is deliberate. And I believe this is a principle that's found all through Scripture: Submission before position. In God's administration, as I said, submission always precedes position An attitude of submission, an attitude of humility, an attitude of surrender to the Lord and His will, then God puts us in that position. In God's administration, submission always precedes position. I don't believe Peter would have ever been an apostle if he wasn't first a servant. A servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ. If that servanthood wouldn't have been there, the apostleship wouldn't have never been there. Submission. A lot of people in God's kingdom want position, but they don't want submission. Oh, I'd like to have that title Boy, I'd like to hold that position in the church. Boy, I'd like to have that. I believe, let me just say this: I believe a preacher ought to be God called. Not mama called and not self-called. God ought to call that person. Well, I'd sure Boy, wouldn't that be great? Stand up there and run your mouth, tell everybody what to do, not to do. Boy, I'd like to have that position. I tell you what, if you're seeking position before you have submission, you're going down the wrong road Servant and an apostle. A lot of people want position. Boy, I'd like to be there. I'd like to have that. I'd like to Say this. The disciples struggle with that. Again, keep your place here. Come with me to Luke chapter 22. The apostles had to learn this. Luke chapter 22. We're going to jump around a few verses here. A little bit of time we have. Luke chapter 22. I want to begin reading in verse 24. Luke 22. And verse 24. Now think with me as we're going to start reading this here. Keep in mind, these are the disciples of Jesus Christ. How many people think that's something, to be a disciple of Jesus Christ? Wow, that's a pretty spiritual position, right? I mean, these are tremendous men. They're disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ I want to remind you the disciples were men, people, humans, just like you and me. And look with you, look with me if you would. Chapter 22, look with me at verse 24. You're going to be shocked at the behavior of these disciples. It says, and there was also a what? Strife among them, among the disciples. Which of them should be accounted the greatest? What? John and Thaddeus and Bartholomew? Oh yeah, I'm greater than you. What are you talking about? You ain't greater than me. I'm the greatest disciple of all these. Oh, you're an idiot. You ain't no great disciple. You're probably the worst. How many people would say that's kind of amazing? That's exactly what they were doing. They were fussing over who was the greatest disciple. In fact, there's several accounts of the disciples doing that. How many people would figure they'd be beyond that? All right, yeah, what are you talking about, the disciples? Man, they're fussing over who's the greatest They're fussing, oh in fact later on, they fuss a little bit about who gets certain positions in God's kingdom. Lord, uh John uh James and John, their mother tongue says Jesus, would you make my boys one so on your right hand run to the other hand? Boy, they want great positions in your kingdom. Give them a high position in your kingdom Then the other disciples hear that. What? Those guys are idiots. They don't deserve that position. I ought to be that position. The idiots part is in the Greek. You have to really study that out And the Lord rebukes them. And look what happens here. They want position, but the Lord says, hey, before you can have any kind of position, there needs to be something else in place. And he, verse 25, he said unto them, the kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them. And they that exercise authority upon them are called benefactors. Oh, they hold great positions. Oh boy, that's really something, the great positions of authority they have. And the great position of lordship over people. Oh! And that's what the world wants. Look what Jesus said, verse 26. Look at it. But ye shall what Said, that's not how it works. That's not the way it is. Not position before submission. It shall not be so But he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger. And he that is chief, that's position. He that is chief as he that doth what? Serve. You know what Jesus was saying? Submission before position. You've got to have an attitude of servant. You've got to have an attitude of submission. the th the uh gentiles the world the unsaved world they want that great authority they want those great titles they want that be cheap But they're not submissive to the Lord at all. And the Lord said, That's not the way it is with you. Look verse 27. For whether is greater he that sitteth at meat, or he that serveth? Is not he that sitteth at meat the one in position? But I am among you as he that what? Sarbath. He says, follow me, follow my example. And so Peter, back here in 2 Peter, is writing to these persecuted believers. He's introducing himself. It says, Simon Peter. A servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ. God's highest title that He gives to a man is that of servant. Servant. You know, it's more of an honor in God's administration. It's more of an honor to be called a servant by God than to be called a pastor. Um uh one some of the girls were back to my office and they noticed on my door it said it says doctor years ago um brother Schindler gave me an honorary doctorate and I appreciate it but Uh I'll be honest with you. Uh I I'm not a doctor, I'm your pastor. And the girl said, are you a doctor? I said, yeah. Hey, I'm gonna milk it, and they're impressed. And uh, yeah. And they're like uh Woo, when do you go to work? And um Sundays. And um so we talked a little bit and they said, Oh, you're like a spiritual doctor when people have problems, you help them spiritually And uh I forgot why I'm telling that story, otherwise. I tell you, the title servant is far more honorable than the title doctor. Deacon, trustee, Sunday school teacher. I'm the bus captain around here. Praise the Lord for bus captains. But I tell you what, God's looking for servants. Servant of Jesus Christ. Peter had it right. He had that order figured out. Submission before position Moses, you know how God referred to Moses? Moses, my great leader. Nope, never says that. Moses was a phenomenal leader. But in Deuteronomy chapter 34 and verse 5, he says, Moses, my servant. In Psalm 105, verse 26, God refers to Moses as my servant. Malachi 4. 4, he refers to Moses as his servant. And all through the Old Testament, Moses, my servant. Moses, my servant. Moses, my servant. What do servants do? They serve. Joshua, great military leader. In Joshua 24 and verse 29, the Lord referred to Joshua not as his great military commander. Doesn't say that at all. He says, Joshua, my servant. King David, what a king. What a warrior. What a military leader David was You know how God refers to David? My servant, my servant, my servant, over and over and over. David, my servant. The Apostle Paul In Romans chapter 1 and verse 1, Philippians chapter 1 and verse 1, Titus chapter 1 and verse 1, he refers to himself not as this great apostle used of God. No, he says Paul, a servant. Of the Lord Jesus Christ. A servant. A servant. James. James is the brother, the half-brother of Jesus Christ He never refers to himself as James, the half-brother of Jesus. I tell you, if Jesus was my half-brother, everybody know it. I'll tell you that right now. Oh yeah, that's my half-brother. Don't mess with me You know how James introduces himself? James, a servant of God. Submission before position. Peter had it right when he introduced himself. Peter, a to Simon Peter, a servant. And an apostle of Jesus Christ. Old Testament prophets, all through the Old Testament, they were first and foremost servants of God. Servants of God. Servants of God. Throughout the New Testament Christians are often referred to as God's servants. In Acts chapter 2 and verse 18, 1 Corinthians 7, 22, Ephesians 6 and verse 6, Colossians 4 and verse 12, 2 Timothy chapter 2 and verse 24, Christians are referred to as servants, servants of the Lord, servants of God. A servant is an honorable title in God's administration Now, the word servant today, I'll come back to 2 Peter there, the word servant today, it has changed over the years. It's not quite offensive As that term servant was back when Peter's using it. Servant could be uh um, oh, what what do they call it, the guy that answers the door for you, Rich Peter Uh a butler would be considered a servant. I tell you, some butlers got it pretty good. Uh Somebody, you know, a waitress could be considered to an extent a servant. So it's not quite as offensive as when Peter said, I'm a servant, when Paul said, I'm a servant. What that servant was, the term we would use today would be something like this: a bond slave. Would you agree with me? That term slave is a little offensive. I'm a slave. That's what he's saying. I'm a slave of Jesus Christ. Oh, apostle, oh, apostle. He is no no no no. First and foremost, I'm a slave of Jesus Christ. A bond servant. A bond slave. Now what what was it like? To be a slave in the context given here. In that day and age, what did it mean? What does it mean to be somebody's slave? Well, it means first and foremost, you're absolutely possessed by the master. In other words, you're not your own In this day and age, in the context Peter is saying, I'm a slave of Jesus Christ, I'm a servant of Jesus Christ, in their minds it immediately referred to folks who had absolutely zero rights of their own. They were the possession of their masters, just like that master owned an oxen or a mule or some cattle or a dog They were owned by them, completely possessed. And Peter said, I'm a slave of Jesus Christ. He owns me completely. Just like you own your dog, just like you own your tools, just like you own your car, Jesus Christ owns me. I'm a slave. We do not own ourselves. I wish we had more time. 1 Corinthians chapter 6. He says, we are bought with a price. We are not our own. We are not our own. 1 Corinthians 7, 23 says, You're not your own, you've been bought with a price. Peter was saying to these dear folks that are being persecuted for their faith. He writes a second letter. And he says, I'm first and foremost, before you think anything of me being an apostle, I want you to remember, I am a slave of Jesus Christ. He owns me like you own your oxen. I'm his. That's what it meant to be a slave. To be a slave means to be completely at the disposal of the master. A master in this context here, in this time, a master did what he wanted to do with his slave. He did what he liked to do. Even unto life and death. And Peter had gotten to the point in his spiritual life. Peter had gotten to the point in his Christian life where he said, Lord, I'm completely your possession. And Jesus Christ, you are free to do with me whatever you want. Even if it means taking my line. Paul had that He was going to go back to Jerusalem and these different Christians come and say, don't go back down there. The Lord's told us you're going to be killed. You're going to be killed. He says, what mean ye to break my heart? I'm putting my own words here. I am willing to die in Jerusalem for the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what he's saying? He's saying, I'm completely at God's disposal. Whatever he wants to do. He wants to break me. He wants to take my whatever he wants to do. I am his. That's what Peter's saying. A servant of Jesus Christ. A servant was to give unquestioning obedience to its master Slaves had one law. That was the will of the master. Slaves had one law. That was their master's command. Whatever it was, that was my law. I think it's interesting in Acts chapter 9, and Paul refers to himself over and over and over as servant of God, a servant of God, a servant of God, a slave of Jesus Christ. And in Acts chapter 9 and verse number 6, Paul gets saved. He was Saul, and he gets saved. And the first statement out of his mouth, after he realizes who Jesus is, After he puts his faith and trust in Jesus Christ, the first statement out of his mouth was, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? He's saying, Lord, I'm at your disposal. Just like that tractor, however the owner of that tractor wants to use that as his possession, he said, Lord, what will you have me to do? Now let me just stop and say this. I think Lord Jesus Christ is looking for some servants in 2023. Some people say, Lord, I'm not my own, I'm totally yours. Lord, I'm completely at your disposal. Your commands, your will is my law. Not what I will, but Lord, what your will is. Peter said, a servant. The apostleship, everybody's all excited about the apostleship. The Lord put me in that. But I'll tell you what I am first and foremost, I'm a servant, a slave of Jesus Christ. Jesus said on the hill of Gethsemane before he was crucified He said, Lord, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, what? Not my will, but thy will be done. You know what he's saying? Lord, he's Jesus, God the Son was saying, God the Father, I'm totally submissive to you. I tell you, this is my thinking The moment Jesus Christ said, Not my will, but thy will be done, that moment salvation was secure. Because when he yielded, when he said that, it's going to happen. It's taken care of. It's just a matter of carrying it out. Servant, slave, unquestioned obedience. In Philippians chapter 2 and verse 8, it says that Jesus became obedient unto death. And few verses before that, we're told to have this mind that was in Christ. I was studying this and I sat and thought for a bit. I wonder. I wonder if my attitude is such that I would be obedient to the Lord unto death. How many of us would be willing to do that? Lord, I'm your servant, I'm your slave. God, if I do what you are saying, it's going to cost me my life, but God, I'll do it. You say nobody would be like that. Oh, contrario. Did you ever hear of Jim Elliott? Nate Saint? The Auca Indians? These fellows said it's God's will for us to give everything we have to try and reach these people. If it costs us our life, so be it. But we're going to do the will of God. And guess what? It costs them their life. And they're not the exception all through church history. God has had people that said, we're not our own. We are completely the Lord's will. Whatever His will is, even unto death, I'll be obedient unto death. And we've had it so good in the United States of America, and we have been so sheltered, and we have been so protected, and we've had so much liberty. That I'm afraid we've lost that spirit of obedience unto death That's what Peter said. I'm a slave. I'm a slave. To be a slave means to be constant serving, constantly serving the master. Every area of your life A slave could not compartmentalize his obedience and his service to his master. The master had all of it. Well, from 9 o'clock at night till 6 in the morning, that's my time. Not if you're a slave. Well, I'll give the Lord Sunday mornings from 10. 45 to 12. 15. If that preacher goes past 12:15, I'm just out of here. Lord says, no, no, no. The Lord says, if you're my slave, if you're my servant, then I've got Monday evening just as much as Sunday morning. Saturday afternoon? Friday night? Oh, Friday night's my time to unwind. Friday night's my time to let loose. Friday night's still God's time. Peter said, I'm a servant. Submission before position. Constantly serving the Lord. And then last of I put this down. As a servant, the master, I like that this is the good how many people say, man, that's pretty rough so far, anybody? Good night, dying, obedience to death, I have nothing of my own. Good. Heavens But being a servant of Jesus Christ means, and this is my last thought, it means that the master, if I'm a slave, a bond slave, the master is responsible for all my needs All my protection, all my provisions, the master is responsible to take care of me. I like that. I like that. Now, human masters, fallen, sinful human masters, they can be pretty rough on their slaves, can't they? We hear horror stories of how slaves were treated in years gone by. And by the way, that was wrong. By the way, human slavery is wrong. Deuteronomy talks a lot about it. You're not to take people by force. But when Jesus is the master, ooh, that's a different story. I was a slave of Satan for 19 years. Some of y'all know what I'm talking about in your own life. I'm telling you, Satan is an awful, awful master. He's a liar. He's hateful. He's a murderer. I'm convinced if Satan would have had his way in my life, he'd have killed me years ago. Well May 7, 1979, I trusted Jesus. I was no longer my own. He bought me with his blood. And now Jesus is my master. I'm here to tell you, for almost 44 years, he's been awfully good master. I haven't been the greatest slave, but he's been the best master ever. And I'm here to tell you, you'll let him. You'll trust him. If you'll get that attitude of submission, God will take care of you. Your needs will be met They'll help protect you from spiritual onslaught. They'll see you through valleys. They'll get you through the storms. When you start sinking in the water, like Peter said, help me, Lord, and his master pulled him out of the water. Jesus said, Seek ye first the kingdom of God. That's submission. That slave. Seek ye first the kingdom of God. And what? All these things will be added unto you. God said, I'll take care of you. I'll meet your needs. I'll take care of you. So Peter writes and he says, before you ever think about me being an apostle, and God put me in that position, God's the one, he put me there. But I'm first and foremost a servant of Jesus Christ. Submission before position. I read about a ship captain was going through a heavy fog, late at night, very, very dark, heavy fog, stormy. And through the fog, this captain of this very large ship saw some lights up ahead directly in line with where they were heading. And uh it's back before radio and all that, and he instructed his signal man to get out on the front and send a signal to whoever that was out in their way, and he said, tell them to alter their course 10 degrees south. So the guy ran out there and he got the lights and he's flashing to the this uh whatever's out there in front of him, and he said, Alter your course 10 degrees south They watched. And a flash came back, a message came back. And it said, No, you alter your course 10 degrees north. Boy, the captain got mad. Who do they think they are? He says, send another message over there. Alter your course 10 degrees south. I'm the captain. They watched a message came back and said, No! You order your course ten degrees north, uh I'm a third, I'm a seaman third class. That's way down Now the captain is furious. He says, Alter your course 10 degrees south. I'm a cap on a battleship. He flashes that out and he says, that'll change now. They're watching and the flights lights come flashing back. It said, alter your course 10 degrees north. I'm a lighthouse. That great battleship, that great captain, great leader, he had to submit. To that lighthouse. I'm here to tell you, you and I can think we're something, and we can think we deserve some sort of position, and we deserve to be chief, and we deserve to all that, and the Lord says, Oh no, no, no, no, no, no You alter to my will. You submit to my will. I'm here to tell you, and God's will is always best. So that's a cliche. It may be a cliche, but I'm telling you, it's a truth. Submission. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to help us. Oh, we like to have the position, we like the titles, we like to sit in this office and we like this and we like that. Lord, help us to see our place in your administration. And Lord, I believe we desperately, desperately need some servants in the body of Christ again. Not our own. Obedient unto death, if that's what it requires. But Lord, we're yours. I wonder how many would say, preacher, I could I really need to develop more of a servant attitude. More of a submissive attitude. I like my way. I like to get it my way And I need to learn to yield to the Lord. Let him be the master. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. I think any of us that have a fallen nature, this is an issue. Because we like to sure like to have our way. I'm here to tell you, as a pastor and as a preacher of the gospel, God's way is the best way. It's best to submit and yield. Maybe some of us need to come to the order tonight and say, Lord, I just put myself in the order. I'm your servant. I'm your slave. Or do with me as you see fit. I trust you. And have your way. Father, bless our imitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads about eyes are closed.