I tell you, it's interesting preaching verse by verse through a pat through a book like we do. It generally Sunday nights, and I'm sure you've noticed it, but Sunday nights We usually take a book of the Bible and just preach our way through verse by verse. Sometimes word by word. We just work our way through that. I think we took five and a half years some time ago to go through the book of Ephesians It was maybe maybe it was longer than that, six years. But the here's the amazing thing about that, and Jamie and I were actually talking about this a couple weeks ago, a week or two ago. It's amazing how a subject will come up As you're going through, there's no way in the world you could have possibly planned it when you started that series for that text or that subject to be come up on a specific time in a specific situation. Um we're living in s in unusual days, and um Dale and I were talking before. Uh we have never lived in at least I don't Not in my lifetime, and I don't know it's ever been in America, a time when the government has been as intrusive in our lives as it is right now. This is new to America. It's very common in many countries, even more so. But it's n it's it's different for us. And so when I began preparing this some time ago and got looking at it and I thought, wow, um It's just to me it's interesting how God works that out. Look with me, if you would, at verse number 13 of 1 Peter chapter 2. Now let me say this before we get started. Let me let me let me Establish some things here. Number one, we believe with our heart this book is God's Word. The Bible is God's Word. How many people agree with that? Amen. This is our authority, right? As Baptists, particularly, this is our sole authority. This book right here, no denomination, no pope, no nothing. Jesus Christ is our head, the Bible is our authority. And having said that, if the Bible says we're to do something, then we ought to do it. Amen or not? Amen. We don't explain it away. We just say God said that we ought to do it. Sometimes God tells us to do things. God instructs us to do things that are difficult. That are difficult, and that we think, uh no about that, God. But as a Christian, my loyalty has to be to this book And as a preacher, as a pastor of a church, one of the titles for a pastor of a church is the term bishop. The word bishop means overseer. In other words, given the responsibility for the position that church holds, the practice of that church, the direction it goes. And so, as a pastor, as a bishop, quote unquote, my responsibility is to be true to this book and to preach this book, whether you know, whether it goes against the grain or not. And so having said all that, notice with me if you would verse 13, 2 Peter 2. Submit yourselves, now look at this, to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake Whether it be to the king as supreme, or unto governors, as unto them that are sent by him, God, for the punishment of evildoers and for the praise of them that do well For so is the will of God, that with well doing, that ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men, as free And not using your liberty, that freedom, liberty, for a cloak of maliciousness, but as servants of God. In other words, your liberty, you have this freedom, but don't use that just to go do whatever you want You're still a servant of God. You're still under the Lord. Then verse 17, he kind of summarizes what he said there in the last three, four verses. He says, Honor all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the King. So I want us to look at verse number 13 and start us off. That first word, submit. And so the subject, the title. I've given to the message tonight is submission. And actually from chapter f from verse thirteen all the way to the end of the chapter, he's talking about Submission and submission to various authorities that God has delegated that authority to. Submission. So let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven I do ask, Lord, that you would teach us your word. And Lord, as much now as ever, I want to be faithful to the Word of God. With all my heart, Lord, you know I want to be loyal to you and I want to be faithful to your word. So I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body. And I pray that you would speak, your Holy Spirit would speak through me to our hearts and lives the truth of this book right here. And Lord, I just pray your will be done. Help us, Lord. Help us. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Submission. Now Uh this as applies to me as anybody. Submission has always been an issue with mankind. Submission. How many people here have ever had an issue with submitting in one way or another? Yeah Um here's the thing, even Christians, even Christians struggle with this Matter of submission. In fact, sometimes the very word itself makes us uncomfortable. Particularly in a country we're talking about America, we're free And that I then you bring up that word submission, submit, subject yourselves. It's like, man, uh we don't we don't really like it. We uh mankind has a tendency, has a bent Towards resisting submission. Did anybody here, anybody here ever have a child that resisted submitting to your instructions? Can I get a witness? If you don't, you've got either something's wrong with your kid, or you're very ignorant Children, even Christian children, struggle with being submissive to the parental authorities that God puts over them. Can I get a witness? Now I never did growing up, but I I know a lot of others have Sometimes in schools the kids have a hard time submitting to the teacher, submitting to the boss at work. Submitting to the pastor. Submitting to the government. God has delegated authorities. There's three primary institutions That God has ordained. They're God's idea. He ordained them. He organized them. He put them in place. He established them. The first is the home. And in the home, God has delegated authority to primarily the husband, the father in the home, but the parents have authority over the kids. And that's God's doing. God is the ultimate authority, but he established a home and he delegated some authority to that home. God ordained government. Uh government is God's idea. We're going to talk about that here in a little bit. We like limited government. We want government to be very limited, to be very uh we don't want them to be intrusive in our lives. We want them to have minimal responsibilities. And I think that was God's intention to begin with, of course It doesn't always work out that way, but God has delegated to government, to man, in the institution of government authority. And then the church, the body of Christ, the New Testament. God organized the church and He delegates authority there. But we have a problem, as sinners, as fallen beings, we resist that idea of submitting. Uh we kind of got this idea. There ain't nobody gonna tell me what to do. Right? Have you ever thought that way? Ever had that attitude Let me let me I came across a statement Charles Spurgeon made about submission. He said this lack of submission is no new or rare fault in mankind. Ever since the fall, it has been the root of all sin. From the moment when our mother Eve stretched out her hand to pluck the forbidden fruit, and her husband joined her in setting up the human will against the divine will. The sons of men have universally been guilty of a lack of conformity to the will of God. They choose their own way and will not submit their wills. They think their own thoughts and will not submit their understanding. They love earthly things. and will not submit their affections. Man wants to be his own law and his own master. I don't know about you, but I think he hit the nail on the head. He hit the nail on the head. In fact, if we had time, we don't. But we go to Isaiah chapter 14, and there we have a description of the fall of Satan. And five times Satan makes this statement, I will. I will. Satan's root problem was pride, and express itself in a lack of submission And what's the opposite of submission? It would be what? Rebellion. And Satan rebelled against God and failed to submit. I believe there's two bases, two things that are the basis of living a successful, victorious Christian life. One is a love for the Lord. When the fellow asked the Lord, what's the first and greatest commandment? What was the Lord's response? Thou shalt what? Thou shalt love what? Thou shalt love the Lord thy God. And then he expanded on that. It's not just to be a little affection a little emotional infatuation with the Lord. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength. I mean it is wholehearted love That's the first and great commandment. And then he, of course, he added on, love thy neighbor as thyself. So if I'm going to be a if I'm going to be live any kind of Christian life, if I am going to be any kind of Christian that God expects That's the starting point. But I wanna I wanna add an another along with that, and that is this. There must be submission to the Lord. I cannot live a victorious Christian life. I cannot live a life that is pleasing to the Lord if I'm not living a life that is submissive to the Lord. Is everybody with me? Everybody following? It's vital. It's vital this matter of submission, Lord. In John chapter 14, Jesus said repeatedly, I think it's chapter 14 or 15, he said repeatedly, if you love me, He will keep my commandments. And he says that in various were in various forms about five, six times through John chapter 14. He that loveth me is he that keepeth my commandments. He that keepeth not my commandments loveth me not. You know what he's saying? He's saying love for the Lord and submission to the Lord go hand in hand and are absolutely necessary if I'm going to stand before Jesus Christ, the judgment seat of Christ, hear him say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant, I've got to love him, I've got to be submissive to him. Take your Bible if you would, and I don't know how far we're going to get into this tonight. Turn with me. Now keep your place here. I'm hoping to get back, get at least started on this. Come back to Luke chapter number 9 with me if you would. Luke chapter 9. Here Jesus is speaking to believers, folks that are saved. How many folks here? You're saved who know it. Say amen. He's talking to saved people, but he's addressing them about being not just a saved, not just a believer, but being a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. And there are qualifications for discipleship that are not there for salvation. You follow what I'm saying? What's the requirement to be saved? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, thou shalt be saved. Whosoever shall call upon the Lord. It's by faith. I put my faith and trust, my hope, my confidence in Jesus Christ to forgive my sin, save me, give me a new life, and uh accept me into heaven. That's faith. But he says to be a disciple, if you're going to be a follower of mine, if you're going to be someone that lives that Christian life as God intends for us, that he the reason he saved us for, if you're going to live it Then there's some things that are necessary. Look at chapter 9 of Luke and verse number 23 with me. He makes a strong, a tough statement here. Verse 23, and he said unto them all, If any man will come after me, let him what? Now you need to talk to me tonight. What is it? Deny himself. Take up his cross how often? Daily. Now cross is a cross is a an instrument of death. It's dying to self. Whatever it costs, I'm following Christ. Take up his cross and follow me. Now, I don't have this written in my Bible, but you could put in the Marge of your Bible submission Den I myself, take up my cross, follow him, not my own will, my own way, but follow him. The very basis of discipleship begins with submission to Christ He says there, verse 24, Whosoever shall save his life shall lose it. But whosoever will lose his life, submission, for my sake, the same shall save it. Come over to chapter 14 with me, if you would. Now I'm laying some foundation here. I'm trying to stress and point out from Scripture the importance of submission in our minds, in our hearts, and our thinking. Luke chapter 14, and notice with me, if you would, verse number 26. Again, he's addressing this matter of discipleship. In fact, he makes some again strong statements here Verse 26, he says, if any man come to me, now look at this, and hate not his father And mother and wife and children and brethren and sisters, yea, his own life also. Look at that last statement. You cannot be my disciple. Now, does God want us to be hateful to our family? Is he telling us that we should despise the people that no, no, he tells us other places, husband, love your wives. You know, he tells the children to love and honor their parents. We're to love one another. So, what does he mean? I think what he's saying is this: our love for Jesus Christ must be supreme. And if I love anybody or anything else more than I love the Lord, then I can't be his disciple And he goes on and he builds on that. Verse 27. Now look at this. This gets to what we're talking about. And whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me Cannot be my disciple. Again, he's submission. Verse number 33, same chapter. For whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath Submission. He cannot be my disciple. Now he doesn't say he can't be saved. Um I believe a person can be saved and be very selfish after they get saved. I think God will deal with them But to be a disciple. And so submission to the Lord and love for the Lord are the basis of our Christian life. Now, if you would, come back, and I got time to at least get started here. Come back to To 1 Peter here, chapter 2. And let's look at this passage. And like I said a little bit ago, from verse 13 down the end of the chapter, he's talking about submission to different areas of our life, different authorities. That God has established. But look at verse 13 with me. Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. Then he goes on, whether it be the king is supreme under governors. My first point is this. I want us to notice the instruction that the Lord gives us here. He makes a very clear statement. He makes a very strong statement to us. In fact, this isn't a suggestion, and these aren't guidelines that we can just kind of follow these guidelines somewhat. This is a command. And it's a very clear command, very clearly understood. He used that word, submit. I got looking that word up, and uh it's a military term. How many people understand in the military submission's pretty important? You probably die if you don't learn to submit. So it's a military term he's using, and he's Peter is writing this under the inspiration of God. God is moving on Peter to record this, and he's sending it out to these believers, these disciples who are intensely persecuted for their faith, the government is on them, the religious organizations are on them, their families have turned on them. And in the midst of all of that, he writes to them and he used a military term. He says, submit. The word itself has this idea to place myself under the authority of another. And here's a key, this is a important aspect of the definition. To voluntarily Subject myself to the authority of the other. Submission itself has the idea of voluntary. If somebody submits, but they don't do it voluntarily, they're forced to submit. That's not really submission. What would that be? That would be slavery. That would be oppression. Right? But he says the idea is voluntarily. Yes, I love the Lord. He saved me, He forgave my sin, He gave me a new life, He suffered hell for me. Lord, I voluntarily, I submit myself Your instructions. Another definition. I like simple stuff. Here's another definition. It said this to obey. Obedience. Simply obey. Now, submission does not necessarily mean agreement with It doesn't necessarily mean that I don't take actions to try and change the situation, but it does mean this: I simply submit, I voluntarily place myself under and obey that whatever the authority is that's being addressed. But it is obedience to. It's not necessarily agreement with. I might not agree. I've worked in positions in the ministries for since 1985, and actually a few years before that, 1985 in as a vocation really And I've been in some situations. I worked under some circumstances. I didn't really agree with the authority. I didn't really agree with the one over me. And we, you know, we talked about it and different things. But God's help, I tried to be submissive to it. And so it doesn't necessarily mean I agree with it, but it does mean I obey and I submit. I put this down. I cannot be submissive to God And not be submissive to the authorities God has placed over me. Sometimes we have this idea. Well, I'm going to submit to God, but I'm not submitting to that. Wait a minute. If God is telling me I need to submit to that, then I'm not submitting to God. Everybody still with me? I feel like I'm losing some folks here. Take your Bible with me, if you would, and turn to Romans chapter number 13. Romans thirteen. And Paul, again, under the inspiration of God is addressing this same subject. Romans 13 and verse number one. Listen to listen to how Paul thins it. prompts Paul how God prompts Paul to pen this here. Let every soul be subject. By the way, that word subject is the same word as submit in Peter. Exact same comes from exact same word Let every soul be subject to the higher powers. For there is no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained of God. Therefore, whosoever therefore resisteth the power resisteth the ordinance of God. And they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation. That's a strong statement. For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to the evil. Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? Do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the same. For he, that authority, is the minister of God for thee for good. I read that passage to the policeman when we gave uh uh gifts to the policeman. I said, You guys are ministers of God As the authorities God has established. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid, for he beareth not the sword in vain, for he is a minister of God, of revenger, to execute wrath upon them that do evil Wherefore, we must needs be subject not only for wrath, but also for conscience' sake. Turn your Bible to Titus chapter number three. And uh Verse number one, Titus chapter three, verse one Put them in mind to be subjects to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, that would be government authorities To be ready to every good work. And he tacks this on, speak evil of no man, to be no brawlers, but gentle, showing meekness to all men. But he says there, there, put him in mind. He's telling Titus when you're preaching in the churches you're in. Put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers to obey magistrates. And so the instruction we're given here in Peter is very, very clear. Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. How many people here, let's do a little survey. How many people here recognize the importance of law and order? I think we appreciate that more now after this summer than maybe ever before. We recognize the necessity of law and order. Now The worst form of government that man can come up with, and there's some bad ones, but the worst form of government that man comes up with is better than anarchy. Anarchy is bad. And as terrible as there are some governments, you think of North Korea and some of these places, as terrible as they are, anarchy you cannot survive. In Judges, chapter number 17 and verse 6, and then again in chapter 21 and verse 25, the Lord makes this statement: There was no king in Israel And every man did that which was, anybody know what's the rest of it? Right in his own eyes. Anarchy. Anarchy. And Israel could barely survive that if it wasn't for God's grace. And God would send a judge. And some of those judges were terrible. And God would send a king. Some of those kings were terrible. But we could not allow it to be anarchy Just every man doing that which is right in his own eye. Every man deciding for himself what is right and wrong, what um what I can and what I will do and what I won't do And so the instruction here is very, very clear. We are to submit ourselves to every ordinance of man. Number two, I've got a little time, bear with me here. Notice the extent of this submission. Verse number 13 again. Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. And then he expands on that. He doesn't end there. He develops that statement. Whether it be to the king as supreme, or to governors, as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evils. In other words, God put these people in place for specific reasons. For the praise of them that do good. I got looking at this and I thought, man, surely, when it says submit yourselves to every ordinance of man, I thought, surely, that doesn't mean every. ordinance. I I thought, I'll look up that word. I'll bet that word every means the ones you like. It's what I figured that word probably meant, or the ones that make sense to me. And I looked it up, and you know what I found out? The word every there means this. Each and every one. The whole, now this is my definition, the whole shebang. The whole uh anybody ever hear this word? The whole kit and caboodle. I don't even know what that means. It means all of it. Wow, God are are you sure? So I thought, well maybe it's a mistranslation. It's not a mistranslation. I was joking. Submit yourselves to every and then he says this ordinance of man. I looked that up That phrase ordinance of man, the word ordinance means laws and orders that are developed, or the institutions that make and enforce the laws. So in under a king, it would be the king. He comes up with the laws and he enforces it. In our form of government, it would be the Congress. What you know there's a process there. It was very, very good and designed deliberately so it wouldn't be abused, ideally. And so, but whatever the whatever the mechanism is, it's whatever comes up with the laws and enforces them. So he says, let it let he says, submit yourselves to every Ordinance of man, law that is come up by uh by uh these institutions that do it. And then he attacks this on. He says, every ordinance, just in case we didn't understand, every ordinance of who? What's it say? The ordinance of God? Every ordinance of what? Come on, talk to me. Of man. Man. He's not addressing God's laws here. He's addressing man's laws. And he's telling these believers: submit yourselves to every ordinance of man. And then he expands on it, as I said, he says, whether, even if it's the King Supreme, that's the highest human authority there is in government Whatever title we may give it for us as president, the prime minister, king, I don't know what they call him in other places Most supreme ruler or whatever they come up with. But it's the highest human authority. He says, even if it's the king. And then he adds on more to that. Or unto governors. The word governors there has the idea of any leader or authority, ruler of any kind. How many people agree with me? How how many people like me in something inside is bristling right now a little bit? Anybody at all? Come on, be honest But this is what God says. This is what he tells us. Then verse 14, the last part, he tells us how to view their authority. That are sent by him. The word him there is referring to God. That are sent by God for the punishment of evildoers and for the praise of them that do well. Now that's the purpose, they're given this authority That's why God gave them the authority. He's just explaining that. So we've got to view these people as the authority they have is it's delegated by God. Now what they do with it, they have to answer to God for In John 18, verse 11, Jesus told Pilate that he would have no authority had God not given it to him. How many of you agree with me? Pilate was less than ideal. He was a wicked, unjust, corrupt king that knowingly murdered an innocent man, as far as humanly speaking. But Jesus said, you've got authority given to you by God. You've got the authority to do this. Now you abuse it, which he did. No answer to God for that. But Jesus says you've got that authority. And that's what Peter's saying here. This was given to them by God for a specific purpose. The interesting thing is, you want to know who the ruler was, the king that he was that was king at the moment when he was writing this? It was Nero. Nero is one of the most oppressive king uh rulers of Rome they've ever had. He was one of the most antagonistic to Christianity's he He is responsible for the martyrdom of thousands and thousands and thousands of Christians, brutal, violent And Peter, under the inspiration of God, writes these believers, says, submit yourselves to every ordinance of man, whether it's the king, Nero, or local governors. Submit yourself to them. I believe the church can and will live and grow and thrive in any kind of political system. I believe the k the church can and will live and grow and thrive in any kind of government system you come up with, but only If we follow God's instructions. Only if we follow God's instructions. So we're given a clear command. The instructions given are clear. The extent of this submission, I'll be honest with you, it's it goes beyond what I would come up with, but this is God. We don't have a choice in what God says. We trust Him. He loves us. Trust Him with all our heart. Commit ourselves to follow what He tells us to do and do what He tells us to do. Now, I hope you'll bear with me. I want to at least get this next thought in so we can go home with an uh an additional thought to this. And that is this. Are there any exceptions? To this command. Is there ever a time when I would say, no, I'm not submitting to that ordinance of man? And if there is, now here's the kicker, if there is, do I have the liberty to choose? Which of those I submit to and which I don't. Does God say, all right, submit yourselves to every ornament's man, whether it's a king supreme or the governors Submit to every one of them with the exception if you don't like it. Does the Bible say that? Well there the answer to the question is this. Yeah, there are exceptions There are some instances where God says no. Take your Bible, if you would, and go to Acts chapter 4. And some of y'all are ahead of me, I'm sure, on this. Acts chapter 4, and verse number 18. This is Peter. The church is under intense persecution. It is the church is exploding. It is, they're preaching the gospel in every corner. People are getting saved. People are getting baptized. The church is booming. And brother, the authorities are hot. They do not like it at all, particularly the religious authorities, but they're intermingled with the government. And in verse number eighteen, notice what these authorities tell Peter and these believers, and they, the the authorities, will say Called them and look at this, commanded them not to speak at all, nor teach in the name of Jesus. Ordinance of man. It's a law. They're commanded But Peter and John answered and said unto them, Whether it be right in the sight of God. To hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye, for we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. They had a very clear command from Jesus Christ, go into all the world and preach the gospel. Go ye therefore and teach all nations. Baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever you do. And the ordinance of man stepped in, and don't you do that. So what are we going to do? Am I going to submit to the ordinance of man or am I going to submit to the clear command of God? Here he says we submit to God. To my God. No. We're going to preach. And some places, and I don't know, maybe it's the case in Maryland, but I know some places they're uh putting ordinances in where it's illegal to preach against certain sins. Sodomy and the like. It's illegal. You know what? We're going to preach against sodomy. And any other sin. Adultery and fornication, you name it. The Bible teaches it. We're instructed by God to preach it. We're going to preach it. So we submit ourselves to the ordinance of God unless that ordinance violates a clear scriptural command, a clear scriptural principle. Let me give you another verse here. Go over to chapter 5 of Acts. Same, basically the same situation, but it's reiterated in verse 28 saying Here's the authorities, these are the ordinance of man. Did not we straightly command you that you should not teach in this name Behold, you filled Jerusalem with your doctrine. I love that statement. I got it underlined. That's what I want to do in Oakland and Garrett County and surrounding areas. Fill it with the doctrine of Jesus Christ. And intend to bring this man's blood on us. Look what Peter said. I love Peter. Then Peter and the other apostles answered and said, Read it with me, would you? We ought to obey God rather than man. So, yeah, when man's law clearly violates God's law, then we obey God. When the ordinance of man violates the ordinance of God, We obey God and we suffer the consequences. By the way, none of the New Testament believers ever rioted or ever responded. They just did what God told them to do, and whatever the consequences were, they were. Throw me in jail, throw me in jail. Chop my head off, chop my head off. They didn't riot, they didn't do an uproar or uprising against the government. They simply obeyed God and trusted God. So the instruction is clear from God: submit yourselves to every ordinance of man, whether it's king supreme or governors. He gives the extent of it, every single one But we find in Scripture there are exceptions. In Daniel chapter 1, Daniel was, they were trying to make him eat a dietary, a diet that was contrary to the diet God had given to the Jews. And he was going to violate, as Daniel would have violated God's instructions concerning their diet. And he very graciously, very wisely, I think, approached the authority about it Told him his situation, worked out a way that he could do it without being arrogant or or uh uh you know raising his fist in his face, and they worked it out, and God worked it out There's a lot of law. How many people uh how many folks like me right now there's there we're being told to do stuff that I don't like? Anyone at all? Three of us. I guess you guys like it. There's a lot of stuff I don't like at all. Some that don't make sense. Some of these building codes, Mark can give you a witness, just sometimes don't make sense. Why in the world we spend tens of thousands of dollars so we don't kill a greenhorn Owed, there's something. Traffic signs. I don't know about you But middle of the night, maybe I'm coming in traveling, I'm coming into Oakland or something, two o'clock in the morning. There's not another car on the road, and I come up and the red light You know what I'm talking about? And you're sitting there. There's not a car for a hundred miles around. You know what I do? I wait for it to turn green. Some of y'all don't. So sometimes they don't make sense. And those are just silly little examples. But here's what I'm getting at. We do not have the liberty to pick and choose what ordinance of man we obey or disobey. I don't have that liberty. I have no right to disregard what my government instructs me to do simply because I don't like it. I know this isn't popular. And I know there's, I know we bristle at this. But I've studied the Bible. I see no way around it. Unless there is clear scriptural violation, God tells us to submit. Now we live in a unique situation in America. Where we can appeal the laws. We can work at trying to change the rulers. We have a say to an extent on what these ordinances are And Pastor Matt's very good about this. I try, he's probably more thorough than I am at it, but I write letters and I try and contact our authorities and things that aren't right I disagree with Well, back when they shut the church down there, I had a hard time with that. And that was pushing the point where, listen, we need to obey God. And we were right there. We were just about ready to say, hey, we're having church, regardless of what they say And then the Lord changed things and they backed off. But we have the opportunity as Americans, we have a very unique opportunity To have a say and have an influence on those that have authority over us. And we ought to exercise that authority while we are trusting God and following His instructions. I don't know how to give an imitation. I probably got people mad at me. But that's all right. I told my wife, I said, if I knew there was an owner of bars sitting in church And I was going to preach on liquor, I would preach on liquor. And if I knew there was somebody living on adultery in the service and I was going to preach on adultery, I would preach on adultery. And if I know that submitting myself to every ordinance of man is not popular, I have a responsibility as a pastor to preach. We need to submit ourselves to every ordinance of man. Amen. So let's pray. Let's ask the Lord to help us. Let's ask the Lord to give us wisdom. Let's ask the Lord to give us mercy. Say, I don't like these laws. I don't either. Let's pray. God will change it. Let's work. God will change it. Let's win souls. Let's get people saved and get righteousness back in our land. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I just ask that you would help us. I pray you'd give us wisdom, give us faith to trust you. Follow your leadership to love you and be submissive to you. I pray you'd have your way. I wonder, by way of introduction, I wonder how many would say, preacher In my heart and soul, I want to be submissive to God in every way. I want to trust the Lord of Ayam. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? My hand is raised. I want to I don't want to be rebellious against the Lord. I don't want to live resist God's command. And we just need to ask the Lord to help us and give us wisdom. Give us discernment. Father, I pray you'd bless and help us in Jesus' name, Amen