Ah, what a blessing. You know, I think I like that in the best this week. I do. I like that picture. It's the first time I've ever done that one and and uh I'll be honest with you, I've I saw uh some pictures I I get ideas from everywhere And so I was uh doing some uh s uh whatever you call it on the on the computer, looking through some stuff and And I saw a picture similar to this and I've done some things that made it a lot better, of course. But uh Okay. And uh but anyway, I really like this. How many of you like this picture? How many would like to take it home with you? You know how you got you know how to do it, right? We we bring visitors and I'm trusting that uh uh the rest of this week we always have a good number of visitors here, but I believe we could really do better than we've ever done And this would be a good time to do it. Amen? Be a good time to d y'all are die you're dying on me up here. Am I dying on you? Maybe that's what the problem is. Uh I couldn't hardly get you to raise your Bible. Fundamentalists, independent, fundamental, Bible-believing Baptists, and they can't raise their Bible? Good, right. We need to get some Pentecostal blood in us. Now don't get mad at me. I'm not a Pentecostal and and and uh Lord knows that uh knows that for sure. But uh one thing about it, uh it doesn't doesn't hurt to you know say amen once in a while Amen. I got one back here, and my wife, she'll say it every once in a while. The only problem with her is you can't hear it. Thank you. I appreciate that. All right. Well we've uh we've done a a uh a picture that uh uh I guess we'd call it a patriotic picture and it is. Uh anybody see anything wrong with the flag beside the the wrong number of stars? I didn't count the stars, okay. Anything else? Anyone else see anything? Huh? I ca I'm sorry, I couldn't hear you. I'll tell you what it is. There's there's not enough red stripes on it. There's seven red stripes, white and six white ones. Stands for the thirteen colonies, the original colonies. And uh but I didn't i uh I was gonna have to extend the flag never mind. I just didn't put it in there, all right, because an artist has a prerogative. He can do whatever he wants to do, it's his painting Take your Bible and turn to me in the book of Joshua. It's always a pleasure to be on the mountains, and I want you to notice that Uh it snowed before Nan got here. In anticipation of her presence while you got that big snow. Isn't that right? Okay. We're in Joshua chapter one and we're going to start reading in in verse one where the Word of God says, Now after the death of Moses, the servant of the Lord, it came to pass that the Lord spake unto Joshua the son of Nun, Moses' minister, saying, Moses, my servant, is dead. Now therefore arise and go over this Jordan though and all this people into the land which I give to them, even to the children of Israel. Every place that the soul of your foot shall tread upon, that have I given to you, as I said unto Moses From the wilderness and this Lebanon even unto the great river, the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites and unto the great sea toward the going down of the sun shall be your coast. That sounds like a deed, doesn't it? A deed to a land. Whose land is that over there anyhow? Is it the Palestinians? Is it the Arabs? Uh no, it's it's okay. It's it's Israel's land. There shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with thee. I will not fail thee. nor forsake thee. Be strong and of good courage, for unto the this people uh shall thou divide for an inheritance the land which I swear unto their fathers to give them Only be thou strong and very courageous, that thou mayest observe to do according to all the law which Moses my servant commanded thee. Turn not from it to the right hand or to the left that thou mayest prosper whithersoever thou goest. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. Have not I commanded thee Be strong and of a good courage, be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. Let's pray. Our Father, once again we We bow before you. We we thank you, Lord, for the privilege we have to stand behind this pulpit. Uh through the years, many great men have stood here, and it's a privilege to be uh in this place tonight with these folks. Lord, we pray that you'd speak to our hearts, encourage us tonight. Lord, we've uh done a patriotic picture and And uh uh of course uh uh Lord we don't uh we don't hold politics or uh patriotism up as something super spiritual. But Lord it's it's just so good to live in a country that where we have freedom. uh to worship you in spirit and truth. We pray that you'd bless the the message tonight and and I pray that you'd help me and empower me, use me, and give glory to yourself. Help us as we show the chalk drawing, Lord, in Jesus' name, amen and amen. We all know this story by heart, I suppose, and we know the the conditions that uh have come. Uh Israel had been out in the wilderness for forty years, you know, and and had gone through a lot of things. Uh they had come to this place before and and uh but they wouldn't wouldn't believe God. So because of their unbelief they couldn't go into the promised land. This is all just just old hat to this church and I know that But uh after the forty years is up, Moses is ready to go to that place where uh where God had told him to take the people. And uh but he wasn't allowed to go into the promised land. I always thought that was so sad, you know. I can see Moses, he he he stands up on the mountaintop there and looking across the river, you know, into the promised land. That was where for forty years he'd been dreaming about this moment The moment when he would be able to cross the Jordan, go into the promised land, begin to claim all the promises that God had made. But here he is now standing there looking across the the way, and I can almost see a tear run down his face as he remembers, you know, uh uh what brought him to that place. It was just simply uh an act of of disobedience. It was an act of uh of the flesh It was just one of those moments when he just lost control of himself and because of that why he smoked the rock that was supposed to bring forth uh uh the water for the people and he he smoked the rock twice instead of uh speaking to it and anyway he smote it instead of speaking and and uh as a result of that why God uh would not allow him to go into the promised land. But Moses is dead now. Does that mean that God's I mean here's the leader That was going to take him into the promised land, he's dead. Does that mean that God's uh uh plan or his purpose or uh his program has failed? No, the the one good thing about the program of God and the plan of God, however you want to uh uh use the word His program is not contingent on one individual You can you can uh take uh this evangelist out of the picture uh tomorrow and somebody can fill this pulpit the next night. It wouldn't be any problem at all. There isn't any of us that that are uh indispensable. There's none of us that that if it think the world's going to fall apart if something happens to us. And that's one of the things that God is teaching us here in this thing. Moses did he did fail, and he he was not allowed to go into the promised land, and and at first glance you might think, well, you know, God failed in a in a certain sense But the truth of the matter is that God's plan continues on. Every so often you hear of a perhaps a a a Christian or a preacher that has fallen from grace, so to speak. That has let his family down, let his church down, and has fallen into sin. As terrible as that is It does not mean that the work of God is going to be stopped. The gates of hell shall not prevail against the church, even though at times it may seem like uh it's holding up pretty good. But the truth of the matter is that God's program continues on, regardless of man's problems that he has personally. I'm not saying it does not hinder the work, not saying that, because it does. Any sin, any time, I I think about this this revival meeting. And some of you uh perhaps have gotten the burden of the meeting and and you're spending time in prayer and you're you're making a list of people that uh you want to come and and you're You're r praying for this evangelist and praying for the messages and praying that you wouldn't be bored to death and and that the pictures would be good. Is it working? And uh excuse me And y you're doing all that, uh, or are you? I guess that's the question Or is it uh have you uh have you sort of put it on the back burner and you're just gonna let this week kind of s drift along and you're just you're gonna come in and sit through it and watch the chalk drawing and put up with the preaching and and go out but pretty much the same I mean we have an opportunity this week is that I heard the pastor say that as I was drawing that we have an opportunity This week to use my abilities, my talents to get people here that may never m may never darken this the church's door. But regardless, I just want you to know that God's program is going to go on no matter what. Whether you get involved with it or not, it doesn't uh you know, I I almost said it doesn't make any difference. It does make a difference. It makes a difference to you. It makes a difference in in the life of your family, and it makes a difference in in your personal life. Whether you get involved or not. You can just, you know, you can just sort of sit back and do nothing and and, you know, go through the whole whole meeting that way and come out of it and say, boy, that was a nice week, you know. But if it didn't change anything, if you're if there was no no challenge that moved you to to a new level of spirituality, then if it's lost to you. In order for us to have success in the Christian life and and and here he lays out this thing about success. And and I looked at that at that uh that last uh and verse eight there, the last sentence in that says, For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success And all these other things. So I want us to look at some of these things. When it deals with success, we're talking about victory in the Christian life. Christians ought to be living a life that that uh well they ought to be excited about about being saved. There ought to be joy involved in the in the the whole thing. Uh there ought to be uh a a desire to share what we have because it's so good we just can't hold it in. All these things ought to be you know, involved in this this this victorious Christian life, if you want to put it that way. And I believe we can learn some things. Perhaps in these verses that we've looked at here. And the first thing I'd say, we need to we need to understand if if we're going to have success or victory in the Christian life, we need to understand God's purpose first of all. His purpose. What was his purpose for Israel here? What was the th what was the thing that that uh he would that that Israel is supposed to accomplish for the purpose of God to be fulfilled in their in their life? Well, it starts way back in the book of Genesis, uh some uh you know uh several hundred years uh prior To thee, the you know, this place. About five hundred years. And uh it was when Abraham, God spoke to Abraham, told him to get out of that place, and he was gonna he was gonna make a great nation out of them There's the purpose of God. There is the plan. That's what God's goal is. He's going to make a great nation out of Abraham's seed. It's going to be as the stars in the sky in number. It's going to be like the sands of the seashores. A great nation And he has this the plan all laid out. Listen, and God's blueprint, uh, it never changes. He's got all everything laid out just exactly the way he wants it. And we may think it's well, boy. You know, we sure messed his plan up there. I got news for you, you can't mess it up. You can't mess it up simply because uh he's uh omniscient, he knows everything. He knows when you're going to fail. He knows when you are good or bad. So be good no, where did I get that? It just just comes out every once in a while. You know what I'm talking about? He he knows what the plan is and and he's made the plans accordingly. So the it can't Totally mess up his plan. God's uh God's man has died But he's got somebody to fill his place. Joshua, he's he's been there from the very beginning. He knows all the ins and outs He's ready to step in and take control. But I got I got news for you. Anytime there's a change in leadership, there's there's a change or a a a little uh Shall we say consternation, a little bit of uh a disturbance within the ranks? Well I wonder if Joshua's gonna do as good as Moses. Wonder if he can hit a rock and make water come out of it And so God has all these things that He's going to have to prove to these people Do you know that failure is a part of life? It just it's just something that happens. Why is that anyhow? Well, uh it's because of man's fallen nature. Man's fallen nature just makes it so that failure is inevitable somewhere in your life. You're going to fail. That doesn't sound very uplifting, does it? I didn't say you have to stay down, but I know that I know that we do fail. We failed Periodically and sometimes day after day we fail. We fail God, sometimes we we fail friends, sometimes we fail our spouses. But But we do have a tendency to fall short of what is we call perfection. But God's purpose is larger than any individual, any man. And while failure is is something that we have to deal with, we need to realize that that that's the reason that we're here, that God is here, I should say. That God is involved in our life. The believer has something that the unsaved person doesn't have He has someone that is going to encourage him and lift him up and teach him and bring him along so that his failures are few and far between. I know David he he failed terribly, but I know the later years He was a man after God's own heart, just like he was in his early years. He didn't continue down that road of failure. The failure had such an impact on him, he made changes in his life so that he would head that thing off. And we have that same opportunity. We don't have to continue failing. We have a tendency to to let some sin get involved in our life, and the next thing you know, what we keep we keep falling back into that that same that same uh sin over and over and over. We fail, in other words. But God has a has a plan even for that failure. And that is where we go to and we and we confess and we say, God, I failed you, and I know it. And we can get it all straightened out. How many of the people, how many people in the Bible can you think of that never failed? All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. I guess you'd have to put a zero there, right? Everyone's failed. Doesn't sound much like success. But if you're going to have success, you have to understand, first of all, the purpose of God. What is your purpose? Why are you here? If you understand how God is working and the purpose you have, the calling that you have What God wants to get out of your life, if you understand that, then you have a plan to work on that you can move towards. The second thing is you need to understand God's promises. This book is just chucked full of God's promises. Promise after promise after promise. Man. The only problem is that not all the promises in here are for the believer. Some of them were just for the Jews, you know. There's principles that we can apply from from how God dealt with the Jews, but there's some promises just for the Jewish people And then there are just some promises that's for us here in in this dispensation or this time period, this this this uh uh part of the Bible, the the new covenant So we have to understand his promises. I notice that in verse 3 and 4 he says this: every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon. So he told Moses this same gave him the same promise. Now he gives it again. He reiterates it reiterates it to uh to Jacob. Jacob, how did he get up here? Uh Joshua, so that uh so that he knows that that this is a continuation of his plan and his purpose for the nation of Israel There's been no change. The only change is that he now leads instead of Moses. That's the only difference. God is still on the throne God is still directing, God is still making the promise, and God is still fulfilling the promise. And that's the same thing that you and I have to look at. It's God's promises that are given to us in the New Testament are promises that He will carry out. He cannot lie. When he when he says, wherever the soles of your foot uh have been, that's that's your land. That tells me that the Arabs have no no way that they can put claim on that land. Why? Because it belongs to them. Because God gave it to them. The third thing is that understanding not just his purpose and his promises, but understanding God's power. You know, when you stop and think about God's power, a power that that for just a spoken word and Everything that we look through a telescope, the Hubble telescope, and that we can see, and we still have not got to the end of it, all that was created in an instant. By the power of the Word. The Word of God. Isn't that awesome? Can you, I mean, can you bring a single molecule? Into existence by speaking it? Of course you can't. But God can't. God's powers is and it's available to the believer. We have access to it We need power in our life just to live the Christian life and it's available. You you're having a problem with with something in your life that shouldn't ought to be there. God's power can enable you to overcome that Understanding God's presence, the Old Testament saints You know, we we uh we look at the old at least I ha I have looked at it, the Old Testament saints and and uh men th they they're up and down spiritually and And you know, they're uh have a good king and and they take all their the high places down, you know, and all their idols down and then they get a bad king king like Ahab and they put them all back up and begin to worship him again. And you say, what is the matter with those people? They must be nuts. But the truth of the matter is the Holy Spirit didn't live in their bosom like he that he does ours. So, whenever we get involved in that same process of lifting up uh different idols at different times and going up and down, I'm wondering why. When we have access to the power of God in our life and his very presence that enables us to live for Him. His very presence. But that promise is contingent on one thing. His power is contingent on one thing, and that's his presence. Let's look at at verse five. It says, And they shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of his life, of thy life. As I was with Moses, so I will be with thee. I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. I'll tell you, uh a fellow like Joshua, who was a general of the army, that must have been a tremendous promise to him. Notice what it said the first word, there shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life. Wow. That's an open door for for for Joshua to to charge hell with a sp with a water pistol. I mean he has an open door there to go into the land and begin to to claim that that promise of God. But the promise and the power is contingent on his presence. Do you know it's the same thing in the New Testament? Go back with me in the book of John, chapter 14. In John chapter 14. And uh this I'm going to read several verses. I'm going to start at verse 13. John chapter 14, verse 13. And of course this is when Jesus is talking to his disciples and they're gonna he's going to go away and he's going to send a comforter. And he says And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. And if ye shall ask anything in in my name, I will do it. If you love me, keep my commandments. And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever. Well, that's isn't that a precious promise? Even the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it saith uh it seeth him not, and neither knoweth him, but ye know him, for he dwelleth with you And listen, and shall be in you his presence. Whenever you go to to knock on a door You don't have to wonder about whether God is with you or not. He's already made the promise. He's going to be there. He's going to be there doing what? He's going to help you to develop whatever you need to say in order to try to win that individual to Christ. He's there when that door is slammed in your face, he's there to give you grace to just smile and say, well, others have suffered for a whole lot less or a whole lot more. He's there for whatever the need is. His presence guarantees his grace, and his grace is sufficient for everything. Verse 17, once again, in the last part of it, but ye know him, for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you, the Holy Spirit. What a precious gift we have. I've always liked Zechariah chapter four and verse six, where it says this. Then he answered and he spake unto me, saying, This is the word of the Lord unto Zerubabel, saying, Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord of hosts. Not by might or by power. Sometimes we always we try to get ourselves out of jams. We go the the the flesh way And it just gets worse and worse. It's not by might nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord. If we realize that we're in a spiritual battle, then it helps a whole lot Because once we realize that, we realize we can't fight physical battles because they're spiritual. Understanding that God's program is another thing that will help us in this way of success. Understanding of God's program. You see, God had a program for Israel to claim his promises so that he could fulfill his promise to Abraham. You see that whole thing where they uh uh went down to Egypt and Joseph, remember how God's plan, how that all worked out? Where it actually uh actually gave them a place where they could raise children and their children raised children and so forth until they they came to the place where there were like two or three million people in Egypt God was building a nation. That was his plan taking place. It looked like a pretty bad thing. Even got to the place where they became slaves. Like, well, this isn't God's plan for us. We're supposed to be a nation to ourselves. But God had a plan. It's all working out. God has his way of doing things. We know if we understand his program, we uh we have a uh a better chance of having success in a Christian life. What is the program that we're involved with today? You know, we have a program. You know, this morning I called it a cause, but it's still God's program for this day and age. And what is it? Go into all the world and and and preach the gospel. It's to get the the word of God out throughout this whole world, uh that everyone Have an opportunity to trust Christ. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. That's his program. He wants the the gospel given out, the furtherance of the gospel. That's his program right now Understanding that will help us in our Christian life. Because you see, it Understanding that God's program is what we're involved with takes it out of the realm of these little penny-any, picky little problems that we have with individuals. Well they didn't shake my hand today and I just no I don't like that. Or I don't uh you know this carpet now so and so they said they liked this carpet, I didn't like this carpet. Or uh there's just something or You know. And you can d all these little things, these little picky things that that people get involved with that leave the church and and cause problems in the church and they gripe and complain about the pastor and and everything. I mean All that takes a back seat. Matter of fact, it just stuff swept under the rug as far as God's plan is concerned. His purpose, his program must go on at the expense of all these little picky things that we can get involved with. And then finally well it's not finally, I'm sorry. I have two more finalies. All right. This is this is the finely before the finely. Number six is understanding God's precepts and just simply that he's uh he's dealing with the Word of God here. He's talking about hiding it in your heart, and he's talking about meditating upon it. And and how can we know his plan and his power and his presence and all these other things that we've already talked about, if we don't get into the Word of God where we can learn all these things, that's where it's at. It's in the Word of God. We need to take every opportunity to study, to show ourselves approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed. And how blessed we are. You see, all they had was Moses' writings. But we have sixty-six books that we can look through and and compare scripture with scripture And we have computers to d today that can you can hit a button and it can give you a uh the Greek and the Hebrew and the meanings of everything and and and give you a whole message in one shot there. You don't even have to That's the reason he doesn't have to prepare anything. He just you know like that, you know, and they all just come whooping out there. Yeah. I'm sorry I gave you I gave it away. I've been using it for years. The final. There this is the final, this is the one you've been waiting on. Understanding God's prominence. Notice verse nine in back there in Joshua. Joshua chapter 1 verse 9, listen to what it says. Have not I committed, uh commanded thee Be strong and of good courage. Be not afraid. Neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. The preeminence of God in the life of Israel was paramount to their success. Whenever they begin to fail to see God and lift him up and put him in a place of preeminence as a nation or as individuals. When they failed to do that, they had failures. And you and I today, we're told in the scripture so many times. It says, and I, if I be lifted up, I'll draw men to me. That's the pull of the gospel. He says, looking under Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith That's the author and the finisher of our faith. That's the one we should be looking to. That's where the power comes from. That's where uh Uh, how can I say it? That's the place where we get whatever we need is through him, through the Lord Jesus Christ. The emphasis is always to be on God and not on man. Jesus said, I am the branch and you are I'm the branch and you are the vine. Is that the way it is? I'm the branch. He's the vine. We're the branch. There you go. I knew it didn't sound right. I'm the vine and you are the branch. And then he said, For without me you can do nothing. And if we can get that thought in our heart and in our head and in our mind and let it work through us, the fact that we can do nothing without Him. We need his presence. We need his power. We need him. And we need I don't know how to put it, but we need more than just a a head knowledge. We need a heartfelt a knowing him. Ought to know him. Paul the apostle paught to know him. That was important to him. To know him And the word know there is more than just a a head knowledge, well, I know his name is Jesus, that's it, and that's not it. It was it was something that was in the heart And that's what Paul was talking about. And here I believe, looking into Jesus, the author and finisher of faith, we need to keep our focus upon him. And once again in Zechariah four verse six says, And he answered and he spake unto me, saying, This is the word of the Lord and this is a rubble, and it's the same to you and I today. This is one promise we can claim. Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord of hosts. You want success? You want to have a life that that uh oozes of victory? You want a life where uh you get up in the morning and it's exciting and and you look forward to it? Then you need to understand some things about the Lord. The more you understand about Him, His plan, and His purposes, and His precepts and all those other P's that we worked on there, when you understand them. The more you understand, the closer you get with him, the closer you get with him, the more success you'll have in your life. If we can have the lights out, we'll show this chart away.