1 Peter chapter 3, verse 17. Notice what the Bible says. For it is better, now look at this. For it is better if the will of God be so that ye suffer for well-doing than for evil doing. It is better, if the will of God be so, that ye suffer for well doing rather than for evil doing. It's better to suffer for doing what's right than it is the suffer for doing what's wrong. That's what he's saying. And I've titled it Suffering for Welldoing. So let me just give a few thoughts here, real qu I'll try and do it real quick. Father in heaven Lord, it's just been a good day, a boy, a busy week, Lord. Just so much going on this past week. We're looking forward to a coming week of serving you anew and the opportunities that lie before us to be a witness in this old world. And I pray that maybe you'd use a thought, a verse that's read, something given that would embolden us and strengthen our faith to go out into this dark world and be a witness. And Lord, we know there's going to be opposition to our testimony. We know there's going to be opposition to our influence. We understand that. So help us, Lord, to understand Your plan and your purpose and help us to rely on your Holy Spirit. Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body. I pray that you'd speak to our hearts tonight. Teach us what you're saying to us in this passage, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I read this past week of a fellow who was a pastor in Romania back in the 1930s and forties, and when the communists invaded Romania and took over, they took control of the churches. And what they tried to do was to control the message of the churches so that it would accommodate their communistic uh ideals and their communistic uh teaching their doctrine, communistic doctrine. And so they would control the churches. Of course Bible-believing pastors rejected that. They're going to preach the word of God. So this pastor, when the communists took over began controlling the churches, he took his church underground. In fact, during that time in the 1940s, he started numerous churches, underground churches there in Romania Now, as I've been reading about some of these martyrs this year, it seems like Romania was a hotbed for persecution of believers. during that period of time under the Soviet rule. He started numerous churches underground, people getting saved and establishing these churches. But the communists were on to him, and they were after him like hounds on a rabbit. And he knew his Time was coming and a week or so he knew they were about to catch him. He knew they were about to find him out. He was going to prison. There was no doubt in his mind. And he said that one Sunday morning It's in 1945, somewhere around there. One Sunday morning, he took fifteen boys and girls, junior boys and girls, like Brother Mark and Jack, you're going to have out of camp. He took 15 of them And he didn't bring them to Sunday school that day, to their underground church. He took them to the zoo. And there in the zoo on that Sunday morning in Romania, he found the lion cages And he lined those 15 children up in front of the lion cages with the lions there in the background, and he made this statement to them. He said, our spiritual forefathers were thrown to lions just like these. They were mauled and killed and torn asunder because of their faith in Christ. And he looked at those children. He said, This, you also will have to suffer for your faith. You will not be thrown to lions, but you will be given over to men who will treat you much worse than these lions treated our forefathers. He says, you must decide here and now if you wish to pledge your allegiance to Jesus Christ. Wow, what a Sunday school lesson, huh? Can you imagine that? What do you think those 15 boys and girls did? He said that when he was finished his challenge to them to commit themselves to Christ, in spite of the fact that they were facing persecution. He said that every one of those boys and girls with tears streaming down their cheeks said, we commit ourselves to Christ and the gospel. Isn't that something? Each one of those kids with tears down their eyes, screaming uh down their cheeks, said, we do, we commit ourselves. Suffering for the cause of Christ. I think it's fascinating that James chose this fellow tonight. His story fits into what Peter is writing under the inspiration of God to these dear believers who were suffering I'd venture to say, you and I, I can testify firsthand, you and I know nothing of what it means to suffer for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We are an aborition in church history. We are an enigma in church history. And what I mean by that is this: you and I live in an environment where persecution of believers is almost unheard of. Now you and I think persecution of believers is somebody cusses us out if we give them a track. Or somebody walks by the fair booth and they snub their nose or call us a name or something. Oh, we're being persecuted. That ain't persecution. That's just rudeness. Persecution Of believers is a key theme through the book of Acts. Intense persecution. I mean to the point of giving their lives Can you imagine? Can you imagine what kind of turnout would we have on Thursday night visitation if we announced we're going to go out visiting and we're going to try and share the gospel with everybody we possibly can? And in doing so, we're going to be arrested. We're probably going to be beaten with baseball bats. Some of us are going to be drugged to prison, and there we're going to be denied food and water And we're going to live in horrible conditions, and we may not ever get out and see our family again. I wonder how many folks would show up on Thursday night visitation for that. That's what the Church of Acts faced That's what most believers, I mean I should say many believers throughout church history dealt with. Suffering for the cause of Christ, suffering for well-doing. It's a key theme throughout 1 Peter, and it's been a reality throughout church history. I read a little statistic just recently. And they said, more Christians have been martyred for their faith in the last 100 years than have been martyred for their faith in the previous 1900 years. You and I, we're not, we don't see it because we don't experience it right now, but we are living in a time of church history when more people are dying for their faith in Christ than any other period of time. Isn't that something? Suffering for well-doing. It's been throughout the history of the church. The Bible does not ignore the reality of unjust suffering. The Bible does not deny the reality of suffering for well-doing. The Bible doesn't try and explain it away or sugarcoat it or play it down. Sometimes we something there are certain elements within Christianity try and suggest that if you and I accept Christ as Savior that you and I take a stand for Christ and live by the Bible, that everything's going to go fine and all our bills are going to be paid and everything's going to be wonderful and we're just going to be popular, happy, wealthy people. Listen, that is as unscriptural as you can get The Bible doesn't present that. The Bible's right up front. Listen, you follow me, you're going to pay a price You commit yourself to Christ and live by this book, you're going to face opposition. The Bible is very blunt about suffering. Now, I've got two thoughts I want to give to you real quick, and then we'll go eat ice cream. How many people vote for that? Yeah, that's what I thought. Number one, sometimes suffering is the will of God. You say, oh, preacher, God would never want his children to suffer. Ah, look at verse 17. For it is better if the will of God be so. That ye suffer for well-doing than for evildoing. Come over to chapter 2 and notice with me verse number 20. We looked at this several months ago, but he says, For what glory is it? When ye be buffeted for your faults, ye take it patiently. But if when you do well and suffer for it, you take impatiently. Look at that last statement. It is what? If you do well and you suffer for it, it is what? What's it say? It's acceptable with God. God's okay with that. Down verse 21. For even hereunto were ye called. You're called to that. We are called to serve Christ, and that brings with it opposition. Now, I want to look at a slew of verses. Everybody got their Bible? Everybody alright? Everybody okay? Everybody with me here? Alright Come back if you would to Acts chapter number nine. And we're going to buzz through a bunch of verses here real quick. Acts chapter 9. And my point is this: sometimes suffering is the will of God. Now we're not talking about suffering in the sense of physical ailments. We know that. God allows that. The Bible talks about that. Different people in the Bible that had physical elements. But we're talking about suffering for well-doing. For living for God, for doing right, living by the Bible, trusting the Lord. Look at Acts chapter 9. Here's the salvation account of the Apostle Paul. And an angel shows up to Ananias there in verse number 10. He says, I want you to go find this guy, Paul. I want you to go make a visit The angel gave to uh Ananias a visitor's card to go visit this guy on the street there, and uh he called straight. Here's his address, and you go over there and visit this guy And I want you to tell him some things, uh give him the word of God concerning his life. And so he does that. And now look in verse number 15. He tells him what he should tell Paul The Lord said unto him, Go thy way, for he is a chosen vessel unto me to bear my name before the Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel. Look at this. For I will show him, Paul. How great things he must what? Suffer for my sake. Right from the moment of salvation, God said Paul's going to pay a price for his faith in me. Paul's going to face opposition. He's going to be treated unkindly for no other reason than he's serving me. If you would come over to Acts chapter 14. And notice with me verse nineteen, Acts fourteen, verse number nineteen. And uh verse 19 down through verse 22. Notice it says here, verse 19, and there came thither certain Jews from Antioch and Iconium. Who persuaded the people, and having stoned Paul, drew him out of the city, supposing he had been dead. Now what did they stone Paul for? Well they they thought they killed him. What was he doing? Was he robbing their houses? Was he burning their streets down? No, he was preaching the gospel He was doing there what we did this past week out at the fair. Howbeit, as the disciples stood around about him, he rose up and came into the city, and the next day he departed with the Barnabas to Derby And when they had preached the gospel in that city and had taught many, they returned to Lystra and to Iconium and Antioch. Here's another account of somebody that's doing well, well doing Preaching the gospel, and he's stoned for dead. I wrote in the margin of my Bible, verse 20, tenacity. Brother, they stoned and left him for dead. He got up and he didn't go home and whine and cry. He didn't go to the courts and sue him. He went out and started preaching to other people Come over, if you would, to 2 Thessalonians, chapter 1 and verse 3. He said, Preacher, I thought being a Christian was all ice cream and Kool-Aid. Well, sometimes it is on Sunday nights. Sometimes there's it's the will of God that we suffer for Christ. Second Thessalonians chapter 1. Look with me, if you would, at verse number 3. This is a good church. This is a soul-winning church, missions church. And notice verse 3, it says, We are bound to thank God always for you, brethren, as it is meet. Because that your faith groweth exceedingly. And the charity of every one of you toward each other aboundeth. Man, they're growing in their faith, they love each other So that we ourselves glory in you and the churches of God. I'm bragging on you to the other churches. We're glorying in you. Your patience and faith. Look at this. In all your what? Persecutions and tribulations that you adore, which are a manifest token of the righteous judgment of God. What's he saying? He says, you're serving God, you're growing, you love each other, and brother, the world is giving you fits. Come over with you, if you would, to 2 Timothy 3 and verse 12. Here's a verse. Most of us, many of us, I should say, are familiar. 2 Timothy 3:12. Yea, and all that live godly in Christ Jesus, look at this, shall what? Suffer persecution. You say, what are you saying, preacher? I'm saying the Bible teaches us sometimes it's God's will for us to suffer and suffer deeply For doing right, living for God, serving the Lord. Now, would you agree with me? That's a foreign concept for you and I Most of us sit here and say, yeah, whatever. Alright. Yeah, great. That's wonderful. But the fact of the matter is, for many Christians throughout history, and I want to say most Christians throughout history, what I just said, the verses I just read and the statements I just made were a living reality in their experience. They knew what it cost. They knew there was a price to pay. Now I don't want to be alarmist, and I'm not trying to be sensational, and I'm not trying to do anything other than I can't help but see clouds of opposition on the horizon. For you and I here in America and actually around the world. Now this is just me, alright? This is Leathermanism here. I was talking with my wife this week And I never in my life before have saw or thought I I have never in my life before comprehended the reality of the eminent return of Jesus Christ, the eminent rapture of the church like I am in this last 18 months. Now I'm not saying that we're that there's any signs. There's no signs for the rapture. That could happen at any moment. But I'm telling you, things are falling into place. For the events of the tribulation period like I have never seen in my life before I do not believe the vaccination is the mark of the beast, but I see very easily how the mark of the beast could be and probably will be introduced. Are you with me? And what I'm saying is this, let's thank God for our freedoms, let's thank God for our lack of persecution for our faith, but we better be st uh we better be uh uh strengthening our faith and we better be walking with God and we better be close to God because the freedoms and the and uh the ease of Christianity that we have now could change like that in a moment And I look at church history and I study what the Bible says, and I find that often it is the will of God for His people to suffer for their faith. And you and I are living in a unique time when we experience very little of that. Not all suffering is the will of God. He says there in Peter, he says, it is better If the will of God be so, that ye suffer for well-doing than for evil doing. Evildoing is never the will of God. Amen? God doesn't want us to do wrong. Evildoing brings difficulties. There are people in hospitals tonight that are fighting for their life because they went out drinking last night And had a drunk and got drunk and gotten a wreck, and now they're suffering deeply for wrongdoing. Are you with me? You follow what I'm saying? And so not all suffering is the will of God, but sometimes God does suffering is the will of God. Let me give you four things here, real quick, that why would you say, why would it be God's will for us to suffer? Let me give you four reasons, real quick. We're not going to look up the verses. I'm just going to give them to you. Number one Suffering for well-doing develops our patience. Write down Romans 5:3. Through tribulation worketh our patience. Unjust suffering, suffering for well-doing, for doing right and serving God, develops our patience. Number two, it empowers our witness. 2 Corinthians 12, 9, talk, talk, Paul talked about suffering. And he says, when I'm weak, when I'm beaten down, then I'm strong. Then I'm strong. Number three, I put this down. Suffering for well-doing is partnership with Christ. Let me give you a verse to go with that. Philippians 3:10. We fellowship with Christ's sufferings Paul considered when he was beaten for his faith, when he was imprisoned for his faith, when he was stoned for his uh preaching the gospel, he says, Hey, I'm fellowship with Christ. I have the opportunity to experience what Christ did. And number four, suffering for well-doing brings promotion in glory. 2 Timothy 2, verse 12, he said, if we suffer, we shall reign with him. This uh preacher that Brother James gave us an account of tonight, I really enjoyed that. He's imprisoned, what, five times, Brother James, kicked out of several countries? You know what? I said this before, but I'm telling you right now, heaven noticed that. And though people down here might not have appreciated, and we've all in the world for the most part forgotten about them, and you and I never heard of them. But I imagine, this is my imagination now, but I imagine when he stepped into those, stepped into glory, when he passed away, he went to his long home in heaven. I would imagine there was great accolades for his faithfulness to Christ and His service to Christ. You and I are not, listen, you and I better not look for praise down here on earth for our faith in God. We better not look for people to come and pat us on the back. I thought of Diane's mom. Uh she had a hard time hearing. She came to church, you know, for a while there before she went nursing home. She had a hard time hearing, and so um I guess we got those hearing things for her something. But anyway, she was going out back there, I was shaking hands, and uh said uh something about uh I said, how was the sermon today She pulled me over and says, Don't fish for compliments. I said, Okay. Listen, we better not be looking for this world to compliment us, because it ain't gonna happen. But I'll tell you, this is this is this stirs my heart. In fact I got chills just got chills down my back, not because the air conditioning. When I thought of this. I tell you, this old world is uh uh isn't gonna pat us on our backs for our faith. But I tell you what, we get to heaven We get to heaven, God will recognize it. If we suffer with him, we'll reign with him. God is not unrighteous to forget your good works, Hebrews tells us. Suffering for the Lord may cost us a lot down here, but I tell you, it's recognized and rewarded in heaven. So, number one, my first point is this: sometimes suffering is the will of God. And my second point is very redundant, almost redundant of the first one. Sometimes suffering is the result of doing right. Doing right. I like what Bob Jones Sr. said. He said, do right till the stars fall. Just do right. Just do right. It's better, it be the will of God, that ye suffer for well-doing rather than wrongdoing, evil doing. Let's do right this week. What's the right thing for a Christian to do? What's the right thing for a Christian to do? Let me boil it down into three words. Trust and trust. Obey. Let's go out this week. I'm going to trust God. I'm going to obey Him. And I may pay a price for it. People might give me a hard time. But I'm just going to trust God and obey Him. And God will bless that. Amen? How many are pressed with the shortness of the message? I'm going to give the invitation. And I wonder if how many folks would join with me. And bowing before the Lord, maybe an old altar, and just say, Lord, I want to be faithful to you this week. I want to be a good witness. I'm not going to look for this world to praise me and pat me on the back. I'm going to keep my eyes on Christ and set my affection on things above. And I want to do right. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. I wonder with heads bowed and eyes closed. I wonder how he would say, preacher. As far as I can in my own determination, I want to live for God this week, regardless of what it costs me. Regardless of what others have what they may think, I want to do right. I want well-doing. I want to do well-doing. Now what that entails, maybe getting your Bible out. Maybe giving tracts out, being a witness, maybe taking uh in work, maybe not doing something that's a little shady, not joining in in those stupid, dirty conversations. But just doing right, just doing right. How many say, preacher, pray with me? That's my determination. I just want to do right this week. The things I say and think and do. God bless you. My hands raised I wonder if there's some here say, Preacher, I never trusted Christ as Savior. I need to get that settled. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me that I can have my salvation settled. I can be a child of God in this old simple world. Any like that? Any like that? Now, Father, bless her invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.