He's addressing that, that no man should be moved by these afflictions. For yourselves know that we are appointed thereunto. For verily, when we were with you, we told you before that we should suffer tribulation, even as it came to pass, and ye know No. I want to talk about suffering tribulation tonight from these few verses and uh ask the Lord to help us. Let's pray together. Father, thank you once again for the Word of God. We're just, it seems like every day we're we thank you for the the God, you know every one of us are sick You know the issues that we deal with. And Lord, we just trust you to take the truths. principles, apply them to our lives, that our faith would be established. God, that we could um sense your presence in our life and we could uh be effective witnesses for you. Fill me with your spirit is my prayer. I yield my body anew and pray that you would uh speak through me. I in Jesus' name I ask this. Amen. He tells us in verse 3 and 4 why it was he felt it was necessary, why Paul felt it was necessary to send Timothy to this church in Thessalonica. They weren't struggling with false doctrine. Uh they weren't struggling with any more immorality within the church. Nothing like what was going on at the church in Corinth. As we've pointed out repeatedly, uh this is a good strong church. This was a model church, verse one told us. Other churches could follow their example. So he wasn't concerned that they would be teaching a false doctrine. He wasn't concerned that there was uh uh uh immorality going on within the church or within the leadership His concern was that they were facing some severe trials, and he was worried that their faith would begin to waver. He was worried. Paul was away. Remember we said there's little or no communication, very difficult to communicate. You know, they'd send letters by uh uh what would you call it? So he's real concerned. Now we're given here the reasons. Notice there's two key words in verse 3 and 4, I believe Look at verse 3. That no man should be moved by these afflictions. Aha. Now this is the root of his concern. Look at verse 4. For verily when we were with you, we told you before that we should suffer what? Tribulations. So he mentions in these two verses, he mentions afflictions. And I think it's very significant he says these afflictions, but he mentions afflictions and he mentions tribulation. Now as I got studying those two words, and I just get how it's used other places in the Bible and whatnot, I found out that they come from basically the same root word. They have slight variations in meaning, but if you get your strongs out, it both comes back to basically the same word. The word afflictions there has the idea of Pressure being put on someone or something, being pressed down. We would say in our situation, something that weighs heavily on a person Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Maybe it's a a situation or whatever, a health concern or whatever, but it weighs heavily on. It's on your mind, it's on your heart. It pulls you down. That lightness, that Spring in your step is not there. It just weighs down. So that's the idea of these afflictions that they were facing. It was something that Paul realized could really bring them down, could weigh them down, press them down. Then you get the word tribulation in verse 4. As I said, very similar. Comes from almost the same root word. But it has this idea. The sense of being pressed down, weighed down is there, but it also included this in the definition. To be in a very narrow space. In fact, one of the words in the definition was to be in narrows. A very small passage. You don't have much room to move. It is used in other places to refer to pressing of grapes Uh you put grapes in a what, a vat? Is that what you would call it? Uh a what? Oppress. You put greats in something where they can't get away is the idea. Right? And then you bring pressure down on them. Now the picture I've never done it, but the pictures I've seen is you walk around and step on them. Is that how you do it, Sandy? Yeah. But um the idea I think and this is what I got in studying these two words out and the definition that I that that I picture in my mind, the word picture in my mind is this. Paul was concerned that the church at Thessanaika was facing these issues, these tribulations, these trials, that would really weigh them down and they would feel like they couldn't get out of it. They were in a press. They were in a vat and the pressure was coming down and uh there was no escape. We we word it this way, between a rock and a what? Hard place You feel like I can't get out. I go this way, I'm up against it, I go that way, I'm up against it. I can't get away from this pressure. That I believe that is the idea behind the meaning of the words And this passage tells me that Paul was very concerned about the church at Thessalonica that they would be in that type of situation. That these trials, these afflictions they were facing would have that effect on them. Would get them down, would get them discouraged. They'd feel like there's no escape, and it would affect their faith. Apparently there was a specific situation they were facing. Now if you go back to Acts 17, and I don't want to forsake a time, you find out that there in Thessalonica there was quite a few upheavals There was a lot of opposition from uh unbelieving Jews and various other fractions were bringing uh tremendous um pressure on the believers there, opposition and persecution. In fact, Paul had to flee for his life from the city. And so um that In my mind, no doubt, is what is being addressed here. Now, I want us to notice three things. First thing I notice is Paul's concern that they remain steadfast In the midst of these afflictions. Look at verse 3. That no man should be what? Moved. I don't want these, Paul is saying, you must not allow these afflictions, this heaviness that's come upon you. Don't let that move you. Now it's interesting. The first and primary definition of that word move is what you would use to describe a dog wagging his tail. I thought that was interesting. Uh a dog lags and tell me goes back and forth, back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. Sam's got a little dog he's brought back from Texas with him. He's called Chief. He's part um he's part Beagle and part something else Jack Russell Terrier, I think, or something like that. But anyway, he's unique. And he's got this little stubby tail. And boy, when you come in, that little tail is just going bang, bang, bang, bang, bang. That's the idea of the word here And what he's saying is, uh, oh by the way, this is the only time, the word moved is used in the English throughout here, but the only time that uh we have the word, the Greek word moved translated moved here, it's never used in the Bible anywhere else. So this is a unique situation. This is a situation where he's very concerned about them, and it's going to have a very unique effect He's afraid, concerned, these pressures would on them. The idea, I think he's saying this is, listen You must not allow these afflictions that have come upon you, these things that are weighing heavy on you. You cannot have them drive your faith back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. You've got to establish your faith. You need to remain steadfast. Paul wanted them to be established. Whether things were going well or things were going bad, whether their heart was or whether their heart was heavy, they were not going to be moved. Their faith was in God. The word of God was true, and they were going to just stick there. That's what he was concerned about. He was concerned that they would stand steadfast, be established in their faith. In Luke chapter 18, verse number 8, the Lord said this. He was talking about his second coming. And the Lord asked this question. He said, Nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith on earth Now, the whole context there, the whole idea was in the last days, there was going to be persecution. People will kill you thinking they've done God a favor. People where there's going to be intense persecution. There's going to be intense opposition to believers. And the Lord is saying, listen, are the people alive in the last days, are they going to stand steadfast or are they going to be moved? Is there anybody and when all this opposition comes, is there anybody that's going to stand true uh to their faith in God? And that was Paul's concern for the church there that there's opposition These trials, this persecution, whatever it was that was weighted down, would not move them. Keep your place here. We're going to come look at the rest of these verses, but I want to show you a few verses. Would you go to Hebrews chapter 10? Now hate for you to bring your Bibles and they just sit there on your lap. So let's get them out and use them there. Hebrews chapter 10 and verse number 23. Hebrews ten twenty-three Same idea. Again, I I'm convinced Paul was the penman of the book of Hebrews and under the inspiration of God verse 23 he says this let us what Hold fast. What's the idea behind holding fast to something? Of course, not letting go. Exactly, not wavering, not going back and forth. Unmoving. I mean, they're just planted. Now look what he says: let us hold fast the profession of our faith. Now, here's what I was wanting to get to, without wavering. Without going back and forth. On and out. You see it all the time. Now, uh, you know, this is Wednesday night crowd, so this is the pretty consistent uh uh group, but you see it a little often uh uh in churches Where folks when everything's going good and everything's going fine, boy they're right there, everything's uh you know, they're happy and singing the songs, praise the Lord, God is so good, but boy you let some trials, afflictions come along suddenly they're not singing anymore Suddenly their song's gone, their joy's gone. Now I'll be the first to admit that is not easy to keep your song and keep your joy in the midst of Tribulation, but that is what having uh having uh having uh steadfast faith does. It doesn't move me, doesn't change me. Uh you we've all known Christians. They're always the same. Doesn't matter what's going on, doesn't matter what the weather is, doesn't matter uh how great things are or how bad things are. They're just always, they've got the joy of the Lord, they're praising God, and going on. We've met people like that. I think of Anna Nixon Tate. I told talked about her down in Chattanooga, their precious black lady In the projects. And it didn't matter. Somebody tried breaking her house one day. She showed me where they pulled the screen out. We're getting in. She got down on her knees, prayed that God would protect her, and for whatever reason they never got in. And when you went when we answered the door, you'd have never known. She'd been through that the night before. Just the same. Then we got talking and she told us what happened. He says that's what we need. Look if you would turn over to James chapter number five. Now I know what I'm preaching is a whole it's a whole lot easier preaching this than it is practicing this. But nevertheless This is what we need to work towards, having steadfast faith. James chapter 5 and verse number 7 He says, Be patient, therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold, the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth and hath long patience for it until he received the early and latter reign. Be ye also patient. Look at this. Stablish your hearts For the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. Now, why do you think he would say, just before he makes the statement, the coming of the Lord is drawing nigh Why would he inject that phrase, establish your faith? What do the two, how would the two relate to each other? The Lord's coming is real soon. You better establish your faith. Anybody want to take a shot at that? Why would that be significant? Okay, you better be right with the Lord. This is what I was thinking, and bringing it back to the Thessalonica. Timothy tells us that in the last days evil men and seducers are going to what? Wax worse and worse. And he goes on and he describes the condition of the world. Jesus spoke, now a lot of what Jesus spoke about was during the tribulation period. But he was referring, the Bible refers to the fact that in the days of the Lord's coming, there's going to be tremendous opposition to the gospel There's going to be tremendous persecution of God's people. And don't think that just because we're raptured out of the tribulation, that we will somehow escape persecution. The Bible does not promise that. It says we will not face the wrath of God, but nowhere does the Bible promise we won't face the wrath of man. And as we approach the end days, opposition to our faith is going to increase and increase and increase. Persecution of the children of God is going to increase, increase, increase. And he is saying, listen. In those times when the persecution comes, when it's pressing down, and you look around, and it seems like everyone's against you, this whole world hates me. He says, Don't you let your faith waver. Don't you let that opposition, that persecution move you. You establish your faith. And that's what he was telling the church at Thessalonica. They were facing intense persecution. Now, next come back here if you would, Thessalonica. So he says to them in verse number three, but the Lord is uh first second time Thessalonians. Come back to 1 Thessalonians chapter 3, that no man should be moved by these afflictions. Alright? He's saying, don't let this move you. You just plant your feet. You believe what God says. You hold to the word of God. You trust God through this. Then he makes another statement. For yourselves know that we are appointed thereunto. So the first things he does, he urges them to remain steadfast in their afflictions. The second thing we see here, he explains to them what I'm describing as God's sovereignty in afflictions. He says, listen, um You know that we're appointed to this. You know that as children of God, as believers in an unbelieving world, this is part of the deal. This is part of life. That word appointed there has the idea of placing something on something. It has the idea of being destined to something. And he's saying, you guys know, you saw it when I was there, you're facing it now. If you are going to be a Christian in a non-Christian world, there is going to be opposition. God allows it. It is part of the deal. Jesus said: Don't be surprised if the world hates you. It hated me. If you're a believer in me, it's gonna hate the world's gonna hate you too. Um So he's saying, listen, you guys knew this. We're appointed to these afflictions. We're appointed to these pressures the world brings on it. It is part of being a Christian And I tell you, it just gets under my skin some of these preachers that go around and try and say that somehow we can be friends with the world, somehow we can appease the world, somehow uh if we're have enough faith and we Trust God enough, we're not going to have any opposition, we're not going to have any affliction. That is a flat-out lie. That's part of Christianity. Many of you could testify the same thing I'm about to say, but when I got saved, within a matter of weeks, I lost every friend I had. I didn't get saved and all of a sudden have gazillions. Everybody loved me. This is wonderful. I had family members. One in particular just laid into me. You think you're better than us and all of a sudden you're and you're just condemning. All I did was told them I got saved. Listen, that's part of the deal. That's the way it is. We're swimming against the stream. So he says these things are appointed. That's part of the Christian life. Now listen, we don't need to go out looking for it. Amen? You just do right. Trust God. Go forward. Have an influence. It'll show up. Now God has appointed these things. I put this down. The type, the degree, and the duration of our affliction is all under the control of God. God determines. Now let me ask you a question. Does uh how should I word this? Let me does God All the afflictions that hit us, do they hit us because God wants them to happen? No. Man has a free will. People can make decisions and do things that to other people that not necessarily what God wants them to do So I'm not suggesting when I say that these things are the sovereignty of God in these afflictions, I'm not saying that God willed them necessarily. Now some he does, but I am saying this: God allows them. God allows them to happen. And God could, in any situation, at any time, in any circumstance you can come up with, God could step in and intervene and not let it happen. But God allows people to do things sometimes. God allows affliction to come upon us sometimes. And not only does he allow the affliction itself to face us, He allows how the duration of it, how long it lasts. He can shut it off anytime, but he allows it Uh the degree how severe it is. I was thinking this afternoon in uh different situations dealing with I was thinking this afternoon uh uh uh just before church, I just lay down for a couple ten minutes minutes and uh I was laying there my mind was working on some things and uh I thought can you imagine those guys years ago laying there in a prison cell And they were preaching or witnessing and somebody made some false accusations against them and they're about to be hauled out and burned at the stake, cut their fingers off, cut their tongue out, and then burn them at the stake. Can you imagine what would be going on? Through your heart and mind laying there facing that. Listen, God allowed our great forefathers, our Baptist forefathers, to go through some intense persecution. And so the sovereignty of it, these things were appointed unto. This is part of it. This is part of living the Christian life, is dealing with opposition. Dealing with persecution, dealing with people calling us names and mocking our faith. That's part of it. God doesn't necessarily desire all of these types of things to happen, but God allows them. Now you say, why in the world would God allow that? Why would God allow one of his children to go through uh afflictions and different things like that? Same reason you allowed your little child when they started to walk take a few steps by their self and fall down. Same reason you allowed your child to go through some difficulties. Same reason you got let the uh a total stranger nurse shoot some medicine you don't know what it is into their arm uh What's it called? Uh vaccination. Do they still do that? And do that, and uh your child screaming, Oh, I'm under affliction, uh, trials and persecution, there's no way out But you let them go through that, why? Because they benefit from them. They come out stronger. God allows these things. God never allows anything that he can't into our lives that he can't We cannot turn around for good if we will trust him and obey him. Why did God sometimes I think Lord surely you wouldn't let this happen to me And then I think, why didn't God let John Hus be burned at the stake for his faith? Well, we think, oh, uh, this this is the worst thing. They they can't call me a name at work. Wait a minute, why does God allow others in even the day and age we live in in some of the Muslim countries, Christians being murdered for their faith? Listen, God's in control of that. And God never allows anything to happen to us that He cannot take and turn around for His good if we will simply trust Him. Simply do what he says. So the first thing Paul is concerned about, he's sending Timothy over to Thessalonica. He says, I want Timothy over there. He's a good guy. He gave the list of credentials. And he says, I want you to be sure that you're steadfast during these afflictions. I want you to understand the sovereignty of God in this. God is allowing this. This is what we're appointed to. Then the last thing he points out, he makes a statement about it. Now, I kind of like what he says here. He says, verse 4, for verily, when we were with you, We told you before that we should suffer tribulation. Now, if you were going to put that into a modern phrase, A common phrase, what would it be? I told you so. I told you this was going to happen when I was there. He goes on. He says, even as it came to pass, you know. He says, I told you that was going to happen, and it did, didn't it? You know it did. You got saved, you got on fire for God, you started doing what the Bible says, you started having an influence, and persecution came. I told you it would, see So he makes this statement. Paul saw it coming. He'd been around this business of serving God long enough That anytime a church or an individual believer was having an influence, especially the level of influence that Thessalonica was having, they're going to suffer tribulation. There is going to be opposition Paul was saying in so many words, and this is the way I see it anyway, he was saying in so many words, there is no way in the world, I told you when I was with you, There's no way in a world, a church that's having this type of influence in the world. Remember what he said back in chapter 1? Come back there. Look in verse number 8. He says, For from you sounded out the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia and Achai, but also in every faith your faith toward God's word is spread abroad. Man, they had a huge influence He says, I've told you, you're not going to have that level of influence for the gospel and not face persecution. It's not going to happen. I saw it coming. I told you when I was there. Don't be surprised by it. God's allowed it. You stay steadfast. Turn with me if you would to John chapter 16 verse 33. John 16, verse 33. It's interesting as I was preparing this, and I've noticed this in other messages I've prepared, but John 16, and I noticed that Jesus makes a lot of statements about persecution of believers. We think of Jesus as being, you know, lovey-dovey and wonderful and peaceful. and all of that. Jesus was the one that warned her disciples, as much as anybody, you're gonna take heat for being my follower. Look at John 16 and verse number 33 1633, he says this. These things, oh he's just told them that he's going to be taken and they're all going to leave him and they're going to go through some horrific times. Then verse 33, he says, These things have I spoken unto you, that in me you might have what? Peace. He just told him all these awful things are going to happen. They're going to be scattered abroad and everything's going to be terrible. And the world's going to hate them. We're going to kill them. And uh he said, but I told you this. I told you this ahead of time. So that when it happens, there's peace in your heart. You're not taken by surprise. In the world, he says, ye might have tribulation. No. You what? Shall. Does that leave any room for the possibility of not facing tribulation? No, it's going to happen. As long as you're living in this world, you're going to have to deal with tribulation. As long as you're a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ, you're not going to fit in. As long as you're a disciple of Christ and you're living by the Word of God, you will not be accepted by this world. They might tolerate you. Now we live in a America where we got it pretty good. It says, but in the world ye shall have tribulation. But if Good cheer. Huh? I have what? Overcome the world. He says in 1 John, greater is he that is in you. We don't have to be shaken when this whole world comes down on us. We don't have to be shaken when these afflictions that he refers to in Thessalonians come upon us. We don't have to let our faith shake. Jesus knew ahead of time. He told us ahead of time this was going to be the way it is. He tells us not to waver in our faith. Just keep trusting him. Just keep doing right. Just keep walking with the Lord. Just have faith in him. He overcomes the world. Question: When John Huss was burned at the stake, was the world overcome? He says, be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. I say the world was overcome because they could burn his body, but they could not burn his soul. Our problem is all we see is the here and now. And we think if we're being persecuted, if the world's getting the physical upper hand on us, then somehow we're losing. As long as we're saved and Christ is living in us, we are not losing. Does that make sense? There's more to existence than just the here and now. There is eternity. And this world can't take that from us. There's an old Arab proverb that I came across in preparing this. Somebody had this quote in one of the uh commentaries I was reading. They said this, old Arab proverb. All sunshine makes a desert Right? You never got any rain. See the Lord's in this message. Everything was going good, there was never any trials, there was never any rain, there was never any tears shed, you'd dry up. Your faith would be meaningless You know, we were singing some of these hymns here, and it just seems like in the last week or two the hymns have just been so special. But I found that when we go through tribulation, when we have afflictions and trials, passages from Scripture take on some. You can read something over and over and over a hundred times, but boy, then you're going through a difficult time. And you read that and hey, that applies to me. Same thing with the hymn. She can sing a hymn a thousand times. Have it memorized frontward and backward Boy, you're going through a tough time and the song leader gets up and says, turn to this, you start singing those words, and all of a sudden, that's that's me God allows opposition and tribulations and afflictions and trials because it develops us, it strengthens us. I put this this way, the fruit of the Spirit is much sweeter in tribulation. What's the fruit of the Spirit? Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, goodness, temperance. Meekness. You know, when all your when you got when you got a thousand dollars and twenty dollar bills in your wallet And all your bills are paid, cars paid off, you got a nice house, your doctor gave you a clean bill of health, he said you've never been healthier in your life. It's easy to be joyful and good and nice and temperate in all things, right? Yeah, it's the fruit of the spirit. Nobody's impressed with your fruit of the spirit when everything's wonderful. It's not that sweet. Anyone can say, yeah, let me have a shot at that. I'll be sweet too. I tell you when the fruit of the Spirit becomes very sweet, it's when there's tribulation and persecution and difficulty on. And then you still have joy, peace, goodness, mercy. Temperance, all of a sudden, whoa, has a lot more significance. Um, for the spirit is much sweeter, it's much, it matures In the afflictions of life. We dislike tribulation. We dislike affliction. We try to avoid it. But God says we're appointed to it. It's part of life. I've never had a grandfather clock, but I've seen them and I understand a little bit how they work, and I understand that in a grandfather clock there are weights. Right? They have them down and they just slowly over time that weight keeps pressure on the mechanisms there and keeps that clock functioning. That pressure. Keeps that clock on time. You take the weight away and what happens to the clock? Starts. Doesn't go forward. Out of tune. Out of time. God says that's what that's what a flood It's necessary. It's a point into our life. It keeps us spiritually in tune. It keeps us seeking the Lord. Keeps us Just examining ourselves and trying ourselves, am I right with God? I need to be right with God. I got all these trials. I only, Lord, I want to trust you. In a boat, you have a ballast. What is a ballast? So I understand it. It's a weight strategically placed in the vessel to keep that thing upright. God says tribulation is like a ballast for you and I. Keeps us anchored, keeps us level, keeps us even keel in the storms of light. So we don't have to go looking for them. We just live for God. They're going to come for all of us. And what we do is we establish our faith. Sometimes we need another somebody to come along and like Timothy, like Church Thessalonica. Now we're going to find out a little bit later when Timothy showed up, they were doing just fine. They were handling these afflictions just great. But Paul sent Timothy to make sure. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord. To trust you when it's not easy to trust. Lord, help us to rejoice in you when it's not easy to rejoice. God help us in the trials of life, the afflictions, the difficult hours. Help us just to plant our feet on you, dear Lord, trusting you, believing you, and taking your promises at face value and clinging to them. And Lord, we'll give you the glory for what you do in our lives. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. I know there are folks, a number of folks, in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that are having some real storms. Talk to some folks today. Storms. God has allowed that. That's part of the Christian experience. What we need to do is just take God, plant our feet in His Word, find that promise, hold on to it, and don't let these things move us. Stay in our place, where we need to be doing what we need to be doing, when we need to be doing. And just stay at it and don't let these things shake us. How many would say, Preacher, I need God to help me? I don't like it, it's hard. But I want the fruit of the Spirit to be true in my life in the midst of opposition and difficulties. And tribulations. How many like like that join me? God bless you, hands all around. That's my prayer. And let's ask the Lord to help us. Father, bless our invitation now, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads abowed, eyes are closed. Catholic