Peter chapter four, we're going to look at verse number fifteen and sixteen in your Bibles there. 1 Peter 4, verse number 15. The Bible says, but let none of you suffer as an evil I'm sorry, let none of you suffer as a murderer or as a thief Or as an evildoer, or as a busybody in other men's matters. Yet if any man suffer as a Christian Let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God on this behalf. Suffering as a Christian, if any of you suffer as a Christian, Uh that's what we want to consider tonight. Let's pray together, ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, thank you again for a good day. Sure been a blessing to honor our mothers today. It's been a blessing to be with your people and sing these old hymns. Look at your word, fellowship together, all of it, Lord, we're just so grateful. And then this good report from down under and uh what you're doing down in in that part of the world through the howls and other believers down there. We're just glad to have a small part. Now, as we finish out this day, Lord, I ask, as we have our Bibles opened in front of us, I ask dear Holy Spirit that you would take this portion of your word And speak our hearts, teach us, apply the truths here to each of our individual lives, our own circumstances, and help us to learn through this and grow and be stronger in our faith more bold in our witness, more confident in our relationship with you. And I ask, dear Father, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. And Lord, with all my heart, I pray that you speak through me and have your way. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think one of the most difficult aspects of living the Christian life, of living it out on a daily basis, is dealing with injustice. As a Christian, people treating me in an unjust way, or um or unkindness, dealing with unkindness, I doubt any of us enjoy being treated unkindly We don't like that. Persecution. Now I keep every time I bring that up, I feel obligated to say we really don't know what persecution is, us personally here. We know what it means to be made fun of and ridiculed, maybe treated unkindly, but genuine persecution has not been part of our experience. But to deal with that As a Christian is challenging. And when somebody says things unkind or untrue about us, or somebody we try and be a witness, and somebody retaliates in anger Those are hard things to deal with opposition to our faith and to what we understand the Bible teaches To deal with them in a scriptural manner, to respond to that type of treatment in a scriptural manner, in a spiritual manner, that's challenging. And er yeah. And can I get a whip? Do you anybody know what I'm talking about? That guy at work, you you bow your head at lunch and pray, and he starts making fun of you And then to respond in a scriptural, spiritual way to that. Or somebody calls you names or cusses you out because you give them a gospel tract Or anything, any scenario you can come up with. That's the challenging part of living the Christian life. When Jesus was training his disciples early, early on in that three and a half years that Jesus spent with intense training of his disciples to serve him, to trust him and serve him. He addressed that issue with them. He informed them that they're going to face persecution. In fact, if you would, come with me back to Matthew chapter number five. Again, this is very early on In Jesus' training of his disciples, he spent three and a half years discipling them, preparing them to go out into the world with the gospel and preach the gospel, establish churches, and advance the kingdom. And early in the training, he informed them that they're going to face persecution and injustice, and he instructed them how to respond to that. If you would, look there in chapter 5 and verse number 10. This is a sermon on the mound, and notice what he says. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Now he puts that in there why they're being persecuted, for righteousness' sake. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and say all manner of evil against you falsely. Then again he qualifies it for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted the prophets which were before you. Come over to verse number 43. He brings this up again with the disciples. And he says, You've heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. That's what they've been told. He says, But I say unto you, Love your enemies. Now look at this. Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that hate you. Pray for them which despitefully use you and what? Persecute you. So very, very early on in his training of the disciples, shortly after they began following him. They left their fishermen boats and they left their uh their uh tax collecting and they left whatever they were doing and they committed themselves to be disciples of Christ And very early on, he says, in so many words, he's saying, hey fellows, listen up. You're going to face persecution. Not if you are, not you might, you will. And when you do, this is how you need to respond. This is how you respond to that. This is how you treat those who treat you unjustly. And I'm telling you, that's a challenge, right or wrong, to respond that way that people do it. Now, we're going to come back to this, but I want to highlight here, when he said this, he qualified it for my sake For righteousness' sake. We can be persecuted for a lot of different reasons. But he's talking about when we're persecuted for his sake. And uh were treated unjustly. And so um he early on he taught his disciples, you're going to face it, and this is how you respond. And then you get to the book of Acts, and beginning in the book of Acts, and all through church history. You find Christians have suffered greatly for their faith in God. They suffered greatly because of their dedication as disciples I was reading through Acts here again, just about through Acts in my personal devotions, and I don't know why, but this time reading through it, it has stood out to me. How much persecution these Christians faced. It's every single chapter. Just time and then they go to another town and there's opposition. They go to another town and there's injustice and the whole book of Acts It's them praying, preaching, persecuted, and they're rejoicing. It's just over and over and over and over. And then you get into the gospel, into the epistles And I'm reading through there, and I all of a sudden dawned on me just about every epistle deals with, to some extent, this matter of injustice and mistreatment of believers because of their faith in Christ. Corinthians, 2 Corinthians, Ephesians he talks about it. Colossians he addresses it. I mean just right on through. Then you get the revelation. And he talks about the martyrs, people who gave their lives, had their lives taken because of their faith in Christ. And so this has been the lot of Christians. And I've said this numerous times recently, and I'll say it again, you and I are an aborition of church history. Well, we're not facing that. That's unusual. This isn't the norm in church history. We're an exception in the time and place that we live And so Peter addresses this. If you would come on back there. And he's been addressing this extensively through, as we're working our way through this book, this subject keeps coming up. Suffering of Christians, mistreatment of people of faith because of our faith in Christ. Now, in our text, Verse 15 and 16, he gives two simple statements about suffering as a Christian. I'll just give them to him. Just two simple statements. Number one, he gives a caution. Look in verse number 15. He says, but let none of you suffer, he says, all right, to make sure this isn't why you're suffering. Let none of you suffer as a, and then he lists Four ways that we can suffer that we need to make sure that that's not why we're suffering. That's not why we're dealing with this opposition, this mistreatment. Not all Christians suffer because of their faith. Some Christians suffer opposition because of their foolishness. I say this often. You know, you can be a believer, but if you're if you're a knucklehead, you're going to be treated as a knucklehead. Right? If you're arrogant and disrespectful to people, don't expect people to respect you. That's why Jesus told his disciples, if you suffer this for righteousness' sake, for my sake, not because you're being foolish. Being a Christian does not shield me from the consequences of foolishness. There's um So he gives a list here of what I call unsanctified suffering or justified suffering. You do this and you're going to experience uh uh you're gonna experience un unpleasant consequences because of this. Make sure that's not the case. I had uh my when I first got saved, the year after I got saved, I went to a Bible college in Philadelphia down in the city, Langhorn, Philadelphia. We live north of the city. And so we found a guy, a student there that lived in my area, didn't live on campus, about an hour drive And so we would take turns driving back and forth down to the campus, my first year, 1980, I think I enrolled. And um He's just a young guy, and uh I mean he was like fresh out of high school. He's like 17, he graduated early, and um and he had this bumper sticker on the back of his car. It said Christians aren't perfect. They're just forgiven. Anybody ever see that Bumper sticker? That's nice, and that's true. The guy drove like a maniac I hated riding with him. He'd cut people off and blow the horn and just was rude And uh people would blow the horn back at them and get angry, and they gave this funny gesture to them at different times. And um I thought, and uh, you know, that's not the suffering that we're talking about. Being a knucklehead and then people being mad at you because you're knucklehead. Being a Christian doesn't exempt us from that And so he gives four ways that we need to. He cautions us, don't suffer because of these things. And notice what the first one is: a murderer. How many of you agree with me? Christians ought not to be murderers. The murder is the unjustified taking of another person's life. Don't do that. According to the Bible, the penalty for murder is death Genesis 9. 6, as if a man takes, uh sheds another man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed. So capital punishment is biblical. You say, well, that was Old Testament. What about New Testament? Well, study Romans 13:4. It talks about government having the sword. exercising the sword, not in vain. What do you use a sword for? Chopping people's heads off. It's for taking life. The whole point there is if a man murders someone, then his life is to be taken. And so murder is the unjustified taking of another person's life. And God says, the Bible teaches: when someone murders someone, then their life is to be taken. That's Bible teaching. So that what does that tell us? That tells me that God places a high value on life. Our world views life as trash. People destroy their lives, they waste their lives, they risk their lives on meaningless stuff. And now they're justifying taking innocent lives. But God, you mark it down, God values life. He is the author of life. He is the giver of life. And he values it. And so he says, don't suffer because you're a murderer. And so everybody agree with me? We shouldn't be murderers. Amen. Good. Then he says, second of all, he says, if you suffer, he says, but let none of you suffer as a murderer. Then he says, as a thief. What does it mean to be a thief? It means to embezzle or pilfer, to secretly steal. It's interesting. The word thief here comes from the same word. We get our word, kleptomaniac. What is a kleptomaniac? Somebody that what? Habitually steals. They'll steal just for the sake of stealing. Christians ought not to steal. You're going to suffer. Let no one suffer because he's a thief. By the way, if if if we steal and we get caught and we get thrown in jail with it, we ought to be thrown in jail for stealing. That's not mistreatment. That's not persecution. That's not injustice. He says, listen, don't let that be the case. Let no man suffer, because He steals. He's a thief. The Bible condemns stealing. Ephesians 4. 28. Let him that stole steal no more. And here's my advice: if you're stealing stuff, stop it. Stop it. It's better to be poor than to be a thief. It's better to be poor than to be a thief. No good comes from stealing. I have a preacher friend of mine told me just recently that um the fellow in their church that was Over the finances and the missions in particular. Their faith promise, they just found out just within the last year or so, this fella had been skimming money off of the faith promise. And skimming it off and putting his pocket to the figure of over $100,000. He stole, not just from the church, but from faith promise. Now, if a person suffers for that, they ought to suffer for that. And I told the preacher, and he agreed with me, I said, I would hate to stand in that man's shoes at the judgment seat of Christ. Stealing money from missions. And he says, Let none of you suffer as a murderer or as a thief. Then he gives a third one here. He says, Let no man suffer as an evildoer. Now what do you think an evildoer is, somebody that does evil? It's just simply a common criminal Somebody that does wrong, a vandal, person that vandalizes in Indianapolis where they're We had no idea who it was. It wasn't in our church. It was just in the city. But somebody spray painted everywhere. Trust Jesus. Trust Jesus. Bathroom sign uh signs uh uh bridges, I mean sides of buildings real big. Trust Jesus, trust Jesus. We called it vandalism evangelism Don't do that. You say, yeah, but it's trust Jesus. Yeah, but if he he ought to pay a fine for vandalizing people's property So let no man suffer as an evildoer, one who does evil of any sort, a person who breaks the law. Hey, Christians, don't break the law. Don't do wrong. And then it gets interesting. Look at the last one. Say, well, praise God, I ain't no murderer. I ain't no thief. I'll vandalize stuff. What about this last one? Or as a what? Ooh. A busybody and other men's matters. Hmm, that's where it starts getting a little interesting here. I think it's interesting that being a busybody, God puts it in the same list as murderers. Huh? Thieves, evildoers. Would you agree with me? That would imply that God takes being a busybody pretty seriously. He doesn't think too highly of it. If people are upset with you and people get angry at you and people treat you unkindly because you're a busybody Peter says, don't do that. Don't suffer because of that. Say, well, what exactly is a busybody anyway? Well, it means I'm sticking my nose in other people's business. Trying to run other people's lives. Telling others how they should and should not do things. You know, I'm a pastor of a church. God has given me the responsibility to oversee Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I have to answer the Lord for that according to Hebrews 13. I take that very, very seriously But I have no authority in your home. I can and should teach and preach what the Bible says our homes should be like, but I have zero authority in your home. I can't come and tell you how you should and shouldn't do things. Now if you sit down with me and ask me advice, that's another thing We need to be very, very careful. And by the way, preachers can be guilty of this telling other churches and preachers how they run their ministry. I have no authority to do that. I have no authority over another church. Now I might not agree with them and I can teach and preach and say, hey, listen, you know, they're doing it that way. I don't agree with that. This is the way that I think the Bible says When I came here, I wasn't here too long. I started getting letters from another church. And uh they would he the preacher there would tell me that I'm doing this wrong. He'd never been here. He never sat down and talked to me. As far as I know, he never read our doctrinal statement. We didn't have a web page back then. They didn't even have the only webs we had were spider webs all over the place. And he's telling me that we and he's right and says you guys don't believe the King James Bible Funny thing is, the very first thing we did when I came as pastor, and Helen remembers this, we altered our doctrinal statement to say we believe the King James Bible. We hold to the King's Angel. You don't preach the gospel. You shouldn't have that preacher in. You shouldn't have that evangelist. You know what that is? That's a busybody. I would write back, thank you for your concern. You pray, God give me wisdom. I never argued. Finally, after about five, six of these letters, finally I wrote back and said, Thank you for your concern. I appreciate it. Please pray that God will give me wisdom. And by the way, I'm an independent Baptist. The only person I answer to is the Lord Jesus Christ in the day of judgment. And when I wrote that, then I know I didn't get any letters anymore. So busybody. He says, don't suffer as a busybody, telling others how they should and should not do things, giving my opinion about other people, uh about others, what they're doing or not doing. Curtis Hudson made this statement. Unsolicited advice is criticism. That's good advice right there. Now, if somebody asks my advice, that's another thing. It's trying to function as the Holy Spirit in another person's life. I'm not the Holy Spirit. We cannot always control the reality of our sufferings, but we can control the reason for our sufferings. And Peter says, make sure you're not suffering for any of these reasons here. A murderer, a thief, an evildoer as a busybody. And then he says, he gives another statement. Number one, he gives a caution. Make sure you're not suffering for these reasons. Then he gives some coaching. And I'll end with this. Look at verse 16. Yet, if any man suffer as a Christian, not as a murderer, not as a thief, not as an evildoer, not as a busybody, if you're suffering as a Christian, now that's a whole nother story That's a whole nother situation. And he says, let me coach you. Let me give you a little advice. By the way, he says, if any man suffer as a Christian, the word Christian is an interesting word. Does anybody know what the word Christian itself, the word itself, what it means? Anyone know? It means little Christ. Christian, little Christ. And it was first used in Acts chapter number 11, verse 26 in Antioch by the enemies of the church, by the enemies of Christians. And they used it as a derogatory term. They were making fun of the Christians. Oh, those little Jesuses, those little Christs. And you know what the Christians did? They embraced it. A little Christ? Yeah, that's what I want to be. I want to be like Christ. How on Remember when they said about Peter and John they took note that they had been with Jesus. There was something about them. Jesus rubbed off on them and made them think, they saw them and made them think of Jesus. So when the The pagans, the unbelievers, the mockers, the persecutors says, you guys are little Christ. They said, yes, sir, thank you very much. And they embraced that term And so he says, if you suffer as a Christian, number one, he's coaching them here. He says, listen, if you're suffering as a Christian, a follower of Christ, number one, don't be ashamed. Be unashamed. Look what he says. If any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed. It is shameful to be ashamed of Jesus. Now, Peter understood this firsthand. He was ashamed of Jesus. He knew what that was like when he denied Christ, not once, not twice, three times. Let me ask you a question. When Peter was ashamed of Jesus, ashamed to be identified with Christ, ashamed to be a disciple of Christ, and he denied it. Let me ask you a question: how did that affect Peter? Did it make him happy? Did he rejoice in that? What did he do? The Bible says he went out and wept bitterly. I'm telling you, there is never any joy or fulfillment when we are ashamed of Jesus Christ. Nothing good comes out of that. And he says, listen, don't you be ashamed when you're suffering as a Christian. They're calling you names. They're throwing you in prison. They're firing you from your job. Your family's running you out of the home. Don't you be ashamed of the fact that you're a Christian? In Psalms chapter 25 and verse 2, the psalmist prayed this prayer, let me not be ashamed. In that same chapter in verse 20, a little bit later on, he said this prayer again, let me not be ashamed. In Psalms chapter 31 and verse 17, the psalmist said, Lord, let me not be ashamed. In Psalms 119 and verse 116, the psalmist again pray, Lord, let me not be ashamed. The psalmist did not want to be ashamed of his Lord. To be ashamed of our Lord is a real temptation. And to deny it, we're foolish if we deny it. In the workplace, in the community. Anyone here? We we just finished track month. And one of the reasons we have Track Month is to embolden us a little bit. But anybody here ever have an impression in your heart That you ought to share a gospel tract with somebody and you begin to argue with God about that. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And you begin to say, no, not here, not now. And then you don't do it. And you get in a car and you're driving away and you think, man, what what an idiot. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Or he speak up for someone. Speak up for the Lord and and we don't do it Being ashamed of the Lord is a very real temptation for the disciples of Christ. Peter failed. The psalmist four times prays, Lord, don't let me be ashamed. Peter says, listen, if you're suffering because of your faith in Christ, because of your commitment in Christ, Don't allow yourself to be ashamed of that. Because it's a very real temptation. It's a very real temptation. To be ashamed of Christ has dreadful consequences For sake of time you won't turn there, but in Mark Mark chapter 8, verse 38. Jot that down, that reference He says, if any man, and I'm not quoting this verbatim, but he says to the effect, he says, if any man is ashamed of me here in this generation, listen to what Jesus says. I will be ashamed of him at the judgment. Now think about that. Here's my Savior. Died, suffered hell for me, gave me a whole new life, gave me an eternal life, answered so many of my prayers, did so many good things for me Allow me to be a part of a body of Christ, a good church. Allow me to do all this. And I would be ashamed of him. And then I stand before my Savior at the judgment. And he looks at me in him. He's ashamed. How many people agree with me? My heart would sink. He's ashamed of me. There's consequences. We're ashamed of Christ, he says, I'll be ashamed of you. The New Testament believers, it was a great honor to suffer for Christ. The book of Acts. So one, he coaches them, don't you be ashamed when you suffer from me. Then last of all, second of all, he says, first of all, be unashamed. Then second of all, he says, I put it two different ways. Be uplifted or be unselfish in your suffering. Again, look at verse 16. If any man suffers a Christian, let him not be ashamed, be unashamed. Then it says this, but let him glorify God on this behalf. Let him glorify God because he is suffering as a Christian. Now that's where we struggle with You say, why would I glorify God if people were cussing me out and in this case running me out of the family and throwing me in prison, beating me? And give God the glory, why would I do that? That doesn't make sense. Let me try and explain When I am willing to suffer for Christ's sake, I am making a bold statement. And this is what I'm saying. I'm saying Jesus Christ is of higher value to me than my own personal comfort. Jesus Christ is more important and more valuable to me than I am than my own physical well-being. I am willing to be beaten. I am willing to be rejected. I'm willing to be mocked. I'm willing to be ridiculed Because Jesus is so more valuable to me than me being respected and me being treated kindly. You follow what I'm saying? Young fellas do that same thing for ladies, young ladies all the time. Oh, oh, there's a mud puddle. Let me take my jacket off and lay it down. And you walk on my jacket through the mud puddle. And uh, there's my jacket, all money Oh, but it was worth it, you're more valuable to me than my jacket. Right? Guys do that, right, don't they? Oh, I would climb the highest mountain for you. I'd cross the deepest sea. Oh, I'd give my life for you. You know what they're saying? You're more valuable to me than my own personal well-being. And that's what happens when you and I are gl per persecuted for Christ. We suffer as a Christian, and we say, oh Giving God the glory. We're making a bold statement to this world. Jesus Christ, this is what we're saying. Jesus Christ is more valuable to me than the world's acceptance. Jesus Christ is of greater value than the world treating me, the world's pleasures. Here's the problem with a lot of Christians. To be accepted by the world is more important and more valuable than to bring glory to God, than to be faithful to the Lord. I tell you, my prayer for me as an individual and for us as a church, and my concern is that we stay faithful to Christ and His Word In a world that is increasingly turning against Christ and his world. And if it comes to suffering, I pray we not be ashamed. And in the midst of this world's mistreatment of Christians, we give God the glory. We say, you are more important to me. Then this world treating me any certain way, they can treat me as bad as I want as they want. You are the most important to me It's a song. I looked uh been looking for the words to the song. We used to sing it back when shortly after I got saved, we sing it a lot. And I don't know all the words, and I can't find the lyrics to it or the music, but the first part goes like this, and it sticks in my mind so often. More than life, I love thee, Lord. More than this world can afford. Then it goes on something like this. I have given myself to thee. O Lord, I love thee more. Now think about. More than life, I love you, Lord. More than this world can afford. I've given my life to you. I love you more. And Peter says: listen, if you're suffering for a Christian, don't you be ashamed. And you give God the glory because you're making a bold, bold statement that Jesus Christ is greater and of more value than any way this world can treat us. Amen. Father in heaven, please help us to trust you. Lord, this is not an easy thing. And your people throughout history have struggled with avoiding suffering as a Christian. And being ashamed of you so that we not suffer. But Lord help us. I pray with the Psalmist, Lord, let me not be ashamed. Help me to stand true. Help me to stand bold. Help me to stand humbly and give you the glory. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I wonder how many along with me. Would say, that's my prayer. Lord, let me not be ashamed. Any like that, that's my prayer. Let me not be ashamed of my Savior. God bless you. And maybe we finish out this Lord's day. We go into a new work week. And we'd say, Lord, fill me with your spirit. Give me a gracious, compassionate boldness. To be a witness and a testimony of your gospel and your grace. That would be a good thing to finish out the Lord's day, I think. Let's stand together. Father, I ask you bless us now in Jesus' name. Amen. Standing together as the piano plays.