1 Peter 2, verse 20. The Bible says, For what glory is it if when ye be buffeted for your faults, ye take it patiently? And the answer to the question is what? Look at the question. For what glory is it if when you be buffeted for your faults you take it patiently? What glory is there in that? The answer is there's none, right? There's no glory in that. But If when you do well and suffer for it, you take it patiently, this is acceptable to God. I want to talk tonight on suffering patiently. Let's pray. Father, I pray you bless our time in your word. Sure is a blessing to my heart to Hear again of this great man of God, Christmas Evans, so many years ago. Lord, I just want to pause and ask you, Lord, I just want to ask you if you would please Raise up some more men and Christians like these, like Christmas Evans and others of that era. Lord, we need that. Lord, I ask now as we look into your word that you would mold us, you would convict us, instruct us, encourage, and exhort us, help us to be the Christians you saved us to be. Lord, I believe I speak for perhaps all of us, I'm sure most of us at least, that we want to be disciples of Christ. We want to be good disciples of Christ. Lord, we want to hear you say, Well done, good and faithful servant, when we stand before you someday. And so we need your help for that. We need your Holy Spirit. So I yield my will to you, and I ask again with all my heart That you fill me with your Holy Spirit, that you speak through me and challenge and help and revive us, Lord, in this day and age. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Peter is writing to these believers, and I keep emphasizing that each time we open our books to our Bibles to 1 Peter. I keep emphasizing the fact that he's writing to some believers who are fairly young in the Lord. The church isn't that old. It hasn't been that long ago That Jesus Christ has been crucified, buried, and resurrected, ascended to heaven. So these are fairly young believers, but they are very strong in their faith, and they're very zealous in their witness, and they are intense. In their commitment, their dedication to Jesus Christ. And those factors brought upon them intense persecution The Jews and society then rejected their faith in Christ, rejected their love for the Lord, rejected their commitment to the Word of God, and they suffered severely for it Persecution, loss of jobs, families, booting them out of the family, disowning them. Uh some of them losing uh being uh beaten and physically abused, and some even losing their lives They're scattered all throughout the region there, fleeing from this persecution. And Peter's writing to them, and he's encouraging them and he's instructing them. And this passage here, beginning up in verse number 18, down or uh verse number um 13, I should say, down through uh the rest of the chapter and even overflowing into chapter 3, he's dealing with this. issue of submission to authorities that God places over our heads, delegated authority from God. How many people like me, and I think I mentioned this before, how many people like me You kind of bristle at the idea of submission. Anybody here? If you have a human nature, you bristle at the idea of submission. But nevertheless, God instructs us that there are certain circumstances, situations where we are to be submissive. Verse 13 down through verse 17, we already looked at, but he instructs us there that we are to be submissive to the state authorities, is what I'm referring to, government authorities, those kings, governors, whatnot. We already looked at that. Then he pointed out in verse number 18 that we are to be submissive to in our volition, I'm sorry, in our vocational um position we find. In other words, to our masters is the term used here, that would be equivalent to our employers today. We talked about that, submissive to those who are over us in the workforce and and uh in our vocations He actually extends that down to the end of the chapter. This is all under that heading to some extent. Then you get to chapter number three. And um one of my favorite verses in the whole Bible, chapter 3, verse 1. Oh my word, I'd love that verse. Wives, be submissive to your own husbands. We're going to make that a verse of the month someday. And um all right, just leave it there, right, James. Okay But chapter 3, verse 1, down through verse 6, he's talking about submission to the authorities in the home. Submission in the home. Now, ladies Before you got on your high horse all mad at me, uh after that he talks about the men. Alright, so we'll get to that eventually. Alright. Probably half the crowd just turned off their computers right there. He's talking about submission to authorities. That's the whole, what I'm trying to say is that's that whole, that's the context, that's the subject of this whole passage here. However, you get to verse 20. And he is still, it's under the heading, I guess you could say, of Submission to the Masters, Sermants being submissive to the Masters. And he mentions in verse number 19, I believe, he mentions the fact that maybe a master's might not be the nicest guys Uh how did he word it there, verse nine verse nineteen? Uh he said um he said um or verse eighteen, be subject to your masters with all fear, not only to the good in general, but also to the proward, those that are rude and hateful and difficult. Hard to work for, irritable. And so it's continuing that s thought. But he is now transitioning to not just suffering or having a difficult time working under a difficult master, he's transitioning kind of to the end of the chapter on suffering injustices in life in general So that's he's kind of drifted away from the direct context of an unfair or unjust boss to just injustices in life. In uh suffering in light. By the way, we're going to talk about suffering, and we will in future messages because it deals with it here for a while. But suffering is a relative term. You understand what I mean by that? What would be suffering for one person, a situation that might be very sufferable to one person, might not be, another person might not consider that suffering. All right? Some of you ladies suffer dearly. Your husbands don't turn the heat above 67 degrees. And you're suffering and you're freezing to death. I venture to say there are some people in Siberia Would love to have a house at 67 degrees. So you follow what I'm saying? It's a little relative what one person considers, oh, this is terrible. This is Let me put it this way. What an American would consider terrible and horrible and difficult suffering, and what somebody in Ethiopia would consider terrible and horrible and suffering might be two different things. Can I get a w you follow with me? Are you with me on that? So it's a little relative, what we consider suffering. Nevertheless, whatever the suffering is, in this case it'll be being treated unjustly, is what we'll see here in a little bit. He's saying to us this. This is the point of this passage, I believe, and that is this. As a Christian, you and I can be faithful to God Even when other people are treating us unjustly. That's the gist of the whole thing. Others are mistreating us, others are saying hateful things. And we'll see here, physically abusing us because of our faith. And he's saying us, he's telling us, you and I can be faithful to the Lord regardless of how others may or may not treat us. Isn't that something? In fact, I'm going to take it another level. He's telling us that you and I can be joyful We can have the joy of the Lord even when people are saying and doing things unjustly to us. How many folks like to be lied about? Nobody likes that. Nobody nobody likes to be mistreated. Nobody likes to be uh stuffer because of you do right and somebody responds wrong. Nobody likes that, but he's saying That as a Christian, as a child of God, as a disciple of Jesus Christ, regardless how other people treat me, I can be faithful to the Lord, I can have the joy of the Lord, and I can have an effective witness. When people are mistreating me. Whether it's an employer, a boss, a master, whether it's a government official spouse, family member, neighbors, a community, regardless of where the injustice Regardless of the source of the injustice and the mistreatment, I can, as a child of God, be faithful to the Lord, be joyful in the Lord, and have an effective witness. And these new believers actually did that. So, having said all that, let's look at verse 20. And I have three things I've I noticed here. I've got it down in verse number 20. Number one I put down this. I want us to consider the problem of unjust suffering. The problem of unjust suffering. Look at verse 20. For what glory is it? If when ye be buffeted for your faults, ye shall take it patiently. But if ye do well And suffer for it, you take it patiently. This is acceptable to God. He's addressing a problem here, these Christians were being mistreated. They were suffering severely physically. And he's saying, listen, if you're doing wrong If you've got faults, we'll look at this in a little more detail, if you're doing wrong and it's negative consequences and people are responding negatively because you're doing wrong, because you're being a knucklehead And you're patient in that, he said, that's no big deal. But if you're doing right and you're being kind and helpful and a blessing and trying to live for God, and people mistreat you, buffet you. And you're patient then. I'm putting my own words. He's saying this. Now that's something. Now that's something. The problem of injustice. From the very beginning of the church, believers have suffered unjustly at the hand of unbelievers. It's part of our heritage. Is to be mistreated, misjudged, falsely judged, false accused. It's part of Christian and Baptist in particular heritage To be mistreated by the world. So don't think it's some strange thing. In fact, he says that later in chapter 4. Don't think it's some strange thing. If this difficulties and this mistreatment and this hardships have come upon you, don't think that's something strange. What he does point out here, the fact is, uh some people, some people suffer because of their own faults. Some people suffer are mistreated. People respond and treat them hatefully because of their own faults. One of my favorite words. They're knuckleheads. I use that all the time. Look with me at verse 20. Let's let's look at some of the words he uses here. First of all, he says, For what glory is it? Now glory, you find that word all through the Bible. I didn't really give it a whole lot of thought until I started looking up. I found out that that word glory there is the only time that word it comes from is the only time it's used in the New Testament And it has a kind of a unique flair to it, a unique thought behind it. And it simply means this. In fact, it's translated outside the Bible, it's translated rumors. I thought that's strange. It's translated to give a report about. Has this idea to tell others About it. Now we're to give glory to the Lord. Part of that is telling others about the Lord. That brings glory to the Lord. He's using it here in the sense of this. Going about and telling others what that Christian is doing. Bragging on them, uh singing songs about it. That's not really what it means, but that's the idea behind it. Praising them, giving report, telling other people. Now look what he says. For what glory is it? Who's going to go and tell others? Who's going to go and brag on you and tell others about you if When you be buffeted for your faults. And I got looking up that word, buffeted. I thought surely that means Dutch's restaurant on New Year's Day when they have the seafood buffet. Oh no, that's a buffet. Never mind. I thought that was funnier than that, brother. The word buffeted, I got looking it up, and um uh it has this idea to to it has this idea, violent blows Or to beat on somebody with your fist to be buffeted. Um It has the idea behind it. I was looking at how it's used other places and the history of some of the words behind it. It has this idea, almost the idea of getting hit without seeing it coming. We would use the term sucker punched. I mean just boom, boom, boom, being assaulted. Now let's look at what we've noticed so far. What glory is it? Who's going to go around and tell and brag on a person that gets beat up. Now let's go to the next one. For your what? Are you looking at your Bible there? What glory is it? Who's going to go and brag and talk and sing about you if when you're buffeted, beat up, assaulted for your what? Your own faults. The word false there is translated 38 times sins. But it is not sins necessarily against God. Very seldom is somebody going to get beat up because they sinned against God. This world doesn't care about that. But it has this idea of sinning against my fellow man. That's where the word fault comes in. Sinning against my fellow man, doing wrong, transgressing against my neighbor, another person. And then he says, if uh ye shall uh for what glory is it if when ye are buffeted for your faults, ye shall take it patiently? And the word patiently there means exactly what you think it would mean, to bear up without retaliation. to calmly endure it. So here's the point. He's saying first of all, nobody is going to praise you. Nobody's going to go around and talk about you in a positive way. If when you do something wrong against your neighbor, another person, and they react and retaliate and buffet you for it, and you just take it, nobody's going to think that much of you. Follow what I'm saying You know, if I go over and shoot my neighbor's dog, he comes over and slaps me, and I just say, well, you know, I deserve that. Um, you know, nobody says, oh, Brother Leatherman, what a testimony. Boy, that's a great testimony. Nobody's going to glory in that. That's what he's saying. And uh he's setting the stage here. Now, can you think of anybody in the Bible that did something stupid that sinned against another person? And it brought retaliation on them, and it really wasn't something we brag on them about. Can you think of anybody in the Bible? I wrote a few down I'll help you get started. What about Abraham when he went down to Egypt, lied about his wife, said, oh, she's my sister. And then uh uh uh the Pharaoh, he falls in love with her, or whatever, he gets attracted to her, and he finds out, whoa, wait a minute, this is another man's wife. And Abraham comes back, and man, he had all kinds of problems. I've never heard anybody preach a sermon praising Abraham for lying about his wife and the troubles it brought to his life. If you be buffeted for your own faults, you take it patiently. A week you go, can you think can anybody think of anyone else? I'm trying to get you thinking tonight. Isaac followed in his father's footsteps. Anybody else that did stupid stuff and paid a price for it David when uh uh with Bathsheba and uh not David over here, uh but David in the Bible, uh and uh when he counted the people, he paid a heavy price And uh, you know, he took it patiently, but nobody says, oh, what a great man David was. He messed up, you know, and he paid a price and took it paid. Nobody does that. I thought of Samson uh I thought of uh of uh Peter and various ones all through scripture. I like one. We don't have time. I wish we did. Asa uh messed up and God made a statement. I read this in Bible college and it is stuck in my mind all these years. God said, I'll give you the reference, 2 Chronicles chapter 17, verse 9, God said this to King Asa. He said, Because, listen to this. Because thou hast been, because thou hast acted foolishly, thou shalt have many wars. Now I don't think I quoted it verbatim But he said, you've played the fool. You've you've had some faults, and because of that, you're going to have wars in your life. You know, some of us are suffering. Some of us are having to deal with the consequences of stupid stuff we did a long time ago. Can I witness? We have many wars because we acted foolishly years ago. So nobody brags on that. Nobody says, oh yeah, we're going to glory that guy because he did wrong and had consequences and he took it very patiently. Nobody brags on that So there is some people suffer because of their own faults. Saying, listen, you guys, if you if you Sin against your neighbor, you sin against other people, and you have to pay a price for that, and they react and treat you harshly, and you be patient, that's no big deal. But Now this is where he's getting to the meat of the matter. If ye uh but if ye do well, when you do well and suffer for it and take it patiently. Now that's another story. Some people suffer because of their own faults. Some people suffer because of their faith. Because of their faith. That whole first statement about the guys that are suffering for their own faults, he's saying that to contrast the point he's trying to make here. And that is this. Some people suffer for their faith. Look what he says here. But if ye when ye do well, that word do well is interesting, that phrase, it means this: to do good, to be a help or a benefit to other people. Or to do right in God's sight, to do God's will. I wonder how many folks are listening in or you're here, and you tried with all your heart to do what was right. You tried with all your heart to obey the Bible and do what the Bible says and follow God's instructions. And you wanted to be a blessing and a help to others. And for whatever reason, unsaved or wicked men and women turned on you, said hateful things and didn't mean things, maybe physically assaulted you. That's what he's talking about. Young person in school tries to do right and tries to honor the Lord. Maybe they pray over their lunch or they try and be a witness. And other kids turn on them and start making fun of them. Maybe literally beat them up because they're trying to live for God. That's what he's talking about, that type of circumstance That type of situation. Some people suffer because of their faith. The word suffer there in verse 20, you suffer for it. That word suffer there Means to undergo pain, distress, injury, or loss. Unjust suffering. To do right And then to be mistreated and abused and suffer because I did right, that's one of the great challenges of the Christian life. I'm telling you, that's tough. That's tough. That's where a lot of Christians, if we don't stay close to the Lord, if we don't exercise faith in God, that's where a lot of Christians fall apart, lose their testimony. Man, I'm doing right. I'm trying to serve God. I'm trying to win souls. This person's on their way to hell, and I'm trying to be a good witness. I'm trying to win them to Christ. I love them. I care about them. And they turn on me And then to stay faithful in that, that's a challenge. That's a challenge. Unjust suffering is one of the greatest challenges in the Christian life and ministry. Paul said in Corinthians, he said this, the more abundantly I love you. And he said this, the less I be loved. He says, man, I'm pouring my heart out to you. I'm literally giving my life's blood. For you to know the Lord and to be strong and grow in your faith, and the more I love you, the more abundantly I love you, the less you love me back. I tell you, that's tough. Anybody that's been in the ministry any length of time, I'm sure Pastor Matt and some of the others here, man, you win someone to Christ or you Yeah, try and help someone, you invest time and money and effort in them, and you try and do everything you get to try and help them to do well, do good And some little thing they get mad and turn on you and go off and say hateful things about you. I tell you, that's tough. I learned early on in the ministry that you cannot let the actions of other people derail my commitment to Christ. Can I get an amen on that or not? And that's what he's challenging. These New Testament believers say, listen, you know, you do out act stupid, you do st you do wrong and mistreat other people, and they turn on you and you take it pastly. Listen, nobody's That's not impressive at all. But brother, you're doing right, and you're witnessing, and you're keeping yourself pure and and uh you're uh uh living for God. And then people turn on you and mistreat you and abuse you, and you take that patiently. Ah, that's another story. That's another story. In Matthew chapter 26 and verse 67 The Bible says that Jesus was buffeted. It says they plucked the beard from his face. Some people slapped him with the palms of their hands, it says, and he was buffeted. What did Jesus do wrong? In what way, what faults did Jesus have against his brothers, against other his fellow countrymen and people around him? None! He went about doing good. And yet he was buffeted, not for his faults, but for his faith, his commitment to Christ. And he bore it what? Patiently. Patiently. In uh in 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 11, Paul said he was buffeted by men. People beat him up. You read through the book of Acts and you find Paul, he gets stoned, left for dead. He gets up, goes right back into the city, preaches the gospel again. Over and over and over again. In 2 Corinthians chapter 12 and verse 7, Paul said he was buffeted by Satan. Man, I would hate to get beat up by Pastor Matt. Well, I'd hate to see what he looked like when I was gone, I'll tell you that. I would hate I'd hate to get have Mark turn on me or Vern. James I wouldn't worry about too much. But um Had some of these big brutes turn on me and get me beat up. How many people agree that would be bad? I tell you, I I I can't imagine that'd be anything to Satan beating up on you What would it be like to say, I've been buffeted by Satan? Wow. And yet they bore it patiently, doing right, preaching the gospel, living for God I thought of this as interesting. In Luke chapter 23 and verse 41, Jesus is hanging on the cross, and on the on either side of Jesus Christ are what? There's two what? Thieves, one on either side. And they're both initially railing on him. He said, Oh, you saved others, why don't you save us? Oh, you know, they're just running. I mean they're dying. They're nailed to a cross Dying, and they're running their mouth on Jesus Christ. Finally, one of the thieves gets under conviction. And he realizes, man, And he makes an interesting statement. He rebukes the thief on the other side of Jesus. He rebukes the thief on the other side. And he says, We are here justly. In other words, they're being buffeted for their faults. We deserve this. We've sinned against society. Uh there are murderers and thieves, and uh we what we're suffering through now, we deserve it. That's the first part of verse twenty. Suffer for your faults, and you bear it patiently. Then he refers to Jesus Christ and he says, but this man has done nothing amiss. Two suffering, two buffeted, one for their faults, and one for quote-unquote their faith. is his surrender to the will of God for him as man. You see the difference? You see the difference? The problem of unjust suffering. Christians have dealt with it from the very beginning. Where the world has mistreated Christians. Listen, I love my country, and I don't want to go off on this. I love my country dearly, but you and I as Christians need to be prepared for a day when our country may turn on us. Unjustly, for no other reason than the fact that we're Christians committed to this old book here. And we need to be able to deal with that patiently. Patiently. So number one, the problem of unjust suffering. Number two, quickly, I got two more real quick, I can give them to you. The second thing I want us to consider is the patience of Christian suffering. And that's what he's getting at. Some people suffer because they're knuckleheads, their own faults, and they're patient, but that's nobody brags on that. There's no glory in that. But if you suffer for doing right and living for God, Now that is something else. That is Christian suffering. And all I want to say under this head is this: the Bible teaches us that as Christians, we do not respond to mistreatment the way the world does. Now I want you to talk to me a little bit, help me out here a little bit. How does the world respond to mistreatment? Somebody mistreats an unsaved guy at work or whatever. Generally, how does the world respond to mistreatment? Hello. What? Yeah, the responding client. I for an eye, you treat me how yeah And man, we just fight fire. The world fights fire with fire. And Jesus says that's not the way Christians respond. That is, Christians live by a different standard. Oh, yeah, if he's going to treat me that way, I'll show him how it is. God said in Romans, the Bible says, vengeance is mine. I will repay. Take your Bible with you, if you would. Turn to Matthew chapter 5. Matthew chapter 5. Jesus is Teaching his disciples what it means to be a disciple. How a disciple thinks, how a disciple responds, and he gives a whole various scenarios And how, if you're his disciple, how you will respond to that. And in Matthew chapter 5, look at verse number 11. Now this is what Peter's getting at, and I couldn't help but think when I was studying this I wonder in the back of Peter's mind, the Holy Spirit didn't bring to thought this Sermon on the Mound that Jesus preached when he was writing this under inspiration. If God's Holy Spirit didn't use this memory here, look what Jesus said in John chapter 5 verse 11. Blessed are ye When men shall revile you and persecute you and say all manner of evil against you, what's the next word? Falsely. These are false accusations. This is unjust persecution. This is unjust treatment. And by the way, he's using terms revile, persecute. That was physical infliction of pain. For what? Look at the last three words. For what? My sake. My sake. For doing right. For living for God. Blessed are ye. Then look at how we are supposed to respond as a disciple. Curse them and punch them back and say hateful things about them. Is that what he said? No, look what he says. That first one's unbelievable. I can see myself sitting there at the Sermon on the Mount and the Lord says, rejoice, and I go like this. Rejoice and be what? Exceeding glad. Wow, that's not how the world responds. For great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Come over to verse number 43, same chapter. He picks this up again. The Lord's telling his disciples. This is how disciples respond. Look at verse 43. Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. But I say unto you, love your enemies. Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that hate you. Pray for them which despitefully use you, treat you unjustly, and persecute you. Now he makes an interesting statement in verse 45. He says, that you may be the children of your Father which is in heaven. I don't, he's not teaching there that you do those things in order to become a child of God. How do we become a child of God? Through faith in Christ, trusting Jesus Christ. That's how I become a child of God. So what does he mean when he says there that ye may be the children of your father which is in heaven? I think he's I think this is what he's saying. so that you can reflect the characteristics of your father as his child. Anybody ever say to you, any of you fellas, anybody ever say to you, you remind me of your father? Somebody says, oh yeah, you remind me of Clyde. Anybody any guys anybody ever say that to you? Uh your uh wife ever say, you're just like your father. Or something like that. Uh when God's your father and somebody says, you remind me of your father, that's a good thing. Yeah, we want that. And I think that's what he's saying. If you bless those that curse you, good for them, do good to them that despitefully use you, uh, that hate you, pray for them, despitefully use you. He's saying you're then you're being like your father in heaven. You're being like your father. So the patience of Christian suffering, Christians don't respond to injustices of others the way the world does. And then last of all, if you would come back to 1 Peter there, I notice the praise of God in suffering. Notice what he says about those who suffer mistreatment unjustly This is acceptable with God. Now I thought this was interesting. The word acceptable there comes from the exact same word as the word thankworthy in verse 19. Exact same word. Acceptable. It means this is something God is thankful for. Do you ever think about God being thankful? God looks down. He sees one of his children. He sees one of his disciples. Jesus sees one of his disciples, and the world is piling on him. And they're cussing them out and they're throwing them in prison and they're and they're uh taking their possessions from them for no other reason than they're living for God And they're faithful to the Lord and they're preaching the gospel. Our brothers and sisters in China and North Korea and some of these African countries where there's such intense persecution and such violence against some people are brother and sister in Christ for no other reason than the fact that they're Christians And God looks down from heaven and he sees them respond patiently, with compassion and grace. And this is kind of what he's saying. God's thankful for that. God looks down and that blesses God's heart. It means to be a blessing to God. Now, not that God is thankful or blessed by the fact that his children are suffering. God doesn't find any joy or pleasure. in the suffering of his children, what brings pleasure and makes God thankful is that his children in the midst of their suffering are mature enough To respond in a Christ-like way. And God says, God says, my little children are growing up. They're turning into Christ-like believers. And in fact, the rest of the verses through the rest of the chapter, he's referring to over how Christ suffered, and when we do that, we're like Christ. And I'm telling you, we're a blessing to, if I understand this correctly, we're a blessing to God when we respond like Jesus Christ responds. When we behave and we function after the pattern, example of our Lord Jesus Christ, then that makes God happy. It makes him thankful. It's a blessing. Suffering mistreatment, unjust suffering, unjust mistreatment will draw us closer to the Lord. It will develop our Christian maturity. Nobody grows strong in their faith when everybody's praised them and carrying him around their shoulders, oh yeah, he's great, we love that's not when we grow. I tell you when we grow, when p others mistreat us and the pressure's on and the price is being paid. And we stay faithful, and we stay gracious, and we stay patient, boy, that's when our faith grows. It develops our Christ-likeness, and it displays God's purposes in our life Jesus suffered patiently, and he suffered, brother. You and I, no human being has ever suffered as Jesus did, physically, spiritually particularly And yet he endured it patiently. And as a result of that, salvation is available to all mankind. How many people are glad Jesus didn't respond? the way the world does when he was mistreated. Thank God for that. We'd all be lost. But he endured the suffering of the cross Because he saw the joy on the other side of the salvation of mankind. And that's what he's asking us to do. I believe we stay faithful in the midst of mistreatment, whether it's on the job. Whether it's from the government, whether it's from community around us, or from a family member, we be patient, we be faithful, we have the joy of the Lord. God is thankful, and that's a blessing that God, boy, will grow, and I believe our witness will be magnified. I want to talk about Joseph. Joseph is a tremendous example of somebody that endured patiently, and when it was all said and done, God used him in a phenomenal way. Phenomenal way. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to patiently suffer when the injustice has come. Lord, help us to put aside those faults. That bring justified buffeting on us. Lord help us to live clean and pure and do right regardless And to be faithful to you. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many people would say, preacher, I really need to be reminded of this? I really need the Lord to help me To maintain that faithful, compassionate, gracious demeanor in the midst of unjustice. Anybody like that? Anybody like that? Now we've got it pretty easy in America, but those days could change And we need to we need to stay close to the Lord. Now maybe there's some, when I was talking about the faults against others, maybe the Holy Spirit brought something to mind, something said or done to another person. And boy, out of sort. Let's deal with that. There's other instructions and other ports in the Bible how to deal with that and go to that brother and make things right and resolve that. Father in heaven, I pray you'd bless now and help us, Lord, this coming week to be a good witness, a good testimony of Christ in us, the hope of glory. In Jesus' name, amen.