To uh Mark chapter five in your Bibles. Mark chapter five Thank you for coming tonight. June and I have certainly enjoyed being here again this year. We of course uh Uh love this church, love the Leathermans, just appreciate so much the relationship that God has given us with you over the years. And uh you know you there's there's some places we we would just like to be more often. And this is one of those places, but uh I get uh I get word of the special meeting sometimes and just uh uh wish I had my schedule clear so I could come and be a part and be here more often. But uh we uh we certainly enjoy it when we are able to be with you. We thank you for all that you do, your your hospitality and and all that you provide just to make our visit here and our time. uh enjoyable and comfortable the room and the basket that was put in there that was uh very good. I tried to Uh I tried to get rid of all the candy and cookies to protect June. But uh I think she got a hold of a little bit of it. Now uh all we have left's the fruit, we've got Eden now with. But uh We appreciate that. Appreciate the expense money and and all of the meals. We just thank you, especially the ladies who uh did the cooking and preparing of the meals and then served us every day We just had a great time, fellowship. It's always a good time, and we appreciate it. We also count it a real privilege to be a part of your mission's family. and your personal support of our ministry uh faithfully over the years. And uh that of course has been a blessing and uh we appreciate that very much and count it a real privilege. Well, Mark chapter 5 is a place that I think we have a tremendous example of why The missionaries go to the field. Now we talk a lot about faith promise, a lot about money, and of course that is a major part of missions. There's no way of carrying it out in God's plan, the way He set it up, without us being involved in giving and supporting missionaries. But when you get down to where the rubber meets the road, uh this is the reason they go and this is what we have to keep before us all of the time. So I want to read this story, beginning in verse one, and read through verse 19 of Mark chapter 5. It begins, and they came over unto the other side of the sea into the country of the Gadarenes. And when he was come out of the ship, that is Christ, immediately There met him out of the tombs, a man with an unclean spirit, who had his dwelling among the tombs And no man could bind him, no, not with chains. Because that he had been often bound with feathers and chains, and the chains had been plucked asunder by him. And the feathers broken in pieces, neither could any man tame him. And always, night and day, he was in the mountains and in the tombs, crying and cutting himself with stones. But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him and cried with a loud voice and said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou son of the most high God? I adjure thee by God that thou torment me not. For he said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit. And he asked him, What is thy name? And he answered, saying, My name is Legion, for we are many. And he besought him much that he would send them away out of the country, that he would not send them away out of the country. Now there was there, nigh under the mountains, a great herd of swine feeding. And all the devils besought him, saying, Send us into the swine, that we may enter into them. And forthwith Jesus gave them leave. The unclean spirits went out and entered into the swine, and the herd ran violently down a steep place into the sea. They were about two thousand, and were choked in the sea And they that fed the swine fled and told it in the city and in the country. And they went out to see what it was that was done. And they come to Jesus and see him that was possessed with the devil, and had the legion sitting and clothed and in his right mind, and they were afraid. And they that saw it told them how it befell to him that was possessed with the devil, and also concerning the swine. And they began to pray him to depart out of their coast. And when he was come into the ship, he that had been possessed with the devil prayed him that he might be with him. How be it Jesus suffered him not, but saith unto him, Go home to thy friends, and tell them how great things the Lord hath done for thee, and hath had compassion on thee. Now, Father, we ask tonight that you would help us to see some things in this section of Scripture that would just sort of stir our hearts and cause us to think about the many around the world that are in this very condition tonight because they do not have The gospel message. No preacher to share with them the answer. And I pray that we would realize the importance of fresh and anew. Of us letting you work in and through us to get preachers to places where uh There are no gospel preachers. Make it very personal to us tonight. Cause us to consider The uh personal part of this. Open our hearts, our minds, and stir us We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Now I want you to see three things in this portion of scripture. This just sort of exemplifies Our responsibility and what we're here for and what this thing is all about. First of all, I want us to be reminded about the presence of sin. The presence of sin. It's very evident here that sin is present. Right? Because we see in this a man that is demonized. He was demonized And it makes that very clear that he was full of the devil. The devil had control. Notice with me in verse 2. It says, and when he was come out of the ship, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit. Verse 12 And all the devils besought him, saying, Send us into the swine that we may enter into them. Verse 15 And they come to Jesus and see him that was possessed with the devil. Verse sixteen. And they that saw it told them how it befell to him that was possessed with the devil. Verse eighteen. And when he was come into the ship, he that had been possessed with the devil is made very clear that this man was a demon-possessed. He was filled with the devil. Now the devil is a liar. The Bible tells us he's a liar. Not only is he a liar, he's the father of lies, he's the parent of lies, he's the producer of lies. He will lie to us to get us off track with God. He'll lie to us to keep us from God in any way he can. The devil is not only a liar, he's a thief And uh John ten tells us that very clearly. He desires to rob us of everything right and everything good and everything pure. And uh we are candidates uh to be exactly what this man was. But I want you to think about this man He is demonized. We know the story. We believe the story. We've read it. It's very familiar to us. But I want you to think about this tonight. This was a real person This was a real individual. This is not a fairy tale. It's not fictitious. This is a real story with real people. And so we need to we need to grasp the realness of it. You know, you think about this man and uh consider his place in town, his place among the people where he lived. It's very uh it's very possible, very probable in this case, because they didn't travel far from where uh they lived in those days uh and grew up. And his parents probably lived right there in town within uh hearing distance of where he ran the mountainside And they had to listen to this. They had to listen to their son as he uh acted the way he acted They had to listen to the townspeople as they talked about the wild man that ran the mountainside and cutting himself. Hey, it's very possible that this man uh uh was married and his wife lived right there in town. It's very possible that there was a time when their marriage relationship was uh uh a great relationship and they enjoyed each other but then the devil moved in. Something got him off track and now he's the crazy man running the mountainside and and w uh and the person that she once enjoyed that relationship with she now has to look at uh and look at the way he acts and listen to the people as they talk about the way he acts Hey, it's very possible that they had children. And those children one day bounced on the knee of that daddy. That's now filled with the devil running the mountain site. Now they have to listen to the children at school talk about their daddy and how the crazy man runs. And how he how he cuts himself and and what he goes through and and uh we just need to realize that this is a personal story. Now why is that important? Think about this. Why is that important? That's important because you and I are so guilty of losing Cite in a personal, intimate way, what sin really does to an individual because it becomes so often so impersonal. And we really do not grasp the presence of sin. We really do not grasp the filth of sin. We really do not grasp What sin really does to an individual until it gets close to us. Until we have to experience it because it affects us in a personal way. We lose sight of sin. We uh, you know, uh some of us were saved a little bit later in life, some much later. And so there are those memories of sin. We know what sin does, and we remember we remember uh what sin did and and some of the things that and God saved us and God changed us and now you're able to enjoy the cleanness of the Christian life And enjoy the the changing that God did. And you just sort of forget the misery of living in sin But then one day it comes home. One day it hits close. And then all of a sudden we're reminded. I'm thinking of a young man. His parents are in church just about every time the doors are open. But he just started fooling around with the wrong crowd as a teenager. And boy, but first thing you know they're they're influencing him and they're leading him and and he's following them and one day they said, Hey, why don't we go over and just uh rob this fella and get some things and we need some money and and he was involved with it. They went in and and robbed a man and beat the man and took his keys and took his car. The only problem was when the police caught them, all of the other fellows turned against this one young man. And he had to spend time in jail because they turned on him. It came to a place that one night he's downstairs in their home The parents are upstairs, they don't know what's going on, but these fellows come into the house and shoot him three times while he's in his own house. Now you see something like that happens, then we remember what sin does But we shouldn't have to have something like that happen to remember what sin is really like. We should realize how personal it is what it does to an individual, the presence of sin. I'm thinking of a young lady that used to walk through our neighborhood years ago. Beautiful young teenage girl. I'm sure she I had a good relationship with her dad and bounced on her dad's knee, but she got involved with the wrong gang and started running around in the van that they ran around in and doing what they do uh did in the van And ended up on drugs, spending many years in the psychiatric ward of the hospital. When that happens, then we're reminded of what sin really does. I'm thinking of a young man that announced to his pastor father on Father's Day that he was homosexual. When that happens, then we realize what sin really is. Amen. I'm thinking of a couple that walked into a prominent pastor's office. The pastor and the wife just felt that they were coming in to uh get some counseling and make some decisions But when they gathered together in the pastor's office and they were seated, the past the man said, Now we're not gonna have to take much time. The reason I wanted you to to get you together is I wanted to let you folks know that I'm leaving her For another man. Now when something like that happens, we realize what sin really does What I'm saying tonight, you and I need to keep in mind what the presence of sin is all about We shouldn't have to have something happen personally to us. We shouldn't have to have it hit close to home before we remember what sin is all about. But the reason we become so calloused, the reason we become uh we we come to a place that that we lose sight and lose compassion It's because we really forget what sin, what the presence of sin is all about. This is true. This is personal. But let me remind you of another thing from this portion of Scripture. Not only do we see the presence of sin, but we see the power of God. That makes a difference. Amen? When Christ moves in, then it changes everything. Now we have to be reminded that that's exactly why these missionaries are going. They're not going because they have something uh within their own abilities to deliver to those people that will help them. They're just going to take Christ. Just going to deliver Christ. They're taking this book to deliver the message of Christ because that's what makes the difference. That's what changes lives. That's the power that makes the difference. Amen? And when we see here Uh Christ moving in, we see things beginning to change. Now the previous verses in chapter four, uh Just as uh they work up to this uh coming into uh uh this section of uh uh the country They had uh it was a time when they came across the sea. You remember when Christ uh instructed the apostles to to get into the boat and they were going to the other side and and when they got out on the sea the storm came Boy, it's raging. Christ is asleep. Jesus is asleep in the back of the boat and and they get all upset and go back there and wake him up and say, care us not that we perish. And he stands and with a word He calms the sea, the waves cease, and everything's calm. Well, we see that he has power over nature But then as he moves into this section, we find he also has power over man. And as he moves in, then he begins to change things, and they begin to recognize the importance of his presence. Notice in verses 3 and 4. It says, Who had his dwelling among the tombs? Look at this. And no man could bind him, no not with chains. Because that he had been often bound with fetters, that is, his legs, and chains. And the chains had been plucked asunder by him. And the fetters broken in pieces, neither could any man tame him. Do you know what that's saying? Society did not have the answer. Hey, this was their answer. Tie him up, bound him, restrict him. But they found that they did not have the answer to change the man. And boy, that is so true today. Society does not have the answer. It's not in a pill. It's not in anything society has to offer. But we find when Christ came that things changed and we find when Christ spoke Then the man began to see uh the difference. Notice in verse five, it says that uh And always, night and day, he was in the mountains and in the tombs, crying and cutting himself with stones. Look at verse 15. And they come to Jesus and see him that was possessed with the devil and had the legion sitting and clothed and in his right mind, and they were afraid. Christ had made the difference. Christ had made the change. Look down in verse 18 And when he was come into the ship, he that had been possessed with the devil prayed him that he might be with him. Not only has he been changed, he's been changed to the place that now he wants to be right with Christ. Christ made the difference. Christ made the change. And boy, uh that's uh that's the reason these missionaries are going. They're just going to deliver the message that will make the change in the life of an individual. You think of of the wild man running the mountainside in the countries where these missionaries are going. and just waiting for someone to bring the answer because no one there has the answer. I was preaching Years ago in uh a little town called Bonao, well not a little town, about uh seventy thousand people, in Bonao, Dominican Republic A missionary had gone there and and uh they bought a house, started a church. There was no church in the town, uh gospel preaching church. And they bought a house and and uh turned it into a church building and had this auditorium and uh boy been going for some time, some people had been saved and And I was down there in the Dominican Republic and went to Bow Now on a Sunday night to preach for this missionary. And uh I was preaching. And right in the middle of my message, it was just a a small uh building and uh not a very big auditorium part of the building and And right in the middle of my message, this fella sitting right in the middle of the auditorium got up and started toward the back door And when he started toward the back door, there was a fella sitting on the back row, and he stood up and blocked the door and wouldn't let the man out. Now, here we're in this small room. I'm trying to preach. This guy's trying to get out. The other fellow won't let him out. I had to just stop and just wait until they finished. Finally he wouldn't let him out, so the guy came back up and sat down. I finished my message and when I finished the uh I asked the missionary, I said, what in the world was going on? He said, well, the fellow was trying to get out's town drunk. He didn't like what you were saying. He didn't want to hear any more of it. He wanted out of here. The fellow in the back knew he needed to hear what you were saying. He wasn't going to let him out of here I left, came back home. About two months later, the missionary called me, said, Hey, you remember that drunk? I said, Oh yeah, I'll not forget him. He said he got saved. They bought a big old 60-passenger yellow school bus and shipped it down to the Dominican Republic. They started running that thing through Bonal. Now Bow Now sort of had a western atmosphere And the only difference was instead of horses it was mopeds and motorbikes. They were all over the place. And it was like a Wild West town And they started running that big old 60-passenger bus through Bow Now, picking people up, bringing them to church. About a year later, I went down there, and you know who was driving that 60-passenger bus? The town drunk. You see, that's what Christ does. Now you think about when that town drunk got saved, what happened in his home. With his children. Now they're able to enjoy their dad. They don't have to look forward to him coming home drunk at night. Now they don't have to listen to the fighting, the fussing. Because God moved in. Because a missionary came and brought Christ. And when Christ was mentioned, the difference was made That's why they're going. And that's what this week is all about. It's just about getting Jesus to places Where folks do know folks know nothing about him. Now I want you to think of one last thing about this section of Scripture. Not only do we see the presence of sin, and not only do we see the power of Christ But I want you to think about this. I want you to think about the pleasure of a changed life. The pleasure of a changed life. This is a real story. Now, this wild man is no more running the mountainside. His life has been changed. Jesus has made a difference. Now he's settled down and wants to be with Christ. Now think about his situation now. Boy, think about the thrill of his parents now that their son is not out there running the mountainside, screaming, cutting himself. Acting like a wild man. Think about the possibility of his wife, if he was married. Now he's home. Now it's not only like it used to be, it's better than it used to be. Because Christ has made a difference. Think about his children now. Man, they can go to school. Maybe Dad even walks them to school. Maybe he meets them after school. Now they're able to laugh and smile and realize that the other children see The relationship they have now, and it's not like it used to be. That's what Christ does. The pleasure of a changed life. Listen, you sit here tonight because one day Christ moved in. One day Christ changed you. What could your home be like if that had never happened? What would your life possibly be about tonight? Had Christ not moved in. There are people where these missionaries are going that deserve what you and I are able to enjoy as much as we do. They have a right for somebody to come and tell them the one that can change their life. I have a brother, three, three, three and a half years younger than me. His name's Mickey. He pastors in Stafford, Virginia. And uh we grew up in an alcoholic home. I've shared some of this with you in the past. We grew up in an alcoholic home, very dysfunctional situation. down the southwestern part of Virginia. My dad worked in the coal mines, going in those mines before daylight, coming out after dark, and so the weekends were just uh just in the bars and the and drinking and all of that. And we grew up with what takes place in an alcoholic home. The fighting, the fussing. Many times I can remember lying in bed at night. And listening to that going on and and the fightings and the breaking of glass and throwing of dishes and just wondering who's going to be alive tomorrow, who's going to be dead. And that affects you And I, Mickey and I were talking one day. We were just talking about our past. We're not together a lot because of our schedules, but we were just talking one day. About our childhood, what went on. And he made this statement to me. He said, Pat The thing about it, when you and I got saved, the chain of sin was broken. Think about that. Because you see, he and I were headed the same way. It's crazy, isn't it, how you put up with that mess and then you'll head the same direction. But Christ moved in. And now it's different. You see, I have four children. My four children know nothing about that kind of life. You know why? Because Christ broke the chain of sin That's what happens when he comes in