Had a uh an event was scheduled. He didn't show up. It's wonderful to see you here. Hey, you know, I I was thinking about these these surprises. It's amazing, you know, and and uh this fella, uh the pastor had gotten sick or something, and they asked another fellow to come in and And uh on the sign they said, you know, we have a substitute preacher today. And uh the little boy and his daddy walked in the church and the little boy said, His daddy said, What is a substitute preacher. He said, Well, it's like when you hit that ball the other day and it uh broke that window out our neighbor's window and we had to go get him another window. Well till we got the window we put that piece of cardboard in there to keep the the a the bugs and everything out. That cardboard was a substitute till we got the the the real glass there, the real pain and and put it in. And he said, Oh, okay. So the guy preached, he preached a pretty good message And on the way out, the little boy looked up at the preacher, shook his hand, he said, Mister, you're not a substitute, you're a real pain. And uh and so I hope I won't be a real pain today, but uh uh I know you came expecting one person and got somebody else, but Uh I pray that the Lord will bless. Hey, back on the table, let me just call your attention. Here's the advertising. I got a lot of stuff back there. All of it's for sale, but I don't want to sell it. I'd like to give it to you And I'd like to give it to you as a reward. You know, I'm looking forward to some heavenly rewards and uh heaven and crowns to cast at Jesus' feet. mansions under construction. We're sending building materials daily as we serve the Lord, you know, that kind of thing. And uh of course just to be with the Lord Jesus. He says, man, what a reward. And streets of gold and no snow. And uh that's gonna be it's gonna be a wonderful place. But uh I have back there on the table several things uh uh that I'd like to give you And if you bring, now listen to this, this ought to be pretty easy for tonight. If you bring one adult or teenager, adult or teenager that's not here this morning, I don't care if they're members. I I don't care if they just got stuck at home this morning or maybe a senior adult afraid to get out and drive. I I are one of those senior adults now, but I I still love driving, especially in the snow. But uh but uh but some folks can't get out in it, you know, the driveway's the wrong way or they're you know, whatever. And uh so you know, if you get 'em here tonight, you can go by and pick 'em up if you need to uh then I'll give you one of these books. This is called Be a Bold Witness. You know one of the greatest things that keeps Christians From sharing their faith in Christ with others is fear. This book, if you'll read it and heed it, will help you to overcome fear of witnessing It's not always like I'm scared of somebody. It's what if I make a mistake, or what if I talk to the wrong person, or what if I say the wrong thing, or what, you know, that type of thing. I mean the devil just talks you how to do it. And he uses fear And uh this little booklet, how it be a bold witness. I want to give one. Everybody that brings at least one person that's not here this morning. It can be they have to be an adult or a teen. You say, well, what about the children? Well, the adults will bring the children And and uh so it has to be an adulteratine and uh it has to be somebody that's not here this morning. It can be a visitor It can be a a regular member, can be an absentee member, anything. Doesn't matter. But work at it. If you bring me two people this mor this tonight that's not here this morning uh that I want to give you. I I made uh I've got two DVDs back there and you can take your choice of one of these two DVDs, uh one of them uh is uh they're both preaching DVDs and I'm sorry to say it's the substitute preacher. And by the way, people say, uh I don't You're Dr. uh uh Matt who uh uh just uh at at home, I'm brother Lonnie. So let's just let me be at home, okay? Just call me Brother Lonnie, that's my name And uh a brother's not my name, but Lonnie's my name, and I am a brother in Christ. And so there you go, and that's Miss Nancy or Nancy either way, and uh that that'd be just fine. So nothing no formality here Ain't nobody here but us chickens, and you know, we'll just do what the best we can and uh uh substitute them. But this one, if you bring two tonight that are not here this morning. Two tonight that are not here this morning. Two they have to be adult or teen, and it doesn't matter who they are. Matter of member, non-member, visitor, uh saved, unsaved, it doesn't matter And uh one of these is defeating the grip of debt. Well, I'm telling you, debt is going to destroy our country, isn't it? And it's destroying a lot of families. They say the major cause of divorce is finances. Isn't that something? And uh even though it may result, it it's it's the irritating factor that leads to dissatisfaction that leads to sin and everything else And uh more than anything else, not the only thing. I know some wealthy people who've been ha have had marital problems too, but uh but anyway, defeating a grip of debt is one of 'em. The other one is the love of the family, practical principles to have a happy family. And uh maybe you don't need these, maybe you know somebody that does. Well get one and give it. That's by bringing at least two adult visitors. You can choose either one of those that you want. And then if Three adult or teens guests tonight that are not here this morning. The only uh qualification is that they weren't here this morning. I got a second qualification I'll tell you in just a moment. But for the only qualifications so far that I've told you, if you bring three or more, we've got a several CDs back there And uh we'll have some available that we're going to be giving away. And this particular one is a CD. This is my daughter in California, and on the table there's a bunch of Shawnee Baptist College CDs, but we have some others from Faith Music Mission and so forth uh that we're going to give away if you bring at least three of these CDs. We sell them for $12. Uh Brother Russ sells them for $16. But they're very high quality. But this is my daughter in California and we just duplicated it and uh and we'll give you that one too. And uh she's uh a godly young lady And uh has three of my grandkids out there holding them hostage. And uh so we we're looking forward to that. So that's what's on the table, and what I want to do is give it away And uh now here's the other qualification. You have to invite them before they get here You cannot be out on the parking lot or can meet them at the door saying, hey, would you count for me? You weren't here this morning, were you? No. Well, would you count for me? You are a cheater if you do that. And cheaters never win. And you need and so don't cheat. This is going to be on the honor system, so I'm trusting you. And uh and Jesus is watching you. So you so you do right, okay? Hey, take your Bible this this uh morning and uh Uh turn to the book of Isaiah. Isaiah chapter 33. I'm going to give you just one verse. I have a brief message this morning. I know you want to get home and shovel snow and uh whatever else. But uh I I want you to think about uh the surprise. Surprise Sunday Surprise Sunday. And the title of the message is this, Surprising Statements from the Word of God. It's in Isaiah chapter 33. By the way, this is my wife Nancy. Would you stand up, please? There's my beautiful wife, Nancy. Nancy Jean, and uh she's the mother of our four children and the grandmother of our twelve grandchildren. And uh we're We're having time of our life, just traveling around, being in churches, meeting people. And uh, you know, we got married. We've been married we've been married forty-six years. In May, May the 9th You might want to circle that. May it may the ninth be 47 years. 46 years. We got married in 1964. And you know, when I got married, Brother Leatherman, I didn't know anything. about women when I got married. I I just didn't. I thought I did. But I when I once I got married I realized I don't know anything about women. Well hey, I got I got news now. You know, I I've I've got uh I I've got uh I've had a wife for almost 47 years. I've got three daughters, three of our four children are daughters. I have a daughter-in-law. I have four grandchildren grand granddaughters of our twelve. Four of them are girls I've got four granddaughters, and now after all this time, I know less about women when I didn't know nothing about women. It's amazing. I thought I would learn something But we got married in 1964. And one thing I discovered right away is that women have a reputation. It's just like uh for being moody. Now men are moody too, but somehow women got the reputation All I know is when I came home from work, I worked for IBM at the time, and when I would come home from work, lived in Nashville, Tennessee, and I worked all day, used up all my words, she hadn't used any of her words And uh I'd come home and I didn't know when I got to the door, I didn't know whether to duck or puck her. See 'cause I didn't know whether she's gonna be in a good mood or whether she's gonna be all stressed out. I I just didn't know, you know, it's it's just And and for no reason. I mean h I I've been gone all day. I didn't do anything. And so I was kinda nervous to go come home and know whether to you know throw in the hat or whatever. So they came out this was back in the sixties when we got married. You remember some of you remember the sixties. It was a it was a horrible time in the history of our nation in my opinion. You know, the hippies and Yippies and love and flowers and and and uh peace and you know, anti war, all the all these things going on and and and uh we were never really part of that culture, the drugs and all that. We were never part of that culture. But we we knew about it. We we saw it all taking place. And so they came out with something during that time that revolutionized my marriage It's called a mood ring. And they said, you could wear this mood ring. They can't they've come back with it. You wear this mood ring and it'll tell You can tell what mood a person's in by what color it turns. It would turn colors with different moods. Anybody familiar with those? Yeah, you know what I'm talking about. Yeah. And and so I got this nude ring. I bought a nice one. I took her and I said, Honey, I want you to wear this all the time 'cause I love you, you know. And she liked it and she put it on and and she was wearing that ring And I'd come in and I'd tell you, if that ring when I'd come in in the afternoon, in the evening, if that ring was like a pale blue, then I knew everything was I mean we were gonna have a great evening. There was gonna it was gonna be serenity and peace in the home and and boy I was always happy when I saw it blue. I tell you this, if I came in And she had been stressed that day? That ring left a red mark right there in the middle of my head. It just so anyway That's my sweet wife. We we we're having a wonderful time. You know, there's a lot of people believe that story's true. You can believe what you want. Oh my goodness. Hey, look here now if you got your body have you found Isaiah yet, chapter 33. And the Bible says in Isaiah chapter 33, verse number 14. Look on down to verse number 14. There's a whole lot going on in the in the uh book of Isaiah, and he's gotten down to a lot of woes now. You know, woeing different nations, different peoples for for their acts, for the rebellion against God and so forth. I don't have time to give you all the history and background of it. Hopefully you'll be a little bit of a Bible student and read some of it. But now he's getting down, he's talking to God's people. He said Look in verse 14. The sinners of Zion. Now, Zion, that's Jerusalem. That's the city of God. The sinners of Zion. That's the people of God, and he's calling some of them sinners. Isn't that something? That'd be like saying, well, I'll tell you one thing, over there at uh Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, the sinners there There's some sinners in that church. Now, wait a minute. He's not talking about we're all sinners, we know that. He's talking about people that maybe are part of the church but never got converted or something. You know, he's the the the the sinners, those who those who are still looked at by God as not as saints, but as sinners. The sinners in Zion are afraid. Fearfulness, listen to this. Fearfulness hath surprised the hypocrites. A surprise took place. Now I said, we're going to be talking about some surprising statements from the Word of God He said, fearfulness hath surprised hypocrites. You see, they were going along, they thought they had everybody fooled. What you don't know don't hurt you, and and and we we get along and we can put on a pretty good front and we're a facade. And by the way, isn't that what a hypocrite is? A hypocrite, let's see, the actors from the time of the King James being translated and the Greek word that was translated hypocrite had to do with what uh the uh actors did during the Shakespearean days. Uh they would they had masks and when they were playing their role, they'd hold that mask in front of their face, and now they're this character and they take on this personality and these traits and say these things And then they might play more than one role in a play. They might lay that mask down and grab another one. Now they're somebody else. They've changed their personality and whatever. And then they may take the mask off and have their own face painted up a certain way, and now they're a third person and they say those people are not who they appear to be. They are hypocrites They are somebody playing the role of somebody else. And I'm afraid that in our fundamental churches, even in our fundamental churches Where the Word of God goes forth clearly, week after week after week. It could very well be that we have men and women, boys and girls, young people, senior adults sitting in the pews who have never Had their sins taken away. They've never been saved. And boy, that's a pretty scary thought Now, the sinners in Zion are afraid. Fearfulness hath surprised them. All of a sudden they say, I never thought this day would come. Man, it came on me. It it's too quick. I I planned to take care of this thing. I I was I know I was playing a game. I I know in my heart of hearts I didn't really believe what I said I believed, but but but I I didn't realize it was going to come to an end. So quick, I didn't realize that I was going to be revealed for the phony that I am. I didn't realize I was going to be standing before God naked and ashamed and lost. Fearfulness has surprised the hypocrites. Who among us shall dwell with the devouring fire? Who among us shall dwell with the amount of the devouring fire with everlasting? Who among us shall dwell with everlasting burnings? What do you suppose he's talking about there? You think he might be talking about the lake of fire? Eternal hell? Separated from Christ. Because we played a pretty good game. We had made a profession, but we had no possession of faith. It's one thing to join the church. It's another thing to be joined to Christ. It's one thing to take on a religion. It's another thing to have a personal relationship. With the Lord Jesus Christ. It's one thing to get baptized in the waters of baptism as a public display of faith, at least so-called. And become part of the body of that local assembly of believers. It's another thing to be baptized by the Spirit of God into the body of Christ to become a member of the family of God. We're talking two different things here. I tell you, I've been a Baptist long enough. I've talked to hundreds of Baptists. Pastor 37 I've talked to hundreds of Baptists when I'd asked them, do you know for sure if you die today you'd go to heaven? Oh yeah, I was baptized when I was eight years old. Well I didn't ask you if you was baptized or not. I asked you, do you know for sure if you die today you're going to heaven? Well, I I don't I haven't really done anything that bad. Oh really? How bad of a thing would you have to do to not go to heaven? How about how about the problem is not what bad things you've done or haven't done. How about the problem is you haven't put your bad things under the blood of Jesus Christ and been cleansed of your sins Period. Whatever those bad things are. You may be the worst man or woman in the room, or you may be lilywhite, clean, whatever. Goody two shoes. But if you don't have your sins forgiven through faith in Jesus Christ, you can pretend, you can play, you can know all the songs. I really remember I grew up in a Baptist church. I sang all the songs. I remember my my teacher when I was in when I was in beginner class, uh kindergarten would be kindergarten age. I remember my teacher. I remember singing the songs Jesus loves the little children. All the little children of the world. Red and yellow and black and white. They're all precious in his sight Jesus loves me, this I know for the Bible tells me so. And I sang the song, my favorite song in ju as a junior was uh uh was uh uh uh Send the light. Send the light. The blessed gospel light. Boy, I love me and the guys, we'd stand that row. We'd belt that thing out. We'd sing it to the top of our lungs. Then I went and said in Sunday school one morning. And the Sunday school teacher said, I knew who Christ was. I felt like he was a member of our family. I loved him. As a little boy could love. She said, and in a Sunday school class, the Sunday school teacher said, you can sing all the songs, you can be a member of the church, you can You can know the Bible stories and all that, but if you haven't been born again, if you've never personally in your life asked Jesus to be your Savior, then you're lost and you're going to go to hell as a nine-year-old kid. Scared me to death. I went home thinking about that. I'm gonna go to hell. I've been religious. But I've never been saved. And fearfulness surprised me that day. But praise the Lord, it wasn't standing before the judgment throne of God, the white throne judgment. It was uh it was sitting in a Sunday school class with a faithful Bible teacher teaching me the Word of God. And that afternoon when I got home, I went to my bedroom, nobody around laid across the the bed asked Jesus to come into my heart and you know what he saved me. He I haven't always been a good Christian, but he's always been a wonderful Savior. He's never let me down one time. I so I wish I could say the reverse was True, but it's not. I've let him down too many times to number, but he's never let me down. What a savior! So he said, let me read it again. The sinners in Zion are afraid. Fearfulness hath surprised the hypocrites. Who among us shall dwell with adviring fire? Who among us shall dwell with everlasting? Burnings. Heavenly Father, I pray your Holy Spirit will take the Word of God today as we just look at some of the surprising statements from your Word, and I pray you'll apply them to our hearts and lives. Help us to be what you want us to be. We give you the praise. Lord, if there's anyone in this room today that's not 100% sure that they're saved, I pray that today would be the day of their salvation. I pray, Lord, those of us who are saved, oh God, motivate us, move us, use us, help us And Father, we give you the praise. We thank you. We love you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, surprising statements. Surprising statement number one. Here's what I'm doing. I'm taking, like, here's what the world says, here's what humanism says, here's what we've been taught all of our life, here's the prevailing uh theology from the world's point of view, and so pretty much what the masses of the people think Not necessarily everybody in this room, but here's pretty much what the world thinks. Here's what the modern news media tries to tell us. Here's what you hear from the put from the politicians, from the White House down to the State House And and and uh and and this is what they think, this is what the world says. But then the surprising statement What God says in His Word. You understand that? That's where we're going this morning. Number one, the world says, follow your heart. Well that sounds like old Pro Wiphery, doesn't it? Oh, just follow your heart, just whatever you feel, that's just what you just do. You deserve a break today. If it feels good, do it That's all that matters. Young person, you can't decide what to do with your life. Well, just follow your heart. It'll all just come to you. Just go out there and follow your heart. That's what the world says. Let me give you the surprising statement from the Word God. The Bible says in Jeremiah chapter 17, verse number 9: the Bible says, the heart is deceitful. Above all things, and desperately wicked, who can know it? The Bible says, you have a deceitful heart Left to yourself, you'll destroy yourself. Your heart is deceitful, it's desperately wicked, you'll never be able to figure it out. Just when you think you've got it figured out, it'll deceive you, it'll trap you, it'll lie to you The heart's deceitful. You see, we can't judge you know what it's like? It's like, here's what they're saying, so do whatever comes naturally, do just follow your heart. That's what they did in the book of Judges when God had to judge them time and time and time again. And then they'd repent and he'd bring a judge and and uh lead them back to uh to God and and to victory and and then they'd get comfortable again and they'd go back to their wicked ways and and uh they they would do and you know what God said He said they were doing that which was right in their own minds. Every man did that which was right in his own mind. Everybody said, How I feel about it. Here's the way I see it Hey, it's amazing. Sometimes I can get up and I can preach a great truth from the Word of God about some standard of separation, for example It's amazing, almost without exception, you'll get a feedback either directly or indirectly through the grapevine that somebody said Well that's just not I I just don't believe it that way. I I don't believe that's what it really meant and and and and I don't see it that way. And here's what I think. They've got their own little spin on this thing. You know what I say to that Say, isn't it amazing? Isn't it a wonderful thing that even though God is inept and couldn't say what he meant, fortunately he had you to straighten him out And to tell everybody what he really meant. Poor God, isn't he lucky to have you? Think about that the next time you decide that when the preacher stands up and preaches some great truth from the Word of God and gives chapter and verse and biblical principle and compares scripture with scripture. And says, here's a foundational principle in the Word of God, and you walk out and say, Well, I just can't go with that. I just don't see it that way I'm sure that suddenly everything stops in heaven. The angels lean over heaven's banister, because when you speak, undoubtedly this is going to be wisdom. Far beyond anything God Himself could say in the Bible. I mean that antique book. By the way, the Word of God is more current than tomorrow morning's newspaper. You just write it down. Take that to the bank. You can depend on the Word of God. So surprising statement number one, follow your heart. The world says, and God says, here's the surprising statement, heart's deceitful, wicked. You better be careful. Isn't that amazing? You don't just do what comes naturally. You do what you pray about and search the scripture. And when you find yourself when we talk about heart now, we're not talking about this physical pump. And I know a little bit about this physical pump now, because one day, a couple of years ago and not last October, two years ago last October, I went into this room They laid me on a cold steel table. They took a chainsaw or something and opened me up. Some of you have been there, done that. Pridd over the jaws of life. Reached in, grabbed my heart, snipped all the things, ran me through a machine for an hour or so Cut my leg open, found some other tubes, other places, plugged them into my heart, plugged them back, took those other ones one by one, took it all back, stuck it in there, wired me, glued me, sewed me, put me back together Threw me out the door. And I had a five-by-pass open heart surgery. Is that something? But that's not the heart we're talking about. We're talking about we're talking about the heart of the matter We're talking about what makes us as human beings with an eternal soul different from the animals. We're talking about our ability to reason and think. We're talking about our seat of emotions. We're talking about the heart of man. I'm talking about our mind, how we think, and all so forth. God said, that's your heart. That's what you've got to hear. See, he said in in Ezekiel chapter 36, listen to this, verse 26, for you that without Christ, all you have is that old heart, that old nature, that old uh sin-cursed nature that was cursed by the fall of Adam in the garden and and and and you've been battling that thing, trying to do better, turning over a new leaf, and it just gets dirty on the other side. But in Ezekiel chapter 36, verse 26, God said, A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put within you. And I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I'll give you a heart of flesh. God said, I want to change your heart. Wow, that's a wonderful thing, isn't it? Praise the Lord for it. And then he said, I'm going to give you a responsibility in Proverbs 4, verse 23. He said, Keep thy heart with all diligence. For out of it are the issues of life. He said, put a fence around your heart. I'm going to give you this new heart. Now I want you to protect it. Don't be feeding that old nature. You take care of that new nature. Put a fence around it, protect it, don't let the world influence it. Instead, you be an influence on the world. You know that's the problem with churches today The churches have said, oh, we've got to reach people, we've got to make the church more worldly so we can reach people. No, no, no. God said the church's job is to make the world more righteous, not the world to make the church more worldly. We get it all backwards. I don't even have time to chase that rabbit, but I'm telling you, it's a good one. But God said, surprising statement number one, the world says follow your heart. The word says hearts deceitful. Surprising statement number two. World says, listen to this, you know this is true. The world says we are all children of God. We're all children of God. That's what the world says. So, you know, we're all created in God's image. We're all children of God, and we've just got to find God within us. And that kind of thing. Basically it boils down to things like, well, there's good in everybody, nobody's all bad, that kind of thing. If you have your Bible, look over in Romans chapter 7 with me in just a minute. Here's the Apostle Paul. Saint Paul. When I'm witnessing to a Roman Catholic, I always say Saint Paul They identify with that. Matter of fact, it's a good thing. When you got a gospel tract, I even wrote on ours, Jesus told us to tell the world how to be sure of heaven. Can you really know for sure? And uh when someone says I'm a Catholic, oh I said, are you Roman Catholic? I said, Well yeah I said, oh that's great. I said, I got this paper here, and I picked a lot of verses where the Apostle Paul was writing to the church at Rome to tell them how they could be sure they were going to heaven. See, because you know like I know there's a lot of Baptists and there's probably a lot of Catholics too that are aren't gonna make heaven. I said, well yeah, that's the truth. And I said, Well, he told us how we could. And he wrote it to the church at Rome so the church there would know for sure how they could be sure they were going to heaven. I said, Would would you like to know that too? And Boy, Romans Road. Yeah, I like that. But uh I don't remember where I was in the message, but there's a good little side thing there. And oh yeah, I I I'm all caught up in this track thing, man. Good night, what name am I on anyway? But the world says everybody's basically good. Nobody's all bad. Look at Romans chapter 7. Here's the Apostle Paul, the greatest Christian, perhaps, other than Christ Himself. The world's around verse 14. He said, For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am carnal, sowed under sin. Now he's already been in the ministry a while. He's actually pinning one of the books of the Bible right here, why is he writing this He said, For that which I do I allow not, for what I would, that do I not do do I not, but what I hate that I do If then I do that which I would not, I consent unto the law that is good, now then it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me, for I know that is For I know that in me, listen to this, that is in my flesh dwelleth no good thing. For to will is present with me, but how to perform that which is good, I find not. For the good that I would, I do not, but the evil which I would not, that I do. Now if I do that I would not, it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. I find then a law that when I would do good, evil is present with me, for I delight in the law of God after the inward man But I see another law in my members warring against the law of my mind, bringing me in bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members Oh, listen to him, oh wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death? Well, here's the answer. I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then with the mind I myself serve the law of God, but with the flesh, the law of sin. The heart, the old nature, serving the law of sin. In the flesh, but in the spirit. Oh my goodness. It's an amazing thing. World says, we're all children of God. Nobody's all bad. Paul said, I'm all bad. In my flesh, in my normal natural state, in my old nature, I'm just a wicked sinner that ought to be in hell. And now, even though I'm saved, I have this warfare going on. When I want to do good, I find myself messing up doing bad. And when I try to reject bad, I find I can't do good. I I oh red he said, this is th th there's a battle going on That old nature. When you got saved, you said, go crucify that old nature. I've got this new heavenly nature and I'm going to live for Christ. But just like Christ, the Holy Son of God, rose from the grave on the third day, somehow that old nature's still there and it has a resurrection every day. Talked about it a little bit in Sunday school this morning. And that's why the same apostle Paul said, I die daily. Every day he has a funeral, dies to self. He said, I am crucified with Christ. twenty. I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me, and the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself But he started that verse saying, I am crucified with Christ. He said I have to be, I have to, I just have to die to self. I just have to Mentally, emotionally, spiritually, nail myself to the cross and say, I'm not going to live for me today, I'm going to live for Jesus And by the way, that's not a bad state to be in. You know, people get angry, they get their feelings hurt. You know, the Bible says, Great peace have they that love thy law and nothing shall offend them. And I know people that seem they claim to have great peace and everything offends I mean they and so I'm undoubtedly don't love the law of God. But but I want to tell you this, if you're dead to self and alive to Christ If you're dead to self, dead to self. You go to the funeral home, and please I don't mean to be irreverent here. I I had my my folks uh funeral, both of them, I preached my mom's and my dad's funeral in the last three years. And but I I could walk up to the casket. There's my dad laying there and I could say I could say I could I could I could make fun of him. I I could I could I could call him baldy. He didn't have any hair on his head. He was much like the preacher. And uh And uh I I could I could make fun and is that a sensitive spot? He's he's really glaring at me. But I I I could say ugly things I uh to to him but uh and and an enemy of his could come by and and uh and tell him off or whatever. And you know what? You can't offend him. You can't make a dead man mad. You just can't do it. You can't cause him pain. He's with the Lord. He's having the time of his life. Paul said, I've got to die to self and live for Christ. Surprising statement number two, the world says. Nobody's all bad. No, not not ever everybody's basically good. We're all children of God. Bible says, Romans 7, 18, for we know that in me that is in my flesh Dwelleth no good thing. Romans 3:23 says, For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. The Bible says there's not a just man on earth that doeth good and sinneth not. The Bible says, all we like sheep have gone astray. The Lord laid on him, that's Jesus, the iniquity of us all. He took our sin death. World says, follow your heart. Word says it's deceitful. The world says everyone is the children of God. The word says we're all sinners. World says, number three, that there are many paths to heaven You ever heard that one? Oh, there are many paths we're all just going different ways. I heard a famous international evangelist say I don't watch Larry King live, but I heard this guy was going to be in there and Larry King was going to interview him. I said, man, what an opportunity for Christianity. And I turned it on. And I watched the show. And Larry King said, What about those people? What about the Hindus? And what about the Muslims? And what about the Buddhists? And what about those people who've never heard? And this man said They all, if they respond to the light they have, they're all worshiping Christ. They just know Him by different names. Said. That guy that used to be a soul-winning preacher is now a heretic, a false prophet, a preacher of lies. Because the Bible says, listen. Surprising statement. The world says, the world says there are many paths to heaven The word says, and the living word, Jesus Christ Himself, this is a direct quote from him, John 14, 6. Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh to the Father but by me. Ladies and gentlemen, those other religions maybe do something for their society. I don't know. If you look at the nations where most of those religions are dominant, you find nations in abject poverty and squalor and all kinds of myths and child sacrifice and all kinds of other weird things that I can't imagine The the the the streets of their cities are open open refuse, open sewers And that's the way they live. They're trying to they they want to be like America. What's made America so different? What's made the Christianized part of the world so different? It's not, we like to say, well, it's our ingenuity, it's Yankee ingenuity, it's uh it's our drive and devotion, it's our hard work ethic, it's all that, and I want to tell you it's Jesus Christ The fact that we were founded as a nation on biblical principles, even though some of the founders weren't dedicated Christians, they still understood that we needed biblical principles upon which this was nation was founded and and uh and we were founded by those founding fathers, many of them with a purpose to evangelize the rest of the world And God said, I'm going to bless that nation and prosper it so it can carry out that mission, and we've become selfish and self-serving and egotistical, thinking that somehow we deserve more than the rest of the world because we're better than them. No, God's been good to us so that we would reach the rest of the world, and we've disobeyed God. And now America is one of the five largest mission fields in the world in raw numbers of unsaved people who live on our soil. There's not one county in continental United States, not one county that has more people in Sunday school or in church this morning uh and in this year than they had ten years ago As a matter of fact, in every county they have the numbers have declined while the population continues to grow. Church doors are closing by the thousands every year, never to open again. Again, maybe to become mosques. Why? You say, what's wrong? We've turned our back on God, folks. We still got Yankee ingenuity We still got folks, a lot of men in this church. You've worked hard all your life. We still got all that. But we're going down the tubes. Most people are most people with a mortgage are upside down. You know what I'm talking about. Government getting stronger and stronger, more and more control, becoming more dictatorish. You don't you don't ex What should we do? Let's rise up. Let's march. Let's get a sign. Yeah, like the Apostle Paul and Jesus and all the disciples, they got a sign and marched on the palace. No, they didn't get a sign. They went soul-winning and turned the world upside down They passed out tracts if they'd had them. They gave the gospel. They made a difference. But world says, world says there are many paths to heaven. Jesus said there's only one path, and I'm it. There's no other way. See, I don't disrespect other religions. It's their right to do that, but I'd like to have a fair conversation and talk with them. I say, you tell me what you believe, I'll tell you what I believe. And I believe nine times out of ten, they would come to Christ because while I'm speaking to their head, I believe but the Holy Spirit of God speaking to their heart. And besides that, I have the only founder of a religion that's ever been on the planet who is still alive and well. Theirs are all dead in the grave. I have the only founder of any religion that died for his people. And yet he's alive. Serve a living Savior. Be celebrating Easter in just a few weeks. That's what it's all about. The resurrection. I have several others. I'm going to stop right there. World says trust Christ and then live a good life to get to heaven The word says we're saved by grace through faith. Not of ourselves, it's the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. I could go on with that one, we could talk about it. Folks, we're depending on anything other than Jesus to get you to heaven. You're depending on the wrong thing. Number one, we are all sinners. Number two, we've come short of God's glory. Number three, God sent his glorious Son to pay our sin debt. Number four, if we're willing to believe that what Jesus did when he died for our sins was enough payment for our sins, and if we are sorry for our sins and want to be saved and want to receive him, he said, As many as received him to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them. That believe on his name. And then would you ask God to help you go out of this place today? Would you ask God to give you a better, a burning desire to overcome your your your lack of of of inertia, lack of motion in this area, lack of passion or compassion, to say, by the grace of God, I'm going to be a stronger witness. For Jesus Christ. That's why He left me here? That's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna do what God left me here to do. Now whatever else I do, if I'm a mechanic or a or a assembly line person or a business manager or or a a business owner or a preacher or a a staff member or a secretary or whatever else I do I'm going to use that to pay the bills, and I'm going to use the influence and the and the circle of influence that that gives me to represent my Savior. And do what God left me here to do. That's the main thing. Making the main thing the main thing. Surprising statements from the Word of God. God. You see, if we would just get back to the Bible, we could get a real purpose in our life and get in the get get on the right path. The steps of a good man, the preacher quoted, are ordered by the Lord. A little bit further down in that same chapter 37 of Psalms, it says, the law of his God is in his heart, and none of his steps shall slide. Do you ever think about it? Well, every time I take a step forward, I take two back. Hey, you know what? If we get in there, let God be the guide. Take the guide What a difference he makes. Let's bow our heads together, please. Our heads are bowed with Christ right here with us for a few moments. So listen carefully, with heads bowed and with eyes closed.