We're Joshua chapter four. Maybe we'll just read a couple of verses and that'll get us uh started on our our uh direction tonight. Joshua chapter 4 and verse 18. We're going to start reading. Verse 18 says, and it came to pass When the priests that bear the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord were uh come up out of the midst of the Jordan, and the soles of the priests' feet were uh lifted up un into the to the dry land that the waters of the Jordan returned into their place and flowed over all its banks as they did before. And the people came up out of Jordan on the tenth day of the first month and encamped in Gilgal in the east border of Jericho. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, now as we come to the preaching hour, we ask you, Lord, to open our hearts, quiet our hearts. Allow the Holy Spirit to uh enter in this thing and speak to us. We pray, Lord, that you'd convict of sin and Pray, Lord, that if there's one here today that has never trusted you as their personal savior, that they that they might uh uh this day call upon you and be born into the family of God And then Lord, we pray we pray for Christians. Lord, we pray that they open their hearts. They'd allow the Spirit of God to convict them of sin and and uh bring out the the things that need to be confessed and and and laid aside. And we pray, Lord, that your spirit would would just permeate this service. Fill me and use me. Best I know how I yield myself to you in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. In that last verse there in verse 19, it says, And the people uh came up out of Jordan on the tenth day of the first month. And they encamped in Gilgal in the east border of Jericho. Gilgal was a was a special place. The special place, particularly in in the beginning here, is they they cross the Jordan River and and uh they uh you gotta you've gotta remember what the history of Israel is There may be someone here that uh not too familiar with it, but uh, you know, Israel was uh was in Egypt for a long time. Over 400 years. And uh as a result, uh over a period of time, uh the the population of the Israelites began to grow to the point where i the Egyptian leadership decided and Pharaoh and the people decided that the that they were to be feared because if they were to go against Egypt in a battle and side with another nation they could easily be defeated. And so they did everything they can to c to hinder uh the uh uh the Israelites, uh number one from growing and then they begin to to burden them and and uh uh causing their labors to be uh extremely hard. And you the Israelites were nothing more than just slaves to the Egyptian people and to Pharaoh. So it came a time when God led Moses to come back into Egypt. God had been preparing him for some 40 years now to take over the leadership uh in uh uh in uh in in uh in Egypt there with Israel and to lead Israel out of Egypt See God had got him all prepared. He gave him his his brother and and he and Aaron uh they went before Pharaoh, you know, and we I'm not going to go into all the details of course because we've already we've heard these uh many times and We know the stories. But basically what has taken place is that uh Moses goes before Pharaoh and says, God, God has told me that you are to let his people go. Turn 'em free. They they uh they're not your people, they're God's people. And so Pharaoh hardened his heart and it was back and forth through the ten plagues, you know, until finally That night came when when uh God told Moses, he said, All right, he said, I've had enough of uh Pharaoh and he's hardened heart. And so I want you to to slay a lamb and I want you to put the the blood of the lamb on the the lintel across the top and on the sidepost of the door. I want you to go inside and I want you to eat the the lamb. I want you and And I'm going to send a death angel through the land of Egypt. And the death angel, when he sees the blood on your doors, uh, he's going to pass over you But in the Egyptian side, uh all the firstborn, the firstborn of of the of the people, the firstborn of the animals, the firstborn all over the nation of Egypt is going to to die. And so when that took place, Pharaoh finally finally he was broken and he said, get out of here and take your people and go. Take everything that you've got and get out of here. We don't want you around here anymore. But then even after that, as Moses leads his people down to the to the red uh the Red Sea, why uh Pharaoh decides, hey And so once again he hards his heart and and he goes against Israel, tries to he's d just he's just uh uh decide he's going to destroy this nation. Moses up against the the Red Sea and and Pharaoh in the back and God send a cloud of fi by fire by night and And uh five by day. And you know the story. God opened up the sea and Moses and the people went across on dry land. This was a great miracle. that this nation could point to and could remember. So they go over and they say and God is is getting going to give them the promised land. Well The trouble was that they they got a committee up and they decided to send the spies into the land to see if it's uh you know it's uh viable land and so forth and to to spy out the the uh you know, the strengths and the weaknesses so they can win. And uh when they came back they said, Yeah, well it's everything God said, it is a Nation clothes of milk and honey. It's a wonderful place, but there's giants all over the place over there, you know, and there's big walled cities and there's all this stuff and And uh th you know, we t we just don't you know, we're in our own eyes as grasshoppers. And so the people got so bad that uh, you know, they're they're ready to stone Moses and And uh, you know, Joshua and Caleb were the only two that said, Hey, we can do it. If God be with us, well we can do it and take it. But the majority won out, and as a result, God says, because of their unbelief They were to go into the wilderness and they were to to spend forty years in this wilderness journey. Forty years in the wilderness where God made pr special provision for them through the manna that he provided them every day but the Sabbath. Special provision of water, special provision for their animals. You know, when I think about the the the miracle of Israel in the wilderness, it's it's almost amazing just at that. But then after forty years, they finally have come back to this place And they're standing on the banks of the Jordan River and the Jordan River is overflowed because it's that time of the year when the when uh the the flood waters are up and and they look at it as an impossible feat for them to cross over this this This water. But God did another miracle. Off in the distance they can see up on the horizon, up on a little knoll there. They can see a huge fortified city called Jericho. And this double-walled city had never been breached by uh an invading army before This is what they see off of the distance. I'm sure that there was fear that had welled up in their heart. God caused the miracle of uh the the the The Jordan River just parted and water backed up and they won't cross on dry ground again just like in in in forty years prior to that. It's a miracle. So when they when they get across, you'd think, well, okay, let's go get Jericho, but that's not what happened. What happened was they came to a place called Gilgal, and there they camped for a season. There was a reason for that. And God had some things to teach these people, and uh it's going to take place at Gilgal. And it may be that here today, this morning, that there's some of you out there, maybe all of us, really need to stop at Gilgal for a few moments. And see what it is we can learn that will help us in our Christian walk. Because you know, the now these these Israelites that have crossed Jordan uh is a is a picture of going uh going into the the uh uh surrendered life as they cross the Jordan River. That's the surrendered life to Christ And so we need to look at some things there about Gilgal. And we'll find some of what we're going to read. We'll be looking in chapter 4 there. First of all, in chapter 4, in verse 20. Uh let me see. There we go. It says, and they took twelve stones, which they took out of the Jordan, did Joshua pitch in Gilgal. And he spake unto the children of Israel, saying, When your children which asked their fathers in times to come saying, What meaneth these stones, then ye shall let your children know, saying Israel came over the Jordan on dry land The first thing that Gil-Gal teaches is a remembrance. It was a place of remembrance. It's important in the Christian life for us to remember what God has done in our life. It's so easy over a period of time. I would say back in 1962. It's easy to, you know, to allow things to uh to allow yourself to not remember The things that God has done in your life. I remember when I got saved, I've told you about it before, a dozen times, perhaps more. It was just down the road, you know, uh uh not too far from here. In a church, uh NeUB church, where I walked the aisle and knelt down at an altar and trusted Christ. Yeah, we need there needs to be this remembrance of the work that God has done in our life. There needs to be a remembrance that God has been performing miracles for us. The new the new the the new birth is a miracle that we should never get over. It should be something in in our mind constantly, every day, where we thank God for just being saved, but just the The matter of salvation is a miracle of God. Something that man can't do it only God can come into the heart and make the changes that that took place in my life. I acknowledge it. It's a place of of remembrance. Here where this is the place where it pictured the as they came up out of the Jordan River is a picture of the the resurrection. Which was the resurrection of a a new desire to uh obey God and and do what he w he wanted. Because see that was the problem to begin with with their fathers who came to that very place and said, No, we're not going to cross the Because of their unbelief, they could not cross over, and they were spent forty years in the wilderness. And here again, they had the opportunity. This time there was that desire, a rebirth of the desire to fulfill God's promise in their lives. Yogal is also a place of renunciation. Well you say, Brother Wien, it's uh uh renunciation. Well, let's go over I hope that was my glass. Let's look in chapter 5, and let's look in verse uh verse 2. It says, It came to pass when all the kings of the Amorites, which were on the side of Jordan westward, and all the kings of the Canaanites, which were by the sea, heard that the Lord had dried up the waters of Jordan. from before the children of Israel until they were passed over that their hearts melted, and neither were there any s their spirit in them any more, because of the children of Israel. Verse two says and And at that time the Lord said unto Joshua, Make the sharp knives, and circumcise again the children of Israel the second time. And Joshua made him sharp knives and circumcised the children of Israel at the at the hill of the foreskins. And this is the the cause why uh Joshua did circumcise All the people that came out of Egypt that were males, even all the men of war, died in the wilderness by the way after they came out of Egypt. In other words, what was this this circumcision? Well We know what it is. Where'd it come from? What did it stand for? Well it was uh the Abrahamic covenant This is a covenant between God and Abraham. God told Abraham, he said, I want you to, you know, uh I think it's eight day, I want you to circumcise all your your male children. So this was something that that uh was given to Abraham, passed down through the the uh uh the rest of his children, grandchildren, and so forth. to this present day. But the problem is that during their captivity or during this time of bondage there in Egypt, they had neglected this this particular uh this ritual Well what does the ritual stand for anyhow? It's it's a it's a it's a picture of separation for one thing. None of the other tribes uh in that area uh circumcised their males. But the so it was something for for a the picture of separation. Separation from the world, separation from sin, separation. You see, uh this world is in enmity with God. And God's people must be a separated people. And the Christians today, we must live a separated life. We too are circumcised. Those who have been born again by the Spirit of God, according to the book of Colossians, I believe in chapter 2, it talks about the circumcision not made with hands. It's a it's a work that is done by the Spirit of God in the heart of an individual where uh where sin is made so real and so horrible and so sickening and and so despised. That is shed off, cast off, like a circumcision foreskin. People had had neglected this. And the first step that that they find that they must take at Gilgau, they remember what God has done for them. That's good. And now there's a renunciation. And that that speaks of the of this thing of circumcision. Where they the picture for the Christian is a is the renunciation of sin Jericho is the symbol of anything that prevents you from doing the will of God. They're getting ready to go up against Jericho. They're getting ready to to to head on face this this monstrosity of a city that uh uh that represent everything that's wrong in this land that they have to conquer. But in order to do that, if you're going to get victory over some sin in your life, there has to be, you have to see sin for what it really is. You have to see the horribleness. You have to see the the see w what it does to lives If only if only our young people would get a glimpse of sin. Know how terrible it is and what it can do and and see the the the hideousness of it One commentator put it this way With the circumcision made without hands, which is at the uh is that of the heart and in the spirit When he pricks the heart and thoroughly convinces of sin and the exceeding sinfulness of it, when the callousness and the hardness of his heart is taken off and removed and the uni uh iniquity of it uh is is laid open, the plague and and corruption in it discerned and all made naked and bare to the sinner's view, when he is in pain on account of it, is broken and groans under a sense of it, and is filled with the shame for it, and loathing and abhorrence of it. The sin is so abhorrent, so hated, that the desire, the lust for it, is cast off Renounced. This is a place of renunciation. You see, I'm convinced that many Christians are living below the level that God wants you to live, spiritually speaking. And it's because of of this this lack of renunciation of sin in our life. In other words, we we allow sin in our life because we cannot see it for its hideous self. So it's a place of facing your sin and seeing what it really is. and then casting it off. And this is done through the power of the Holy Spirit. It's not something easily done. For once sin gets into your life and it forms a habit in your life, that sin becomes so strong it's difficult. And only through the power of the Spirit of God can you have victory from it. There's also There's also the uh it's a place of also realization. Now when I say that I I I'm sorry, I we don't we got ahead of ourselves. It's a place of restoration. You see, once once you face that that sin and you cast it off because you see what it really is, the ugliness of it. Then there's that that that sweet uh that sweet feeling of peace that comes and joy that comes into your heart. David, over in Psalm 51, I know we're all familiar with it, but I don't think it'll hurt us to listen to a few verses once again. I start reading in verse 7 where it says, Purge me with hyssoph, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. You know, there's some sitting out here right now, and there's no whiter than snow in your heart. It's a dingy gray, and sometimes black. But he says he he'll worship and make you white as snow if you're willing to come to him. You go through this renunciation and be willing to say, God, I hate this sin so much I Listen, don't get me wrong. I'm not talking about sinless perfection where where you make this decision, I'm gonna cast this off and I'm gonna boy I'm gonna live for God and and from now on I'm not gonna sin. I want you to understand as long as we have this body of flesh sin is going to be a problem in our life There's going to be the temptations. There's going to be times when we fail God. We don't want to. But there's times when we fail God. In Romans chapter 7, the Apostle Paul talks about this. But the restoration, oh that's that's a that's a that's a wonderful time. The time when joy is restored in our heart and And we can once again get up and begin to serve God. And make me to hear joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. Hide thy face from my sins and blot out all my iniquities. And create in me a clean heart, O God. Renew a right spirit within me, and cast me not away from thy presence, and take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation and uphold me with thy free spirit. Well restoration. What a wonderful thing. I'm so glad that God has made a way To restore his sinning saint. I'm sure David, realizing what he had committed when he wrote these these words, Pinned them down for future generations. He said, I hope they're as much a comfort to the future generations as it has been for me. So we have the joy restored. Then it's also a place of realization. You see, this was the place that God had promised them This is the promised land. They were finally here. You know, it's amazing. And you finally have achieved the goal It's just when I just like when I got my six point buff. So happy. Such a blessing. Did I tell you about that? This was a place of new beginnings for them. New beginnings. Oh, listen, how many, how many In here, remember the day you got saved. He said, This is this is a time of new beginnings. But this is talking about Christians. What is this revival all about anyhow? We call it revival. Sometimes we have it, sometimes we don't. No reason why we don't. Just an old hard heart. That's basically what it is. But uh you can have you can have this what we call revival if you're just willing to To accept the fact that this is an opportunity for new beginnings in your life. It's where you put the past behind and say, hey, Lord, I see the opportunities out here. And I I want to be, I want to be used by you. I want to yield myself, give myself totally you, and I just want to be used. New beginnings. That's your opportunity. Today and this this week will be opportunity after opportunity to make it right. God's promises sometimes seem slowly coming, but they they always you know eventually they'll get here if you just wait on long enough. So it was a place of realization, the realization that God's promise is finally fulfilled. That here we are, God's people in God's place doing God's work. And then finally, don't you love that word, finally? Finally, it's a place of revelation Take your your Bible there and go over to uh Joshua chapter 5. And we're gonna look in uh in uh verse uh 13 So Israel's camped out now in Gilgal. And Joshua is a captain. Of the army, the leader now. Moses is dead. Joshua is the leader. And it says here in verse 13, it came to pass When Joshua was by Jericho, then he lifted up his eyes and he looked, and behold, there stood a man over against him, with his sword drawn in his hand, and Joshua went unto him and said unto him, Art thou for us or for our adversaries. Hmm. I want to point out one thing here, uh for it says that that he lifted up his eyes. You think it might be possible that Joshua might have been spending some time in prayer? You think it might be possible that he he walked out there on the edge of town and He looked up and did it was real Yogals real close to uh Jericho. I mean it it just stood as a as a as a humongous monster there in the horizon And I can see him as he walks out and he sees that that obstacle out there. And at this at this point he has no plan. He he doesn't know whether well am I gonna have to build ladders and there's it's a double wall and and uh and it's fortified and uphill and I you know, don't you think that there's something there that that he's saying, you know, I don't know whether I can do this thing or not. Maybe I ought to pray about it. You think so? You know you're ne you're never going to get victory over uh anything in your life without prayer. If you don't have a consistent prayer life, you're going to find yourself at once many, many times. Prayer is a path to power. I have a Bible program on my computer, and I have it programmed to say that to me every morning Prayer is a path to power. I have a feeling that that's what Joshua's doing, and I see him as he he kneels down there and And he's talking to the Lord and he's saying, Lord, you know you know the I have these people now we've crossed the s we've crossed the the the uh uh Jordan River and I know that was a miracle and the people are all excited. Lord I look at that I look at this huge mammoth of a city and and those walls and everything and I I Lord I don't know what I'm gonna do and as he lifted up his eyes he all at once he's he's co uh conscious of a presence. And he looks and and it's a man he's standing there with with a sword in his hand. He says, Are you uh for us or against us, friend or foe? And he says, uh no, he says, uh read the read the word there. He says And he said, Nay, but as captain of the host of the Lord am I now come. This is none other than the Lord Jesus Christ in human form. To talk to his general. He's the commander-in-chief. He's going to give the the fighting orders to this uh this general You know, it had to be. What is the revelation here? We're talking about this the place of revelation. What was revealed here That every battle we fight, and whether it's whether it's in the physical realm or in the spiritual realm, the mental realm, it doesn't make any difference. It's a spiritual battle. It's a spiritual battle. And what was what was Joshua being told? You're not going to win this. by uh just brute force. You're not going to get up there and just beat those walls down. I've got a better plan. It just just trust God. That's a better plan. Just do this. I want you to march around, you know, uh seven seven times. On the seventh time, I want you to go around seven times and and then I want you to just yell and blow the trumpets. Wow You understand your battles are spiritual battles. And that sin that that's just so easy to sets you. That's a spiritual battle that you have to wage. That's that the wall of Jericho that you're going to have to face. But it has to be faced on spiritual grounds Once you learn that lesson, their battles will be fewer and they'll be easier. You'll have more, perhaps. Perhaps you'll have more. But you'll find that victory is at your fingertips, depending upon how God works in the whole thing. Josh and Zoner might have they might have just you know, came across the Jordan River, rushed over there and tried to scale the walls and tried to do all that but But instead Joshua diverted to Gilgal. And this is a picture of the spiritually preparation that's necessary to to battle the Jerichos in your life. Your Jericho limbs out ahead You know the sin that does so easily beset you. Perhaps it has defeated you many times In the past because you were not prepared. The answer for victory is to take time to stop at Gilgau and have the reproach rolled away When when uh Joshua and his people stopped at Gilgal and uh uh we talked about it being the place of renunciation. There was something else that took place there that I wish I would have brought it out at the proper time, but it's so important I can't pass it up, and that is that they began to practice the Passover once again Which meant that the blood became all important in their ritual again. And it's the blood of Jesus Christ that cleanses us from all sin. It's through the power of the blood that we have victory in the Christian life. So, I don't know where you're at in the message. I know that uh each one of us fight our fight our own demons. But just make sure that you use, before you go into battle. You find Yo-Gao, a place, a place of remembrance, a place of renunciation, a place of of uh restoration, a place of of uh realization and a place of revelation You're here today and you've never trusted Christ. You're still in Egypt. You're still over there being bombarded by Satan and being uh you know nothing more than just a slave, a bond slave The worst kind. And uh you haven't even got to this place where we've been talking about. The only way that you can get out of Egypt is to claim the blood The blood of Jesus Christ. He can cleanse you. If you'll come to him, trust him as your Savior. He'll wash away your sins. It's just like uh uh uh the Old Testament tells us. He says, Come let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they be white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. God can cleanse you if you're willing to yield to him. You're here today and you need to be saved. We start this invitation in just a moment. All you need to do is walk this aisle Say, Pastor, what do I need to do to get saved? He'll have somebody take you aside and show you from the Word of God how you can repent of your sin, how you can call upon the Savior Believe in your heart that God has raised you from the dead and you shall be saved. If you're a Christian today and perhaps you're facing uh Jericho in your life. And it's beat you down many times, and you've tried to scale the walls in your own strength. And now though, you know you need to stop at Gilgal. And right up here is Gilgal. Here's this old-fashioned altar You find a place up here and do business with God and you'll have victory in your future. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. You're here today and I I don't know what the message has meant to you. But I do know this, that that God means for us to trust in Him I wonder how many here this morning say, Brother Williams, you know I I I do. I re I remember that day when I trusted Christ I remember the changes that took place in my life in the days to follow. Even though it gets kind of dim at times, I still remember that moment. time when I trusted Christ. Would you slip your hand up as a testimony? I know I'm saved, there's no doubt about it. Just slip your hand up and take it back down. Thank you. God bless you. Now there's a few folks that perhaps you couldn't raise your hand You say, Brother William, do you know? I just couldn't raise my hand up because I'm not sure that I'm saved Or maybe you're saying in your heart, hey, I know I'm not saved. I've never trusted Christ as my Savior. I've never asked him to come into my heart and save me and wash me from my sin. And I I know that's something I need to do. You know, I'd like to remember you in prayer. I it's not that that my prayers amount to that much. The Bible says the effectual forever righteous man availeth much, and I'm not uh saying I'm uh that kind, but I'll pray for you. How many to say, Brother Williams, pray for me? I'm not saved or I'm not sure. Just slip your hand up and then take it right back down. I'm not going to embarrass you, I'm not going to call you out or anything like that. How about it? I'm s I'm not saved or I'm not sure. Pray for me. Anyone like that quickly? All right. I wonder if there's some Christians here today that say, Brother Williams, you know, I need a Gil Gal in my life There's some things facing me. I I you know uh I I do. I need to stop at Gilgal and go through this thing, this list, get things straightened out so I can go to battle against the demons of my life Would you let me pray with you about it? Just slip your hand up all over the auditorium. How about that? Amen. God bless you. Heavenly Father, we pray that you'd uh take the message. Speak to our hearts and help us, Lord, to yield to you. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.