With me to the book of First Kings, chapter 17. First Kings, chapter 17. Very familiar passage of scripture. Of course, Elijah has uh uh uh confronted Ahab and and of course uh flee uh fled for his life uh to the brook of cherith. God sends him there. provides for him there. Aren't you glad wherever God sends, he provides? God will never send you anywhere that he will not meet the need that you have when you're there So many missionaries, I think, are people are afraid to surrender to missions. What am I going to do? How am I going to survive? What am I going to accomplish? That's the best place you can be. Because God will meet every need that you have, no matter what it is. And he did, as he demonstrates it here with Elijah. And then look at verse number 8. We'll start there for time's sake. It says, and the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, If you'll stand with me, please, I'm sorry, as I read the scripture. He says, Arise and get thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to Zidon, and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee. So he arose and went. Isn't that exciting? He called him to go. He didn't say, Well, I don't know about that place. How am I going to survive? This is a famine, a drought. And God says, I'll take care of you. And so by faith he went. And it says, and when he came to the gate of the city, behold, a widow woman was there gathering of sticks. And he called to her, and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water in a vessel that I may drink. And as she was going to fetch it, He called to her and said, Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in thine hand. And she said, As the Lord thy God liveth, I have not a cake but a handful of meal in a barrel, and a little oil in a cruise, and behold I am gathering two sticks that I may go in and dress it for me in my son, that we may eat it and die And Elijah said unto her, Fear not, go and do as thou hast said, but make me thereof a little cake first, and bring it unto me, and after make for thee and the fire for thy son For thus saith the Lord God of Israel, the barrel of meal shall not waste, neither shall the crews of oil fail until the day that the Lord sendeth rain Upon the earth. Let's pray, shall we? Our Father, I want to thank you again for this wonderful church. Thank you for the good spirit Thank you for the faithfulness of your people on a Friday evening. Lord, they've come to be encouraged. They've come to hear from you, Lord, not from this preacher And Lord, all I can do is but give what you've given to me. And so, Holy Spirit, I'm asking you tonight, right now, to Anoint each of us afresh. Use us tonight. Speak in us and through us. And then, Lord, let us be receptive, open to what you have to say to us. And Lord, we'll be thankful and praise you for all that you'll do. In Jesus' precious name we ask it. Amen. Thank you for standing, you may be seated. If I went around the building tonight, and I know that this is the faithful crowd, I'm sure, on a Friday evening to find you in church, you are faithful. If I went around the crowd tonight and talked about tithing, I don't think I would have too many people upset with me. Actually, tithing is what we're supposed to do, is it not? And in tithing, it shows that I'm an obedient Christian. That's all tithing does. If I'm faithful in my tithe, it shows that I'm obedient. And if I said, I know you're building a brand new building, a beautiful building out here. And so you've got special offerings coming in. And if you're involved in those offerings, giving above and beyond the tithe, that makes you a liberal Christian. By the way, there's nothing wrong with being a liberal Christian, used in the right context. All right? And we ought to be liberal. We ought to do that. When it comes to this matter of grace giving or faith promise giving, That's connected to prayer. And it's connected to faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. So tithing makes me obedient Offerings allow me to be liberal or demonstrates my liberality, how generous I am in what God has entrusted to me. And my grace giving or faith-promise giving demonstrates the amount of faith and trust that I have in the Lord Jesus Christ to continue to meet my needs. And so we want to be involved, I think, in all three. I want to be obedient. How about you? Good. Got some amen, so I'm glad. I want to be the right kind of liberal in my giving. But I also want to demonstrate that I have a great faith in a great God. So I want to be involved in it. And our story here, very familiar, and that this dear lady, as she was preparing to go and And make that one last meal for her son and for her, and then to just literally lay down and starve to death How involved she became in this pattern of faith-giving, trusting God And I want to share with you tonight just three or four things. We're not going to be here long. I know uh it's close to the hour that most of you are ready to go to bed. And I don't want to keep you from it. But here's the thing. First of all, I want you to notice her preparation for her giving. Look at verse number nine. He says, Arise, get thee to Zarephath, which is belongeth to Zidon, and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee I want you to realize that in the preparation, God had already put this person in place to take care of the servant of God. He had prepared her, and as he came, she was already out gathering sticks to make that meal that would prepare the cake that he needed to refresh himself She was preparing herself for what God had already called her to do. You know, I believe this. If God is preparing some to go, that means that He's preparing some also to give. Amen? Because those that are going, as we heard from the preacher tonight Require somebody to help them to get there. And that's our purpose. We need to be prepared what God would have us to do. And it's not a happenstance. You just don't sit down and say, well, out of my uh money that I have left over, this is what I'm going to give. It is out of what I have But I want to make sure that I'm prepared through prayer. Lord, what do you want me to give to missions this year? How can I be a blessing to my church for the cause of Christ throughout the world Preparing myself for what God wants me to do. It's not a figure I pull out of the air. It's not something that I feel like I can afford to give. Because God wants to test my faith. He wants to prove me. He wants to prove that he's able to do what he said he is. So see, he needs to prepare And that's exactly it. If some are prepared to go, and these folks are prepared to go to South Africa, they're prepared to go aboard those ships and win those people that'll be missionaries to go wherever they're going. We've got folks that are going to go and witness to Mormons, those folks that are lost and in need of it. And so all of this is so important. They're prepared to go. That means some of us are prepared to give. And we ought to be. Prepared through prayer. Through prayer. Prepare. Prepared. I got my nose fixed and my teeth don't work. But anyway. Prepared through trusting the Lord and seeking his direction in what he'd have. Then notice what was the purpose of her giving? Well, look at here, what it says So he arose and went to Zerpath, verse ten. And when he came to the gate of the city, behold, the widow woman was there, gathering of sticks, and he called to her, and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water and a vessel, that I may drink. And as she was going, he said, Bring me, I pray, thee, a morsel of bread in thine hand. In other words, the whole purpose of her giving was for one thing. That was to sustain the preacher. To meet his need, to allow him to accomplish what God had called him to do. That's what we're doing That's the whole purpose of what we're doing tonight. It's not so that you can put, although I'm not opposed to it, I'm excited about what you gave last year. That's wonderful and that's an encouragement. But it's just not so we can put a big number up on the wall and say, wow, look at us. No, it is to prepare so that these folks can accomplish What God wants to meet the needs of those that are going, to sustain them in the field that God has called them to do. Amen. Your tithe sustains this preacher It keeps him in what he needs to have and the church and all the things that it has to provide for you a place that you can meet and worship God. Amen. That's why you tithe. That's the purpose of the tithe, to take care of the daily administration of the temple. Offerings build buildings so that you can have a greater ministry. Your faith promise is to sustain those that are willing to go and to take your church To a different place and to present the gospel to a lost and dying world, to sustain them, to meet the need, each and every one of us. How many of you ate today? Almost every every hand went up, all right. Boy, I did too. And I'm gonna tell you, I'm loaded. I told my wife when we got ready to come tonight, I said, honey, I said, I don't know if I can preach. I you know you don't eat and preach, but I didn't eat anything after we left that restaurant. Well you don't have to hear what I said. Don't worry about it. Because I'm not talking to you. You go back to sleep Hey listen, I get sometimes excited and I'll hit the pulpit or I'll clap my hand and this thing will come up and say, Have you fallen? We're gonna call the ambulance. I have to tell it, no, I haven't fallen Stupid watch. She didn't hear what I said. Well listen a little better. I'll tell it again, okay. But the whole purpose I don't even know where I was now. Uh eating. Thank you, dear. Yes. We ate good today, and uh I told my wife, I said, I don't know if I can preach the worst thing you can do is eat before you preach. And uh And so anyway, but back where I'm at, it is to sustain us, amen. It is to sustain them on the field. They need to be well kept and well provided for to beat the ministry that God has called them to do. They have expenses just like you do. And the only way those expenses are covered is just by your faith giving. And then notice Not only the preparation of preparing herself and the purpose of it, but also notice the priority of her giving. Look at verse 13. And Elijah said unto her, Fear not, go and do as thou hast said, but make me therefore a little cake first, and bring it unto me, and after make for thee and for thy son. The priority. The priority was giving first of all to the Lord, giving it to the man of God, to the people that are working. serving God, to work and honor them. It is the priority. And it is life-saving faith. Soul-saving faith. Think of this. Had she not sustained his life, she would have not been able to sustain her life. Had she not provided for the work of God, for the man of God, she would have not been able to provide for her and her son. The priority. The Bible says that we're to seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. We are to honor him above all. We're to love him with all of our heart, with all of our soul, with all of our mind, with all of our strength. The priority is giving it to Him. I want you to take your Bibles and look at a couple of passages of Scripture. Turn with me, please, to Luke chapter 6. Probably we could quote this, but I just want us to see it. Luke chapter six, and look at verse number thirty-eight. Jesus is speaking. And notice what he says. He says, give, and what? It shall be given unto you. And how is it going to be given? Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, shall men give into your bosom, for with the same measure that ye meet withal, it shall be measured to you again. You see, when I am willing to put the priority on giving to the Lord my not only me. By the way The only way I can give to the Lord anything is that I first give him me. That's honored. Once I give him me, he has every bit of everything else I have. He owns it all. And so once I give, prioritize, give, then the Bible says, then it shall be given unto you. Good measure. Pressed down, shaken together. I have a coffee jar that we have at home. And it's my responsibility. I have a lot of responsibilities. And uh one of them is that I have to make coffee every night so it's ready when we wake up in the morning. Because without coffee, nothing moves So I uh I have this coffee jar and it's uh up in the cupboard and what I have to do at times is I have to refill it from the big coffee can that sits in the pantry And so when I get that coffee can out, I I take the spoon and I start filling it up. And when it gets to the top, I tap it on the counter, and then I shake it a little bit, and you know what? It's only about half full. So then I have to put a little more in. And then I do it again. And then it packs down. I constantly do it. Why? To get as much in there as I can possibly get. And it just keeps filling it up. Keeps filling it up. And God says, if I'm willing to give in the right spirit to him I want you to know, he says, he'll give it back. Good measure. Press down. Priority in my giving. I have a car sitting out here that has about 92,000 miles on it. You know, I still have the original tires. They've 92,000 miles on a set of tires. That's pretty good. I've never had the brakes changed. I shouldn't say that. Probably on the way home well. No. But you know why that is? It's because I've been faithful in giving to God. God takes that. God's not necessarily going to give me back my money and faith promise. But when I honor him, he honors me. He blesses me. Those tires are still running. That's a wonderful blessing right there. And that's what God does when we set the priority, her priority in her giving. was to the to the man of God, to God himself. And had she not sustained him, think about that. If she had not given him What he was asking for, and God had commanded her, remember God had already commanded this widow woman to take care of him And had she not taken care of the man of God, that barrel of oil of flour, meal, and that cruise of oil would not have been there constantly. It would have failed. She wouldn't have been able to sustain herself. Then notice the promise of her giving. Look at verse number 14. It says, For thus saith the Lord God of Israel, the barrel of meal shall not waste, neither shall the cruise of oil fail until the day that the Lord sendeth rain upon the earth. Now think about it. She goes to that barrel and she looks into the bottom of that barrel, and there's just maybe a handful of meal. And she looks over at Elijah. She says, Now God commanded me to take care of him. So I'm going to do what God has told me by faith. She reaches in, she gets that, she mixes it with the oil, puts it on the the the the grill, the fire, whatever, bakes those cakes, they eat. The next day she gets back into the kitchen. I can imagine that she kind of wonders about that barrel. She kind of wonders if there's going to be anything in that barrel. And she kind of probably walks over and hesitantly and maybe even unexpectedly. Looks down in that barrel and guess what? There's another little bit of oil, a little bit of flour. She gets it, she puts it in the bowl and takes that cruise and maybe a little bit again, wondering. She pours it out. And there's enough to make those cakes again. Maybe that goes on for three or four or five days, a week. I don't know. Every day a little hesitant, walking in and wondering, is it still going to be there? I mean she scraped it all out the day before. And every day there's enough meal and enough oil to sustain life for another day. I can imagine that after about a week and a half, maybe two weeks, she didn't have to wonder anymore. She just walked right in. Just grabbed that bucket. Just reached into it, cracked it together, made the case, and never thought one more thing of it. You see, she's faith began to get increased. God honored her faithfulness and her faith increased. You know the one thing that I love about faith promise, brother? You give it out of what you have. Whatever God lays on your heart. Oh, listen, listen, my wife and I have talked. I saw one time a big old Ford yellow pickup truck. All right, don't look that way. It was beautiful. And I said to my wife, you know what? If I didn't give my faith promise, I could buy that truck. My wife said, if you didn't give your faith promise, you wouldn't have the house you live in The fact is, God has honored us every day. He has blessed us above all that I can expect. You know why? I can remember we came back from Iceland and started attending a little fundamental Baptist church, got saved a few months later. And we heard a message on faith promise giving. And we'd already started tithing, and that was a big challenge for us because we didn't know that tithing thing. And so we heard a faith promise. And I looked at my wife and I said, wow. I don't know. We started at $5 a week. Well, with a lot of faith. Five bucks a week But you know what? God honored, God blessed. Wasn't long before the he added to it. Wasn't long before we added to it again. Before long, we were giving three times what our paycheck was. In faith promise giving. God honors faith. And you know what? As you can tell, I haven't missed a meal. God has blessed us God has blessed us. I have a dentist that I've got to go to next Wednesday. Oh, I hate dentists. But I like this guy. He's a Christian. And uh yeah, in fact, he's in the hometown that I used to pastor over in Mannington, West Virginia. And ever since I've been going to him, I've not paid one dental bill. He does our dental work, and when it comes time to go walk out, they say it's taken care of. You know what that is? Faith promise. That's God honoring it. Every day she went to that barrel, and every day there was another meal. God honored her faithfulness in doing what God commanded and told her to do. And every day she was sustained, her and her family. What she believed, her faith proved. I believe, she said, I think in her heart. That God said he he's gonna take care of me. He commanded me to take care of this man, and if I did he'd take care of me. I I believe it. Well her faith proved it because she did what was that. You know, all of us said, well, I believe God can take care of me. I believe God can meet my needs. Well do your does your faith prove it Does your faith back it up? Does your faith demonstrate that you have a a belief in a God that you know beyond the shadow of the doubt that can meet any need you have every day? Isn't it an exciting thing to serve a God who owns everything? Nothing is impossible for Him? And if you say that, yeah, I believe that, does your faith demonstrate it? Amen. We need to have a demonstrated faith. That's what she was doing. Then lastly, I want you to see the prophet of her giving. Look at verse number 15. So she went and did according to the saying of Elijah, and she and he and her house did eat many days. And the barrel of meal wasted not, neither did the cruise of oil fail, according to the word of the Lord, which he spake by Elijah, the prophet. Every day. Every day. God blessed. Take your Bibles and look over at the book of Philippians real fast. Philippians chapter 4. Look at verse number fourteen. It says, notwithstanding ye have well done, that ye did communicate with my affliction, Paul writes. Now ye Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel when I departed from Macedonia No church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only. Here's the poorest churches And yet they took care of Paul and the need that he had. For even in Thessalonica you sent once and again unto my necessity. Now why? Not because I desire a gift, but I desire fruit that may abound to your account. Let's say we give a hundred dollars to this dear couple to go reach Siemen. that are going to reach maybe others through their testimony as they're aboard ship. I'm going to give him a hundred dollars a month so he can go to South Africa and say and reach those little orphans that are perishing. And raise them up and train them up. And hopefully see some of them called into the ministry. I'm going to give $100 to the Howards to go and to reach those Mormons. That are out there in Utah. Hopefully, wouldn't it be exciting to see some of those m Mormons get saved and go to Bible college and learn the truth and then come back and start reaching their own people Every soul that they lead to the Lord is fruit to my account. Every soul, little orphan that he leads to the Lord, is going to be fruit to my account. Every Mormon is true to my account. One day I may never meet those semen. I may never meet those orphanages. Orphans, I may never meet those Mormons that are going to get saved, but one day on the streets of glory, hoo-hoo-hoo! What a day it's gonna be, brother. When those people come up in God, they will have an all-knowledge, all-knowing. And they're going to know the investment that I made in the one that came and gave them the truth. And I can only imagine how it's going to be for the first thousand of years when they come running up and say, Oh, Brother Moore, but listen, preacher, I'm glad you had this missions conference. Oh, Brother Dennis, thank you for letting these people come and helping them go to do the job. Because I'm here in heaven today. Well listen, you may not get excited. I get a little excited about that because one day it's going to be worth it all. Oh glory. What a day that will be. I can only imagine. That little lady right now is in heaven. And I think every day that she passes Elijah on the street, I think they have a shout's fit. I think they just love each other up there. Folks, let me tell you something. You can't outgive God. You ought to invest in your church. You ought to be faithful in your tithing. Yes? You ought to give it cheerfully. You ought to love it. When that offering plate comes, you ought to just smile And give with a joyful heart. You ought to give to that building. Boy, what a blessing that's going to be. I can't wait for you to get it. I hope you'll let me come back and have a meal in there. Well, it's going to be great and you oughta capture that vision of what it's going to mean to your church to have that activity center and fellowship hall. You ought to be willing to give a little bit to that. And you ought to do it with joy looking for what God can do through that building. But in this matter of faith, promise. Oh, we ought to say, oh God, help me to be generous. Help me to trust you. Help me to have faith. Help me to believe that what you've laid on my heart is what you want me to do, and then let my faith prove how much I trust you by being found faithful So what are you going to do this year for faith promise? You're going to be like this little widow lady whose life was almost coming to an end. But she believed God. She trusted. And her faith sustained her and her family. And God blessed along the way. Let's follow that pattern, shall we? Sunday, faith promise cards. Oh, I'm excited. I'm looking forward to it. What are we going to do for it? Father, oh, how I thank you for the privilege it is to have a part in your ministries. Lord, you could have taken us right to heaven when we got saved. You could have, Lord, done you you you you controlled everything. You could just open up the windows of heaven and pour out money to these missionaries But you've allowed us to have a part in that. You've allowed us to invest in eternal rewards through their going. Lord, I pray that you'd help us to be faithful. I pray, Lord, for this good church that has been so faithful for so many years. We've heard good reports from this church and they're giving it and their missions and their love for you. Lord, I pray that this year, whatever they've given in the past, they could say, Lord, can I trust you just for a little bit more this year? Can I give just a little bit more so that I can have a greater reward of souls when I walk the streets of glory someday? Lord help me and help us always to have a great faith in a great, faithful God. Lord, we'll thank you for all that you are. Bless the invitation. Help us maybe just to come and get alone with you at this altar and search your heart. Lord, what would you have me to do? How do you want me to do in this year ahead? And Lord, if there's one here tonight, I don't know the crowd. Lord, I wish I did. I wish I knew every person personally. I pray, God, that there's someone here tonight that's not saved, that doesn't know for sure heaven is their home. Lord tonight, would you just work in that heart, Holy Spirit? Would you let them know that the time's getting short? Urgency of the moment, and that they might trust you as Savior. Maybe there's someone here tonight that you've spoken to. You've tapped on their shoulder. You've said, I'm wanting you to surrender your life to go, to be a missionary in some area of the world. And tonight, I promise you, if you'll go, I'll take care of you. And maybe that life tonight would surrender for you. Lord, whatever you've done in the hearts of your people, help us to be found faithful. And we'll praise you for it. In Jesus' name, preacher. Let's stand together again with our hands.