Book of James, chapter one. And we're working our way through this book. I like the book of James. And uh we've got a number of folks that are working on Uh Dave, I put this mic on and alright, there we go. I think I'm working now. Alright. I have a number of folks that are working on memorizing the book of James, and that's a good thing. I attempted that many, many years ago. I got a portion of it memorized. And uh trying to refresh that effort. We're going to read verse 19 through 20, James chapter 1, verse 19 through 20. Have your place there. We're going to be looking at a number of verses tonight. So keep your Bibles handy. And I think it'll be very helpful. Very practical message, I believe, this evening. Verse 19. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear Slow to speak, slow to wrath. For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. Now, two verses are one segment. They go together, but I want to look at verse number 19 tonight, just that one verse. Be swift to hear, slow to speak And slow to wrath. Let's pray and ask the Lord to challenge us. Father in heaven, we come before you this evening with very grateful hearts. It was a good day And my heart is blessed and uh my heart is filled, and I pray now as we finish out the day, look at this verse and a few thoughts here, and we gather round the Lord's table and remember the price you paid for us. God, we anticipate your coming back. I ask, Lord, that you would help us. I pray, Lord, my prayer tonight, God, is that you would realign our thinking That our thinking would be lined up with your word, and we would think correctly. And because we think correctly, then Lord, you could enable us to live correctly. And we need your help for that. Fill me, I pray, with all my heart, with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew and pray you speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The Bible is a powerful, powerful book. If we allow it, if we allow this book, it will transform our lives and mold us into the image of Christ. And the way the Bible does that, as I mentioned in my prayer here a moment ago, the way the Bible changes us, the power of the Word of God is in how it changes our thinking. It changes our understanding of things. It changes our view of life. It changes the way we think. That is where the battle is, is in our minds. The Satan will try and get us to think incorrectly. He'll get us to make foolish decisions because of the way we're thinking. So the Bible is a powerful word, a powerful book. It changes our thinking and That in turn changes our living. It's exciting for me as pastor in all these many years, and many of you have seen the same thing in your own lives. A person comes and they accept Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. They got saved. And wasn't the testimonies tonight, doesn't that bless your heart? Just here, and scores and scores of people when and where they got saved. So a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, and then they begin reading the Word of God. They begin incorporating the Bible truths and principles into their lives. And you can stand back and you can just see God changing their life. You can see them starting to make decisions. That are in line with God's will, and you see uh you see to some degree the image of Christ being developed in their life And that is an exciting thing to see what the Bible is able to do. That's one of the reasons we emphasize so much around here the importance of reading your Bible every single day. Let God speak to your heart. Let God affect your thinking. Let God direct you and change you. And uh that's an exciting thing. Now we're studying the book of James. And we're working our way through here. And I believe the more I'm studying this book, the more I'm coming to a conclusion, one of the goals, one of the purposes of the book of James is to change our thinking. is to realign our thinking and thus change our living. It's a very practical book. Have you noticed that so far? He's not talking about great theological truths. He's not pre he's not presenting uh deep doctrinal uh teaching. The book of Romans does that, Colossians does that, Ephesians presents some tremendous doctrinal truths. Book of James doesn't do that so much, although there's no doubt there's some there, but it's very practical. James is teaching us how to live for God. He's teaching us how to deal with trials, how to deal with temptations. And then he gets, as we go through the book, he gets other areas. Very practical. Very practical book on Christian living. Now, one of the key indicators of my relationship with the Lord is my interaction with other people. We cannot separate I hope you'll get this. We cannot separate my relationship with the Lord from my relationship with other people. Do you get that? I had a fellow tell me years ago, he said, I love the Lord, but I can't stand people. You can't, that doesn't work That doesn't work. If we love God, we'll love God's people. And he says, what's the first commandment? Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, soul, mind, strength, body. And the second is like unto it, thou shalt what? Love thy neighbor as thyself. And so one of the indicators of my relationship with the Lord and First John chapter 1 touches this also. If I'm out of whack with my brothers and sisters, that's an indicator I'm out of whack with the Lord. And so James is addressing that. Now, look at verse number 19 with me. He says, wherefore My beloved brethren. Anytime the word wherefore or therefore, you gotta look and see what it's therefore And so he's saying, wherefore, because of what was said before, what has preceded, then the following things need to be true. So what preceded that in verse 17 and 18 He's addressing all that God has done for us. He says every good gift and every perfect gift is from above and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variabless Neither shadow of turning, of his own will, begat he us with the word of truth, that we might be a kind of first fruits of his creature. He says, because of that, wherefore, because those things are true And then he says, My beloved brethren. That's the third time he addresses the readers of this as beloved brethren. He is writing to Christians. And they are very dear to James. And he is writing, of course, under the inspiration of God to help us live for God. Would you agree with me? God has been awfully good to us. And every good gift and every perfect gift, as we just said, it comes down from the Father of lights. And God is good. And because God is good to us, We should be slow to speak, uh we should be swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to wrath. Wherefore, because of these things These things ought to be true. So, uh, and by the way, I notice in verse 19 there's a progressive nature here, I believe. Look at verse 19. Uh, wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear Slow to speak, slow to rap. I think there's a progression here. I think if I will learn to be swift to hear, Then that will in turn cause me to be slow to speak, which will in turn cause me to be slow to wrap. But if I'm not if I'm not willing to listen, I don't want to hear anything, I'm not willing to learn anything, and then I just run the mouth off, I'm gonna be blowing up at stuff. I'm going to have problems. So I think there's a progressive nature here. Now here's my outline. I'll run through the introduction there. I want to get to the outline. Very simple outline. I encourage you to jot these down. Because God has been good to us Because he's done all these things for us, number one. Now let's be real practical, right? And I hope right from the start we'll just decide, you know, I'm gonna do what this verse says. I'm going to incorporate this verse into my life. Here it is. Number one, we need to develop what I'm calling a quick ear A quick ear. Develop a quick ear. Look at verse 19. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be, read it with me, swift. To hear. I don't think you read it with me. Let's try it again. Ready? Let every man be swift to hear. Develop a quick ear. The word swift there has the idea of being very speedy. Instantly. I I haven't said much about this. I try to be humble, but uh when I was sixteen, my dad will uh testify to this, when I was sixteen, the very first car I bought was a Mustang sixty-nine Mustang Mach one. I know it And uh that thing was 351, that thing was nice, and uh and uh uh uh you know other guys would sometimes race their cars on the streets. I never did that But um other guys did that a little bit. You know what I found out? That Mustang was very quick. Uh out of the hole. It was man boom run. But once you're up and running, my friend Denny Swirley, I mentioned this morning, he had a GTO And he had 1970 GTO, it was like a 400 engine. That thing weighed so much. He wasn't very quick out of the hole. But once we got up and running, guess what would happen? He was faster than mine on the r on the run, but mine was quicker than his. And I was a better driver and everything. But um uh And so anyway, that thing was quick. Man, they dropped their arms and boom we were up out of that hole. I was up and gone. I was a car length ahead of them right away. That's the idea here. I'm gonna tell you how cool I was, one thing. And the other thing I want to illustrate what this word here means. It means very quick. Let every man be swift to hear, speedy, quick There's something to learn. Boom. It's right there. I want to learn that. Then the word here. Let every man be swift to hear. The word swift is quick, speedy. The word hear means not just to hear sounds. But there's much more to it than that. It has the idea of listening with attention. Listening with attention. Eight times, eight times, Jesus said Let him that hath an ear, let him hear. Jesus said that eight times to his disciples. You know what he was saying? He was saying, don't just hear sounds. Listen. Pay attention to what's being said. And that's what this verse is saying. God's been awfully good to us. He's saved our souls. He's given us new life. And because of that, we ought to be very, very quick, very, very quick to pay attention. To what God has to say to us. In other words, he's saying here, they may be swift to hear, he's saying, don't just hear the words But listen to what's being said. I've been preaching a long time now. I don't know how many thousands message preached And uh, you know, and no doubt I've been guilty of this also in listening to others speak, but sometimes I'm just hearing words, and other times I'm hearing what's being said. You know what I'm talking about When the Holy Spirit of God begins convicting my heart, when the Holy Spirit of God starts taking the Word of God and speaking to my heart, boy, I'll tell you what, I start hearing what's being said. And that's what he's saying here. Be swift for that. And so I think he's primarily talking about listening to the Lord, hearing to what God. Be very quick to hear what God has to say. But I'll tell you, there's a principle here that applies. uh uh uh uh between people also. Dale Carnegie, who I don't know what kind of spirituality he was, but he was somewhat of an expert on interpersonal relationships And he said this, and I agree with this. He said, we'll uh a person, he said, you will make more friends in two weeks by simply listening to people Then you will in two years trying to convince people how great a person you are. Did you get that? You make more friends in two weeks just listening to them, listening to what they have to say, paying attention, than you will in two years trying to convince that person what a great person you are, selling yourself. There was a couple that was uh in a church and they were discussing marriage and marriage counseling, and the wife said, My husband and I, we never need marriage counseling. He took communication. He was a communications major in college, and I majored in drama. So he is he is very good at communicating, and I'm very good at acting like I'm listening. Well it seems to work for them, I guess. Have you ever talked to somebody? Have you ever been in a conversation with someone? And you're not really listening to what they're saying. You're thinking about what you're going to say next. Anyone know what I'm talking about? And I I'm not even paying attention. He's saying don't do that Be swift to hear. Be listen to what's being said. I was reading about a fella, Eric Weinenmeyer. This guy, I'm uh I've never heard of him until I read about him. Uh but this guy is an amazing guy. In May twenty on May twenty-fifth, two thousand one Eric Weinheimer Weinmeier reached the summit of Mount Everest. May of twenty-fifth of two thousand one. The statistics tell us that ninety percent of people who attempt to climb Mount Everest, ninety percent fail in the attempt to climb the mountain. Ninety percent failure rate. One hundred and sixty-five people have died Attempting to climb Mount Everest since 1953. So the fact that Eric Weinmeyer Accomplished this goal and got to the summit of Mount Everest is an amazing thing. But I'll tell you what's even more amazing. Eric Weinmeyer is completely deaf No, I'm sorry. I'm blowing this little thing. He's not completely deaf. He's completely blind. He's completely blind. And he climbed the Everest, the summit of Mount Everest, 90% failure rate, 163 people died in the temptation. He made it completely blind. You know how he did it? He was blind since he was 13 He was able to accomplish this feat because he listens well. What they did was they tied a bell to the back of the climber in front of him. Of course, they're roped together And he would listen to that bell as they're climbing up there. And he would know what direction they were going. He listened for instructions from the teammates who would shout directions out to him And he would also listen to the sound of his pick jabbing in the ice. And he was able to determine by the sound of the pick hitting the ice whether that was solid ice or whether it was soft. And he was able to determine where to step simply because he was very good at listening, not just hearing sounds. But interpreting what he heard, understanding what he heard, what it meant, and he was able to do something that very, very few people have been able to do that could see. Now, what I'm suggesting to you, and what I believe this verse is teaching us here, if we will be quick to hear, if we will listen to what God has to say to us, And what people around us are saying, we will grow spiritually and we can develop ourselves and be much stronger Christians. He says, wherefore, my beloved brethren, be swift to hear. So number one, we need to develop a quick ear Work at listening, hearing, understanding what's being said. Number two, jot this down. We need to develop a controlled tongue. Let every man be swift to hear and slow to what? Speak. Swift to hear. And by the way, I'm convinced, and and and let me say this, as I prepared this message, this is one of the this was convicting to me. And I wish I could stand up here and say, listen, folks, I've achieved this. I am the motto example of what this verse is teaching. I can't say that. But I can say this: God's dealing in my life, and I trust in yours also. And if we can get to the point where we are quick to hear, listen carefully, what God's saying to me, how God's using people in my life, if I'll be quick to do that, I'll be a whole lot Easier to be to develop a controlled tongue, slow to speak. The word slow there has the idea, this is interesting. The word slow there has the idea of being very dull. Also has the idea of being numb. Do you ever go to the dentist and he numbs your tooth and it gets over in your tongue and your cheek? And uh that's the idea here, uh to be numb, be slow to speak, be numb or dull in giving the speak. The word speak simply means to say words. The idea here is this, and this is the my definition of what saying as I looked how it was used, different things, I I come to this word picture in my mind tie a weight to your tongue so that it can't get loose. Just weigh it back. Remember those old pictures of the prisoners? They had the ball and chain tied to their legs. Remember that they take the work crew out. Man, those guys couldn't run off. Uh they had to carry that thing around. Boy, it slowed them down. And uh if they were going to go somewhere, they'd have to go very deliberately. Pick that thing up or drag it and carry it with them. That's the idea behind this word. Be slow to speak. Put some weights on your tongue. Tie a ball and chain to it. Don't let that thing get loose Again, being swift to hear, I believe, will enable me to be slower in my speech, being not so quick. to say a word, not so quick to speak my mind. I think he's telling us here that we ought to listen before we speak. Ought to listen before we speak. And I think he's also saying here we ought to listen more than we speak. I want you to, when you go home tonight, I want you to go in the bathroom and I want you to look in the mirror. And I want you to get a notepaper out and take note how many ears you have and how many tongues you have And write that down. You know what you're going to find out? You've got twice as many ears as you've got tongues. I wonder if the Lord isn't trying to tell us something. That maybe we ought to do more listening than we do speaking. Can I get a witness? Maybe the Lord's saying here, maybe just in the design of our body, he's saying, Be swift to hear. And slow to speak. Alright, here's what I want. I wanted to let the Word of God speak to us. Alright? So take your Bibles, go to Proverbs. We're going to go down a list of verses here We're going to hold slew in Proverbs and Ecclesiastes. Then we're going to look at one passage in Matthew. So come back to Proverbs. We're going to start out in chapter 10. Now I'm just taking a sampling. of the verses that address this. But as I got looking at these and cross-referencing different passages, I thought, good night, I think we'll just go through and let the Bible speak for itself here. Matthew, or I'm sorry, Proverbs chapter 10. And look with me, if you will, at verse number 19. Proverbs 10, verse 19. Now notice what it says. In the multitude of words there wanteth not what? Sin. But he that restraineth, he that refraineth his lips is wise. You notice what he's saying? You know what he's saying here? That word refrain means to hold back. It's kind of like a dog trying to pull you. You're holding that thing back. You're refraining that thing. He's saying the person that is able to control their tongue, the person able to hold those words back, that person's wise. But the person that just spillet them out, multitudes, and that you know, that's just unnumberable, just pouring out. That person that wanteth not sin. Come over to chapter 17 And again, there's just so many passages. And it's interesting, in the book of Proverbs, he's addressing primarily wisdom, how closely wisdom and the tongue is related. Uh Proverbs chapter 17, verse number 27. He that hath knowledge, what's he do? Spareth is words. I got looking up that word spareth. It means to refrain or to keep in check. He that hath knowledge spareth his words. In other words, he's slow to speak. And a man of understanding is of excellent spirit. Look at verse 28. Even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, restrains his speaking, holdeth his peace, is counted wise, and he that shutteth his lips is esteemed a man of understanding. Now that's an interesting verse. What's he saying there? He's saying even somebody that's foolish, if they'll just keep their mouth shut, people think they're smart. Even a guy doesn't know a thing, but he doesn't say a word. Wow, that guy's smart And uh like what one preacher said, he said he was flying somewhere and there was a guy beside him, some genius, physicist, uh something And uh they got talking and he he says, You're a physicist, yeah. He says, uh, what do you exactly do? And he started going off on this and he gave him some of this big long theory and formula And um preacher's lesson had no clue what he was talking about. And finally the preacher said uh the physicist said, Well what do you think of that? He goes, Well, I like the good and I don't like the bad And he goes, man, you're a smart man. You understand what I'm talking about. And uh, you know, he just didn't say much. And uh the guy thought he was smart. So, um even a fool when he holdeth his peace is counted wise. Come over to Proverbs 29. And verse number twenty. Proverbs twenty nine and verse number twenty. Seeest thou a man that is hasty in his words? That word hasty is interesting. I got looking that up. It means quick. It's very similar to the word we saw swift to hear. It means quick, but it also means rapid. The definitions I was looking at used, I got the impression of a machine gun. Da da da da da. Just flying a mail. Seeest thou a man that is hasty in his words? There's more hope of a fool than of him. Now what's he saying? He's saying, be slow to speak He's slow to speak. Chapter 31. Proverbs, chapter 31. Of course, this is the virtuous woman. And uh verse number 26, Proverbs 31 and verse number 26. It says, She openeth her mouth with what? Wisdom. And in her tongue is the law of kindness. She openeth her mouth with wisdom. The idea here is this. She weighs her words very carefully. Isn't it throw them out there? She stops and thinks it through. She's very wisely choosing what words to say and how many to use. In other words, she's being slow to speak. She's thinking it through. Come over, if you would, to Ecclesiastes. I was surprised how much Ecclesiastes addresses this subject. Ecclesiastes chapter 5, verse number 2. Right after Proverbs, you run into Ecclesiastes, chapter 5, verse number 2 and 3. Look at this. Be not rash with thy mouth. I put in the margin of my Bible, be slow to speak. And let not thine heart be hasty to utter anything before God. For God is in heaven and thou upon earth. Therefore, let thy words be few. For a dream cometh through the multitude of business. Look at this. And a fool's voice is known by multitude of words. I put in the margin of my Bible, be slow to speak. Be slow to speak. Swift to hear, slow to speak. Come over to Ecclesiastes chapter 10. One more here in the Old Testament, Ecclesiastes chapter 10. And like I said, there are just scores and scores of passages that address this. Ecclesiastes chapter 10 and verse number 12. The words of a wise man, the words of a wise man's mouth are gracious. But the lips of a fool will swallow up himself. The word gracious there means, this is interesting, has the idea of being very elegant. The words of a wise man, a wise man's mouth are very elegant. And the the thought behind that elegant means they're very playing very carefully put in just the right place. Did you ever go visit someone's house and boy that house is just elegant. Everything is just in its place. Everything is just beautifully matched and lined up and uh and all that. That's the idea here The words of a wise man's mouth are very gracious. He puts them just in place, just carefully in place, so that it's a blessing to people. So it's gracious to people and it ministers grace to the hearers. Now, one more, if you come to Matthew. Now this one's sobering, to be honest with you. This one challenges us. Matthew chapter 12. Matthew chapter twelve. Jesus is speaking here in verse number thirty-six The previous passage he's addressing the heart of man, and the heart and the tongue are very closely connected. And he says in verse 36, but I say unto you, look at this, that every idle word that men shall speak, look at this. They shall give an account thereof in the day of judgment. For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned. I put in the margin of my Bible, words are very important. He says, every idle word. That word idol is translated some places lazy. Lazy. Now what happens? If somebody's lazy, what does that mean? It means they don't put any effort in, right? They don't put any effort into something. They're just lazy. They just let it happen And he says here, an idle word is a lazy word. In other words, they're unthinking. They're just too lazy to limit and be careful what words come out of their mouth. They don't put any effort Into refraining their words. They don't put any effort into thinking about what they're saying and how it will impact and the results of it. Now we come back to James, eventually we're going to get to chapter 3, Lord willing. And in chapter 3, James goes to great length in addressing the importance and the power and the significance of the tongue. But here in chapter 1, verse 19, he says, let every man be swift to hear, be ready, out of the hole, ready here, I'm ready to listen. I want to learn, I want to understand. Let them be slow to speak, but we'll put a ball and chain on that tongue. Slow that thing down. Bring it back. Be a little more careful about it. And so number one, be quick uh develop a quick ear. Number two, develop a controlled tongue And number three, last of all I put this, develop a calm temper. Calm temper. Again, I think there's a progression here If I can discipline myself and develop the ability to be quick to listen, to hear what God is saying, what people are saying. And then tie a bow and chain to my tongue and develop a very controlled tongue. Control that muscle in my mouth. It's going to be a whole lot easier to develop a calmed temper. How many folks here would testify your words have gotten you in trouble at some point? Anybody here? And uh Uh how many folks here, now this is getting a little personal, so, but uh how many folks here would say, you know, it was something someone said that really set me off? Huh? Uh sometimes we get in an argument. We don't even remember what the argument was about. We're just mad because of what they said about whatever it was we started arguing about If I can just slow down a little bit, be swift to hear, develop a quick ear, develop a controlled tongue, I might not have to deal with that temper so much, that wrath. Let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to wrath. Again, the word slow is the exact same word with the tongue. Has the idea of being numb, dull, unresponsive, weighted down The good thing, and the word wrath there is simply anger, heated anger, it's uh uh my understanding is this, and this is kind of my definition, but my understanding that the difference between anger and wrath, wrath is when anger starts to act. As I get angry, and then I act on that anger, then it becomes wrath when there's action put to my anger. And he says, be slow to do that, be numb. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we could have some sort of anesthetic to put on our anger? And that thing just gets numb. Doesn't matter what anybody does, doesn't matter what situation is, don't matter. I'm just numb to it. I don't get angry. I don't react that way That's what he's saying. You've got to develop that. Calm that temper down. Calm that thing down. We won't go to these verses. Let me just share them with you. And again, there's a score of verses just Dozens and dozens, maybe hundreds, addressing this. Proverbs 14, 17, he that is soon angry dealeth foolishly. Anybody here get angry and do something stupid? About three of us are honest. Proverbs 14, 29 says, He that is slow to wrath is of great understanding. Proverbs 16, 32, he that is slow to anger is better than the mighty. Some big old lummox. And that guy can't control his temper and he blows up over every little thing. And you got some little pit squeak, weighs ninety-five pounds, but he's able to control his anger My Bible says that he's better than the mighty guy. He can accomplish more. He can get more done. Ecclesiastes 7 and verse 8. uh says uh addresses the matter of anger. Look with me if you would over to Ephesians chapter 4. Two other passages I want to go in and then we'll quit the message. Ephesians chapter 4 Now, this is familiar passage for many of us I found sometimes the Word of God can deal with the heart far better than anything I can say. Sometimes just seeing the verse does more work in our hearts. and anything the illustration the preacher can give. Ephesians chapter 4, and look with me if you will at verse 31. Now notice the wording here very carefully. And we've we've addressed this before Look at verse 30. And grieve not at the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed until the day of redemption. Now look very carefully at the wording of verse 31. Let, what's that next word? All. I circled that in my Bible. Let all Bitterness and what? Wrath and anger. And it goes down clamor, evil speaking. But what are we supposed to do? All of this? What are we supposed to do with it? Put away from you. Put it away from you. Put it away from you. Then he goes on, be kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. You know what he's saying? He's taking it to another level here. He's saying not just be slow to wrath. He's putting it completely out. Just put it up, put it all away. Put it all away. Come over to Colossians chapter 3 and verse 8. Notice again what he says here. And again, notice the wording very carefully. But now ye also. Put off. Ephesians said put away. Colossians says put it off. What's that next word? After put off, what's the next word? All That means everything. There's no exclusions here. There's no no exemptions. Put off all these. Look at the first one. Anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth. Lie not one to another. He says, put that all of that off. Put all of that off. So God's been awfully good to us, huh? Every good gift and every perfect gift cometh down from the Father lights. There's no variability of shadow turning. Of his own will. He begat us. He gave us eternal life. That we should be a kind of first fruits. Wherefore My beloved brethren, let us be quick to hear. Let's develop a quick ear. Slow to speak. Let's control that tongue. And slow to wrath. Let's calm that temper down. It's interesting as I was studying this, and the word anger and wrath, it came up over and over again, particularly in the Old Testament. It pointed out and emphasized, the Bible emphasized the fact that God is very slow to wrath. He's of great patience. He's long-suffering, slow to wrath. It repeats it over and over through the Psalms, Isaiah, back in the first second Samuel, slow to wrath. Slow to wrath. I think uh Deuteronomy addresses a number of times. Slow to wrath. God is slow to wrath. I am glad God doesn't get angry at me very quickly. Amen. It's very slow. And that tells me something. When I do what James 1, verse 19 says, be slow to wrath, I am being godly. I'm being like God when I'm very slow to wrath, and I put that off. Um being slow to wrath is being godly. So tonight we're going to Lord's Supper. I don't know about you, as I studied this, the Lord dealt with my heart. I really, really, I'm I'm just being honest with you, I really, really need to work on developing a quick ear. I need to be more sensitive to what God is speaking to me. I need to listen to what people say to me. I need to really work on being uh uh uh having a controlled tongue. Just being careful, putting a weight bone chain on that thing. And I need to work on calming that temper down Now I have a sneaking suspicion, maybe maybe I am the only one, but I have a sneaking suspicion there's other folks in this church have the same situation I'm in. Amen. And we go to the Lord's Supper, we're going to stop and we're going to consider the price that Jesus Christ paid for us. The horrendous price. Broken body and that shed blood. Let's stop and say, Lord, these old ears sure do sin a lot in not listening to you. This tongue sure sins a lot. Just running off. This old temper You paid a heavy price for that, Lord. And I just want to stop and I just want to confess that. I want to forsake that. I want God to change me. And maybe there's a lot of other folks like that too. Some of us maybe we just need to ask God to change our character. Let's pray. Father in heaven. This is a challenging passage, Lord, at least for me. I believe maybe many others. We come and tonight, we stop and consider the crucifixion of your son What you did for us, you're so good. I pray you'd help us to incorporate these truths in our lives, change our thinking, change our nature, our character. So that we would be swift to hear and slow to speak and slow to wrath. And we could be a testimony of what you are like to this old sinful world. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, I I join in with you. I feel the same way you do. I need God to help me in these areas and change it and develop me. Any like that uplifted hand? Now let's take advantage of an old-fashioned order and just ask God to help us. Maybe we need got some sin we need to confess, forsake. Maybe there's some things said, maybe we didn't listen too well. Maybe we ran our mouth, got angry, maybe we need to address that. And confess that and forsake it, claim God's forgiveness. I believe we need to definitely ask God to help us in the coming days. Father, bless now our invitation as we come to the Lord's Supper. Search us, Lord, try us. See if there be any wicked way in us, and then help us to humble ourselves, confess our sin, and forsake it. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.