Turn in your Bibles there. First Samuel twenty-one. We're studying the life of David. He is the second king of the nation of Israel, the first king being who? King Saul was the first king. God really um God really did not want Israel to have a king. He wanted to be their king. He wanted them to just trust him and keep his law and his instructions and follow his leadership. But the people like us today, they wanted to be like all the other nations around them. They had kings and we want a king too And so they fussed a little bit and finally God gave them what they wanted. You know, it's not always best to get what we want. Anyone ever find that out Sometimes God gives us what we want and then it sends leanness to our souls, what Psalm says. And so King Saul was God says, all right, you want a king, and so he gave him King Saul And uh and that didn't work out too good. King Saul got proud and he got abusive and um uh David came along. They're facing uh just a recap a little bit for some folks coming in on the middle of this. Uh they were the nation of Israel under King Saul's leadership. Of course they had enemies, as most nations do to some extent, more so maybe back then And uh the Philistines were their enemies. Well the Philistines came out against uh Israel, as they often did. This time they had a champion. Their champion's name was what? Goliath. Goliath comes out and he says, uh you send someone out and uh if he kills me then we'll surrender to you. If I kill him then you have to surrender to us. And uh nation King Saul and his military, they're trembling, they're scared to death, they're cowering, uh, they're afraid to go out. I'm gonna turn this mic on, Dave, so be ready There it is. And uh so finally David just uh David's uh just a young boy and his dad sends him to the to the front there to the where the battle's supposed to be taking place He sent make some cheese and snacks and stuff for his brothers who are in the military. And he sees Goliath out there blaspheme God. And so David says, What's the deal here? This is the Dennis Leatherman, the DLV And David says, uh, what's the deal? Uh why are you guys letting this guy blaspheme God and talk like this? Somebody go out and kill that guy. God can deal with this guy. And uh so as you know the story, David finally says, All right, I'll go out there. Saul gives him his armor and he says, that stuff doesn't fit, so he took the only weapon David knew, really, one of the only ones, a sling He goes running out there in the name of the Lord, complete faith in God, zing! That stone hits the hits Goliath in the forehead. He drops down, knocks him out. David picks up Goliath's sword and off with the head. And of course the place erupted and the Israelites go chasing out after the Philistines and destroy them. Well, they come back to the city. And uh everybody knows what David did. He's unheard of before. Nobody heard of this guy. Now he's he killed the champion of the Philistines. He's a national hero. He's a military hero And everybody's cheering and the ladies are singing this infamous song now. Saul has slain his thousands. Saul's the king. And David is what? Ten thousands. And Saul hears that, and brother, that gets under his skin. Why are they attributing to this young upstart? Ten thousands and only thousands to me. So Saul, he's not in fellowship with the Lord. He's uh very backslidden to put it lightly. And um he gets jealous and he starts pursuing David David ends up marrying his daughter, the daughter of the king, and uh the and actually through a series of events, David ends up being a high official in the administration of King Saul. But now Saul's pursuing him, David's on the run. Now last week we noted that David was fleeing now. He's going to have to get out of town because Saul's attempted to kill him numerous times and And now he's tried to kill his son Jonathan. And so David realized I can't hang around here anymore. I've got to get out of town. He goes to Little Town of Nob If you notice there in the first part of this chapter, he gets there. And Nob was a city of priests. And the priest comes out, Ahimelech. And Ahimelech is very disturbed that David shows up. And normally somebody of David's rank that high in the administration That high of an official wouldn't just show up out of the blue. There'd be uh there would be um uh advanced men would come and let 'em know David's coming. He would have an entourage with him. David doesn't have any of that because he's running for his life And uh Ahimelech's very disturbed. And why are you by yourself? Why are you coming this way? He's asking all these questions. David lies. And he says, well, I got a secret mission I'm on. King sent me on. And he says, okay. Now that's where we're picking up, if you would notice, in verse number eight. And David said unto Ahimelech, and is there not here under thine hand spear or sword? For I have neither brought my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king's business required haste. By the way, that's not a justification for speeding. I tried that, the policeman didn't buy it. And the priest said, The sword of Goliath, the Philistine, whom thou slewest in the valley of Elah, behold, it is here, wrapped in a cloth. behind the ephod. If thou wilt take that, take it, for there is no other save that here. And David said, There is none like that. Give it me. Now I'll be honest with you, I was going to jump ahead to verse 10 and pick up the next chapter in David's life as he uh goes, but I got looking at these last two verses. I was just going to touch on them But I got looking at them since last Wednesday, and I want to zero in. And tonight I'd like to speak about the sword of Goliath. That sword of Goliath. And we'll look at this. Let's pray. Father We now uh pick up this uh record of David's flight from Saul, and uh there's a lot here, I believe. I don't want to read into it, Lord. I do want to learn from it, and so I ask that you would teach us through your Holy Spirit what the lessons are for us in these couple short verses I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me. I yield my will and present my body anew that you would use me to speak our hearts. And I pray that our faith in you would grow. I pray you'd help us not to put faith in things, but put faith in you, the living and true God. And so help us, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I enjoy getting to know David a little better. Sometimes I'm overwhelmingly impressed with them. Other times I'm incredibly disappointed in David. There's a little mix of that here. And one thing I'm picking up about David, I believe David was a man of deliberation. Now, what do I mean by that? I think David was a man who thought things through I think David, I don't think, I don't see David acting spontaneously or um what's the word I want? Impulsively. I don't see David acting impulsively, with the exception of maybe two times. One when he was on top of his palace. We'll study this later on. He's on top of his palace. He sees a beautiful woman bathing herself. I don't think he thought that through. And he reacted. Later on he uh numbers the the uh he numbers the um uh the the military, numbers the men, and God told him not to, and I think he didn't think that through But generally and overwhelming majority of the time, David is going to act very deliberately. He's not going to be impulsive in his actions. He's thinking things through. He's planning ahead. He knows what he's going to do. He anticipates things. Can you think of anybody, any people in the Bible who acted very impulsively? One comes to mind immediately. Peter. Peter acted impulsively over and over. That's what got him in trouble. He would just react and he didn't think. Can you think of anyone else in the Bible? I got one I think that was pretty impulsive, an Old Testament character. Anybody? Huh? Eve? Yeah, I didn't think of Eve. Women tend to be impulsive. But um uh I'm sorry. Did I say that rats? There's another fella that got made a mess of things. What about Samson? He'd see a woman and man he wouldn't even think and boom he's off. And he'd do something. There's a party or whatever and he would just uh how many people here ever got in trouble for doing uh doing something without thinking it through first. Yeah. Impulsive. I think some of us are experts on that. I don't see David doing that too much. For instance, when Goliath was out there and he showed up, you say, well, he just trusted God and went out. He didn't really think about it. No, I think David thought that through quite a bit. What he did was he recalled back to an event earlier in his life when he was watching the sheep and a bear and a lion came and took the sheep and he killed the bear and he killed the lion And so when Goliath now is out there, he's showing up with the snacks for his brothers, and it's like, whoa, what's going on? And he thinks this thing through and says, wait a minute, God help enabled me to kill a bear and a lion. He can take care of this guy And so I see in David a man of tremendous deliberation that does what he does deliberately on purpose. He thinks it through. Now he's not always right Um not everything he thought through and carried out was correct. He made some mistakes. We're seeing that here, and we're going to continue to see that. But he's a man of deliberation. Now I said all that to say this. And I didn't really think about that until I got looking at Goliath's sword. When David left Jonathan and Saul, he got out of town. He went to this city, this little town of Nob, N-O-B, was the name of the town. It was a city of priests. The tabernacle was there. Now, at first I didn't really give it much thought as to why he went there. I just thought, well, it's close, it's only five, six miles away. He just happened to go there And I got looking at this, and I'm not so convinced this was just an arbitrary place he happened to show up at In fact, the more I studied it, the more convinced I became David went to Nob on purpose. There was something he was after. He was thinking this through. He was he was on a mission. In fact, that's my first point. I got three thoughts in these two verses here tonight. And my first one is this. I want us to consider David's aim. Or what I mean by that is his objective In going to Nob. Now, we didn't read ahead. Now, let's read ahead here a little bit. Let's go to verse number 10. And we'll pick this up probably next week. But look, it says, and David arose and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to Akish, the king of Gath. Now let me see if anybody can tell me. What do you know about Gath? Gath had a very famous citizen, Goliath. It's a Philistine city and it is the home of Goliath. Now, is it just a coincidence that David shows up just arbitrarily shows up in this little town? knob where the tabernacle just happens to be, and where Goliath's sword just happens to be in the tabernacle. just the day or two before he goes to Goliath's hometown? I think, now this is speculation on my part, alright? I'll give you that. But I think David uh was planning on going to Gath. I think he had a plan in place. He anticipated some things. And In part of that plan was stopping at Nob, going to the tabernacle, and getting Goliath's sword before he goes to Goliath's hometown. Um that sword, Goliath's sword, was a national treasure. Think about that That is like that is like getting uh that is like getting Russia's nuclear weapons and bringing them back and we've completely We've completely neutralized Russia or China or whoever the enemy happens to be at that time. Iran. And we bring them back, and we got their most powerful weapon and we've got it here in our possession. Everybody knew about Goliath sword. Everybody was amazed at what God had done. It was a miraculous event. And there is no doubt in my mind, I know I am certain David knew that that sword was in the tabernacle. You know how he knew it was in the tabernacle? He gave it to the priests. David, remember when he killed Goliath, he pulled the Goliath's sword out of its sheath and he cut Goliath's head off with it. I don't know if it was in one whack or if he had a whack away on that or what. But whatever the case is, that sword was David's. And he had turned it over to the priests, and there is no way in the world, in my thinking, that David did not know that that sword was there. And he was going for that sword. Now, he's not thinking correctly, I don't believe, but he is thinking. He went to Nob to get Goliath's sword. Now, as I said, that sword was rightly David's. He could have kept that. He didn't have to turn that in. That was a spoil of war. And he could have kept it, and the Bible implies that he kept Goliath's armor, Goliath's other armor, he kept that for himself, but he turned the sword over, and now he's coming back for that sword. Here's my question, why? Why did he want that sort? If I'm correct in my assumption that that's what he's after. Why did he want it? I put a few thoughts down, and again, this is a lot of speculation here. But I wonder if maybe he wasn't wanting that dead giant sword, if he wasn't wanting that, to establish respect with the people of Goliath's hometown. Now we know he was their champion because we're told that back in chapter 17. This is the champion of the Philistines. So they thought the world of Goliath He was the hero. He was the one that's going to defeat their enemies. Everything. And this little kid comes out of the hills. This little shepherd boy comes out of the hills with a sling of all things, beams him in the head, then uses his own sword to chop his head off. And now this kid is now a high administrator in the administration. He's a high official in the administration of King Saul, and he comes walking into Goliath's hometown, slinging that sword around. I'm wondering if he isn't trying to establish some respect for when he shows up. He's got in his mind that when I get to Goliath's hometown Goliath is their champion, and I come walking in with this sword. I wonder if he didn't anticipate a response on their part. I don't know. Again, this is total speculation, so bear with me. I wonder if he didn't think walking in there that when they saw him with Goliath's sword, they knew who David was They knew what that sword was. They knew what he had done, how he got that sword. They knew all about that. If he walked in, I wonder if he didn't think that whole town would cower in fear. And say, oh no, David's here. He's the guy that killed Goliath and he's got his sword of all things. Do what he wants. Give him what he says. Listen, whatever he wants, you do it. Don't you I wonder if he didn't anticipate that Now we're gonna find out it it didn't work out that way. But I'm wondering if maybe that wasn't what he was thinking Maybe he was thinking that, uh, since their champion is gone, David walks in, he's defecting from Israel. Maybe they'll hold David up as their champion. And maybe they'll put David in Goliath's place and say, you know, here's the guy that killed Goliath. We're going to make him our champion. I don't know. Maybe he thought if he showed up and they're knowing he's defecting that maybe they would ally themselves with ki uh with David against King Saul. I don't know, this is total speculation, but maybe he was thinking that they will fight Saul and David doesn't have to, and he doesn't have to touch God's anointed. I don't know what his motives were. I don't even know if my assumptions are correct. But he comes to get that sword. He heads to Goliath's hometown with Goliath's sword. So maybe he's trying to establish respect with them when he gets there, and somehow that would be in his favor. I do know this. That sword, I know this. That sword could have been and should have been a powerful reminder to David of a past victory. I think David is forgetting something. God protected him When the odds were so much against him, and God came through and used him to defeat Goliath And that sword could have been a powerful reminder, what I did for you back then, I can and will do for you now. I took care of you before. There's no reason for you to be running. There's no reason for you to worry. I can take care of you now. And what happens is we get in a lot of trouble and we mess up when we forget how good God has been yesterday and we start worrying and scheming and taking things into our own hands. for tomorrow, right or wrong. In fact, that was Israel's problem. You read through the Psalms over and over. God says, you forgot. You forgot. You forgot. And when David got that sword of of uh of Goliath, that sh could have been a very, very powerful reminder to him to what God did for him in the past. In fact, God emphasizes in the Bible, we need to remember past victories. We need to remember past blessings. Take your Bible, if you would. Now keep your place here. Turn with me to Deuteronomy Chapter number four. Now remember, Deuteronomy is the kind of a sermon that Moses is speaking to the nation of Israel just before he dies. They've come out of Egypt God's given them his law and their ceremonies and all the information they need. They're a powerful nation now. And Moses is kind of recapping What God had told them, and he makes an interesting statement in Deuteronomy chapter 4, and look at verse number 9 with me. He says this. Moses says, well let's go to verse 8. And what nation is there so great, speaking about the nation of Israel, that hath statutes and judgments so righteous As all this law which I set before you this day, by the way, the law that God gave to Israel is the basis of our laws in our country today and various countries throughout the world They are righteous laws. And so he says that. Now look what he says in verse 9. He's telling the people of Israel, only take heed to thyself. And keep thy soul diligently, lest thou what? Are you there? Lest thou what? Forget the things which thine eyes have seen, and lest they depart from thy heart all the days of thy life, but teach them to thy sons and thy son's sons. In other words, we must not, he's telling them, don't forget all the victories I gave you, don't forget all the miracles I've done for you, don't forget all the ways I've provided for you. protected you. Don't forget that. In fact, teach your kids and your grandkids what I've done for you. Go over to Psalm 78. Would you come over there with me? And the interesting thing is in Psalm 78, David is the one that is recording this. Of course, it's under the inspiration of God. I'm sorry, Psalm 66. Psalm 66, right about the middle your Bible, just about And uh verse number five. In fact, it goes down through here. We won't read the whole thing. I'll just kind of get started what David is saying. Whatever he missed there in the city of Nob with Goliath's sword, he realized much later on when he wrote this. Notice verse number five. Psalm 66. Come and see the works of God. He is terrible. That means fear-producing. He is terrible in his doings towards the children of men. Look at this. Now he starts recounting some things that God had done. He turned the sea into dry land, they went through the f through the flood on foot. There did we rejoice in him He ruleth by his power uh his his eyes upon the nations, let not the rebellious exalt themselves. And he comes down through there. Come over to seventh Psalm seventy eight And again he does it. And actually I'm just pulling a few Psalms out where he goes through and God recounts the things he did for us before. And there's a reason for that Look at Psalm 78, if you would, and um uh verse number four we'll start at. Psalm seventy-eight. Let me get there. And uh verse four, we will not hide them From their children, showing to the generation to come the praise of the Lord and his strength, his wonderful works that he hath done. For he established a testimony, and Jacob appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers that we should make them known unto their children that the generation to come might know them, even the children which should be born, who should arise and declare them to their children. Why? That they might set their hope in God and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments. And again, we could go all through Psalms and other places in the Bible where he says, don't forget these past things, so that your hope will be in God. For the future, and you can trust me in the future, and you have confidence in what I've done for you in the future, remembering what I've done for you in the past. Can you think of anything God has given to the church to help us remember the past so we have hope and confidence for the future? The Bible, but there's something in particular, the Holy Spirit. I'm thinking of the Lord's Supper. The Lord's Supper is a memorial. We're remembering the price that Christ paid for us and the broken body and the shed blood. And if you'll study 1 Corinthians 11 real carefully, it says, do this until he comes. It has a backward look, but has a forward look. We don't forget what Christ did for us so we can have confidence and hope and future to the morrow. And what that sword could have been to David, that could have been a turning point for David at this point. He could have got that. And again, this is just me building on this. But he could have got that sword and remembered what God did, how he attained that in the first place, and he could have said, you know I really don't need to go to the enemies of God's people. I don't need to lie about this. I don't need to do all this stuff I'm doing. I can just trust God. He took care of me before He'll do it again. So his purpose for seeking out that sword, which I'm confident he did, uh maybe was to prepare him to go to Gath. It just doesn't seem coinc it doesn't seem just a coincidence. He goes where the sword is, gets the sword, and then goes to the hometown of the sword's owner. Now, why he was doing it, I speculate, but I know this. That thing could have been a tremendous help. David needed to be reminded that what God did for him yesterday He can do again today and tomorrow if he'll just trust him. By the way, I wanted to look, come back there if you would to 1 Samuel. It's interesting how David says this, and this is how this came out to me. I have another thought about the sword here. But it says, and David said unto Elia Ahimelech, that's the priest, that's overseeing the tabernacle. And look how he says this. Now, with my thinking in mind, just kind of picture this in your mind, coming from my perspective on it that I just shared with you. And uh is there not here under thine hand a spear or a sword? I don't know about you, but that sounds to me like David knew. There's a sword there. And it's like, oh, you wouldn't it's uh you wouldn't happen to have uh a sword or s anything like that happen to be around here, would there That's the way I see it. Sometimes on Sunday nights we have testimony time and I'll know one of our folks led someone to Christ and I'll say, was there happen to be a testimony? Somebody here led somebody to Christ by Jesus And I think that's what Damon's doing. He hadn't known that thing was there. He's the one that gave it to him. He's the one that's the sword of Goliath for Pete's sake. How could he not know where it was? There's another, I don't know why he wanted that sword, maybe to to set things up for God. I know what it could have been, it could have been a reminder of past victories And I know this about that sword. Number three, I know it could have brought great assurance, reassurance to David's heart and mind. Let me ask you a question. That sword in Goliath's hand, what good did it do him? Didn't do him any good. Didn't matter how big it was or how sharp it was. That sword wasn't going to do Goliath a bit of good Uh let me ask you a question. A sling, uh, a sling in David's hand was deadly, was lethal I put it this way, the sword in Goliath's hand was impotent. Good do it that. There's no danger to anybody other than Goliath A sling in David's hand was lethal. A little stone and a sling. Man, it killed the champion of the Philistines. And so that tells me this. I don't know what David was after on that sword, whether he thought somehow the having that sword was going to advantage him, and you know that sword, that sword But I learned something studying this. It's not the weapon that brings the victory, it's the faith in the God that brings the victory. Doesn't matter if he had a sword or a sling or a bazooka. That's not what was going to deliver David. It was going to be God. that gives the victory. What does the Bible say? God set some up and put them down. He says safety is of the Lord, the Bible tells us. And so faith in God, it doesn't matter if he had a sword or a sling or what he had. It's not the weapon, but it's the one, it's not the weapon we're carrying, but it is the God that our faith is in. And that sword could have reminded David, hey, it didn't do Goliath any good. It wasn't the weapon. It was God. David trusts God. I came across this cloak. I don't remember. I was listening to some sermons or something late earlier this summer and they made the statement along these lines and I thought of David and I wrote it down and I put it this way a slingshot with God is more powerful than a bazooka without God. Anybody here ever look at the world and you think, the unbelieving world out there, and you think, man alive, us Christians are outnumbered. Anybody ever think that? Do you ever look at all the money the world has and man they're building towers and buildings and building just multi-million dollar buildings the world out there And man, we're scratching and trying to build a little uh building out here, and we're struggling to think, man, alive, we're there we're outmoneyed by this world. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Anything good, night. But I'll tell you one thing, we're not outgotted by this world And that sword could have been a powerful reassurance to David that, hey, you don't have to run, you don't have to lie, you don't have to be doing all this stuff. And you got this sword. What do you think this sword's going to do? It didn't help Goliath. It's not the weapon. It's the God that you put your faith and trust in. David needed reassurance that God can protect him from all dangers, not just giants, but backslidden kings. David need a reassurance that God honors faith, not schemes, and not swords, and not our own understanding and our own great plans we come up with. That's not what God honors. God honors our faith in him. And that sword could have been a powerful reminder to David of that. Apparently, David failed to see the significance of that sword. That he was going to carry over now to the Philistines. So the first thing I noticed here in that first verse, number eight, was David's aim. I am convinced that he was there to get that sword Then the next thing I notice, verse number 9, this is just briefly, I notice Ahimelech's assistants. Notice what Ahimelech says in verse 9. And a priest said Uh David comes up and says, um, oh, would there happen to be a sword around here or anything? Uh I don't have any. I had to leave quickly. I don't have any of my own weapons. Um Well yeah, I mean just some kind of sword or something happened to be in the tabernacle, maybe behind an ephod somewhere or something. Verse 9. And the priest said, well What do you know? The sword of Goliath, the Philistines here. Remember whom thou slewest in the valley of Elah? Behold, it's here, wrapped in a cloth behind the eph. If thou wilt, take that. Take it. There's no other s uh state that here. It's the only one I got. So a Himelech is whether he you know he doesn't know what's going on. In fact, I get the impression from what how Ahimelech responds here is the suspicions of verse number one have faded away David, he's believed what David has said, and uh there's no longer suspicion there. He's uh all for this. And so he returns the sword, that's rightfully David's, he returns it back to David And then, this is interesting, he reminds David of his success. Do you see that? He says, yeah, the sword is here wrapped in a cloth. Oh, he says, uh the sword of Goliath, the Philistine, whom you slew in the valley of Elah. How many people think David forgot all about that until Ahimelech brought that back up again? He didn't forget about that. So why is a him a Himelech bringing up the fact That David slew Goliath with this very sword in the valley of Elah. I think it this is me, I'm speculating, but I wonder if God wasn't prompting Ahimelech to say that, to remind David, hey, you really don't have to be doing what you're doing. Bringing it right back to what God already did for him before. Don't forget that. Is God working to draw back David's faith? I don't know. Interesting thing is, Goliath's sword shows up. And David's victory is reminded right at the time when David is being most fearful. Now, is that coincidence? That he gets Goliath's sword that's such a powerful illustration, reminder, of God operating by faith and protecting them. And then the high priest brings up this idea, hey, remember you killed Goliath When David is at his most fearful point, I think God's intervening. I'm telling you, there are no coincidences with God. Anybody here ever go to a service and the preacher preaches something and it's like tau, it's exactly what's going on in your life Anybody know what I'm talking about? I've preached sermons on stuff that's exactly what's going on in my life. I didn't even think about it. I'm preaching. I thought, whoa, this is me It's not a coincidence. I had um this was a number of years ago, but I was preaching and I got off on liquor and alcohol. And um you know how I get with that, and uh Man, I just went off on it. And I just mentioned in passing, I said that includes wine coolers. I don't even know why I said that. I said that includes wine coolers. I just said that out of the blue. As I preached the message and I'm in the back shaking hands and this this couple had just been visiting a little bit. They came up and I had been to their home and and uh visit with them just the week before and she looked me in the eye and she said You saw 'em, didn't you? I said, saw what? I don't know what you're talking about. You saw the wine coolers in the refrigerator. I said, no, I didn't. I said b how could I possibly? I wasn't even in your kitchen. I was in the living room businessing with you Well I just you said that and you we had him and you and I said uh it wasn't me doing that. I said maybe the Holy Spirit's dealing with your heart about that. And so I don't believe it's a coincidence for one moment that Ahimelech brings that up when David is at his most fearful point. He's leaning on his own understanding, he's scheming, he's lying. And then last of all, I noticed David's acknowledgement. The last part of verse 9. And David said, There is none like that. There is no other sword like that sword. And that was true. That was a powerful illustration of David. And then look what he said, the last three words. Give it me. Give it me. This is what I thought. I am afraid that David's faith is shifting away from God and to the sword. He's at a point now. Now we jump ahead and we'll see he'll come out of this. God's lesson's going to be learned But at this point in time, at this point in David's life, I'm afraid we're seeing him trusting in himself and in material things, maybe trusting in that sword. rather than trusting in the God who just a short time before did such a powerful thing through a sling. And it wasn't a sling, it was God. But David's starting to see the sword. Sword was a powerful reminder of God's ability, but it was a powerless weapon without faith in God. Would do no good I put down a little mathematical formula, and I'm not a mathematician, but this is the way my formula goes. David plus a sling plus faith equals victory. My next formula is this: David plus a sword minus faith equals fear. Equals fear. And so what's the lesson from Goliath's Sword? The lesson from Goliath's sort is this: we have to trust God, not things. To give us victory in our lives. To give us, to overcome fear. When I'm trusting in a thing or a person, I put my confidence in man or a prince. I'm going to have to deal with fear all the time. But if I put my faith and my confidence in the Lord, then fear doesn't have to be a factor. Make sense? Makes sense. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us, Lord, to not trust in things. And Lord, we're looking back and we're speculating a lot of this that's going on here. But I know it's the truth of your word That uh you are greater than than any man, you're greater than anything we face. And you can take the most dire circumstances, and if we'll just trust you, You can turn that around. We don't have to lie and scheme and uh lean on our own understanding. We'll just trust you. And so I pray you'd help us do that. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder if there's some here this evening say, preacher, I got some situations and man, I just let it worry me to death. And I try and figure out ways I can do this. I'm looking for schemes. And maybe tonight God spoke to your heart. Maybe it wasn't a coincidence. And tonight you'd say, preacher, I need to just put this in God's hands, follow his instructions, and trust him to work it out. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, there are. God bless you. A bunch of hands around Situation, a circumstance. Man, we just want to figure that out and work it out. And maybe we need to do is just put it in the Lord's hands and trust him. Any others, preacher, pray for me Maybe you know someone that's going through it, that's struggling. Now whether Himelech knew it or not, but I believe he was trying to help David to have faith. And sometimes it just takes a word of encouragement, just a reminder to somebody, what God did for us. There's somebody, you know someone here, you say they're going through it. Maybe God helped me be an encouragement to them. Maybe God helped me be a reminder. Anybody like that? I'm thinking of someone. Maybe God could help me that way to help them. Sure, sure. Father, bless now our invitation. Have your way. In Jesus' name. Amen.