And turn to Ecclesiastes chapter number four. Ecclesiastes chapter four We're working our way through the book of Ecclesiastes. Oh, and it's good to have visit uh I'm gonna murder your name. I apologize ahead of time. Uh Hartberger? Hartberg? Hallberg. Halberg. That made it more complicated than it was. It's good to have you all with us and up here vacationing. And I always like to point out when folks are vacationing, I appreciate that testimony a lot because uh we don't take a vacation from our walk with God at all And uh I think it's a great testimony when Christians are faithful to church while they're on vacation. And I appreciate that, your encouragement to us. uh by that. I tell you a lot of people mess up on vacation. They try to let their guard down and take vacation from everything. And boy Satan will jump over that. So we're glad to have you all here. I think my wife was saying last time you guys were here, you're on your honeymoon Is that correct? Amen. Coming back. Memories, huh? Yeah, wonderful. Ecclesiastes chapter 4, verse number 9 is where I want to begin. We're going to read down through verse number 12. Ecclesiastes. Chapter 4, verse number 9. The Bible says this, two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their labor. For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow. But woe to him that is alone when he falleth, for he hath not another to help him up Again, if two lie together, then they have heat. But how can a man be warm alone? And if one prevail against him, who too shall withstand him? And a threefold cord is not quickly broken. How many folks here you're a little bit familiar with this passage? You've heard this before. This is one of uh maybe the more familiar passages from Ecclesiastes. Some we never heard of, hardly, then others are more familiar. This is one of the more familiar, and this is what I want to speak on tonight. I want to talk about synergy. Synergy. And I'll explain what we mean by that. I think you've heard me use that term before, but let's pray. Father, I thank you, Lord, for a good day. And it's such a joy in my heart to be in the house of God. and uh what it means, what God's people mean to me personally and this church. Now we look in this book of Ecclesiastes, Lord, you've preserved this for us. And um Lord, there's uh some hard statements made in here. And so we need you to teach us, Lord. We need you to show us the truth here and how it applies to our lives, our church, our ministries. So Lord, I don't have the wisdom needed to change lives and build faith. So I need you, Lord, to speak through me. And so with that in mind, I present my body anew this hour to you, Lord. I yield my will. best I know how, God, I yield my will to you. And I pray again that you please fill me with your Spirit. And that you would open our hearts and minds, that we would be willing and submissive at the beginning of the message. to follow your leadership and trust you and obey you as you instruct us and direct us from your word. We need revival, Lord. I need it. I believe our church needs it. Our nation needs it. And so maybe it begin in our hearts tonight, we pray in Jesus' name, Amen. The Book of Ecclesiastes, when preaching our way through here It is somebody who said, I was reading about it this week and I came across a statement about the book of Ecclesiastes. They put it this way: the book of Ecclesiastes is a sad sequel to the book of Proverbs. And I got thinking about that. I thought I think that's a true statement. The book of Proverbs teaches us how to live wisely. Can somebody tell me what Proverbs chapter 3, verse 5 and 6 says? Trust in the Lord all thine heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding. All thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy path. If you want one statement, a couple verses that captures the thought of Proverbs. You want a couple verses that captures the truth of Proverbs. I think Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 is it. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Lean not into thine own understanding. All thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. How to live wisely is the truth of Proverbs. And then Ecclesiastes. The sad sequel to Proverbs is how to live foolishly. How to live foolishly And Solomon, under the inspiration of God, records for us how he fell into foolishness And how he fell away from God and began to live his life, not in all his ways acknowledging the Lord, but in all his ways living under the sun. And completely pushing God from his life. And his conclusion was what? It's all vanity, vexation of spirit. And so we continue on working through here, and we come to this statement here that Solomon, again recording for us his his departure from the wisdom of God and his attempt to find fulfillment and meaning under the sun, God excluded from his life. And he makes some uh significant statements here I think what he's doing, again, and we've seen this several times so far as we go through, he makes some pretty accurate observations Even though he's excluded from God, some of his conclusions, some of his observations are very, very accurate. And uh so I look here. Let's begin right here at verse number nine. And the the opening statement in verse nine is really a statement of fact. Notice what he says. Two are better than one. That's a statement of fact. Now, before we get into this, I want to point out he is not discussing marriage A lot of times people will use this passage as a message on marriage, and I think it certainly would apply to the marriage situation, but there's no mention of marriage here He's not talking about husband-wife relationships, although, as I said, it certainly would apply to that. What's he discussing? He's talking about human life Living life as a human being, he makes the statement two are better than one. I believe that's a very accurate statement. God designed us, let me restate that. God did not design us to be loners. God is not looking for lone rangers. God has designed us as social beings. He has designed us in such a way that we need one another. We interact with one another. Part of our spiritual growth, part of our spiritual development is my interaction with others I think it's important for us to view it this way. Every person that God allows to come into my life has a role in my spiritual growth, has a role in my spiritual development. Now we like the people that are nice. We like the people that tell us how wonderful we are and how much they appreciate us and how great we are. And God sends people that way into our lives because He knows we need that part of it. But you know what else God does? God sends people into our way that are antagonistic. And God allows people into our light that are not so positive and not so and they don't think we're they don't think we're the whipped cream on top of the ice cream Sunday. But I gotta view that. Alright, this is part of our makeup. And so my statement is this, my point I'm trying to make is this we're not designed by God to be loners. That's not part of our makeup. He he created us and designed us To interact with other people. What did God say in Genesis chapter 2 verse 18? After he made Adam, he made this statement: It is not good that man should be alone. And of course he made Eve, and then he told them to reproduce and fill the earth because we're not designed to be loners. We're designed to interact with others. God's plan for mankind, for you and I as Christians, is to interact with one another To fellowship with one another, to have relationships with one another. And it is those relationships that are such a vital part. Of my spiritual growth, my spiritual development. In fact, my interaction with my brothers and sisters in Christ is a good indicator, a good indicator of my level of spiritual maturity. How I interact with those that are positive, those that are negative. Is my interaction with others? Is it characterized by fleshly characteristics? Galatians chapter 5? Or is my interaction with others characterized by the fruit of the Spirit? Patience and love and joy. But God has designed us. God has created us to need others. To interact with others, to contribute to one another's spiritual development. Now keep your place here. We're going to look at a number of verses. If you would, turn with me to Hebrews chapter number 10. Hebrews chapter number 10. Preachers, pastors love Hebrews chapter number 10, and verse number 25. You're going to find out here in just a minute. Hebrews chapter 10, verse number 25. This is a clear statement of our Lord. Hebrews 10, 25. Notice what the Bible says. Is everybody there? Are you there? Are you looking at it? Alright, look what it says. Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is, but what? Exhorting one another, look at this, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. What are we told in Scripture is going to happen as the day of the Lord's return approaches? What is going to happen to society What there's going to be a falling away. There's going to be evil men and seducers are going to wax worse and worse. Things are going to deteriorate. And he tells us here Do not forsake the assembling of yourselves together. It's a matter of sum, is, but exhorting, building up, encouraging, lifting up, helping one another And so much the more as you see the day approaching. It's a grief to my heart to see and hear of good Bible preaching, independent fundamental Baptist churches cutting back on services. And not having Sunday night service and not having Wednesday night service. I'm telling you, they're making a terrible mistake, they're going the wrong direction. We need each other. And God has designed us. My point again I'm trying to make is this. God did not design us to be loaders The church service is the church is not just a social place to go. It is a vital, necessary part of our spiritual growth, our spiritual development. We need each other. We're not to be alone. Life is designed to be shared with others. Life is designed to be worked out with others. And fact is, we're more productive when we work with others. So come back here if you would, and we're gonna, again, we're gonna look at a number of different verses. Keep your place here in Ecclesiastes, but no come back here And look what he says again in verse 9. Two are better than one. I got looking those up and looking at the words and how they're used in other places, and I found that word better there is an interesting word. It had this idea to be more prosperous. Two are more prosperous than one. How many people say, yeah, that makes sense. Two heads are better than one. Um in some cases. Uh But here in Ecclesiastes, uh we have he lists four times when two are better than one. Now I entitled the message synergy. I've used that term before. How many folks are familiar with the term synergy? Anyone here, a few folks here and there. I like to use big words every now and then just to remind you how smart I really am. And how educated I really am. Because I'm very insecure in my own awareness of that, so I try to impress people with it. I'm trying to be funny. You guys are not laughing. Here's what synergy is. I love this word because I see it so often in my own life and in the ministry. Synergy is this. The whole is greater than the sum of its parts. How many people say that's clear as mud? I'm going to boil it down here. It's this idea. The effect of two combined forces Is greater than the effect of the two individual forces individually And people still I have no idea what we're talking about. I don't know what we're talking about. Let me put it this way. You got one horse. Here's a big horse, Derek. This horse can pull 1500 pounds. Strong for is that good for a horse, I guess? This horse can pull 1500 pounds. Wow, what a horse. That thing's strong We got another horse. This horse can pull 1,500 pounds. Man, he's just as strong as that. Two impressive horses pull 1,500 pounds. Now you would think If you harnessed those two together, this one pulls 1500, this one pulls 1500, if you harness them together, you would think they would be able to pull what? 3,000 pounds. This one pulls 1,500. This one pulls 1,500. Put them together it'd be pull 3,000 pounds. But that's not the case. Synergy, the law of synergy says this, and I can't fully explain it. But when you take one horse that can pull fifteen hundred, another horse can pull fifteen hundred, you harness them together, you would expect thirteen hundred or three thousand pounds being pulled. But that's not the case. Together they could pull 5,000 pounds. The results of the two together the effect of the two together is greater. than the sum of the two individually. And what is true for this imaginary figures, and don't hold me to those statistics, what is true in that case is true in the Christian life. For instance, myself and another Christian can accomplish more for the glory of God than each of us can do on our own, separately and added together. Be more effective. And so that's what Solomon's talking about here. And he gives us four times in life, four situations, four scenarios. When two are better than one, when this synergy kicks in and produces a more prosperous result than if it was just individuals. Now again, push out of your mind the concept of marriage. They all apply to that, they certainly will apply to that, but he's not talking about that. He's talking about humanity in general Number one, in the time of labor. In the time of labor, two are better than one. Look at verse 9, the second part. Two are better than one, he states. Then he says, because They have a good reward for their labor. The word labor there has the idea of hard work. The good reward is the product, the results, the effect. Of two working together. When two work together, you have greater resources. When two work together, you have accountability. How many people here I know some of you hire employees, some of you have employees. When you have an employee working by himself, now there's exceptions to this, but generally speaking, if you have an employee working by himself With no accountability, you tend to not get as much work out of them as then when there's another one with them where there's some accountability. Anybody you follow what I'm trying to say And so it found that when there's accountability there, they tend to work harder until unless they're both sluggards. You know, then it doesn't do any good. But two are more productive. They are have good reward. There's more results. There's more resources involved There's accountability involved there. The results are greater when two work together. We see that played out in the Gospels. When the Lord Jesus Christ called the twelve disciples to himself and he gave them instructions and were studying the Sermon on the Mount on Wednesday nights and he discipled them on discipling And then the Bible says he sent them out in what kind of numbers? Two by two. Two by two. He paired them up. I think it's a principle ingrained into our very being that we do better, we work better when we're two by two. Now again, there are some exceptions and others, but for the most part There's greater results. So in the time of labor, two by two, and by the way, we see that same thought, that same principle carried out in the Gospels. You find Paul always had a partner. When Paul was sent out from the church at Antioch, as the very first missionary, sent out from the church there in Antioch, and uh he went out, he didn't go by himself, he went with who? Barnabas took Barnabas with him. Later on, being human beings with sinful natures, he and Barnabas had a falling out You say, oh, Brother Letterman, fussing among Christians, this is new. They never used to fuss like this. Ah, you didn't read your Bible, did you? And so Paul and Barnabas had a falling out, and uh Barnabas and Saul took with him Silas Because two are better than one, they have a greater reward for their labor. Barnabas took Mark with him. Because why? Two are better than one. They have a greater reward for their labor. And so, in time of labor, two are better than one. That synergy kicks in. Let me give you a second time when two are better than one. In time of lapse. Number one, in time of labor. Number two, in time of lax. Now that's not the best word maybe to use for this, but look with me at verse number 10. For if they what fall The one will lift up his fellow. But woe to him that is alone when he falleth. For he hath not another to help him up. Now, I believe there is an extremely important principle in that statement for the Christian life. Now by laps I mean this. They slip back, they backslide, they stumble and fall. The word fall there has this idea, and this is kind of get a word picture in your mind The word fall has this idea. To stumble and fall flat on your face. Part of the meaning of the word fall is to be prostrate. I mean, wham! This isn't just oop and catch yourself. This is absolutely in your face, in the mud, flat out fall. A couple years ago, um, it was winter time, so that means it was sometime between September and June. Um It was icy out and cold and everything. And I was coming over to get the mail. It was the middle of the week. Uh there was no school for some reason. And uh I was walking across the road. Everything was covered in ice. There was snow everywhere. I got to the middle of the road And uh I mean somebody pulled the road out from underneath me. Whoom, I went down, smack, right down flat on my back, and uh You know what the first thing I did? I looked around to see if anybody saw me. That's the idea of the word fall here. Now This is talking, I mean this is literally true, but there's there's an application here. In times of personal failure And we've all been there, right? Times of personal failure. If you're a human being, I know one thing about you, you've experienced times of personal failure. In times of personal failure, in times of personal struggles, the best thing in this world is to have someone there with me to help me get up again. Help me get up again. Never, let's make sure it is never said about Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church that we shoot our wounded Never ought we to do that. In times of personal lapse, in times when someone struggles, in times when someone falls, what they need the most is a godly brother or sister in Christ to come alongside, help them get back up again. I've been in circles. I've been in churches. I've been around the mentality that shoots the wounded. And leaves them behind and makes sure everybody knows how terrible they fell, and makes sure everybody knows how horribly they sinned. I'm here to tell you, that's of the devil. What they need is somebody to come alongside and help them up. Help them up. In times of lapse, when someone struggles, when someone fails, when somebody falls. It says, for if they fall, the one, look at this, don't you love this statement, will lift up his fellow Well, lift him up. But woe to him that is alone when he falls. Let me talk about the one that falls. The worst thing that can possibly happen Oh let me back up. The worst thing that you and I can possibly do when we backslide is to isolate ourselves from the church and from my brothers and sisters in Christ I had a man say this to me many, many years ago, visiting, and I don't remember the whole thing. I don't even remember the person, but he made this statement to me. He says, I cannot go out to your church. I'm backslidden I said, the most important place for you to be when you're backslidden is in church. That's like a person saying, I can't go to the emergency room. I'm sick. I didn't say this to him, but I thought probably half the church is backslidden. Just come on in and fit right in with us. Now I I'm saying that facetiously. Lighten up y'all. Good. Say preacher on Baxley and I and I see it, I've seen it, I've been here twenty-four years, going on twenty-four years, I've been in ministry since eighty-five, thirty plus years. I've seen it over and over and over. Somebody falls, somebody fails, and one of the first things they want to do is get away from other Christians. And that is the worst thing to do. I need to get back in there. You need to get in there. So I'm not reading my You're gonna say Sunday night did you read your Bible every day? And I didn't read my Bible. No, no, no. Get back in there. We need that challenge. We need that influence. I need my fellow. To help me lift me up. And so two are better than one in times of lapse. In times of lapse. Don't avoid your brother. You say, oh, I messed up. Hey, find your good brother, godly, and now find a mature Christian. Find them a spiritual Christian, because there's immature fleshly Christians, worldly Christians, they'll give you a hard time. But find you a good, godly, spiritual Christian that loves God and understands this truth. And they'll help you up. They'll help you up. Part of our responsibility as a church is to exhort one another. And that word exhort, we noticed it in the Hebrews, that word exhort means to lift up, build up. It's the same concept. If they fall, the one will lift up his fellow, will exhort his fellow. Part of our responsibility as a church to exhort one another. I found, I found, I've said this so often, I've seen it so many times, first-hand experience, when somebody starts isolating themselves. Brother, trouble is on the way. They mess up, they get out of fellowship, their thinking gets out of whack, and they start withdrawing. And I'll tell you, it's a pattern. You see it so much. First, it's Wednesday night. There's justified reasons, then it's Sunday night, then it's Sunday school, and before you know it, they're out of church. I can take you to the homes that are absolutely falling apart, and I believe it began. Not when they messed up, maybe when they fell, we all do that, but when they started isolating themselves and things deteriorated. And they're so far from God. And what they needed was a fellow to lift them up, to exhort them. Let me give you a few verses here real quick. Hebrews chapter 3, if you would. Come back. We were just in Hebrews a minute ago. But I want you to see this. Hebrews chapter 3. You say the job of the church is to win the world to Christ. Amen. I agree with that 100%. That's mission, soul winning Thursday night, everything bus ministry, check month, all that. But we have other responsibilities also. And one of those responsibilities is given to us in Hebrews chapter 3. And look with me, if you would, at verse number 13. Actually, I want to begin reading in verse 12. Hebrews chapter 3, verse 12. Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief in departing from the living God. Time of lapse. It's falling. Take heed, uh, verse thirteen, but what? Exhort one another. How often? Daily, while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin Somebody struggles, somebody falls, they fall flat in their faith, and they start doubting and they start struggling and they're afraid and they want to isolate themselves Part of our job as a church, say, come on, get back up. Come on, give me your hand. Here. Did you ever see those little videos on YouTube or something where these people are racing? And they're going along and this person's winning and somebody stumbles and falls, and the whole crowd keeps going, but inevitably there's one person that will stop Anybody know what I'm talking about? Do you ever see them? And they'll pick them up in the whole crowd and they sacrifice their own trophy to help that person get them across the line. That is, should be us. Picking that one up. Helping them get across the line. That's what he's talking about here. Exhort one another. Encourage them. Lift them up. Come over, if you would, to Galatians chapter 5. And again, there's passages all through the New Testament telling us this is what we need to do. This is how we respond. Galatians chapter five, and I want to begin reading in verse twenty-two Well, come up to verse 14. Let me just touch on that. I wasn't going to put this in, but let's look at this. Verse 14. For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even this. Even in this. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Ever hear that before? Sure. Jesus repeated that. But if you bite and devour one another Take heed that ye be not consumed one of another. I've been around the mentality where when that runner falls And the other runner comes by, and rather than picking them up, they kick them as they go by. God pity. God pity a Christian. Listen to me. God pity the Christian that tries to destroy another Christian. I believe there is sharp, sharp judgment at the judgment seat of Christ for the Christian that tries to hurt and bite and devour. Another Christian. Say, oh, you don't know what they did. Doesn't matter. Oh, you don't. Doesn't matter. Did they nail you to a cross? Did they pour all their sins on you? And you bore all their sins? Unless they've treated you worse than they treated Jesus Christ, you and I have no right to bite and devour another Christian. Come on now, help me. That is as unscriptual and it's interesting. Bite and devour What does Peter tell us? Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. So whom I like the most? Well I'm tearing down somebody that failed in some way or said or did some things that I don't appreciate or did or something to hurt me, and I start biting them, and I start devouring them. Who am I more like? Christ or the devil? The devil's seeking about going about seeking whom he may devour. And Solomon is telling us a very important truth in the Christian life and in the church life. Is that when somebody falls, what they need is a fellow to help them and lift them up. Not try and devour them. Come down to verse number 22 of Galatians 5. But the fruit of the Spirit This is what the Holy Spirit produces is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Against us there is no law. And they that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections of the lust. He's referring back, verse 19 through 21. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. Let us not be desirous of vainglory, provoking one another, envying one another. Now look at verse 1 of chapter 6. Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, let's If he falls. Ecclesiastes chapter 4. If he falls, if you be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, devour such a one. No, that's not what it says. What? Lift up your fellow. Such a one in the spirit of meekness, considering also thyself, lest thou also be tempted. You know what I found? If somebody lays into me and starts telling me how terrible I am and going off, you know what I found out? If I'm not careful, I start doing the same thing back. Right or wrong? Y'all look at me like you know, no, we don't ever do that. Yes, you do, I've seen you some of you. And he's saying here, listen, be careful, be careful. You need to restore that one in the spirit of meekness. Consider yourself, lest thou also be tempted. Look at verse 2. Bear ye one another's burdens. And so fulfill the law of Christ. God has created us to need each other In times of labor, when we're working, when we're doing faith promise missions, our church can do a whole lot more in getting the gospel out when we're all on board with it than each of us could do individually separately In times of labor. In times of lapse, when I fall, or my brother or sister in Christ falls God designed us to need each other, to lift up, to help our fellow. The Christian life is designed to be lived in fellowship and interaction and exhortation one with another. And what Satan wants to do, what Satan wants to do is isolate us. What Satan wants to do is get in, divide, and conquer. And God says, no, when two are together, when two are in fellowship, when two are lifting each other up, helping, exhorting one another, they're stronger than each individual is separately. Then each individual is separately. Division, discourse, biting, criticizing one another is of the devil. I say that again. It is of the devil. It is not of God. It is not of the Holy Spirit. It is not of Christ. Whether it's in the home or in the church or in the community or in the workplace. So in times of labor, In times of lapse, let me give you two more real quick. In times of loneliness, come back to Ecclesiastes here. In times of loneliness, verse 11. Again, if two lie together, then they have heat. But how can one be warm alone? Now that's literally true. Right? I love, generally my wife goes to bed before I do. I love this. Don't tell her this Don't tell her this. I love when I get in and my feet are cold. Put him over a leg. Oh, I'm sorry, sweetheart. I think I just let the cat out of the blew my cover So that statement's literally true. You know, if two lie together, they have heat. How can one be warm when he's alone? But I don't think his statement is limited to the literal meaning. Uh I think he's talking maybe about loneliness here. And I tell you, loneliness can be cold. Get down the soul, get cold. And so we need each other. How about the person, how about you're working on a job in a New person comes in their very first day on the job. How many people remember some back you remember the first day on a job somewhere and you felt like you were the only person in the world. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You have no idea what you're doing. Everybody's looking at you like you're a weirdo. Now some folks that's just ongoing, but you know what's great? It's kind of lonely there. You know what's nice? Somebody comes over, a Christian comes over and says, hey man, I'll help you. I'll see you. I'll walk with you. Two are better than one. And warm that guy up a little bit. Make him feel a little more comfortable, a little more confident in what he's doing. Uh how about a young person going to school, maybe the first day in a new school or first day in a new class, you walk in self-conscious. Let me say a word to some of our Christian young people. Here in school, and you see that new kid, as a Christian, why don't you go over there and try and warm him up a little? Be a friend to them. Get them in. You know what happens? I've seen this. A new kid shows up in school, and this is true in public and Christian schools. A new kid shows up in school. Almost without fail, well I don't know why this is, it's almost always the rebels and the bad kids that'll try and suck them in right away. Why is that? Why aren't the Christians the first one to go there and say, hey, come on. I'll be your friend. Let me show you around. Try and be an influence for Christ. Warm em up. Warm em up on the job in school. Uh how about when dealing with terminal illness? I tell you what, for four years I was able to be chaplain with hospice. A unique situation, a unique setup where I could work biblically with it. I tell you what, I sat with a lot of people right after they found out that they weren't going to live very long. You know what I found out? That can be a pretty lonely time. I had joy for many, and I really miss it, but be able to sit with folks and share with them Christ. And be a warmth to them in a very cold time. And we saw scores and scores trust Christ in their last days on here on earth So two are better than one in times of loneliness. And then last of all, let me put it this way, two are better than one, he says in verse 12, in times of liability. Now again, that's not the best word, but I used it for my alliteration. Verse 12, if one prevail against him, two shall withstand him, and a threefold cord is not quickly broken. What he's saying here, I think, is the old saying, there's safety in numbers. You're walking down a dark alley by yourself, you're pretty vulnerable. You're in danger. You got somebody with you. You're a little safer. You got two eyes, or four eyes, and I have four all the time. But you um And you got some support there. Safety and number. If you got three with you, you're a whole lot more confident. And so he's saying in times of danger, in times of liability, there's safety in numbers. That's true physically, and I want to say this to you, that's true spiritually. And it kind of comes back to what I was saying in the second point. When we as Christians start isolating ourselves, we start withdrawing ourselves from other Christians. I tell you, we're putting ourselves in real danger. You and I are no match for the devil. You and I are no match for the devil. And there is safety spiritually in numbers. I believe that's why the Lord says, don't forsake that assembling of yourselves together. You're not a lone ranger. You're not to operate individually. The Lord Jesus talked about, I've got to I'll write this down, but the Lord Jesus talked about a house divided against itself can what? Cannot stand. Cannot stand. Satan knows. If he can divide Christians, if he can isolate us. That he has limited our ability to advance the cause of Christ. He has made us vulnerable to sin, temptation, and destruction. And if and when we fall as an isolated state, it's very unlikely we're going to get back up I can take you to the home, I'm thinking of about four or five people, I can take you to their home. They are so far from God, their families have fallen apart because they isolated themselves when in a time of lapse. Rather than letting Christians help them, rather than getting involved and being a part of it. I told this just recently, but it fits here so perfectly. In March, as you know, was able to go down to Mexico with Brother Hummel and a number of other folks, and just a phenomenal mission trip. You know I was telling you that one day, I got thinking about this, that one, it was the second day we're there. We went out into these little villages and we're distributing literature. And Brother Hommel sent Dan Stroop and um Uh another fella, the other pastor from down in DC, and uh all those pastors down east are wimps. But um I'm teasing, don't tell Pastor Say I said that. But uh so we're there and they said, Go to this village, Brother Lethem and you and Brother Stroop, and this other this other pastor. Uh Chris, and you guys go down, there's a little dried-up creek, there's a bridge, you go across that bridge, there's a bunch of houses up on the side of that hill. You guys go do that. I said, All right, that's fine. We had our backpacks, our little papers We're giving it out. Nobody knows what they're saying or what we're saying. We don't know what they're saying. We're giving it out. We crossed a little bridge. We got there's a man with a wheelbarrow. He's digging some stuff. We gave him oh gracias, buenos, uh, uh Deus La Bendega. Oh gee, whatever you said, see. And um and I'm going up there and Brother Stroop and the other pastors there behind me and this dog comes down. I said, I can handle dogs. And he starts yapping, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep. So I'm trying to ignore him, go up, and another one comes out. Huh. Yep, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep. A third one comes out. Yep, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep. And I noti So I have my little literature out and I'm saying, go away, two, buenos, buenos dios, sixteen. I'm trying to get rid of them. About that time, a big old dog came out, and there was a noticeable change in the attitude of the little dogs. They became super aggressive. They're coming at me. One goes up, gets me right beside the knee, fights and runs off. I'm swatting at them and they're coming after me. And I turned around to tell the guys, you know, to say something. I look and they're hightailing it across the bridge And I noticed something. When I got isolated When those dogs saw those guys leaving and I was by myself, they got hyperaggressive They saw somebody vulnerable. They saw somebody that was bigger than them, but they could take down. And the more of them there was, the more there was of them, and the less there was of us, the more aggressive they became. And I'm saying that's true in the spiritual life. When you and I get alone, we get isolated. Satan sees that, and I'm telling you, the devils of hell get more aggressive. And they will eat us alive. And we need one another. And we need to stand with one another. And I'm still bitter at those guys for leaving me. I will never talk to them again. Does it make sense? So what's the thing? We need one another. We need to work through our differences. We need to work through our issues. We need to grow up, be spiritual Christians, be kind, spirit-filled And be what God wants us to be. And help each other. Amen or not? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I hope you use these thoughts from the book of Ecclesiastes. From a backslidden preacher, Solomon, but yet a tremendous truth. I pray you'd help us. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say tonight, preacher, that truth helped me tonight? And I see my role as a member of a church and as a brother and sister in Christ. I see my role as helping others, exhorting. And maybe tonight you see anew, your need of others. How we need one another. Does anybody say, preacher, that message helped me tonight? God spoke to my heart and challenged me. Any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. Now here's what I want us to do. I want us to finish out Mother's Day. We go into a new week. We came off some tremendous victories. Let's just pray and ask God to give us a heart for others, to die to self, love others. Exhort one another and invoke this truth of synergy in our homes, our marriages, our ministries, every aspect Let's find out, let's fill this altar and say, Lord, send revival. Stir us. Help us in this matter. I believe God will do it. Is there any here tonight say, preacher, I'm not saved? I'm not sure I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. You're concerned about that. I'd like to pray with you that God will help you settle that. Is there any like that here tonight? Preacher, pray for me. Not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. Are you at all? Now Lord bless this invitation. We do need revival. We need the moving of your Holy Spirit. We need the conviction of your Holy Spirit. And so stir us and help us to have faith in you In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.