Well uh we'll look at the book of Matthew and uh We're in Matthew chapter sixteen. We're going to start reading in verse 21. For the Word of God says, From that time forth Began Jesus to show unto his disciples that how that he must go into Jerusalem and suffer many things of the elders, chief priests, and scribes, and be killed and be raised again the third day And then Peter took him and began to rebuke him, saying, Be it far from thee, Lord, this shall not be unto thee. But he turned and he said unto him, unto Peter, Get thee behind me, Satan. Thou art an offense unto me, for thou savorest not the things that be of God, but those that be of men. And then said Jesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it. For what is a man profited if he gained the whole world? And lose his own soul. W what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this precious book that you've given us. Open our eyes and open our heart to you. And I pray that uh the message tonight will be one that uh will uh speak to hearts. We trust Lord that the picture will uh illustrate uh that which you would uh one and two and that uh the folks that see it and hear the message will uh be able to uh allow the Spirit of God to do a work in their heart So we thank you for the privilege of being here. Thank you, Lord, for this church and this pastor who've been so faithful. We thank you in Christ's name. Amen. And amen. If any man will come unto me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. I know several years ago the uh There was some guy that uh came through I think c came through Pittsburgh and he had a big cross on his back and he he was going across country as I remember. Anybody remember that And uh uh I don't know where he stopped at, but I don't think he made it all the way across the country. But anyway, dragging the cross, and that was uh that was him taking up his cross in a literal sense Uh there's uh some of you ladies have uh got some bagels on your bracelets and on your necklaces, little crosses and and uh That's that's nice, nothing wrong with that. Just hang in there, I'm not preaching on you. And uh and there some men may have something, you know, with uh with a cross on it, maybe a necklace or whatever But that's not what God's talking about when he talks about the cross. He's talking about uh something that's much more serious than that. And uh it's found in uh let's see, it's found in verse uh twenty-one, where it says, From that time forth began Jesus to show unto his disciples how that he must go into Jerusalem and suffer many things of the elders' chief priests and scribes and be killed and be raised again the third day So we have in that one verse the things that make up what the cross is. There's suffering is involved in the cross. uh uh being killed is involved in the cross. I noticed over in the Chapter seventeen in verse twenty it says, And Jesus said unto them. that if you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, you shall say into this mountain, Remove hence to yon place, and it shall be moved. And nothing shall be impossible for you. How be it, this kind goeth out but by prayer and fasting. But the verse I was really looking for is the following. And while they abode in Galilee, Jesus said, And the Son of Man shall be betrayed. That's one sign of taking up the cross. one element of it, betrayed into the hands of men, and they shall kill him, and the third day it shall rise. again. And they were exceeding sorry. So the the taking up the cross has to do with a willingness to yield oneself to God Yield to yourself and be willing to suffer. Be willing to be betrayed by those who are closest to you. And also uh the matter of death is always involved with that. And when you look at the real cross and how they they crucified those back in the days of Christ, why uh we realize that that's what the cross really was. It was a thing of torture, a thing of of uh h horrendous uh pain And uh it was a uh it that cross spoke of betrayal and it's it spoke of a lot of things in the life of Christ So the the the Lord is uh talking to his disciples here in the sixteenth chapter, and uh uh I guess he's he's not questioning their you know their sincerity of being a disciple, but he uses this word. He says, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. That's the three elements of being a disciple. It seems like that to today that being a Christian is such an easy thing Um people say I'm a Christian if they if they're Americans. You know, that's all you have to be is an American and you're a Christian. Uh People because mom and dad went to church, while they are Christian, because they were Christians, then the kids are automatically Christians And those are those are just things that that uh uh of course we reject totally. The only way to object Become a Christian is is what the the Word of God says when Jesus was speaking to Nicodemus and he said, You must be born again. That's that's how you become a Christian. Taking up your cross though is the next step It's one thing to know Christ as your personal Savior, but another thing to be sold out to Him where you can be called His disciple. If I was to ask how many of you are disciples of Christ today, there's some of you who put your hands up, and you may be or may not be, I don't know, but I'm saying that that uh uh We need to define this thing of of what a disciple is. Because that's what we're supposed to be. We're supposed to be disciples. Those that one who would deny self And take up the cross and follow Jesus Christ. So let's look at a few of the things that we just talked about. Excuse me. What is this matter of denying? So well it it has to do with just forgetting oneself, to lose sight of oneself and and one's own personal interests That's kinda hard to do, isn't it? Kinda hard to do. Uh to say it's not me, but it's you Uh when when uh two people enter into a marriage, that's one of the things that uh it is automatically understood, that uh they're willing to give themselves to each other And uh I know that's how it is with Nan and I. I'm always giving to her, uh it seems like If any man will come after me, let him deny himself. I look over in in uh Romans chapter uh chapter six that uh helps me with this matter of denying self. In chapter 6 of the book of Romans, he's talking about the old man, which is his old nature. And uh he says, knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him That the body of sin may be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin, for that he that is dead is freed from sin. Now, if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him, knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more, death hath no more dominion over him. For in that he died, he died into sin once, but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God. Likewise, likewise, now he's speaking to me. Likewise, reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed to sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Dead. Dead to sin. Uh you have a y a teenager. When these guys here look like candidates for that. And uh he's standing on the street corner and a and a good looking young lady st uh st uh walks by. And but she's not dressed like a lady. And we won't go any farther than that. But you know how how the young ladies sometimes dress in the summertime and And uh and so the boy he takes one look at the girl and uh his heart goes thump thump, you know, and his eyes go boing, boing like this. And uh I'm not talking about you guys at all, all right? I'm eliminating you at all. And uh and and that's that that's that old nature. That whole nature that every every man has, every boy has, and the young ladies are not exempt from that. And uh Then we take the take that same individual and get him saved. Now I'll use you. Okay. And uh so you have uh a young man now and he's saved, he's standing on the street corner, he's passing out tracks How about that? I mean getting really involved. And as the same girl walks by, dressed the same way. He looks at the girl, his eyes go, mm-hmm, whoop, wait a minute. And there's something that tells him, No, that's not right That's the Holy Spirit. He's the one that does the telling uh with your with your life. And uh at that very moment he just uh reaches in his pocket, he pulls out a a lily, and he puts it on his chest, and he says I'm dead. I'm dead. And uh that's what that's what a Christian has to do. When it comes to to sin, you're dead to sin, but alive To Christ. And so the first step on this matter of discipleship is a matter of denying self. Being willing to say to uh to self, uh, it's not you anymore. I'm not serving you anymore. I'm serving Christ now And so as we read on down there, let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body That ye should obey it in the lust thereof, and neither yield ye your members of instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourself unto God. As those that are alive from the dead and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God, for sin shall not have dominion over you. When we deny ourselves, then the old nature doesn't have anywhere to go. He has nothing to say about your life because he's dead. He has no power over your sin The next thing it says is if any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up the cross. Let him deny himself, take up the cross, and then follow me. But taking up the cross is a uh I liken it this way. When a person walks the aisle and falls down on his face and on his knees and and uh cries out to God and says, Lord, I I'm lost and and I don't know what to do with it except to to come to you and I I'm just calling on you and asking you to save me. And when that takes place, and the Lord saves that individual, as he gets ready to step away from the place that he's been kneeling, he looks right beside him and there's a cross there Now it's just an imaginary cross. It may be my imaginary cross, but I believe that there is symbolically a cross laying right at his feet. And the admonition then is to take up that cross and follow me. Taking up the cross, it's not easy. I remember when Nan and I f uh was first saved and and uh the church that we were belonging to there w the you know, there were good people there. My granddad preached in that denomination for uh forty or fifty years, something like that and And uh, you know, we were we were serving the Lord in there, but there was some things that just wasn't right where the money went and so forth, and and uh after speaking to the pastor about it, why we decided it'd be best for us to leave And so when we left, that meant we left all those who loved us and prayed for us to get us saved, uh, it meant that we left them. That was a hard thing Uh there was some things that s was said, you know, about why you leave and stuff like that and and it it hurts you inside because you know it's people that loved you or that you loved But uh that's part of of of uh uh denying self and taking up the cross. That's just part of being a Christian There's always going to be lies told on you, always going to be problems that are arising because of of man's old nature that still comes out every once in a while and and messes things up If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, the Bible says, and take up his cross and follow me. Take up his cross. Well, uh The Bible says in over in the book of John, chapter ten, it says uh My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hands. Don't you love those verses? Those are verses that you ought to put to memory so that you can uh quote 'em in the devil's face whenever he starts giving you a hard time My father, which gave them me, is greater than than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. I, my father, are one. Take up the cross and follow me. You're his sheep, you hear his voice, and you follow him. And then the third thing is this matter of f of uh following following Christ I remember certainly a bottle of water. Easy. Thank you. Uh I remember uh a friend of mine and I used to hunt up in the mountains here over in the Schellenberg and Stoyer area. And uh we always like to deer hunt. You know, deer hunting is pretty popular around here. And uh So we always look forward to that week in December. It was usually the first week in December that deer season came in. And we're always interested in, you know, finding out where the deer are going and where they're coming from and all that stuff. So we would get in the car that morning real early and sometimes it'd be maybe a day day or two before that to kind of get an idea of how the deer were moving. But uh I remember this one particular year it usually snowed up here during that time, you know that. And back we're talking back you know, a a lot of years. A lot of years when I stopped to think about it. And uh and anyway uh We were we uh uh that particular the one I'm talking about w uh it was uh we had about an eighteen inch snow. Now it's not not real big, but I mean that's enough to slow you down if you're walking uphill. And uh I remember, you gotta remember how when when I uh went hunting deer, I had an old Woolrich hunting outfit And uh it was uh uh if you know anything about that, uh it is really warm, but it's also really heavy. Especially if it gets wet, gets really heavy. And uh I had of course you'd have uh I'd have a pocket full of shells, you know. You have to have a bunch of shells And 30 odd six, you know, it have to be that. And then the other side there, or back in the back pocket back there in the back, why that's where you keep your thermos And then I had one of those nice big ones, you know, that bolsted out the back. But that coffee. You have to have coffee when you're out deer hunting And uh so I'd ha had all the I weighted down, in other words. And uh we came down this this uh down through the storyer area there and And uh we saw where a deer had come off the bank, you know, and w w cross the road and and went down over the hill and up on the the other side of the mountain And uh we decided that we find out we looked at this at the uh track and we saw that it was a a a good size track. So we figured it was probably a nice buck. There was one in that area we knew. And so we uh jumped out of the car, parked car jumped out of the car and uh Went over to where the tracks went down into the woods and and started out acros uh heading for the mountain. And uh uh I happened to be in front And so I started walking along, you know, and and uh I hadn't gone probably from here back to the the and I was going I mean snow is up to here And all that weight and everything like that, I was getting bogged down. I I didn't mention I had a rifle with me, right? And those things, you know, are seven, eight, nine, uh, twenty pounds, fifty pounds probably at least And uh uh I I g uh I mean, I got winded and I looked back at him, he's behind me, he's following me. And uh junior uh he had legs that started here. He was a long legged rascal. He was. I don't know why he was you know, but that's the way he was built. He had long legs and he's just walking along behind me, just shuffling along, you know. Like that, not a problem, not a f n nothing. And I said, You don't need that. Well, you get up here in the front and break trail for me for a while Now the s l the the story ended where we didn't get either we didn't get the deer. I mean one went one way and another went another way and we didn't get him. But the point I'm getting at is is this matter of of following Jesus. There's a reason for that. It's a very easy reason when you stop and think about it. He's breaking trail for you. I like the idea that that the Lord's out in front and and if I'm following him, as I'm supposed to be as a Christian, that uh he knows all the the the the problems I'm gonna have before I even get to 'em. And he's either got them worked out where they're not going to be a problem for me, or he's going to have it worked out where I can handle the problem and uh go right on serving him. So when he says uh if any man will come back to me, let him deny himself. My question to you is uh have you d really denied self? Uh You know, I I I I think about our country today and how our country is so materialistically or uh uh oriented Uh we uh you know things are so important to people's lives. And the older our nation gets, the more materialistic it seems to be getting It's not just something that's slowing down and getting better. It's not getting better. It's getting worse. Now Christians Christian lives uh a Christian ought not have this this matter of uh the material gains uh in our in our uh uh in our agenda, I guess you could put it Because we're supposed to be denying self. That means that uh instead of drinking that extra uh couple of uh of coke, I started to say beer, but no, I wouldn't say that here But instead of drinking those extra Cokes or eating that extra uh piece of pie or an extra hamburger, uh, you know, uh Put it in the missions fund. Take the money and put it in missions or I'm t I'm just talking about things that that you could do that uh would Uh say Lord it's not me. I'm more concerned about the other God than I am myself, because that's what denying self is. And then the the taking up the cross part, are you really willing uh to take the the arrows and the slings that uh the devil throws at you He's got a lot of devices out there that try to destroy Christian lives, try to discourage you, try to disappoint you, try to get you down, get you discouraged so that you won't do anything and you just get kind of lazy You know, we're we're living in a time when uh uh our description uh uh in the Word of God is that uh we've become lukewarm. Our churches are some of them are are becoming lukewarm. Now, uh this church will probably never get lukewarm. Simply because there's too much going on all the time around this place. And whenever there isn't anything enough going on, the pra pastor will fix you up and get you going on something You know, he's gonna do it. Any man will come after them, deny himself, and take up the cross and and follow me. God wants to break trail for you. He wants to be uh out in front uh leading the way and and you like a faithful sheep. Well listen through his voice and you'll just follow along because you know it's it's your Savior. I'm looking forward to uh that day soon that uh uh we'll be going home to meet the Lord And all of us have that to look forward to. You say, well I don't look forward to dying. Well nobody looks forward to dying, but we don't think about death. It's more of a sleep. You just go to sleep and wake up, and there's the Lord. If any man will come after me, name deny himself, take up the cross, and follow me