Me and turn to the book of Psalms towards the back of the of the book of Psalms chapter number one hundred and forty three Psalms one hundred and forty three And uh we think about young people tonight we have uh recognize those uh folks in our church that have graduated from high school and from college. We have a couple in each uh several in each category and And so we have a little recognition for that this evening and some gifts we want to give. And then of course this morning with the King's Kids Awards program and seeing what God's doing in their life and how they're developing I thought of Psalms 143. I actually read it in my devotions this week. And uh I thought I'd just share a few thoughts very, very quickly this morning from this passage. Look with me if you would at verse number 10. Let's see if I'm on here There we go. Verse number 10. It says, Teach me to do thy will. For thou art my God. Teach me to do thy will. What a great prayer. And let's have a word of prayer just quickly and share a few thoughts here very briefly. Father, please bless now these young people We're so grateful for their hunger for the Word of God and Lord the accomplishments they made in memorizing Scripture and bringing friends and being faithful to church. Lord, we're grateful for the parents. that were behind this and uh brought their children. Some allowed them to come on our buses and we're very grateful for that. I pray that all of us would view ourselves to some degree as a child in your presence, in your, in your eyes. Lord, we ask that you would teach us to do your will and apply this to our lives. I yield myself to you, Lord, my will. I present my body anew. And pray you'd bless. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Dr. Curtis Hudson was one of my favorite quote. I heard him say it years ago, and it stuck in my mind. It says this The successful person is the one who finds God's will and does it. That is success in life. To find the will of God for my life and accomplish that. I want us to notice here, he says, teach me to do thy will. My first thought this morning is this, the possibility of knowing God's will. Question is this, is it possible for you and I as individuals to know what God's will is for my life? Or do we just go through life blindly? Do we just go doing the best we can, making the decisions we make, and just hope in the end it all pans out okay? Is that the way we live life? Or can we find out, can we know what God's will is for my life And then actually accomplish that. Look at verse number 8. He says, Cause me to hear thy loving kindness in the morning. For in thee do I trust. Look at this. Cause me to. What's that next word? No, cause me to know the way wherein I should walk. Apparently David thought that it was possible to know the will of God. Apparently David believed that God could reveal to him exactly what the purpose for his life was. So the answer to the question is, can I know God's will? The answer is absolutely Every one of us here this morning, we can know that I am living my life in the will of God, fulfilling that purpose for which God created me. We can know that Paul knew that what he was doing wasn't the will of God. Over and over through the epistles, Paul said, an apostle by the will of God. A servant of God by the will of God. By the will of God. Paul knew that what he was doing with his life The direction he was going, the activity he was involved in, what he had committed his life to, that it was absolutely the will of God So Paul knew that. God expects all believers to know the will of God, to know that we're in the will of God. We're not going to turn to these verses. Let me give you just for reference. Romans chapter 12 and verse 2. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and verse 3. 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 18. Hebrews 10, verse 36. 1 John 2, verse 17 tells us that we can know the will of God for our life. God expects us to know what His will is for our life, and we can know it. How many people here think how many think folks here let's take a little vote a little poll here how many folks believe the preacher ought to be in the will of God Amen. How many people raise your right hand if you think the preacher would be in the will of God? Raise your left hand if you think the preacher should not be in the will of God. Nobody would think that. Father, we want a preacher. I don't want a preacher here in this church if it's not God's will. Hey, the preacher ought to know God's will and ought to be in it. Amen. Let me turn it around. Every person in the pew ought to know that you're in God's will, that you're doing the very thing God has created you to do Amen. Just as much as the preacher. Hey, uh the fella that and I'm not picking on anybody. I never pick on people, but um Uh I'm not picking on anyone, but let's say you got a truck driver driving down the road. I I'm of convinced from studying scripture, I'm convinced That truck driver ought to know and be assured that he is in the will of God for his life as the preacher stands behind the pulpit. The guy works under cars, the lady sitting in the office, uh the homemaker at home, whatever it is, we ought to be able to say in our heart, lay down at night and say, I know I'm exactly where God wants me to be. I know I'm doing exactly what God wants me to be. Now the question comes up, preacher, how do I know that? How can I know what God's will is for me? This is what I'm doing with my life. Maybe you're uh in school, finishing up school, and you're starting out your adult lifehood, uh your life And um you're saying, Preacher, how can I know that the direction I'm going by, how can I know it's the will of God? How can I be sure of that? Now that is not the purpose of the message, but let me very quickly Give you just some few general principles on how to know what God's will is for my life. Before I give them, let me say this. When we come to the Word of God, we need to understand. We're talking about knowing God's will. We come to the Word of God to determine God's will. We need to understand that this Bible was written for all people of all ages. Right? For thousands of years ago, if the Lord tarries for thousands of years to come. It's written for all people in all time frames. in all uh uh societies and whatnot. So in many ways the Bible on some things cannot be very specific And in some ways, in moral issues, the Bible is very specific. But in some other things, you can't be specific. For instance Um, we all know, uh when I make this statement, do not smoke a camel. How many people know what I'm talking about? Oh about camel cigarette, right? They used to be filterless. I don't know what they are anymore. I haven't smoked that brand lately. Um I've been talking about smoking a lot lately. But um uh so if God put in the Bible, thou shalt not smoke camels, in our society we would know immediately what he's talking about Imagine Abraham 4,000 years ago. God says, Thou shalt not smoke camels. He looked over at his herd of camels. It wouldn't make any sense. He'd think, you know, don't build a fire too close to the camels. The smoke will blow over and smoke them So the Bible in some ways cannot be real specific on something. Somebody says, how do I know what God's will is concerning the brand of toothpaste I use? You know? And so God's word is for all men of all ages, so therefore he deals often with principles Truths that apply in any situation. And so we go to the Word of God. Now, as I said, some things are very specific. Thessalonians tells us the will of God that we abstain from fornication. Alright, so that tells me it's very specific. I know what God's will is in that in that issue. And various things like that. But in some ways it's very It's more of a principle that I study and learn. What is the principle there? And then I apply that to my situation. So how do I know God's will? Preacher, how do I determine that what I'm doing, this is what God created me for? Let me give you just briefly, I'm not going to expound it. He's just given to you maybe another message we can preach on this. But first of all I need to, right from the get-go, understand that God does have a very specific will for my life Every single person here, doesn't matter what your age is, doesn't matter what your education level is, doesn't matter what your background may be, I'm telling you, God has a very specific plan and purpose for your life Regardless of the circumstances surrounding your birth, you are not here by accident. God has a plan, God has a purpose for every single life. That that child that person, individual, is conceived, and God has a plan. God has a purpose for that life to be fulfilled. So first thing I understand. It's the purpose of my life. Some people don't like that thought and get mad and cry. But um But anyway, so first of all, understand it. Hey, you're sitting there in that pew right now in your mind. I want you to think: you know, God has created me for a very specific reason, very specific purpose. Second thing we need to understand, if I'm going to determine God's will, I must, and this is very important, I must put my will aside if I'm going to know God's will. I need to say, Lord, I'm putting my will aside. I am willing to do whatever you tell me. I must approach God's will with that attitude. An attitude of surrender. I cannot come to God and determine God's will and say, Lord, this is what I'm doing with my life. What do you think about it? It ain't going to happen that way. I've got to come and say, God, Jesus prayed that in the Garden of Gethsemane. He said, not my will, but what? What was the Lord doing? He's saying, Lord, I'm setting my will aside. Doesn't mean he didn't have a plan, doesn't mean he didn't have a desire for his life. His desire at that point in time was, Lord, remove this cup from me That was Jesus' desire. That was his plan in that period of time for his life. But he said, nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. You're here this morning, regardless of what your age is, you have the rest of your life, you say, yo, you know, this is what I would like to do with my life, this is what I would like to see this, that, and I'd like to accomplish these things, but I want to know what God's will is for me Oh, God's my creator. He's the one that's given me this life and this body and this opportunities. I wonder what God's with us. I need to say, Lord, I'll set my plans, my desires aside. And I open myself up to you, and Lord, you show me what your will is. And when I approach God with that mentality, I approach God with that attitude then God will show me what his will is. So number one, understand that God has a very specific will for my life. Number two, I must uh Put my will aside if I'm going to know God's will. George Mueller. How many people recognize the name George Mueller? Great man of faith back in the last century, 1700s, I think, 1800 It was 1800s, urban London, had a children's home, great man of God. He said this. He said, I must lose my own will to learn God's will. And so we need to determine what God's will is. Understanding is a specific specific will for our life. Put my will aside if I want to know God's will. And here's the third one. Just quickly, I'm just touching on these. I must seek the will of God through the Word of God. I must seek the will of God through the Word of God. I do not believe. Please don't take offense. But I do not believe God's going to reveal His will to you through a dream. God is going to reveal his will to you and I through his word. Circumstances and other things out there, situations we find ourselves in. That may play a role, but primarily God is going to direct us through His Word. I cannot overemphasize the importance of the Word of God in determining God's will for our lives. I must come to the Bible and determine what God's will is. See, how do I do that? First of all, there must be prayer and Bible study I come to God's word, I pray, say, Lord, lead me and direct me, show me from your scriptures, and God will do that. There's many things that are given to us clearly in Scripture. concerning God's will for us. There are some basic things. Question, is it God's will for Christians to go to church? Sure. I read in the Bible in Hebrews, uh forsake not the assembling yourselves together as a matter of sum is. Alright? I know that's the will of God for my life, to be faithful to church and not forsake assembling together So I do that. Question, is it God's will for Christians to be a witness to others of the gospel? Certainly. Go into all the world and uh uh preach the gospel. Uh uh and over and over we're told to be a witness for the Lord. Be a witness for it. So I read my Bible, I pray, God wants me to be a witness So when church is, I go to church, I get out there, I try to be a witness, and we can go down through a list, the Bible tells us things that we're to do As we do those things, now here's my point, as we do those things that God tells us what very clearly what we should do, as we do them, then God directs us and leads us. into his plan and purpose for our life. Does that make sense? Everybody with me on that? That's why these little children We get the Word of God in their hearts and minds. We try and teach them what the Bible says we should do and shouldn't do. Somebody says, I don't like Christianity that has a list of do's and don'ts, then you wouldn't like the Bible very much It's a bunch of don'ts in the Bible. Don't do this, do this. The Bible has a bunch of things. And as we do those things that God tells us to do, we don't do those things that God tells us not to do Then day by day God leads us, directs us right to where he wants to be. You know what? If you'd have told me when I was twenty years old that I would be pastor of a church in Western Maryland, I would have said You are nuts, you're out of your mind, you're insane, you're crazy, you remind me of Ed Davis. Sorry, Ed, you were just right there. There is no way. But when I was 20 years old, I would never believe that. But when I was 20 years old, I'm not trying to blow my own trumpet, but when I was 20 years old, I really wanted to do at that point in time what God wanted me to do I've uh studying scripture. Well I felt like God wanted me to go to Bible college. In fact, I just had a hunger to study the Bible. I wouldn't plan on being a preacher or a pastor or anything of that, being a ministry at all. I was cutting meat You know, as a meat cutter. And uh but I loved the Bible, studied the Bible, was trying to do what God said, ended up at Bible college. In Bible college I tried to do what God said, tried to Avoid the things God told me not to do, and He led me and directed me and step by step by step as I did what I was a sp as I did what I knew I was supposed to do that day God directed my life into where he wanted me to be, doing what he wanted me to do. It's much like a, we've got some coal miners here, Brother John's uh studying to be a coal miner He's short, he can get down in there very easily. And um uh a coal miner, I don't know how they do it now, but years ago, they wear that coal miner's hat. Right? And they had that lamp right on the front of that ha hat there. And uh it's of course dark down in the coal mine. And so when he starts going down that coal mine, he turns that lamp on. The light goes on. Question, does it light up the whole mine all the way down to the end? No. All it does is gives enough light for his next step right there. And as long as he stops, walks in where that light is shining Then he makes it fine, and when he gets down there, he gets to right where he's supposed to be. Follow what I'm saying? I don't know what God's will may be for you in ten years from now, five years, one year from now, but I do know this, if you'll do today What you know God wants you to do today, in 365 days from now, if you keep doing that, you'll be right where God wants you to be. Follow what I'm saying? Thy word is a lamp unto my feet feet and a light unto my path The Bible will show me what I need to do today. And as I do what I know God wants me to do, God will lead me, God will direct me. In all your ways, acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. You do today what you know you're supposed to do, and you'll end up right where you're supposed to be. Just keep on doing that. So is it possible to know the will of God? Absolutely. God expects us to know the will of God. How do I know that? Alright, God, you've got a plan and purpose for my life. I'm set my will and plans aside. Maybe God's will will mesh with mine. The Bible says, commit thy way unto the Lord. He'll give you the desires of your heart So maybe God's will for me is that desire he's put in my heart? Maybe. But whatever, I lay my plan aside. I come to the Word of God. God, what do you want me to do? What are your plans for me? And God directs me and leads me step by step by step by step of the way. Now there's a lot of other factors involved in specific ways, but that's not the purpose of the message. Second thought I want to get to, and the last one is this David came here in Psalms 143 and verse number 10, and he doesn't pray that God shows him his will. David already had that settled. In verse 10, David knew what God's will for him was. Notice what his prayer is: Teach me to not know thy will, teach me to what? Do thy will. Ah. There's where the rub comes in. That's where we have our biggest problem. Not so much knowing the will of God But doing the will of God. David's not praying for knowledge here in verse 10. He is praying that he will be obedient to what he already knows. That word do there, teach me to do thy will. I highlighted that word do. And uh it has this idea, to accomplish, to execute, to perform He's saying, Lord, teach me to carry out that which I know you want me to carry out. Lord, teach me to perform those things you've instructed me I'm supposed to perform. David's struggle, apparently, in verse number 10, wasn't with trying to figure out what was right and wrong, what he should or should not do. That was clear. His struggle was actually doing what was supposed to do His struggle was not doing what he wasn't supposed to do. That's where he's asking God, teach me. Not to know your will. It's clear. You've given it to me in your word. I need you to teach me to do it. Often our biggest struggle is not in determining what God wants us to do, but doing what God wants us to do. I may be very well, I don't know, this is between you and God. But I may be talking to some folks right now, maybe an individual, a woman or a man, young or old. Right now I'm talking to you, and you know in your heart and mind God has made it clear what He wants you to do. And you're struggling with whether you're going to do it or not. God, y you know, maybe you're involved in some things that it's clear in Scripture. You know in your heart and mind I shouldn't be involved in there. There's some things you're not involved in your not doing, and you know in your heart and mind the Bible says this should be a part of your life. The issue isn't whether you know what's right and wrong, the issue is you're struggling with doing it And David said, Lord, teach me to do that which I know I should be doing. Teach me to do your will. That is generally where the difficulty is. People come in sometimes, say, Pastor, we need to talk with you. I got a situation or my wife husband and I or wife and I have a situation or I've got a situation and uh I I can I talk to you about it and they'll come in and sit down. You know what I found? Not always, but often, majority of the time It boils down to they know what they should do. He knows what he should be doing or not doing. She knows what she should or should not be doing Husband and wife know what they should or should not be knowing. The problem isn't ignorance. The problem is a willingness to do what they know God wants them to do. And David recognized that. And he said, Lord, teach me to do your will. Teach me to do your will. God, I know what it is. And the biggest struggle I have in life every day, the battle is to do what I know God wants me to do or do what my flesh wants me to do or do what the world wants me to do or do what others want me to do. God, help me to do your will. Teach me To do your will. I notice this is a prayer. It's a holy prayer. When you and I come and we say, God, teach me to do your will. We are asking for God to teach us to not sin. Right? God's will and sin are never compatible. If I'm going to do God's will, then it's going to be a life of holiness. It's going to be pure. It's going to be right. Preacher, I just don't know if I should go to that keg party Saturday night or not All the guys at work having a big party for Fourth of July and uh kegs of beer and there's gonna be rock and roll and dancing and I just uh wonder if it's God's will for me to go to that thing or not. You knucklehead, you know it's not God's will. God's will is never sinful. Hey, if that thing even smacks of sin God has nothing to do with it. So when I pray, Lord, teach me to do thy will, it's a holy prayer. It's a prayer for holiness. I had a guy come in my office years ago. Nobody here would possibly know him. Many years ago. He came in out of the blue. I never met the guy before. I didn't know him from Adam. I wouldn't know Adam from him either But anyway, he he said, Preacher leather, yeah, can I I got a problem? Sure, come on in. Sat down, he starts crying. I said, What's going on? I didn't know him He goes, preacher, I'm married. My wife's name's so-and-so. I didn't know her. He said, but I'm in love with this other woman I'm going to leave my wife. I'm going to go with this other woman. I'm going to divorce her. I'm in love with her. And that's what I'm going to do. I said, why are you talking to me? Well, I just need you to help me tell me what to do What should I do? I say, well, are you asking me if it's okay for what you're doing? He goes, well, I just love and he starts crying and he says I I know my wife, we've been married, we got kids, and I love this other woman so much, and I'm gonna divorce and uh just went on and on and on. I said, Listen, what do you want me to tell you If you're here asking me to tell you that to do wrong is okay, you ain't going to hear that from me You want me to validate what you're doing? You want me, I'm not going to do it. And I took my Bible and I showed him that what he was doing was wrong. It was sin against God. He claimed to be saved. What he was doing was wrong. It was sin against God. It was violating God's scripture. And I said, if you've come in here to ask me to say what you're doing is okay and to give my blessing on it, it is not going to happen. I said, now You go to enough churches, you'll find some preachers say that what you want to do is alright, but you'll never have God tell you what you're wanting to do is alright. So a prayer to do God's will Is a holy prayer. It's a prayer for holiness. I notice this, I put this down. It's a humble prayer. David is recognizing he needed God's help. David is recognizing he needed God to teach him to obey God He could not do this on his own. There was a deficiency in his own, in his own, uh, in his own determination and his own uh uh ability to obey God. God, I need you if I'm gonna be a good Christian, if I'm gonna be a Obedient to you. If I'm going to be in your will, I need you to help me. I need you to teach me, instruct me, prompt me, motivate me, drive me to do your will I cannot do it on my own. Again, comes to mind years ago a couple had gotten saved and baptized and they were having some struggles and whatnot, and they came and said, Preacher, uh we want to be good Christians Christians, we want to do right. And uh uh but we're having some struggles. Can can we talk to you for a little bit? And they came in and they told me different th situations and and they were sincere. I believe with all my heart they really want to do right Just some issues with the world and sinful habits and whatnot. And I explained scripture to them and prayed with them and told them some things they need to be sure and have in place. Daily Bible reading, family altar, faithful to church, some of these things, you know, get away from some of that environment where these things become. And finally uh the lady said this. She got a gr she grit her teeth. She made this determinate, determined expression on her face and she said Pastor Leatherman we are not gonna sin ever again we're just not gonna do it I'm gonna make sure we don't ever sin again I thought, wow. I told her, I said, you're setting yourself up for failure. I said, you can't have victory in and of yourself. You're not strong enough. I'm not strong enough. I said, you need God to give you the victory You know what happened? Family got away from the Lord, got out of church. Wild horses can't drag them back to church. They're separated, remarried, off as far away from God as you can get. We're not gonna we, we, I, me, us. Listen, it's not you and I. It's Christ in us that enables us to live for God So he says, boy, he sure is a good Christian. You know what? If he understands it, he says, you know, I'm not that great of a Christian, but I've got a good God living in me and working through me. It's the Lord does it. Lord, teach me to do your will. Lord, my heart is sinful. You know what? You know what, Paul? Apostle Paul. How many of you would say Apostle Paul's good Christian? Yeah, he's one of the greatest. You know what he said in Romans chapter 7? He says, man, I end up doing, and I'm paraphrasing here, he says, I end up doing the things I know I shouldn't do. And I don't do the things I know I should do. And I determine I'm going to do what's right and I end up doing wrong. And I determine I'm never going to do wrong and I end up doing right. He goes, Whoa, is me Who shall deliver me from this body of flesh? And he says this. Thanks be to God. Through our Lord Jesus Christ, I have the victory. He was saying, Lord, I need God to teach me. I need God to help me on a daily basis. That's where daily Bible reading comes in That's for daily praying, seeking the Lord, yielding my will to God. Fill me with your spirit, Lord. I need you to enable me to do your will. What a humble prayer. Hey, a proud Christian will never be able to accomplish God's will. Impossible. Well you get a preacher get proud, he's heading for train wreck. You let a Christian daddy get proud, he's heading for train wreck. Take heed ye who think you stand, lest what? You fall. We need the Lord. We can't do this thing alone. We can't do that. And Paul said that. Peter said that. John said that. It's a humble prayer. Those who know themselves the best think of themselves the lowest. We know what we are. Last of all, third, it's an honest prayer. It's an honest prayer. He needed something greater than himself to do God's will. He said, if I'm going to accomplish the will of God for my life, if I'm going to be a good Christian, if I'm going to obey God and be what God wants me to be, something greater than me is going to have to Make this possible. He recognized, he was honest enough to know, I need the Lord. I need the Lord. It was an honest prayer. He acknowledged God's will was superior to his will. In Jeremiah, and we won't take time to turn there. But Jeremiah, Jeremiah, God shows Jeremiah a potter. How many people know what a potter is? Guy with clay, you push that little thing, zzz what's that called? Spinning wheel. What is it? Potter's wheel. You know, that wheel that the potter has that spins. Anyway, he takes some clay, and in the illustration, he takes the clay and he says, the botter takes that clay. And when the clay is soft and pliable, he gets that thing spinning, and that potter can mold that clay into the very thing he wants it to be. But the problem is, he says, that clay gets hard sometimes. And that clay loses its What? Flexibility? Workability? It loses its p its plasticity. There we go. Hurry up, creature, get it to spit it out. And he and all of a sudden he can't mold that clay anymore. And the clay's determined, if it had a mind, it's determining what it's going to be, regardless of what the potter says. And he said the only thing he can do with that clay is smash it, destroy it. It has to start completely over. Listen, David said, Teach me to do your will. And by the way, David was a grown man at this point, probably a grandfather. He said, Lord, teach me to do your will. You know what he was saying? Lord, I want to be clay in your hand. I want you to mold me. Say, man, my mu my world is just spinning. Oh, maybe you're on the potter's wheel. Maybe God's trying to do something in your life. Maybe God's maybe you're going the wrong direction. Maybe there's some changes need to be need to be made. And God's spinning you and spinning you and spinning you. He's trying to accomplish his will in your life. Let's not harden our hearts. Let's pray like David, Lord, teach me to do your will. Our problem isn't usually knowing what God's will is. We know what God's will is, for the most part. Our problem is doing it. And I'm talking to some folks right now. In your mind, you're thinking God's Holy Spirit is saying, here's something I've been trying to get you. To do. You know it. You've not been doing it. It's my will, and I want to help you. If you'll let me, I'll help you Let's let the Lord have his way. Father, bless now. We pray for these little children that we would be able to instill into their hearts and mind this attitude of being pliable. Before the Lord. Help us as adults, parents, grandparents, teenagers. Help us to have an attitude of yieldedness, surrender. God, we know for the most part, we know what you want us to do. We know what your will is Teach us to do it, dear God. Teach us to do it. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. Now, this is between you and God. Please. I know this could be very personal in some ways. So we're not trying to pry in any way, but between you and God, this morning you say, preacher, yes, the Holy Spirit is dealing with my heart about some areas in my life, that God's will is. You say, I know it. I know it. And my struggle isn't knowing what I should be doing. The struggle is doing what I should be doing. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me. Be that father, that mother, that husband, that wife, that young person, that senior citizen. That God wants me to be. And you'd say, preacher, help me. Pray with me that God will help me do what I know He wants me to do. Any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher, yes, the Spirit of God. Has dealt with my heart. Very specific. I know what it is. I know what it is. God bless you. Many hands around. How about it? Any others? Yes, preacher. The Spirit of God has dealt with my heart. I know what it is Maybe there's some this morning who said, Preacher, I know I need to be baptized. I've been saved. I've not been baptized. I know it's God's will. I just need to do it. I just Need to do it. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I know I've been saved. I've not been baptized. I know that's God's will. There's other areas, reading Bible, whatever it may be. Let me ask one more How many would say, Preacher, I know God wants me to be saved? I know I need if I die now in my sins, I'd go to hell. You say, Preacher, I don't want to go to hell. I need God to help me settle this matter of where I die, where I go when I die. And you say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me. Settle this matter of my salvation. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I know I need to be saved I need God to help me settle this matter any at all. Father, bless our invitation time now. You know our hearts. I sold many hands I pray you'd help us come to an old-fashioned altar and just say, Lord, I agree with you. Maybe some of us need to come and just say, God, teach me to do this thing. God, help me. Prompt me to do this. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Just a few verses of invitation. Jennifer's just going to play a few verses. Come on now. You raised your hand. Why don't you