James chapter one in your Bible. While you're turning there, I'm going to ask a couple thought-provoking questions, and that's just all it is. It's just to get uh your the juices flowing, so to speak. James chapter one. Admittedly, we will look at some familiar verses, hopefully take a very in-depth view of them, and glean something that we need to appropriate to our lives this evening. James chapter 1, I'll get to the text in a moment, but let me ask a few questions and and I'll mention the topic as well. The topic tonight uh has lar it's something that affects Everybody in this room. This sign, this sign, doesn't matter. Young or old, um, it doesn't matter. A new Christian or a very seasoned Christian. It doesn't matter what walk in life that you're you find yourself in. This area pertains to every single one of us, including myself, and that's the area of temptation. I ask I want to ask a few questions just to get you thinking And you can keep the answers to yourself, but definitely make some mental notation about these questions and see what we come up with. Question one, again, we're talking about temptation. Number one, is it sin? To be tempted. Yes or no? Is it sin to be tempted? Number two Does God ever tempt you to sin? Yes or no Question three to get us thinking together scripturally, is everyone tempted in the same way? Yes or no? Maybe you're not completely certain about all of those questions, but let me just say by being short that all of the answers to those are no. And we're going to find out scripturally what is going on in this area of temptation. Maybe you're facing something like that right now. Uh chances are uh we have faced that sometime today. Maybe when I say temptation, there is kind of one thing that is paramount in your mind that sticks out. That's okay, that's why we're going to examine from the Word of God what the Bible says. So James chapter 1 Follow along in verse thirteen. Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. But every man is tempted When he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. Verse 15, then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin When it is finished, bringeth forth death. Verse sixteen, do not err, my beloved brethren. We got an interesting account here of This process of sin that takes place, something maybe that you find happens to you. We're going to look, examine tonight not only the process of sin But the prescription for success. Okay, I like to alliterate, so that's where we're going tonight. But I also want you to jet over. We're going to look at a biblical example of someone that we know is a saint of God and how they struggled with this very same thing. Unless you think I'm just sort of picking on you. We all deal with it. We're going to examine biblically. So hold your spot there, James. Let's pray. And then we'll get over to another spot. Father in heaven, I thank you so much. for instructing us in the way of godliness, that no matter what it is, you've given us instruction to overcome it And I pray with this specific topic of temptation that every one of your saints in this room tonight would be honest before with themselves and with you. Lord, I pray that you'd not only search our hearts and try us, but that we would make the appropriate changes that we need to in Christ's name. Amen. All right, you can turn over to Genesis chapter 13. Genesis chapter 13, we're going to examine the testimony. of a saint of God, we know that because there's a New Testament commentary on this very thing. Some of you may know where I'm going just because you've been Very faithful to your Bible reading. Alright, Genesis, maybe you've made your way past this guy named Lot. Lot got himself in a lot. of trouble. But I just read it and sort of made this connection in my mind when it comes to temptation to realize, boy, I d I pick on Lot and uh look down on him, but I go through a lot of the same things. And you're going to find that probably as well if you're willing to be honest. Genesis chapter 13, we know the account of Lot. Lot, when Abraham called, uh God called Abraham out of Ur of the Calades, Abram at that time, he left by faith, the Bible says, not knowing whither he would go. The interesting thing is Lot could have stayed, however, because his father had passed away, he said, you know what, I am going to believe Abraham's God, this guy that's calling to Abraham and call him I'm gonna believe him and he merched out in faith as well, not knowing where he would go. So Lot very much demonstrated faith in a lot of ways. We can't pick on him too badly But things begin to go a little awry when God blesses not only Abraham, but also Lot with a lot of herds, with a lot of cattle, a lot of livestock, a lot of money And then you remember there began to be a little friction that during that time they had to work to find a field that would be big enough and proper enough to uh for their cattle and livestock to graze and uh this thing became a little bit of a contention. Perhaps the herdmen of Abraham's Uh all his belongings were over here and a lot's over here, but it got so swelling huge that they passed over on the other side and there this word came to Abraham and it grieved him. Something had to be done I appreciate Abraham's approach that he deferred even to the younger and uh allowed Lot, his nephew, to have the choice. Where are we going to do? Well, we've got to do something about this. And of course you're familiar with that account, most of you, I'm sure. But look at uh verse number 9. Is not the whole land before thee? Separate thyself, Abraham said. I pray thee from me. If thou wilt take the left hand, uh Genesis chapter 13, verse number nine, if thou wilt take the left hand, then I will go to the right. Or if thou depart to the right hand, then I will go to the left. And Lot lifted up his eyes and beheld all the plains of the Jordan That it was well watered everywhere before the Lord. He destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt, as thou comest out of Zoora. Let me just stop here and say In the process while we're looking at Lot, and then we're going to get to the process of sin. But Lot clearly demonstrates that. You know the first step Lot took in this process of sin seemed Somewhat innocent. And that is that he looked. Okay, so he looked. He was given the choice. Not necessarily anything wrong with that. We all got eyes. We're all tempted. And we already answered that sin to be tempted is not sin. So here we see Lot looked. That was the first step. But unfortunately it didn't stop there. Look at verse number ten. Lot lifted up his eyes and beheld all the plain of Jordan, that it was well watered everywhere. before the Lord. Destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. We read that in verse number eleven. Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan. And Lot journeyed east and they separated themselves. one from the other. You know what I find happens next, not just in Lot's life, but in my life, is that when I look at something and I want it, whatever form that may take, then I actually begin to um hear like Lot does, lust. Notice the little tidbit in this passage about Sodom and Gomorrah. It says this that this was before God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. Can I say that like any city that's known for its crime in the United States of America, everybody knows it, and uh um that Sodom and Gomorrah were kind of like that. They made headline news of some a lot of depravity, hey, this isn't a good place to raise family. Lot knew all that. The herald had come to him. He knew that this wasn't a good place to live. But you know what he decided to do? He still entertained it. He still lost it and said I know that uh I'm looking and this over here is the land of promise and you know over here though is so well watered. It looks so nice. I think um I I know the cities are over there, but I'll be all right. I'm going to choose this way. And he went. We're not done yet. Abram dwelled, verse number 12, in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelled in the cities of the plain and pitched his tent toward Sodom. Abraham stayed his ground, but when the Bible says Lot pitched his tent toward Sodom, a tent is movable. Here's what happened. Lot said, I'll go this w I'll I'm looking at here. I think I like this better, even though there's some glaring warnings of problems up ahead. And I I'll just live over here, but I won't actually live in the city. But then it says that he pitched his tent towards Sodom. Isn't that so true of you and I if we're honest, that we begin to lean a little bit more, that we pick up our tent and say, Oh, I c I'm alright, I'll go a little bit closer Oh, I'll move a little bit closer. I'll move a little bit more this way. I'll move. And this process keeps going over and over. And next thing you know, look at um jump over to uh Genesis chapter 14, next chapter over. There's a little skirmish that takes place. Shetter Laomer and his Confederacy begin to attack Sodom and Gomorrah to plunder their goods. Where's Lot in all of this? Verse 12. And they took Lot, 14 verse 12, Abram's brother's son, who dwelt in Sodom. Oh, all I'm doing is looking. Oh, I'm doing uh it's a little bit of lust, okay, maybe not exactly where I should go. And then I'll just pitch my tent, I'm leaning. And next thing you know, where's he living? Right Right in the middle of those cities. You know, this account still is not done. And perhaps you're personalizing this like I did when I read this in my devotions already this year, that boy I pick on a lot, but this is the very same thing that I do on a habitual basis. Jump over to chapter 19. God's delivered some immense amount of promises to Abraham. You can look at that on your own time. But meanwhile, Lot In the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, what's he doing? God tells Abraham, I'm going to judge these cities, I'm going to destroy them for their filthiness. intercedes on Lot's behalf. Please don't do it for the righteous sake. And he whittles them down to ten. And still um God is willing to do that. The angel of the Lord said, Yes, if there are ten there, I I won't destroy those cities. But When God searched it out, guess what? He went into the city. He went to Lot's house, and there were not ten. The cities must be destroyed. And he urged Lot, you've got to get out of here. Um some of the uh some of the wrong kind of activity was already coming to their house and things were not good. They were trying to get in and all this stuff all these things should have been signs to law. I should have been out of here by now. But you know after he sort of pleaded with his relatives and they thought he was just mocking. Look at the sad commentary. Genesis chapter 19, verse 15. And when the morning arose, then the angels hastened Lot saying, Arise, take thy wife and thy two daughters which are here, lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of the city. And while he lingered The men laid hold upon his hand, and upon the hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two daughters, the Lord being merciful unto him, and he brought him forth and set him without the city. I just read this testimony of Lot because it clearly illustrates the process of temptation in our life. It starts with a look Then we begin to lust, then we begin to lean. Next thing you know we're living, we're participating in it. Maybe you've been doing it for years, and then we linger there and just kind of relish in it. And if we're not careful, we're gonna do the exact same thing with lust. But probably if we're honest, we have all been there, we've all done that. So um let me say this too. When we examine and you can turn back to James chapter one. James chapter one where we're at, we're gonna examine the process of sin, the process of temptation. What's going on here? We're gonna take an in-depth look. But when I mention um w this, uh when we go into this realize I'm not advocating sinless perfection. I'm not uh whittling down, reducing victory to our Christian life to some formula, not suggesting any shortcuts when it comes to dealing with temptation. But God does afford us in James chapter 1 almost a little bit of a microscopic view of temptation. Alright, so James chapter 1 Of course we already read them, but the Bible says when it talks about temptation, let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God, for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither is he the one that tempts you. But every man he's actually tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. And then when lust can is conceived, when it's born, it brings forth sin, sin when it is finishes death. Do you kind of see a little bit of a process going on? And if you carefully examine this, here's what I found in my own life. The more I understand this process, the more I can stop temptation where it's it starts. You know, I talk about a microscopic view. There's been a lot of advances in microbiology. This sort of thing fascinates me. I don't know if any of you have ever read modern science. magazines, that sort of thing. A lot of advances have taken place, but it's largely due to the invention of a microscope by his name is Antoni von Liebenhoog. I think is how you say it. But this contraption has opened up the eyes of our understanding to develop cures for sicknesses, improve sanitation. map out the entire human genome and we uh we have the atomic bomb because of our understanding of things that are microscopic. We uh uh one thing I even mentioned to the teens is that Um they're even working on developing a bulletproof vest made of this silk from a spider. All these things have taken place simply because They are we get a microscopic view, an in-depth understanding of what is not c so clearly seen with the naked eye. You know what I view, James chapter one, is a microscopic view of temptation. What's going on? When I'm tempted, when you and I are tempted, when you and I are going through this, maybe you're in this spot where I I've been many times before. I say, God, why do I keep falling? Why do I keep struggling? with the same thing. It might start with just understanding this process of temptation, of sin. Alright, so um uh i if you're taking notes tonight It actually is an acronym, so it spells something out. If you can spell TEMP, then those are major points. T-E-M-P-T. Alright, that's to help you remember. you and I to remember and understand what James is communicating here. You know something I mentioned this earlier that I'm not advocating sinless perfection. But I am saying this. The more we understand what James is getting at and make it real in our lives, the greater and more effective you'll be at understanding what's going on with temptation in your own life. So you've got that jotted down. The process of sin, alright? So uh process of sin, and we'll look at the prescription for success later. But there's a process to sin that takes place that we read about here. And you know what I say is that T, it starts with your thoughts. Thoughts. Alright, so T is thoughts. That's how I think about it And there have been many times when I'm tempted to do sin, and this very same thing goes through my eyes. Lord, I realize that sin starts with your thoughts. Proverbs 23, 7. For as a man thinketh in his heart so is he. There's a connection between your heart and your mind. Some places in Scripture they use it interchangeably. 2 Corinthians 10, 5, casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God. bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. James 1. 14. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust. That's basically the same idea as a thought. So here's what happens is that when you're tempted to do sin, and no matter what kind of sin it is, no matter how long you've been dealing with it, it really starts with a thought. It starts with you entertaining something If if Satan or your flesh can't get you to entertain something, then it's gone, it's stopped. There there's nothing there's no room temptation has for you Does that make sense? So when you're really dealing with struggling with temptation, something that you habitually fall, realize this that it's really starting with some thought that you're thinking that doesn't quite line up with the Word of God. And that's uh that's um also notice verse um James 1 14 when he's drawn away of his what's the next word own lust Do you remember my introductory question? Is everybody in this room tempted the same way? No. Not biblically. James 1. 14 says, everybody in this room has some of their own lust. We've got some basic things that we all deal with, but realize this, you've got your own set of struggles, don't you? You've got your own set of evils. And uh um that sometimes that gets you discouraged. You think I'm the only one that's tempted this way, but realize that's not the case. But um you do, you are tempted in a very unique way Your designer lust as I call them, the of your own lust, it's designer lust, kind of like designer clothes. Alright, some ladies, maybe there's a particular style store that you go to because Their designer clothes are what fits you best. You like them the best. Um designer clothes are designed for a certain particular fashion. for a particular purpose, for a particular kind of people. That's the idea of designer. In a lot of ways, God James is saying, listen, Christian, I understand that you are struggling with sin and that you're struggling uh you've got your own str uh struggles here, your own lust, and it's it's uh unique to you. Um but it's important to distinguish temptation as we mentioned earlier is not Sin. After all, Jesus was tempted, right? When he went into the wilderness, the Bible says the Spirit of God actually was the one who led him to be tempted. So we know to be tempted is not sin. I know a lot of teens who had beat themselves up. I mentioned that uh b before we came here, we were on staff at a Christian camp and w uh we were responsible for a lot of uh counseling and so forth. But I cannot tell you the amount of teens that came through that and even counselors, uh college students that were beating themselves up saying, this is the way that I'm tempted. This is what I'm struggling with. You know, when we realize temptation is not sin, uh then that's very liberating. When you realize just because a thought thought pops up in your mind doesn't mean that you you need to go forward with it. In fact, if you stop temptation at the thought, there is victory there Um we we can have victory um over our thoughts. We can claim our position um in Jesus Christ. We um we can maybe you've had some crazy thoughts pop up in your mind, wives, I'm just gonna get rid of my husband. There are different ways that I can think about it. spend it on a boat that I want, you know, some really ridiculous thoughts, crazy thoughts that may pop up in your mind that you know, oh boy, that where did this thought come from? This is absolutely crazy. And realize this, that if we stop temptation right there where it begins, there is victory there. So thoughts, T is thoughts, E is entertaining. Here's where it gets tricky because this is where sin actually begins. We begin to entertain it. We look at the testimony of Lot. There's nothing wrong with him having been given a choice by Abraham. But the fact that he he lusted and and he d chose based on even despite what the warning signs ahead, he he lusted you entertain You can uh look and you can have thoughts that pop on your mind, but then you begin to entertain them. That's when thoughts become sin. Um keep this in mind that this is where sin begins. Sin begins in our mind. The pun is intended there. That lust is conceived. It brings forth s sin. We use the illustration. A child that is conceived and begins to grow. You begin to entertain. But then it doesn't stop there. Then you begin to meditate on it. So again, this is to help you out. When I go through temptation, what is going on here? James, what are you getting at? Why are you telling me lust conceives and brings more sin and sins is finished and my own lust and all these things and so thoughts are bad? What do you talk? So you you begin to th thoughts and then you begin to entertain it. Then you begin to meditate on it. That's different than Entertaining it. That's different than allowing it not saying no to it. Not saying no to it is still sin. Um even if it's only up here. We haven't gone through with it. But when you begin to meditate on it, it looks kind of like this Jesus said that it's not just a man looks or not just that a man commits adultery with a woman, but that he looks at her in his heart. He's committed adultery in his heart. It's not just that your um the murders are bad and deserve to be sentenced and so forth, but it's that when you have anger in your heart towards somebody bitterness that at the right moment you would do something you would fully regret. That's that's meditating. Meditating means that you uh it's a same word as play act Some of you enjoy acting and movies and that sort of thing, and there's some dynamic actors and actresses out there that get into their part and do a great job, but meditating is kind of like that, that they get into the part When you begin meditating, that means that you've taken a step past entertaining, and now you're saying with that sin, oh I'm meditating and I'm thinking how I can get away with that I'm thinking uh how maybe I'll confess it later. I'm thinking that nobody will know about this. I'm I'm thinking about what this looks like. I'm thinking about um what I'm gonna say to that person. I think about uh how I'm gonna get back at this person. I think about um what I would do with this person. All sorts of things. That's when you begin meditating. You begin rehearsing it. You begin acting as though you were already there. That's a problem. But James is saying if you're willing to recognize that's just the process of sin. Then you'll take a step back and say, whoa God, I I realize I've already entered in this and confess it and get it right. But then you know I find that it doesn't stop there often, unfortunately. We begin to practice that sin. P is practice. So thoughts, entertain, meditate, practice it. Have you ever been in this place in your life where you look back, maybe you got to go back several years, and you say, How did I get here? How am I like this? How is this possible that I feel this way? And then you begin practicing and And and maybe it stayed up here for a while and then now it's gone into actual practice. And uh that James is saying, listen, there's a process to sin. And then T is here's what I find is that you train yourself to do it over and over again. I probably have given this illustration before, but I did a lot of cross country And one uh thing that I didn't like to do, our coach would have us run on the track, but I asked the coach, would that be okay if I kind of do my own track and map it out, the distance? and so forth. And he said, yeah, that's totally fine. I just want you to log in your miles. And so I thought, great, that's pretty cool. Well we lived in some uh country area and there were a couple of patches of woods and stuff over there. And I just didn't like going round and round and round, especially when you gotta run like six, seven miles. That's like a lot of times around you feel like a little gerbil, you know, going around. And then sounds like you know what And we decided I I decided to map out I had it all mapped out this co uh course over the country, a little bit uphill, and then uh through a s a patch of woods and all this stuff. And um so I I Uh started off my run. I stretched out and got to running and timed myself and made my way. I got to the woods and um once you get to the wooded part there was a huge uh tree limbs stuck in the way and it was kinda a little bit muddy and then there were a lot of weeds built up in certain spots and so I was trying to run through and avoid all these things. A couple limbs were overhead I remember and so I uh you know, at one point I actually had to stop and sort of make my way through. But then here's what I found is that the next couple days that I did it, that muddy turf where I was sploshing and slowing down and my shoes were getting muddy Now it was uh padded down and I moved the limb out of the way. I kind of knocked a couple branches free. The weeds that were s sort of slowed me down as I was running, they got matted down, and um my uh my time started going down more and more And the more I ran that same path over and over again, the easier it got. Pretty soon my time was about the same as I would and I started trying to work toward getting a better time. But you know that that sort of taught me a lesson that The same way sin is, that the more we run that same course, the easier it becomes, doesn't it? At first it was very hard, and there were obstacles to overcome. Now you do it and you don't even really think about it. Don't let that surprise you. James gives this process of sin, that this is what's going to happen. That it starts with your thoughts, then you begin to entertain, then you begin to meditate, then you begin to practice. Next thing you know, you're training yourself to go down that same path every time. I give a little bit of illustration kind of in reference to this microscopic view that James affords us in James chapter 1. is that um hopefully it's your desire, my desire to uh cease from sin. But many of you are familiar with history. Um you remember the bubonic plague. It swept through Europe, and I read some statistics, claiming 50 million lives. So devastating the effects of this disease that it became known as Black Death. It was actually a baculus called your synapestis. They know that now. because of under a microscope what exactly killed all those lives. But this bacculus would travel mnemonically, that is in the air from person to person, very dangerous. It also would travel in the bite of infected rats and um fleas. Both of these pests were found everywhere in med medieval Europe, but they were particularly at home aboard ships that were all across um these seaboard uh European port cities, one after another, cities swept and people succumbed to the Black Death. You know, when they understood the process of this deadly disease, they could stop it a little bit more effectively before it consumed a person's life. What James is saying here is, if you can understand this microscopic process, the nitty-gritty of what's happening in this process of sin, you could stop it from devastating your life And for just a few quick moments, I want to give you the prescription for success. I think it's uh uh not wise to Just leave it there. I understand that James says, hey, listen, this is what's going on. This is what you have. And certainly when I understood that, wow. God, I'm I realize my thoughts are responsible. Me thinking wrong things, me going down the wrong path, me entertaining the wrong things and Meditating and thinking about this is what stopped me. This is what's uh why I keep falling, this is why this temptation is taking me by surprise, this is why I can't seem to get any sort of victory. Well, uh I'm going to give you another acronym, pray Alright, that's kind of uh generic, I understand. Prey. Alright, so P-R-A-Y. And I do this um and I've challenged team groups with this before simply because it it sticks in our mind And that's what my hope is tonight, is that you'll leave here and at least remember, hey, there's a process of sin, tempt, and uh thoughts, entertain, meditate, practice. and then you train yourself and then also pray and that is that you um and we'll we'll go through that so the prescription for success. Pastor Brett, how do I deal with this? If that is me, and I'm honest to say I have been stumbling over temptation, the same temptation for many years, or I've got entered into a new temptation, and I can't believe I'm here. What in the world is going on here? Hold on a second. Pray. And P stands for, I don't know if you're allowed to do this, pray. But here's what I found. People don't usually pray the right way when it comes to praying to temptation. What do I mean by that? For instance, we entertain a sinful thought and we tend to pray, God deliver me from this. And sometimes we'll quote 1 Corinthians 10 13, there is no temptation taken me, but such as is common to man. But God is faithful who will not suffer. Ooh, that's nice. Me to be uh tempted above that which I am able, but Well, with the temptation, make a way for me to escape. You know, there's a little bit of a time sensitivity when we pray that prayer. It's possible that we've already entertained it. And made up our mind while we're quoting the promises of God. Did a little bit of research, um, that um Fighter jets kind of fascinate me as well. I think that they're really neat, but there's been a lot of study on the ejector seats in fighter jets. This can mean life and death for these pilots obviously so they want to invest a lot of research into and they've undergone much improvement. But do you know that in order for uh ejector seat to work properly, there has to be thirteen automatic functions that need to deploy almost simultaneously and accurately in less than two seconds of time. If any one of those functions malfunctions, the pilot is dead in various ways. But because of the improvements in this ejector seat technology, now we're experiencing ninety percent survival rate with Jeff I don't know about you, but that's kind of neat. But here's what I read is that there's a time sensitivity to that ejector. See that is if you a pilot gets too dangerously close in elevation too to the ground traveling at too high of speeds, even with that rapid deployment, that ejector seat is not enough to Allow that pilot to escape. When it comes to the promises of God and we pray, God deliver me, there's no temptation, there's a time sensitivity to that And realize that when you stepped into temptation, we don't quote that promise and beg God and say, you know what, God, you're said you promised to deliver me. And that there's not a temptation that's too big for me to handle. And yet here I am stumbling every time. This is your fault. Well hold on a second. If we're not if we're honest, sometimes that's the way we think. But realize we probably have already entered into this area of and what we God is saying is you need to pray and ask for forgiveness rather than pray looks something more like this Um let me also say this, that I've noticed this that um happens in my life and uh some people that we counseled here at at camp when we were working on administration there that um when we know we've sinned we also try to impress God with how sorry we are. don't we? You know it's kind of interesting that it's just we we come to God for and we'll confess to him, but in some ways we still hold on to it, don't we? We feel like we got to show God how sorry we are. Maybe we'll run to our Bible and begin reading it and say, see Lord, or something of that sort. Do you know God gets most glory when we pray and just leave it with us? them when we confess and say, God, I'm not trying to impress you. I'm going to glory in your forgiveness. Listen, even this week I've had to do that and just turn to God and be honest and say, God, I'm praying to you right now. I don't know what else to do. I'm turning to you. I need that. So what what does um concerning sinful temptation, what does effective prayer look uh look like? Well, it's prayer for deliverance. God deliver me from that. I don't even want anything to do with that. It can be prayer for discernment. Maybe Bible verses to help you. Maybe people, places, activities to avoid. It can be wickedness of your own heart. God revealed that to me. It could be counsel from somebody spiritual. Pray for those things, for discernment, for deliverance from those things. So P is pray. R is this. Reckon. Reckon. It's an old-fashioned term used a lot in your New Testament reckon is the word logismi or logic Where we get logic. That means it makes sense or it logically follows. So if God promises you victory, if God says to do this thing or to not do this thing, And you need to reckon, and one of my favorite verses is Romans 6. 11. You could jot that down without turn there. But uh uh here Paul writes, likewise, reckon ye yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin. But alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. You know, when I deal with temptation, it helps me to not only pray, God, please deliver me from this, and I'm tired of going down the same road again, but also to reckon and say Whoa God, I'm that sin uh you paid the penalty for, you've given me victory. I'm I'm up here and I don't need to obey that. I don't need to keep doing that. That I'm dead to that very sin. We don't need to use the illustration of a dead person, but a dead person doesn't participate in any form of activity and and likewise we're dead to that sin. I I uh sometimes I just have to rehearse over and over in my mind God, I just believe that I am dead to that sin. I am dead to that sin. I don't want to go there any longer. I don't want to be there. That's not who I am. Reckoning yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin. A lot more could be said. But 1 Corinthians 10. 13, realizing Jesus says this, there is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. God is faithful. Reckon that to be so. God will make a way for you to escape. Maybe you're going through it right now. God, there's just no way. Well, hold on a second. Reckon. God says, I've given you all that you need to escape. We just need to be willing to reckon upon these spiritual truths. And then lastly, here we're uh P-R-A is a void. Sometimes we need to avoid certain things. Sometimes we need to avoid Proverbs 22. 3 says, A prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself, but the simple pass on and are punished. Maybe it's this is you tonight. If you're again if you're willing to be honest before God, you say there's just some things that you need to be willing to to avoid. It could be I wrote this down, it could be places, people, or ponderings. I find that a lot of that is what causes me to stumble. Some things that I need to avoid. It might be certain places, some things, some activities that you do, uh places you go. It could be certain people. that when you're around them, that they make you struggle, it could be certain ponderings, certain line of thinking that leads you down the wrong path. And you know what I'm talking about Your spouse begins to say certain things that you know they know it bothers you and and uh you think, oh well if that's the case then I'm just gonna and fill in the blank. And d we follow certain ponderings, don't we? God says you've got to avoid that. Uh you you gotta be willing to be man, uh d I'm not even gonna think about I'm not I can entertain that. I know that's what so-and-so did to me. I know so-and-so said this about me. I know that this is what happened to me. Or I I know that this is what I struggle with. And um Whatever that may be, you may need to avoid some of those things, avoid some of those ponderings. You don't have to entertain every thought that comes into your mind. But I find that that sometimes that's exactly what we feel like we have to We have to entertain it and then uh mow it over and then say, Oh, I'll cast it down a little bit later. And God says, No, that's not at all what I want of you. Then I want you to avoid certain things. Um, just sort of like Joseph ran. You remember in Genesis, Joseph didn't stick around to reason with the woman that was trying to get him to lie with her. He ran. Job eschewed evil or hated, despised, didn't even want to be near it. Um and you think about bad examples like David sin with Bathsheba that he should have been a certain place on the battlefield. He should have been um uh where uh his place of responsibility but instead he was uh uh uh on the top of his household and he saw looked over saw Bathsheba and In the wrong place, not he should have avoided that and not even ha had to deal with that temptation. Why is yield? So pray. Reckon, avoid, and yield. This one's pretty simple. Yield. Galatians 5. 17. This I say then, walk in the spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. That is probably one of my favorite promises in all the Word of God because I've got a guarantee from God. If I'm just willing to surrender my own stubbornness and temptation to to him and say, God, I yield myself to you. I don't know what else to do. I'm struggling with the same thing over and over again. Or this is is tempting me right now and and I don't know what to yield to him. I've shared this before in a challenge about our thoughts, but you realize that the average person has 70,000 thoughts per day. That's a lot of thinking. That's thoughts that pop up, thoughts that linger, how we think. It's about 3,000 per hour, 50 per minute, just under one per second. With all these thoughts coursing through our brain each day, far too many to bring into captivity to Christ on our own, that's where we need to remember this battle is spiritual. We need to yield ourselves to God and just say, be man enough, woman enough, the woman of God, the man of God, to say, I cannot do this on my own. I am yielding myself to you. Philippians 2. 13. It's God that works in you or energizes you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. He helps uh not only helps your doing, but your desires as well. I love that about my God that God is interested in us getting victory over temptation and us understanding what is going on, why am I tempted this way, how to understand it, and then also to conquer it. We'll pray and then have our invitation. Father in heaven, I thank you so much for your word. And I pray that This would be a challenge to your people tonight. And not only that we would hear truth, but that we would change and make the appropriate changes that you spoke you've spoken our hearts tonight about. God, I know so many times You've dealt with me about this area of temptation, and I know these are familiar verses and passages, but Lord, I pray you do something that that I can't do, that nobody else can do, and that's work in in each of our hearts and lives. And help us to be honest as we go to this specific in Invitation time we ask in Christ's name. With your eyes still closed, head bowed. Let me ask just a couple questions. The challenge tonight has been directed toward Christians. But is there somebody in here tonight where you're not certain that Jesus Christ is your Savior I know we're looking at a Sunday evening crowd, but that doesn't mean that there's somebody in this room that may be struggling not just with temptation, but with assurance of salvation. Pastor preached on that this morning. But I just wonder, is there anybody that would be honest enough to say, Pastor Brett, God, I'm not sure that I'm saved. I'm a little concerned about that. Would you raise your hand, put your hand up, and you can put it back down. I'll pray for you. Anybody like that? Then I assume everybody in this room knows Jesus Christ in a personal way. You know Jesus Christ had to deal with temptation. He understood what was going on. Now it's our turn to understand that God affords us a microscopic view. of what's going on in this area of temptation. Who would say, Pastor Brett, I um I I'm not only here, this challenge tonight, but I needed it. I've been struggling with temptation. Struggling isn't sin. It means that there's battle going on there. That's a good thing. Jen and I talk all the time about that. That um where there's struggle, that's a sign of desire and of life. There's nothing wrong with that. But you say, Pastor Brah, I have been struggling with temptation. This particular challenge, this lesson on temptation, that has helped me, and by God's grace, I want to implement some of these things. Would you raise your hand? Put your hand up Very good. Anyone else like that? Christians that are interested in handling temptation properly? I appreciate that. What we'll do is we'll pray and I encourage you to pray as well, and then we'll have our invitation give you an opportunity to respond as God's spoken to your heart. Father in heaven, I thank you for speaking to individuals only the way that you can. And I pray that as your people make certain decisions tonight, that you would be glorified. Help us help 2018 for us to experience victory over sin and temptation that perhaps we haven't been if we're on honest up to this point. Pray specifically for those that raised their hand and and expressed that this has been a challenge to them tonight. God, every time I examine this passage. and the testimony of law I'm challenged in my very own life. So I pray we would make appropriate changes for your honor and glory. In Jesus Christ's name we pray. Amen. We'll stand at