Second Peter chapter one. I want to read just verse number uh six here. Second Peter chapter one. Actually, I want to read the context here. So if you'll Listen quickly. I will get through this quickly. Notice in verse number five, the Bible says, besides this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue. And to virtue, knowledge. And to knowledge, temperance. And to temperance, patience, and to patience, godliness, and to godliness, brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness, charity For of these things, the things he just listed there, if they be in you and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. I want to talk about In a little bit of time we have, I want to talk about temperance. And so let's pray together and ask the Lord to bless. Father, we ask now you would speak to us from your word. It's been a good day. Help us finish out this Lord's day, and as we go in a new week Help us finish this out close to you. So prepare our hearts. Speak to us. I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will and present my body anew that you would be able to speak through me In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I want to make two statements about the Christian life real quickly. Number one, the Christian life begins and ends with faith We're saved by faith. We walk by faith, not by sight. We can never overemphasize the importance of faith in the Christian life. Number two, the Christian life is a lifelong growing process. Some of us some folks here in the auditorium, you've been saved for a long time. Some of y'all have been saved longer than I've been alive, I think. And uh it's getting longer all the time. But um but we haven't stopped growing, have we? We never arrive. We never reach that point where we're not still growing. And not until we get to heaven to be with the Lord. We're growing, growing, growing. And here, Peter is giving us in these verses I just read, he's giving us the necessary ingredients to be a mature Christian, to be a fruitful Christian, this growth process. I believe we have here what I read down through there, add to your faith virtue, the virtue knowledge, knowledge temperance, and down through there. I think it's the eight characteristics of a mature Christian. If you ever wonder, if you ever ask yourself, am I a mature Christian? Have I reached a point of a degree of maturity in my Christian life? Well study these eight things mentioned here. If they're true in your life, then that would be characteristic of a mature Christian. And he comes down through there and he mentions temperance. Now we looked at virtue and we looked at knowledge and tonight I just want to quickly touch on this virtue of temperance. Temperance. The word temperance means the ability to control myself. It means it's talking about self-discipline. A number of years ago, many years ago, I announced on a Sunday morning that I was going to declare The person in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that has given me the most difficult time in my time as a pastor. The person that has been the biggest problem to me as a pastor. And that night I announced that Dennis Leatherman was the one that had given me the most trouble in my life. Discipline Self-discipline. Self-control. He says we're to add to it when we trust Christ as Savior, we exercise faith in Christ, we trust Him our Savior, we're supposed to add to that virtue. We're supposed to start living right and doing right. Then he says, add knowledge, learn of the Lord, learn what the Christian life is about, learn the Bible. And now he says, add to that This matter of self-control, this matter of discipline. I believe self-control is one of the most important areas of the Christian life Being able to discipline myself, being able to control myself. I think I uh folks, and I praise the Lord for it. I'm grateful for our church, but folks uh for the most part are very very responsive to the preaching of the word of God. And we give an invitation and folks respond and I tell you that's a good that's a sign of a good healthy church Well, folks are tender-hearted and responsive to the word of God when it's preached. But I'm telling you this, a decision for the Lord without self-discipline Is uh is uh simply a hollow decision. You follow what I'm saying? I mean, I can make this decision, but if I'm not disciplined enough To follow through on that decision and carry out that decision, it's just a hollow, hollow event Discipline, self-discipline is so important in a Christian life. A commitment to Christ without self-control is simply words Dedicating myself to the Lord Jesus Christ without self-discipline is simply going through the motions. So discipline is one of the most important areas of the Christian life, self-discipline. I think self-discipline is one of the most difficult areas in the Christian life. To control ourselves. We we don't have time to do everything. We could spend a month studying this. But if you'll study Romans chapter seven very carefully, did you know That the Apostle Paul, the great man of God, the Apostle Paul, struggled with self-discipline. He said, the things that I would do I end up not doing. And the things that I would do, I find myself, uh uh the things that uh boy I butchered that, didn't I? Um the th let me put it in in Leathermanism The things that I know I should do, I end up not doing. The things I know I shouldn't do, I end up doing. Can I get a witness? Anybody here relate to that? You know what he's talking about? He's talking about discipline. That old nature, keeping that old nature at bay. Keeping that old sinful nature under the control of the Holy Spirit. I'm telling you, self-discipline. There's no success in the Christian life without temperance. Without self-discipline. We have got to have that. It's one of the most important areas of the Christian life. It's one of the most difficult areas of the Christian life. Let me give you a couple thoughts here, real quick. Number one, this matter of temperance, self-discipline, it applies to all areas of life. Discipline in the details of life, those things that seem insignificant, those things that don't seem that big a deal. If I can discipline myself in the details of life, that is just as important as disciplining myself in the big areas of life. I tell you where most Christians fail. It's not in some big mass of sin. It's in neglect of some small duty as a believer. The disciplines, the disciplines of life, the details of life, discipline in the details of life. For instance This matter of our thoughts. We ought to be disciplined. We ought to have temperance in the matter of our thoughts. Take your Bible with me real quickly, if you would. And uh come with me to 2 Corinthians chapter 10. Again, the Apostle Paul. He's writing to the church at Corinth. They had a problem with spiritual discipline. Now, this is his second letter. They're getting things straightened out. There's a revival taking place in the church at Corinth 1 Corinthians, he dealt with a lot of nonsense going on. They responded in faith positively. They corrected it. Now notice in chapter 10 of 2 Corinthians, notice what he says in verse 3. He says, though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh. In other words, I'm in my body, but my spiritual warfare does not have to do physically For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, that means physical, fleshly, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. Now look what he says: casting down what? Where do imaginations take place? Our mind. Our thoughts, our brain. He says we pull those things down. That those thoughts start getting out of hand. Those starts start getting those thoughts start getting off track. We cast them down, we pull them down. You know what that is? That's temperance. That's self-discipline in my thinking. He goes on. Look what he says That every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God. And look at this. And bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ I put in the margin of my Bible, controlled thinking. That's temperance. We need to control our thoughts. Proverbs chapter four and verse twenty-three says, Keep thine heart with all diligence. That's self-discipline Don't let my mind get carried away. I like what Dr. Lee Robertson said. He says you can only have one thought at a time. Make it a good one. Try and think of two thoughts at once. You can't. Make it a good one. You know what he's saying? He's saying, control your thinking. Spiritual victory begins in the mind, and spiritual defeat begins in the mind. 2 Philippians chapter 2 and verse 5 says, Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Let this mind, you know what he's saying? He says, control your thinking. Get the mind of Christ. Think the way Jesus thinks. So all areas of life need to be brought into control, need to be brought under temperance. Our thinking. How about our words? Turn with me, if you would, quickly, to James chapter number three. If you knew how far I was in my notes, you would be very proud of me. I mean, we are sailing along, but I hope God's using it. James chapter 3, and notice with me if you would verse number 2. James 3, verse 2. For in many things we offend all. Boy, we end up making a mess, don't we? One person said amen to that. How many people here said, preacher, I'm pretty good at making a mess of things? Yeah. I've I said before, if uh we ever renamed the church, I'd call it Messed Up Baptist Church. Because we're just a bunch of messed up people saved by God's grace, amen or not? In many things we offend all. If a man offend not in word, the same as as a what? A perfect man, man, if you can control your words, you're uh about a perfect man. He goes on And is able also to bridle the whole body. In other words, he's saying if you can discipline and control your tongue, you can control the rest of your body. Behold, we put bits in horses' mouths that they may be obey us, and we turn about their whole body. Behold, also ships, which though they be so great, are driven and driven with fierce winds Yet are they turned about with a very small helm, whithersoever the governor listeth. Even so the tongue is a little member and boasteth great things Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth. Look at this. And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. So is the tongue among our members that it defileth the whole body and setteth on fire the course of nature. Look at this. And is set on fire of hell. He's describing our tongues. For every kind of beast and birds and serpents and of things in the sea is tamed and hath been tamed of mankind, but the tongue can no man tame. It is an unruly evil full of deadly poison. How many people here ever got yourself in a mess because you you used your tongue? How many people ever, let me ask you this, maybe this is a little too personal. I wonder how many of us ever lost a relationship with someone because we didn't control our tongue. I wonder how many of us have hurt somebody because we didn't discipline our tongue. It's set on fire of hell. Listen, Peter is telling these believers, he said, you need to learn temperance. You need to learn self-discipline in your thinking. And in your speaking and in your tongue. Ever hear this statement, loose lips sink ships? World War II, they would say that. Man, don't be talking, Navy guys, don't you be running your mouth about what we're doing. The enemy will hear it, you'll sink some ships. Loose lips sink ships. I I put this down. Loose lips sink testimonies. Or how many people You know, I I could ruin in five minutes a testimony I've tried to establish for the last 30 years by an uncontrolled tongue I could use words that are not appropriate for a Christian and hurt my testimony in such a way I would lose people's respect. Am I right or wrong? Loose lips sink testimonies. I put this down, loose lips sink relationships You can work on building a relationship with somebody for years and in one uncontrolled conversation damage that relationship that may never recover. I'm telling you, we gotta learn to discipline our tongue. Amen or not. Um Our words are where our sinful nature manifests itself most plainly. Our tongue betrays the fact that we are sinful beings. Our tongue is where that old sinful flesh nature, that old depraved nature, our tongue is where that becomes most evident, the way we speak and how we speak. Our words are where our sinful nature manifests itself most plainly. I put this, the other side of the coin, our tongue is where the Holy Spirit's filling manifests itself most plainly. Book of Acts says, and when they were filled with the Spirit, they spake the Word of God with boldness. The filling of the Holy Spirit affects how we talk. So Peter is writing and he says, listen, add to your faith, virtue, add to virtue, knowledge, but listen, you need to add to that temperance. You need to learn to control yourselves, discipline yourselves. How about in this matter of passion and desire? I'm just I'm not I'm butchering this quote, so don't rebuke me for this. But Proverbs 1632 says, a man that's slow to anger is better, greater than the mighty man In other words, a man that can control his passions, his emotions can control that is stronger than the man that has great big muscles. He goes on and it says that the man that rules his spirit is greater than the one that can take a city. We need to learn to control our spirits. Colossians 3, real quickly, would you flip over there? And we are making progress. Are you with me? Colossians chapter 3 verse 5. He used the word here we don't use a whole lot. He says, are you there? Colossians 3. 5. Mortify, therefore, your members which are upon the earth. That mortify means put to death. It means control it. Get the mastery over it and put it down. Your members which are upon the earth, any lyssom, fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupience, in other words, wanting that which is wrong, forbidden, covetousness, which is idolatry. He says you need to put that to death. You need to control that. I'll tell you a beautiful example of temperance. Is in the life of Joseph. We're studying, we're just starting our study of Joseph on Wednesday nights, and I'm excited about that Joseph is sent sold by his brothers to Egypt and Potiphar buys them off the market to be his servant. He works his way up the ranks and Potiphar Now Potiphar is a powerful man in Egypt. I mean he's high-level government official. He hires he he buys Joseph off the slave market. He puts him there. Joseph because of his integrity and his hard work. He works his way up the ranks in Potiphar's household. Old Potiphar's wife gets her eyes on Joseph. Remember the story? Boy, she presses him and presses him and presses him and getting a little reviewing a little bit of our future study, but I think Joseph inadvertently put made himself vulnerable And he ended up in the house alone with Potiphar's wife. Not a good situation, especially with her coming after him. And she grabbed him. She was very bold. She said, lie with me. Now Joseph's a young man. Maybe in his twenties, early twenties. I don't know what Oliver's wife looked like. But here's for many men, this would for many young men this would have been an opportunity to indulge his passion, right or wrong. And Joseph said, I like to think he looked her in the eye, and he said, No. The Bible says, but he refused. And he got himself out of there. She grabbed his coat as he ran, pulled his coat off of him, cried, accused him of rape. But I tell you what, Joseph is a good example of somebody who knew what temperance was. He could control his passion. I don't know, I can't speak for folk Joseph, but I venture to say that old flesh was saying yes. But Joseph's integrity was saying no. Discipline in their passions of life. Um, how about Daniel Chapter 1, verse 8, Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the king's meat. You know what that was? That was discipline, self-control. I tell you, a bunch of us could avoid a lot of heartache if we just learn to control ourselves. Just learn some discipline, self-discipline. Um Colossians chapter 9. Real quick, your guys are doing great. Come over to first 1 Corinthians chapter 9. Verse 26, and I want you to see these. I don't want to just read them to you. Paul is referencing the Christian life in the context of a sporting event. Of an athletic, uh an athlete. And he says, uh verse twenty-five, every man that striveth for the masteries is temperant. There's that word, temper uh uh temperance Self-discipline. Every man is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible. You know what's a shame to some Christians? is you got athletes out here on the football field this fall playing for the high school for a uh something that in eternity is concerned is meaningless have more discipline over themselves than some Christians do in the matter of serving King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And Paul says they do it to get an incorruptible crown. It's nothing. Then he goes on, he says, Therefore, uh I therefore so run, not as uncertainty, so fight I not as one that beateth the air. Look at this, but I keep under my body And bring it into subjection, lest by any means what I have preached to others I myself should be a castaway. Paul's saying we better learn to be uh disciplined, we better learn temperance. Number one, all areas of light. Number two, I am with this I need to accept responsibility. He says back there in 2 Peter 1, verse 5, he says, add to your faith virtue, virtue, knowledge, knowledge, temperance. I'm the one that needs to make sure this happens. It's not, listen, I'm the preacher, so but I'm not saying this to excuse my responsibilities as pastor, but I'm here to tell you, it's not the pastor's responsibility to keep you disciplined. It's my responsibility to discipline myself. Well, if you knew how I was raised, I'm sorry you were raised. If it was terrible, I'm sorry for that, but I'm responsible for my actions. And I need to add to my faith temperance. I'm the one that means to make this happen. I am the one that is responsible to add temperance to my faith. Proverbs 25, verse 28. Chapter 25, verse 28 says, He that hath no rule over his own spirit is like a city that is broken down and without walls. It's vulnerable We spend a lot of time trying to get others to do right. Some folks get all worked up if somebody else isn't doing right. Am I right or wrong? You'll be amazed over the years how many people come to me all upset because somebody else isn't doing right. I can't control somebody else. I can't uh I I'm not responsible for my neighbor's actions I'm responsible for what? My actions. I'm my actions. If we can be as focused and as concerned and as worked up about our own Actions, as we do give out others, our spouse or our parents or our children or our neighbor or somebody else, we might have more victory in our life. I am responsible. Add to your faith temperance. For a Christian, self-control is not self-control. Say, wait a minute, you've just been telling me I need to learn discipline, I need to be self-controlled. Yes, but for you and I as a Christian, it's not self-control is not self-control. You know what I found out? My flesh doesn't like to control my flesh. You see what I'm saying? My flesh isn't going to discipline me to live the Christian life. For a Christian, self-control is Christ control. If I'm going to have temperance in my life, I need Christ to control me. You see where I'm going with this? For the Christian, self-control is Christ control. Again, for sake of time, we won't turn there, but Galatians chapter 5 says that temperance is a fruit of the Spirit. And what I need to do is I need to get to the end of myself. I need to die to self, and I need to yield myself to the Holy Spirit. And you know what I found? When I'm yielded to the Lord. The Holy Spirit is filling me. The Holy Spirit is controlling me. I'm able to live the Christian life much better than when I'm trying in my own effort. Follow what I'm saying? Temperance. You say, preacher, how do I get temperance? Well, number one, fill your mind with the Word of God. Fill your mind with the Word of God. I know I say this every week, and I'm telling you, I'll keep saying it till the day I die. We ought to spend time saturating our heart and mind with the Word of God on a daily basis. Number two, yield my will to the Spirit of God. Fill my heart and mind with the Word of God. Yield my will to the Spirit of God. You know what I pray every morning? Very seldom do I miss this I'm not trying to blow my own horn, but it's helped me. I pray every morning, Lord, today not my will, but thy will be done. Lord, I yield and submit myself. First thing will Lord, I give myself to you. I present my body. I yield my will to you. I want you to take me and fill me. I want you to lead me today. I'm telling you, God will help you. God will help you. Fill your heart and mind with the Word of God, yield your will to the Spirit of God, and then present your body on the altar of God. I beseech you, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. I'd far rather have God Himself controlling my body than me controlling my body. Just come and put on the altar. Lord, here I am. I present my body. Everything I am, I give to you. And the Holy Spirit will help us. The Holy Spirit will help us. A fellow was traveling on a train And the guys in the in the ca this was years ago and in the what do they call it, the little uh is it a carriage where they sit around in the train. Um I think it's The lounge car where the seats are and they have a little table. They're sitting there. He's just looking out the window, these other guys, and the guys get out a deck of cards. Oh, we're gonna play poker. And uh I don't know any w what's what what are poker games? Twenty-one something. Who knows? Where's the deep where's the deacons at? What? No, quit sa I don't want to know that you know. Uh So they put it out there, they're gonna play some poker game, and the guy just sat there, he had his hands down on their table, and they said, Come on, you're gonna join us, put in your ante And he goes, no, I can't. They said, why can't you? He said, I don't have any hands. They said, Why? I said, I don't have any hands. They said, What do you me You don't have any hands. Let's say he brought em up and there were his hands And see, you said you don't have any hands. What do you mean you don't have any hands? He said, I'm a Christian. These aren't my hands. These are God's hands. I can't use God's hands to play something like this. You know, he was self-disciplined, but it wasn't self-discipline, it was God discipline. Fellow, they called him the marshmallow man. I'll end with this. Walter Michelle was his name. Fifty years ago, he did a little study. And he wanted to see how five-year-olds would respond if they were put in a room by themselves with a marshmallow. Now this is fifty years ago, so a marshmallow was more significant to a five year old fifty years ago than it would be today. But he put a five year old, he did a whole slew of them, one at a time, he put him in a room Had one marshmallow in the table, and they there's people in there, and then they were instructed that they're going to sit here by themselves for 15 minutes and they were not to eat that marshmallow And if they did not eat the marshmallow, at the end of 15 minutes they would get two. Well, we did the study, and of course there was a whole slew of them that ate the marshmallow. They would sit there and look at it for a while and they'd try to look away and they'd look back at it. And a whole slew of them end up eating that marshmallow. But some of them didn't And they got two marshmallows now. Here's the interesting thing. Fifty years later He went back and visited those same people that were five-year-old at the time, now they're 55 years old. And he found something fascinating. He found that those five-year-olds who were able to discipline themselves And not indulge in something that was so tempting and so available. Those that did not eat the marshmallow Were far more successful in life than those that gave in and ate it. Many that gave in and ate it were financial failures. Many that gave in and could not discipline themselves for fifteen minutes, had poor jobs, had broken homes. And those that were able to discipline themselves were much wealthier, were much healthier, and had better home lives. Isn't that fascinating? The principle of self-discipline, even outside of the Christian life, is a successful discipline. To be able to say no to that which ought to be said no to And to be able to say yes to that which I should say yes to, whether I want to do it or not, say yes. I tell you what, one of the most important virtues in the Christian life is temperance. Self-discipline. How many people like me would say, preacher, I could use a little more self-discipline? Sixty-three years old I look at myself in the mirror and I think, why aren't you a more disciplined man? I'm not going to quit working on it. Not going to quit trying to grow in that area. I want to be more disciplined. In the details, little things. Are you with me? Let's pray. Father, I ask you to teach us temperance. Teach us to be disciplined so we can grow in our Christian life and be the men and women, young people you've called us and saved us to be. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads about eyes are closed