How many people get up in the morning sometimes and say, oh, yesterday's over, I got a new day ahead of me. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's kind of the way we can look at a new year. Boys a new year. I can, you know, get some things in line. I can refocus, re re uh uh reapply myself to some things. Look at 106, Psalms 119. This is The psalmist speaking here, and he says, I have sworn and I will perform it. What's that sound like to you? Sounds like some sort of resolution to me. He goes, hey, this is what I'm doing. Can I put it in my own words? Hey, I am resolved. Towards this. And look what it is. He says, I will keep thy righteous judgments. Now I don't know that this is a New Year's resolution. But he has resolved. And it's interesting, and I had typed out here, I had listed all through Psalm 119 how many times he makes the statement, I will, I will. I'm going to do this. I'm going to do this. I'm committed to this. I'm determined to do this. And he goes all down through there. So I want to give you some ten ideals for 2019 And I promise you we will be out by 10. And uh I promise you that. No, I'm just going to buzz through them, and I hope that God will use it and help you, Father. Lord, I'm a little my heart's a little trepid here as I do this, Lord, and it's a little different. And so I just pray that maybe you could use a verse that is shared A truth that's presented to help us be stronger in our faith this coming year. Or for some of us, this past year was an exceptionally victorious year. For some of us, this past year was uh a little disappointing in our own hearts and minds. Maybe there was some failure and uh we didn't live up to what we had hoped for. But God, you've given us a new year now And I pray we'd see it as a new start. And you said your mercies are new every morning, and I believe they're new every new year And so help us to refocus and reapply ourselves, get back up, or knock down, and if we're up, the Lord help us to determine and stay at it. But uh fill me with your spirit and use this this evening, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I believe in making resolutions. I believe in that. I believe we ought to take it seriously. This morning in Sunday school I shared some ideas about it And one of them was this. Any resolve that I make for my future life that is made flippantly or not seriously is not going to be very productive. I believe we ought to pray. I briefly ought to, and I tried to preach on a little bit this morning, but I believe we ought to seriously seek the Lord and say, Lord, show me the areas of my life that need attention. Show me the areas of my walk with you, my spiritual well-being. Help me to accurately assess my spiritual well-being. And then with that assessment make whatever adjustments need to be made for this coming year. How many people here like me, you would really like to see 2019 be your strongest year spiritually in your life? The older I get, the more I'm concerned about finishing strong. And I want to be closer to the Lord this year than I was last year. And so that doesn't just happen. We have to apply ourselves. We have to determine. We have to make wise decisions. Can I make this statement? We need to die to self. My greatest obstacle in my Christian life, the greatest obstacle in my Christian life is my own sinful nature. I have to fight that thing every day. Lester All said, the most important funeral I perform, I perform it every single morning when I get up He says that's the funeral for I need to die to self and mortify this old sinful flesh, regardless of what other people around me are like. And so, uh having said that, I'm buzzing across all kinds of statements I had here. And I want to give these to you, and I want to jot these down, and uh maybe just ask the Lord to help you, and maybe one of these would strike a chord with you And would be something. Number one, the first one I have here, Lord help me to, number one, is love God supremely. Love God supremely. What do we mean by supremely? I love the Lord supremely. What am I talking about? Above everything else. A fellow came to the Lord Jesus, I believe was a scribe. And he came and he after there was, you know, Jesus, the scribes were debating with Jesus constantly And this fella asked him, after he heard the Lord had answered all their questions very wisely, he asked them this question, and this is a profound question. If God exists, and he does And if we are going to answer to him, if we are responsible to him, then this is a profound question. It was this: which is the first commandment of all? Now, if God is, and I answer to him, it would be important to me, what is the thing that God wants the most from me? What is the thing that God commands me to do above everything else? If I don't do anything else, I need to make sure this gets done. It's what? To love him supremely. Listen to the Lord's response. Which is the first commandment on. And Jesus answered him. And this is without hesitation on the part of the Lord, of course. He said, the first of all the commandments is hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord, and thou shalt love the Lord thy God With all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength. This is the first commandment. Now I'd love to expand on that. Romans talks about it. Paul talks about the book of Romans, where he says If we will keep that commandment, then we will fulfill all the others. If I love God with all my heart, then I'm not going to have a problem with not loving the world. I love God with all my heart, my soul, my mind. That puts everything in place. That lays the foundation. That puts the framework up. for to hang all the other aspects of my Christian life, hanging on that framework. I love God with all my heart. Some of us, and I'm speaking to myself This coming year ought to focus on determining to love God with all our hearts. And let me throw this out love is a decision. It's a decision. It's not some weird feeling. Oh. No, no, no. It's a decision. I am deciding. I am going to love God with all my heart. Jesus made a requirement in Luke 14, and I'm not going to have time to go to all these, but he made a requirement to be a disciple. Now there's a difference between a believer and a disciple. And some person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, they're a believer, they're saved, sins forgiven. A disciple says, because of that, I want to live for God. And he made a requirement for a disciple. And he said, if any man comet to me, listen to this, and hate not. Hate. Not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren and sister, yea, in his own life also. He cannot be my disciple. What in the world? Hate my father? Hate my brother, my sister? That that I could pull that one off. But uh no I'm that was bad, I'm sorry Uh hate hate uh uh my wife, my children, my brethren? Now Jesus wasn't telling us that we are to despise them or have a an attitude of hatred towards them. What he's telling us is Our love for the Lord ought to be so supreme that it looks as if I don't even love my family. Did you ever drive down the road and you're just putting along and some guy goes flying past you, 90 miles an hour, and you say this. He passed me like I was standing still. Anybody ever hear that statement? Now you're not really standing still. You're making progress. But that guy was going so fast, it seemed like you were standing still. I think that's what the Lord's talking about here. My love for him ought to be so supreme that the world would misunderstand. The best way I know to illustrate that is like uh let's say Tom DePew is over in China. It's got two little lovely beautiful little children. One of them just had a birthday. They moved to China. Leave America. Ohio. Takes his wife, his beautiful dear wife, and his beautiful children, takes them to China. And the world would say he don't love his family very much. Good night. If he loved his wife and kids, he'd have them here, a good job. Nice house to live in, freedoms. Oh, I tell you, Tom loves his wife and children dearly, but he loves God supremely. And God touches his heart and says, You need to go. And he says, I love the Lord. And so he takes his family. So maybe we focus and zero in and say, I'm going to love the Lord this year. I want to love God. And by the way, let me throw this out. I don't believe it's possible to love your family like you should until you love God like you should And that leads me to my second one here. Second suggestion is to love others sincerely Jesus went on and he said he said, Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, thy soul, thy mind, and with all thy strength is the first commandment. Then he quickly added this on. Without pause, he added this on, and the second is light. Now he's putting the second commandment right up there with this first one. It is light. Namely, this: thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. There is no greater, there is none other commandment greater than these So maybe a goal for uh for 2019 or a focus and uh a resolution, maybe, or whatever, is to not just love God, but with that To love my neighbor. Who's my neighbor? Who's my neighbor? Be anybody that's right by us. He named his neighbor right there. That's his neighbor. Our neighbor could be our fellow church members, right? Our neighbor could be our literal physical neighbor. Can I suggest our neighbor be our children? Be our parents. Our neighbor can be my spouse. Some total stranger I meet at Walmart or sheets. And God puts that on the equal level with loving God with all my heart. In fact, listen to what he says in 1 John chapter 4. He says this: if a man say, I love God And hateth his brother, and the brother there would be anybody. If a man say, I love God, And he hated his brother. Listen, this is God's word. He is a liar. That's strong. And he explains. He says, For he that loveth not his brother whom he has seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? And this is the commandment we have from him. He who loveth God, love his brother also. Listen, you can sing about loving God all you want. You can talk about loving God all you want. You can stand in front of a class and tell them about loving God. But if there's somebody in this world that I hate He says, you're a liar. You don't love God. That's not me talking. That's the word of God. You're lying. And so a good focus, a good resolve for this year is: I'm going to love God with all my heart, and with that, I am going to love my brothers. I am just going to die to self, I'm going to make a conscious decision. I love that person. I love that person. Number three, worship God humbly. God wants us to worship Him. God wants us to worship in Revelation. I don't have the the Do you have a reference there? A reference from Revelation there? I don't know if I put it on there. Revelation, I don't remember the reference, but uh John is there and an angel's shown around. And John bowed down to worship the angel, and the angel said, Don't you do that? This is this is the DLB version Then his leatherman version said, don't you do that? And he made this statement, worship God. Worship God. Worship God. God wants us to worship. And what does it mean to worship? Well, cross your heart and hope to die. You know, and do this and do go these rituals. That's not worship. I put my definition. This is my definition of worship. I put it there. To recognize God's supreme authority over my life and humbly submit to that authority By trusting him and obeying him. Now I don't I know I don't have time and I'm just going to have to probably just give the last ones, but I do want the zero and this one. Would you go with me to Job chapter number one? It's not far from Psalms. Just go backwards there a little bit. I'm telling you, when I saw this a number of years ago, and I learned what worship is, it had a profound impact. On my heart and my thinking about my worship of God. Now, I want you to notice Job is not in church. He's not in any kind of church service. He's at home and his world has been shattered. He's about to lose all his health. Look at chapter 1 and verse number 20. He just lost all his kids. He lost his possessions. Look what he says. And Job arose, verse 20, Job chapter 1, and rent his mantle, shaved his head, fell down upon the ground, and what? Worshiped. His world has been devastated. I mean, can you imagine the broken heart of Job at this point? The fear that must be gripping him. The Bible says he worshiped. Then it goes on and explains to us what worship is, what this worship involved. And he said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, naked shall I return thither. Look at this. The Lord gave. The Lord is taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Wow. Come over to chapter 2. Now he's sick. His wife turns on him. If anybody has humanly would have reason to be angry and bitter and it'd be Job. But look what it says. Verse 9. His wife said unto him, Dost thou still retain thine integrity? Curse God and die. Interesting thing. The exact same thing the devil said to him. That's what the devil was trying to get him to do. She's an ally of the devil. Look what he says. But he said, but that's because of one of the foolish women. I put it this way, you're crazy, woman. Look at this. What? Shall we receive good at the hand of God? And shall we not receive evil? And all this did not Job sin with his lips He recognized God had authority to allow these things into his life. Whether he understood it or not, God is God. And God had this authority, supreme authority, to do this in his life. And what Job did, he worshiped God by humbly submitting himself to that authority and trusting God and obeying. Now he struggled. You get to the end of the book, and Job learned that God is good, in spite of all this. Worship. Worship. Abraham, when he offered Isaac, I referenced that this morning, says, we will go to worship. Recognize God has authority to ask this child from me. I'm going to submit to that authority. I'm going to trust in worship Uh let me give you the next here real quickly. Uh pray to God fervently. How many people need revival in your prayer life? I got my hand raised high. Maybe that's something this year. God, please teach me to pray. James 5:17. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. 16. Number five, I put this one down. Meditate upon God's word daily. There's two times in the Bible God references the promise of prosperity and success. It's in Joshua 1. 8 and it's in Psalms 1. And they both are uh are are conditioned upon meditating on the Word of God daily. I years ago I decided I'm going to spend some time every morning And every evening in the Word of God, morning and evening. Meditate therein, day and night. We could talk about meditate. We don't have time. Number six, study God's Word diligently. I think we ought to get beyond just reading it. We ought to study it Take some time throughout the week, an evening of the week or Sunday afternoon, sometime where I study the Word of God. That's my like Pastor Matt said, that's my job. It's not a job. Man, I thoroughly enjoy it. This is Wonderful thing to study the Word of God. If we can all incorporate that in, what a what amazing thing that we'd be able to answer. every man for give an answer for the reason of the hope that is within us. Study God's word diligently. Number seven, glorify God consistently. Whether we eat or drink or whatsoever we do. Let's just do all to the glory of God. All to the glory of God. Every word I say, every place I go, my attitudes, I want them to bring glory to God. Number 8, are you getting these down? Trust God thoroughly Trust God thoroughly. I found out this past week. Maybe I knew it and forgot, or maybe I never knew it, but uh my what I've taken as my life verse for many, many years, Mark 11, 22, is Hudson Taylor's favorite verse. I never knew that, I don't think. Jesus answering said unto him, have faith in God. I want to trust God this year. How many people can look back on 219, 218, 2018? And um that was a long time ago. I think people look back on 2018 and say, uh, there's some times I leaned on my own understanding, and boy, that didn't work out too well. Anybody at all? Anybody here say there's sometimes I actually trusted God. And uh, you know, God came through. Any testimonies of that? Sure. I've never regretted waiting on God and trusting God. Never regretted it I never regretted doing things God's way. Never regretted it. Number nine, this is a big one. This is what I'm praying for, myself and our church. The share the gospel compassionately and faithfully. I would like to see a revival of soul winning. We're going to talk about this in a couple weeks, some of our vision for the new year. But just see Not one or two people winning people to Christ, but folks all across the auditorium winning people to Christ, witnessing, involved, actively, going after loss. Mark 16, 15. And the last one is this. Give to God cheerfully and generously. God loveth a cheerful giver. He that soweth bountifully, he that soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly, he which soweth bountifully shall reap all fruit I'll also benefit every man according to his purpose and heart should give, not grudgingly, or necessity, for God loveth a what? Cheerful giver. Cheerful giver. So, some thoughts that uh maybe a help and a challenge us this year. Tomorrow night we're going to have some prayer for the new year, but I thought it'd be good. On a Sunday night, we got the congregation here. Maybe we'd finish out this last Sunday of the year. Maybe on our knees at an old altar. Old-fashioned alder, and just saying, God, pour out your spirit this year. Give me help me, Lord. Maybe one of these struck a chord with you, maybe several. But maybe just kneel at an old altars, humble ourselves before God, worship him, and say, Lord, revive the love for you in my heart. Give me love for my brother. All this down through that list, whatever may have struck a chord, Father, it's time now for us to look forward. And we ask you to search our hearts and challenge us. To walk with you, to love you, and serve you fervently and earnestly, love your word and meditate in it And be a blessing to others around us. So stir us and move us. Revive us is my prayer. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jane's at the piano.