Turn back to Matthew chapter or I'm sorry, Mark chapter number twelve. Kind of get the feeling folks are a little sleepy this morning. And uh I'll try to keep you awake. We we could do like uh years ago, I think it was Dio Moody and some of those old time preachers had big meetings. They would have uh you've probably heard this. They would have ushers along the side, or as Isaac Carvey calls them, hushers. And um along the side. They would have st uh these po these poles like things that had a little knot on the end. If somebody'd fall asleep, they'd go over and bunk and wake them up. We are thinking about incorporating that here. And uh so, but no, but uh I know it was a short night night for a lot of people. Uh looking here at this passage, I thought about as a lady called up a pet shop uh kind of frantic, she said, send me 30,000 cockroaches at once. The pet shop owner said, What in the world do you want 30,000 cockroaches for? She goes, well, I'm moving out of my apartment today and my lease says I have to leave the premises in the exact same condition I found them. Thirty thousand. I think I lived in that apartment in Tennessee when I was in Bible college. I believe I lived in that one Well, that's a terrible situation. In our text, we have some terrible tenants. If you would look with me down at verse number six. It says, having yet therefore one son, his well beloved, he sent him also last unto them, saying, They will reverence my son. And I want to speak this morning on some terrible tenets. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, I thank you again for the Word of God. And Lord, you have promised us in your word that if we would uh have faith, you would speak to us from your word, that your word would uh bear fruit in our lives. It would not return empty. And so I'm asking, Lord, as we look at these several verses here, that your word would have an impact in every one of our lives Whatever the need may be, wherever we're at spiritually, wherever we're at in our relationship with you, Lord, I'm asking you to challenge us, to provoke us to greater faith to stronger faith, to greater obedience, that you could bless us and use us and accomplish in our lives what you saved us to accomplish So, Lord, I cannot accomplish any of that in and of myself. And so I plead with you again this hour that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Present my body to you, Lord, and knew that you could use me just as a tool, a mouthpiece, perhaps, that you would speak through me to all of our hearts. Lord, if somebody under the sound of my voice Does not know for sure that when they guide their sins every day and on their way to heaven, I pray that today would be the day of salvation. Lord, some of us need revival, myself included. We're asking you to revive us again, dear Lord And help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. This is a parable that the Lord is directing to, if you notice there in chapter 11, verse 27. This is actually directed to some scribes. Priests and elders. Verse 27 of chapter 11 says, And they came again to Jerusalem, and as he was walking the temple, there came to him chief priests and the scribes and the elders So that's who this parable is addressed to. This parable is a very strong rebuke to these religious leaders in the country of Israel, the nation of Israel. And these scribes. These priests, these scribes, these elders, they were known to be very, very proud. They were very proud of their religion. They were very proud of the position they held. Uh they're characterized throughout scripture as extremely self-righteous. They were right and everyone else was wrong. They knew more, they were more spiritual, they were more righteous, they were you ever hear the phrase holier than thou? That's the mentality of these guys. Self-righteous, very religious, very religious. And so they're characterized in Luke, I think it's chapter 18 Where you have a Pharisee, it's one of this class of folks that Jesus is addressing, and you have a, it's called a publican. We preached on them last week, I think. And they go up to the temple to pray. And the Pharisee's prayer is this: Lord, I thank thee. That I. And he goes down a list of things that he does. I tithe, I do all this stuff, and I am not like This public in here. That was their attitude. We are better, we're holier, we know more, we are closer to God, we're stronger and all that. Very proud, very self-righteous, very religious. By the way, those three characteristics generally are what keep people from coming to Jesus Christ as Savior. They were very proud, they were very self-righteous, and they were very religious, but they were lost as lost can be. And so the Lord is directing This parable to them, addressing them. This parable is given in response to their challenge of Jesus' authority as the Son of God Again, if you would look in chapter 11 and notice with me verse 28. And say unto him, this is the chief priests, the scribes and the elders, are saying to Jesus Christ, By what authority doest thou these things? And who gave thee this authority to do these things? So they're challenging Jesus what? His authority. Come down, Jesus responds. He said, Jesus answered and said unto them, I will ask you one question, and answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things. The baptism of John, was it from heaven or of men? Answer me. They responded with them, and they reasoned with themselves, saying, if we shall say from heaven, he'll say, Why did you not believe him? But if we shall say of men, they feared the people, for all men counted John that he was a prophet indeed. And they answered and said unto you, we cannot tell. And Jesus answering said of them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things. Now, Jesus is not dodging the question. He's simply turning it around on them. And in a sense, he's saying, What authority do you have? To make judgment on me and on John the Baptist. And of course, they could not answer him. Just a word of caution here: watch out for people who have a problem with authority. Watch out for people who have a problem with authority. God has established and delegated authority in various places. And I found my experience has been, if there is a person that has a hard time with authority, ain't nobody telling me what to do, watch out for that bird. Okay? And these guys have a problem with Jesus' authority. And then this parable has a direct application. The direct application of this parable is to Israel. The nation of Israel and their continual rejection of God's intervention in their existence If you would come up there to uh uh verse one and actually down through here, if you notice, if you pay close attention, you find that the owner of this vineyard in verse number one The owner is actually, in the parable, is actually referencing God the Father. He owns everything. He is the owner of this world. He is the owner of this universe. And so the owner in this parable of the vineyard is God the Father, is referencing God the Father. The husbandmen that this vineyard is lent out to would be who? Somebody tell me. Be Israel. It's the nation of Israel. And Isaiah references the fact that Israel is husbandmen of God's vineyard. And so the the husbandmen here are Israel. And then the owner of the vineyard sends servants to the husbandman to get the fruit of his vineyard, to get what he established this whole thing for. And the servants would be the prophets of God throughout the Old Testament, for God sent various prophets, Isaiah and different ones And what Jesus says here in the parable corresponds directly to what actually happened to these prophets throughout the Old Testament. God would send them, and Israel would reject them. And God would send others and they would uh kill them and uh beat them. Jeremiah is thrown in prison. Uh and all through here, some of them they killed. I uh Hebrews tells us some were sawn asunder. Many were stoned and completely rejected. And so we see very pointedly here in this parable a history of God's interaction with Israel and Israel's response. To God's requirements from them. Then at last the owner says, I'm gonna send my son. And there's an interesting statement he puts there. Did you catch that? In verse number six, he says, having yet therefore one son, his what? Well beloved. Surely they will reference him. And that, of course, is referring to who? The Lord Jesus Christ. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. And so the Son here is the Lord Jesus Christ. So the direct application uh context of this parable is speaking of Israel and their rejection of God's prophets and their ultimate rejection of Jesus Christ. There's a hint of prophecy here As Jesus says this, and if they'd have been paying attention and listened to who Jesus claimed to be, they would understood Jesus is prophesying an extent of his crucifixion. And ultimately his resurrection. So it's a rejection of God's prophets, it's a rejection ultimately of God's Son, but it's also referencing the rejection By God of Israel. And it says there, notice in verse number 9, what shall therefore the Lord of the vineyard do? He will come and what? Destroy the husbandmen and will give the vineyard to others. And that is a reference to the fact that God at that point destroyed Israel. And he set them aside. Now, God is not done with Israel. Now, I don't want to get into prophecy too much, but if you study very carefully the book of Revelation and other places, God is not done with Israel. God has set them aside for a while to the tribulation period, then God reintervenes in Israel, and uh then the millennial reign, of course, Israel will be restored to the land that God originally promised. So That's the context of the parable, God's uh interaction with Israel and their rejection of his prophets. And so, Israel and God's dealings, uh God's dealings with them as a nation are very similar. Now, this is what I'm trying to say. What we see taking place here with Israel and throughout the Bible corresponds so many times to God's interaction with us as individuals. If you will take Israel and put yourself in their place as you go through the Bible, you'll see so many similarities. How us with a sinful nature will often, not always, but often Respond to God in ways that Israel responded to God. Sometimes Israel listened to God Sometimes Israel as a nation trusted God and took them at his word and responded, and God would bless them and use them. And sometimes God, uh Israel would say no. Sometimes Israel as a nation would harden their hearts against God and ultimately ended up, as the parable says here. Romans chapter 15 and verse 4 tells us That Israel was recorded, the history of Israel was recorded for our benefit, so that you and I can learn how God responds. to his people's action. When his people trust and obey him. We look at Israel, we see how God responds. His people reject him and harden our hearts against him. How God responds to that 1 Corinthians chapter 10 verse 6 through 11. In fact, if you would, turn there. Let's look at that. 1 Corinthians chapter 10. He kind of goes into a little bit of depth here. Talking about how Israel is an example for us. 1 Corinthians chapter 10. I want to begin reading in verse number 6. I'm going to read about four or five verses here. And notice carefully what the Lord is saying. 1 Corinthians 10, verse 6. Now, these things, Old Testament record of Israel, were our examples. To the intent that we should not lust after evil things as they also lusted. Neither be ye idolaters as were some of them. As it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play. Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed, and fell in one day three and twenty thousand Neither let us tempt Christ, as some of them also tempted, and were destroyed of serpents. Neither murmur ye, as some of them also murmured. And were destroyed of the destroyer. Now all these things, look at verse 11. Now all these things happened to them for what? In samples. And they are written for our admonition upon that whom the ends of the world are come And so Jesus has given his parable to the Pharisees, the chief priests, the scribes, and he's given his parable to them, and he's pointing out to them Israel's history and what's taking place. But it is recorded for you and I, so that you and I can benefit from it. So that you and I can grow in our faith. And this morning I want us to look at this parable here from a Christian perspective We understand the context. We understand the direct application. It's to Israel and God's dealings with them. However, I want us to look, what can it teach me? What can I learn from this passage of Scripture? What application does this have to me as a Christian? What can I learn from this for my life in my walk with God? So that I can be the man that God saved me to be, so I can be the Christian that God intends for me to be, so that I can stand before Jesus Christ someday at the judgment seat of Christ And I really would like to hear him say, uh, Dennis Leatherman, well done, thou good and faithful servant. I think I got a long way to go to accomplish that, but I want to learn from this And help me be that kind of person. Timothy tells us that all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction and righteousness. So that's my approach to this. When I first saw this, I read this in my devotions a week or so ago, and uh I read this and I and kind of stirred my heart to try and preach from this passage. And I got looking at it and I said, Well, this is Israel. Addressing them and their history, their interaction. And then the Lord said, No, no, there's something here for you also and for our church. So that's what we want to try and do this morning. I want us to notice first of all The tenants' responsibility. Now by the tenants I mean these husbandmen that are given this responsibility of this vineyard. Notice here, this is a delegated responsibility. Um if I own a farm, it's my responsibility to take care of that farm, right? If it's mine, if I own it. Uh if it succeeds or fails, it's it's up to me. It's mine. However, this was not their vineyard. This responsibility to get the fruit from this vineyard was delegated to them by the landlord, by the lord of that vineyard. It was not theirs. They were simply what we call stewards. It was owned by the Lord of the vineyard, the landowner, but they were delegated the responsibility to care for it for the purpose of producing the fruit of the vineyard. For the landowner. It was not their vineyard. They were stewards. I looked at that, I got thinking, we have three ways we can view our lives and our possessions. These guys, it was not theirs, but if you read down through there, they acted as if it was. In fact, they're in the process of stealing this farm, this vineyard, from the owner They got in their heads that this is mine. This is ours. And they were wrong. And there's three ways that I can view my life. There's three ways I can view my possessions and what God has entrusted me with. One way is, and we've mentioned this over the years various times, but one way to view my life, myself My body, my possessions is this. It's all mine. This is my body. This is my life. These are my possessions. I can do with it whatever I want. It's a little bit of the attitude that the Pharisees had when having an issue with Jesus' authority. He has no right to tell me what to do. And that is pretty much the attitude of our world today. This is mine, this is my body, these are my possessions, I can do whatever I want with it. It's all mine. There's a second perspective or view I can have on my life and my possessions and what God has entrusted me with. And a lot of Christians have this attitude: that 10% of what I have is the Lord's. And we get that from Malachi and various places throughout Scripture, Matthew's Jesus reference, giving our tithe to the Lord. And so we have this idea: 10% of my income and all that, that is the Lord's. And I give the Lord the 10%. And sometimes we'll have the attitude Sunday, the first day of the week, as the Bible refers to it as the Lord's Day. All right, I'm going to give the Lord the first day of the week. And uh some of the folks, well, I'll give the Lord the first part of the first day of the week, uh, and I'll give him my ten percent, but the ninety percent that's left over, that's mine 10% is the Lord's. First day of the week, that's the Lord. But Monday through Saturday, that's mine. Nobody's going to tell me what to do with that. God's not going to tell me what to do with it. The rest 90% of my income is mine. My possessions are mine. 10% that's yours, God. First day of the week, that's yours, God. Rest is mine. And there's a third approach. And that is this. Everything I am and have is the Lord's. Everything is the Lord's. I brought nothing into this world. Everything I have has been entrusted to me by God. Not one of us here produced our own life. You and I, life is a gift from God. My life is not my own. My life is God's, and He entrusted me with this life. Now I don't know how long it's going to last. I won't be so wild yet. But uh I'm flying uh going on a mission trip Mexico. We're praying they don't build the wall while we're down there and That'd be bad. And I don't I'm going with Brother Dan Hummel and Beacon of Truth, and so I'm kind of tagging along on this one and we've got preaching different stuff we're going to do down there, but uh Um, I wasn't even sure where we were going. And so I'm Googling up Mexico drug cartels. Where are their hot spots? I don't know how I got on that, but I don't know how long I have left of this life. But the what I'm trying to say What I'm trying to say is I might not be here next week. But uh but my life is not my own. I didn't I didn't produce this. I'm gonna become I'm gonna come alive. I didn't do that. God gave me this life. May 6th, 1960, God brought me into this world. And I've got however many years God has allotted me. And it is not my life. It's His. And he has entrusted me with it. He has made me a steward of this life. This is not my body. As a Christian, this is not my body. Even a non-Christian. But as a Christian, this body is not my own. I've been bought with a price. This is the temple of God. And I have no right to do to and with this body what I think I should do to and with this body. It is not mine, it is God's He owns it. He owns it all. My possessions are not mine. You say, oh brother, I worked hard for what I got. That's mine. Who gave you the ability to work? Who gave you the opportunities to have that job and work that thing? You say, well, I did it all, I got the education, I did what I had to do to get that job. Oh yeah, I got news for you. God can take it away from you like that It's not ours. Nothing we have is ours. It's all been entrusted with us. My wife and I have been talking the last couple weeks, and I don't know why this came up, but we've been talking about what an amazing thing it is to be able to be born in a place where we have so much opportunity and so much prosperity and so much Christianity and so much truth There's billions and billions and billions of people in this world. Why did God allow you and I to be born here at this place? We could be some Strom of Thailand With no hope of ever hearing the gospel of Christ. And God has blessed us. Listen, you and I didn't do that. It's God's mercy and God's grace that we have what we have. It's God's mercy and God's grace that we even have this life. God could have snuffed us out anytime. And so the best attitude to have, particularly as a Christian, is that this is not mine. This is not I am a steward. God has delegated to me and entrusted to me this life to be lived for his glory, this body to be used for his service, this possession to be used at his bidding. Not mine. That stirred my heart when I read that. They didn't build. These husbandmen did not plant that vineyard. They did not build that wine vat. They did not do any of that. It was simply entrusted to them. And I got looking at my life. And this is something God has simply entrusted me with. You follow what I'm trying to say? It's God's. He gave it to us. You know, like the like the mother said, son, I brought you into this world, I can take you out. Did your mom ever say that to you? Yeah. Well the fact is God brought us into this world. And we're here by His grace and His mercy. Donna and I were talking before, Andrea had uh yesterday, uh was it yesterday? Friday, she got out and good car, nice car, new. She got in, it wouldn't start. Battery's dead and she's trying to work and it's parked in the garage face forward, so she's trying to get that thing. Could not get it started and delayed her trip up here to on the mountain. She lives in Morgantown. And then she made this statement and Don and I were talking, you know I kind of believe that's God maybe protecting her from some wreck or something on the interstate. God knew what was going to happen. You know what? That's not her life. It's God's. And He's entrusted that. He's protecting and leading and directing her as she trusts them. And gives him the glory. And so these fellows here, these husbandmen, this is delegated authority to them. They don't have this, this responsibility. They don't, it's not theirs They're simply made stewards of it, just like you and I are in our lives. Then I noticed it's a very privileged responsibility, and I kind of touched on this already, but the owner is the one that planted the vineyard The owner is the one that set the hedge about it. The owner is the one that digged the weine vat. The owner is the one that built the tower. He's the one that invested a lot of resources into making this possible. He's the one that put a lot of energy into making this possible. All they did was received from the owner what the owner had already done for them. So that they could bring this fruit to the owner. Now I don't know about you, but that sounds to me a lot like salvation. I did nothing to earn my salvation. I have nothing that I can produce, nothing that I can work up. I have no good works that I can present to God and say, God, here I am. God, now you saved me because I've earned it, and now I can produce fruit for you because I've earned this fruit. position of salvation. That's not it at all. God did it all. He paid the price for my sins. I like to look at the life of the Lord Jesus Christ in two ways. Number one, he lived for thirty-three or whatever number of years He lived 33 around that plus years, perfectly sinless, kept the law of God to the T, without sin, unspotted from the world. And that was his righteousness. And then on the cross, he took my sins My unrighteousness, he took upon himself on the cross, was judged in my place, paid the judgment of my unrighteousness, my sin, and then gave to me his righteousness. So to speak, concerning salvation, he built a tower, he digged the wine vet. He planted the vineyard. He did the whole thing. All I did, like these uh husbandmen, all I did was simply received it, simply accepted it. If you're here this morning, you're hearing the sound of my voice and you think, you know, I'm going to get to heaven someday and God's going to take the good things I've done and God's going to take the bad things I've done. He's going to weigh them out. And if the good outweighs the bad Then I'll get to heaven. You know what you're trying to do? You're trying to earn your salvation. It doesn't work. I mentioned a number of times a fellow down the road here, actually not far from here, years ago, knocked on the door. I asked him, Do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? He goes, Absolutely, I know for sure. I said, wow, I don't have a lot of people tell me that. How do you know what makes you short? He says, I keep all the commandments. I knew immediately he didn't know what he was saying. Nobody keeps all the commandments. There's none righteous. No, not one. We've all come short of God's glory. We've all failed to live up to the standard that God has established. We are in debt to God. And he paid it all. He did all of that. So I see here these tenants' responsibility was a delegated responsibility. This wasn't theirs. It was privilege. They did it all for them already. All they had to do was accept the opportunity. You're here this morning, you don't know for sure that when you die, you're going to heaven, not to hell. I'm telling you, Jesus Christ has done everything that needs to be done for you to go to heaven. All you need to do is just accept it By faith, say I'll take Jesus Christ to be my Savior. Then I notice it was an accountable responsibility. Notice in verse number two at the season he sent to the husband He sent to the husbandman a servant that he might receive from the husbandman of the fruit of the vineyard. They were to provide to this landowner the fruit of his investment He built everything. He put everything in place. All you guys got to do is bring to me the fruit that what I've done produces. You bring it to me. Now, my question was, as I was looking at this, what is the fruit of salvation? God's paid the price for our sin. He's He was righteous for us. He paid the punishment for us. He did all of that. He offers it to us in a package, so to speak, of salvation, and by faith I simply receive it as a gift to be mine. And then he says there's to be some fruit as a result of God saving my life. What is that fruit? Well, Ephesians chapter 2 and verse number 10 tells us that we are saved unto good works. In other words, God saves us completely for free. My works have nothing to do with my salvation. Just by faith, I acknowledge to God I'm a sinner, accept Jesus Christ, what He's done for my sins, accept Him as my personal Savior, God freely forgives me. God freely saves me from sin in hell. He reserves a place in heaven for me. I can never lose it. Then he says, now what I would like from you is for you to live for me. I'll save you completely for free. I'll pay it all. You simply turn to me, trust in me as your personal Savior. I'll forgive all your sin. I'll save you from hell. I'll take you to heaven someday. Now, what I'm asking of you, the fruit I would like from that, is for you to live for me. Good works. The honest. Love your brother. Follow my commands. Trust me. Follow my instructions. That's what my fruit, that's the fruit is. Win others to Christ. Tell others of the Lord Jesus Christ. Salvation is a free gift, we simply accept it, receive it to be ours. But once I accept that gift, I have a tremendous responsibility to live for God. Now, whether I live for him or not does not determine whether I'm saved. My lifestyle does not determine where I spend eternity. It's my faith in Jesus Christ that determines that. But once I trust Christ as my Savior, God expects us and looks to us to live for Him and serve Him. And be that Christian He saved us to be. That's the fruit of the Christian. Take your Bible if you would. Now keep your place here. We're going to look at a few verses. Everybody with me? Everybody doing alright out there? Romans chapter number twelve. Familiar passage. I find myself coming back to this passage more and more and more all the time. If Romans chapter 12, verse 1 and 2 are not highlighted in your Bible, I believe they really should be. And if not highlighted in the Bible, they ought to be at least in our hearts and minds. Romans chapter 12, look at verse number one. How many people are pretty familiar with this passage? How many people say, yeah, preacher, I've seen this, I'm familiar with this. Sure, let's look at it. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the Mercies of God. And I suggest to you, in the context of our parable, that's the vineyard that's planted, the tower that's been built. The wine back that's already established. By God's mercy, because of what I've done for you, all I've done in forgiving you and saving you and paying the judgment, suffering hell for you, by God's mercies. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. That ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your what? Reasonable service. You follow? And be not conformed to this world. Be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Now you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. What is God saying here? He's saying, listen, I've done so much for you All I've done in saving your soul and the mercy I have shown you, I'm beseeching you. That word beseech means to beg, to plead. Present your body, a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God. That's an amazing thing. It's an amazing thing. That God, get this, that God would plead with us to live for him after all he's done for us. What in the world? Looks to me, if God saved me from sin in hell, God certainly shouldn't have to plead with me to live for him. But he does. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies A living service. That's the fruit. That's the fruit that God is looking from you and I as a Christian. To present our bodies, a reasonable service. So The first thing I notice in this parable, if you would come back here, I notice that uh they have a tremendous responsibility, these tenants. It's all been put in place for them, all done for them. Uh it's uh uh the it's none of this salvation uh this this this uh vineyard is not theirs, it's not theirs, they're simply stewards, everything was put in place for them, and all that the landowner asked, all that the uh that the uh Lord of the vineyard asks is that they bring him the fruit of what he already put in place. I'm suggesting you that's what God's dealing with us as Christians We're not our own. God's entrusted us with everything. He's paid the complete price for our salvation from sin and hell. And what he asks for us, our responsibility, is simply give bring back to the Lord That which his salvation produced in our lives, good works, a changed life, glory to God, winning others to Christ. That's what he's looking for. Let me ask you a question. You know Jesus Christ as Savior. And if you do. Is your life bearing fruit for the Lord Jesus Christ? Can anybody look at your life? I'm not talking about on Sunday morning at church. I'm talking about Monday at work and school throughout the week. If anybody look at your life and boy, there's a Christian. Boy, God did something in that person's life. When people see my life and they give glory to God, that is the fruit of my salvation being brought to the Lord. As I tell others what Christ has done for me and I share with them the truth of the gospel, and they come and trust Christ, that is the fruit that God's salvation is born in my life. That's what He's looking for. And so we see this responsibility of these tenants. The second thing I notice here is the tenants' rejection. Look with me again at verse number three of Mark chapter 12. It says Remember verse 2, he sent them a servant that he might get the fruit. That's what he's looking for. That's what God's looking for in our lives. And they caught him in, verse 3, and beat him, and sent him away empty, no fruit. And again he sent unto them another servant, and at him they cast stones and wounded him in the head and sent him away, shamefully handled. And again, he sent another. And him they killed. Many others, beating some and killing some. There's an ongoing process here. Having yet therefore one son, as well beloved, he sent him also. I notice here their rejection. of God's intervention in their life to bring this fruit to him that was his, they were taking what was not theirs. They accepted the blessings of the vineyard, the vineyard and the wine fat and the tower. Boy, they accepted all the blessings of that. We were glad to have the blessings. We're not giving anything back. And if you show up expecting it, we're going to kill the ones that you send our way. And they're refusing to return unto the landowner that which is his. Can I suggest to you a person, a Christian, who accepts salvation by free, the free grace of God, accepts the salvation of God? and then refuses to live for God and says, I'll go my own way, I'll make my own decisions, I'll do my own thing, really is not much better than these birds. Really, not much better. I've often said this: the most selfish person on the planet is the one who accepts the gift of God, which is eternal life, and then not live for God. How selfish can you be? How many of you agree with me? If you were drowning, you're out here in Deep Creek Lake and for whatever reason you're drowning and you're right on the brink, you're about to go down for the last time and you know you're going to die, and uh somebody comes by and you reach out and they grab you and they save you from drowning or dying. How many people agree with me you'd be a little indebted to that person for saving your life Sure. What if you're in a house and you're uh it's late at night and you're sound asleep and the house is on fire and you don't know it, you turned your clock ahead and you're very tired and uh you're sound asleep And the house is on fire and somebody comes by and sees it and they pound on the door and pound on the door, finally kick in the door and come in and grab you at the last second just before you suffocate And they pull you out and they save your life. How many people agree with me? You'd be indebted to that person for saving your life. What if the Son of God, you're on your way to hell and your one heartbeat away from eternity in a hell's fire forever? And the Savior hears your cry. Lord, have mercy on me and save me. I trust you as my Savior. And God saves you from sin in hell and gives you a new life. How many people agree with me? We're a little indebted to the Lord for sure. What's the song? How great a Debtor. How great a Debtor. And that's what the Lord's talking about here. And these guys are saying, we're not giving you the fruit We're not going to produce that which you've designed our whole thing to produce. We're keeping it for ourselves. Lord, I'll take salvation. I'll let you die and suffer hell for me. Yes! Well you're not telling me how to live my life. You're not telling me what I should do or shouldn't do. You're not getting anything back from me. What a sorry Christian that is. What a selfish Christian that is. That's the way these guys are. Their rejection. I noticed here as I got looking at this, the Lord was very patient with them. Did you catch that? Look at verse 4. Verse 3, he sends them. Sends a servant. They beat him, send him away. Then verse 4, I underline these two words in my Bible. And again. Verse 5, and again. Verse 5, many others. Verse 6, he sent his son. I don't know about you. The Lord's more patient with these guys than I would be, I think I think I send the servant to go, this is mine. I've invested all my time and effort and energy. I've entrusted you, you have free run of the place, it's all yours, you've you've invested nothing in this. All I want is the fruit from what I invested. And they say, and they kill the guy and they beat the guy up that I sent? I'm telling you, B-52 bombers would be flying over that thing. But the Lord doesn't. And he's very patient. And he sends him again. And he sends him again. And he sends again. I don't know about you, but I got done studying this, and I just praise the Lord that God is very patient with me I'll be the first to admit to you since I got saved. I haven't always lived for the Lord like I should. I haven't produced all that fruit that God would like to see in my life. There have been times where I've been very selfish. I know you all are shocked looking at me like very piously. I see that. But that's the truth. And by the way, how many folks here since you've got saved, you found that you've sinned since you've got saved? Sure. We don't produce the fruit that God always that God has saved us produce, but God is very patient. How many people are glad God's patient with us? Mercy. I'm glad it says and again and again and again. How many times have you and I had to come to the Lord and kneel and say, God, give me another chance? God, give me another chance. I'm not talking about salvation. I'm talking about living for Him. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Again and again and again. We have a very, very patient God. He gives us a chance over and over and over to make things right. He gave these folks multiple opportunities to do right. And He gives you and I as a Christian and we mess up and we we backslide or we get away from God and God is very, very patient. He gives us another chance to come and renew our fellowship with him. Again, we don't lose our salvation, but we lose that fellowship. We lose that blessing. We come under the chastisement of God. God gives us a chance to make it right. And God gives us a chance to make it right. I want to suggest to you every morning. The Lord's mercies are new every morning. And every morning is a new day where God gives me a chance to make things right. I like church service. And I look at church service many times as an opportunity where I can God can speak to my heart and deal with me and I can adjust things and And get back in tune with the Lord in the old-fashioned order. What a wonderful place to come and just make things right. And God gives me another chance. Do you know what I'm talking about? I love 1 John 1. 9 God is, if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. What a patient God we have. And by the way, for the unsaved, God's very patient for the unsaved. I doubt there's one of us here that know Christ as Savior, that we trusted him the first time we heard the gospel. It's been over and over and over. I'm glad God doesn't just give people, for the most part, He doesn't give them just one chance to be saved. He gives them again and again and again. If you're here this morning, you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, this is God giving you one more opportunity To trust Christ and get your soul saved. And by the way, let me say this: if you're not saved, you're here this morning, you're not saved, do not go out those doors without getting that settled. You are not promised another day, not promised another hour. And eternity is too long. Hell is too horrible to risk that. So I see the patience of God here in giving him another chance and again and again and again And God keeps working alive. God is very patient. God is very persistent. He stayed at it, stayed at it, stayed at it till there was nothing else he could do. And then I notice, and this is important, the Lord's tenants' rejection of the landlord, of the vineyard owner, God was very patient with them in their rejection. God was very persistent. But I noticed their rejection was progressive. Did you catch that? Look there in verse 3. They caught him, beat him, and sent him away. How many people agree with me? That's bad. That's bad. That's not good. But look what happens next. And again he said unto them, they cast stones and wounded them in the head. A little more severe, shamefully handled. They're treating that second one rougher than they did the first one. Then look, and again he sent another, and him they did what? Kill them! There's a progression here to the rejection. There's a hardness on the part of the tenets. Towards the servants that the landowner is sending to them. Their first one they beat them up and send them away. The next one they stone them, wound them in the head, treat them shamefully. The next one they kill them And then it gets to the point where they kill his only son, his only beloved son. How hard is the heart of man? That we could kill the Son of God. I believe the greatest sin in all of history is killing the Son of God. And I see this progression here. Now, what's the application to a Christian? I'm saved. God saved me. I can't go to hell. I'm secure. He said they shall never perish. They give them eternal life. When we get away from God and we disobey God, one of the first things God will do is He'll convict us. He'll come down if a person is saying Some people say, well, this guy claims to be saved and he's living in sin. He can't really be saved. That's not what makes me question their salvation if they sin. If anybody says they don't have sin, they're a liar But what makes me concerned about a person's salvation is that they can sin and there's no conviction about that sin. There's no chastisement taking place. Then I'm concerned about that salvation How does God approach us? How does God come to us and deal with us a Christian? If I allow sin in my heart, if I allow disobedience, I'm not producing that fruit that I should. How does God approach me? How does he do that? Well, I think the first way is he uses his word God will convict us through his word. That's why it's so important for you and I to read our Bibles every day so that God can address the sins in our hearts and lives and we can And it will convict us. How many people here have ever read your Bible? As a Christian, you read your Bible, and there was something you read in your Bible and it spoke your heart, something that needed attention, that was out of tune with the Lord, and God used that verse to address it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You know what that is? That's the servant of God coming and addressing the fact that fruit isn't what it ought to be. Now I can do one or two or maybe we're in a church service and the preacher is preaching, near somebody, whoever's preaching the word of God And the and the preacher preaches and mentions something and it's like, ugh, he got me. And you get convicted. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You think it's bad there? Try preaching it and that happens. That's really rough. I was standing in the back there. Many times folks come by and say, Preacher, man, you you stepped on my toes today. And my response to that is I wasn't aiming for your toes, I was aiming for your heart. But God speaks to his word. He sends the servant of his word. I can do one or two things. I can respond to that and say, yes, Lord, you're right, I'm going to adjust this, I'm going to make these arrangements, or I can say no. I can beat that servant and send them away. So God sends the word, maybe it convicts us, we say no. You don't listen, I'm not going to do that. Maybe we're preaching and invitation is given. The old thing, a holding on appeal. I ain't going up there. That preacher has no right telling me what to do. I ain't doing it. And we send the servant away. And then God steps it up. And he may do that over a period of time. Use his word, use his word, use his word. We keep saying, no, no, no, no, no. I'm not doing that. I'm not trusting it. I'm not changing And then God, what I he uses his word, then God uses his rod. And that's Hebrews chapter 12, where he sends physical chastisement. The word the Bible uses is scourge. It's a violent word. If we're not careful, God will start intervening. Now, it may be a loss of a job It may be physical ailment, maybe a car wreck. I know for me one time I know for a fact I had a car wreck, I know it was God intervening, I was going off the w out of the will of God, I knew it, I kept I wanted to do this. It wasn't overtly sin, but I it was not God's will. I wanted to do this. God was convicting me. I kept saying, no, there's nothing wrong with this. This is what I want. I want. Late one night, drunk came through a stop sign, plowed into the passenger side, I spun 360 around, ended up down in a ditch, and before that car shut off, I bowed my head and said, God, you got my attention. I know that was God doing that. I know it. And I submitted to God, I made things right and got back on track. You know what that is? That's the rod. It's God intervening to get our attention. Now, I want to throw a word of caution out. Just because someone has a car wreck doesn't mean God's chastening them. Alright? Just because someone's sick. Don't say, oh, they must be in sin. They're resisting the Lord. No, that's not. That's between them and God. Now pray for them. I love them. Try and encourage them. I don't know. That's between them and God. So don't make that judgment. When somebody has some issue, don't immediately say, oh, they must be in sin. That's not necessarily the case. God could be trying them and strengthening their faith. But nevertheless, it's a progression And then, if worse comes to worse, and I believe this has happened, I think in my ministry over the years, I think I've seen this. It's between them and God, I think I've seen it. Then it comes to removal. And God may say, alright, that's enough. You're coming home. We just tell our boys, don't play in the front yard where the road is. Stay out there. They go out on the road, boys! The word, boys, get off that road, get back here. They'd come running back. Next thing you know, they're out on the road again Boys, come in, bring them in, and we apply the board of learning to the seat of education, or however that is. And we use the rod. How many of you agree with me it's better to get a spanking than get hit by a car? My thinking. So we do that, look out, those knuckleheads, they're out in the road again. Boys, I told you, I paddled you, that's enough. Come on in here, you can't play out there anymore. Get in here. I think It's a rare occasion, it's extreme, but I think sometimes God uses his word, he convicts us, he convicts us, he convicts us. As a child of God, we don't listen to him, he sends the rod Rough us up a little bit, paddle us so to speak, take us to woodshed, so to speak. If one of us don't listen to that, I think there's times where God says, all right, come on home. Get up here. You're shaming my name. You're hurting the cause of Christ. You're not bearing fruit. Get up here. Get up here. And so there's a progression. So what's the thing? We need to deal with our sin when it's small. Here's my advice. If God speaks to your heart from the word, conviction down inside your heart, make it right then. Don't let it progress. Don't let it progress. I gotta quit. The last thing I notice here is the tenant's ruin. The tenants ruin. Notice there, he says, verse 9 through 12. So what therefore shall the Lord, what shall therefore the Lord of the Vineyard do? He will come and destroy the husbandmen and will give their vineyard to others Have you not read the scripture? The stone which the builders rejected has become the head of the corner. This was the Lord's doing marvelous in our eyes. I want to suggest to you very quickly, I'll just say this, there's a limit to the Lord's patience. There's a limit to the Lord's patience. Genesis chapter 6 says, my spirit shall not always strive with man. I believe it's possible for a person, particularly an unsaved person, to say, no, no, no, no, no, I'm not getting saved, I'm not getting saved, I'm not getting sav I'm not getting saved. Stop it, God. I'm not getting saved. I believe it's come to a point where God says, okay. Okay, I'm not going to keep striving with you over the salvation of your soul, and God lets them alone. Believe it's possible come that point, there is a limit to God's patience. We see that in the nation of Israel. God says, all right. And he set them aside. Now he'll come back and deal with them. I believe, as we said here, the progression of chastisement. I believe it's where God says, all right, you're not going to live for me. I'll put you in the belly of a whale. Jonah, I'll set you aside. Paul said he was afraid that he would become a castaway, set aside, unusable to God. Tell you, every Christian ought to be concerned that we say tender-hearted and submissive to the Lord. Now, God is very patient. We notice that. God is very persistent. But there comes a point. Proverbs 29 and verse 1, and this verse has uh has been uh burning on my heart for the last year. He that being often reproved hardeneth his neck, shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy. I'm glad we can never lose our salvation. We have God's promise, but we can sure enough lose God's blessings We can sure enough be set aside by God and say, all right, you're not going to bear fruit, then I'm going to set you aside. And I see the length of God's sovereignty. Through Israel's rejection of the Messiah, it opened the door for Gentiles to be saved. That's a whole nother tremendous message. But what I see from that is God can take our mess, and we've been talking about this in recent messages. God can take our hard hearts, God can take our resistance to Him. And God can take it and say, we'll trust him. He can turn that thing around. And the stone which the builders rejected, God can use to do a great work. Now that of course is referencing Jesus. But what I'm saying is this You're here this morning. You say, preacher, I've gotten so far from God. And I know my own heart has gotten so hard. I'm here to tell you we've got an awfully powerful God. That if we will submit to him and trust him, he can take those years of rejection, those years of hard-heartedness, and he can turn that around, and he can use us for his glory and his blessing. Am I making sense? I've never seen this show in my life. I honestly can say I've never watched this show, but I've heard about it. MacDyver Anybody recognize that? I don't think it's I don't know if it's one anymore, MacGyver. Now what uh Dr. Sheldon Smith likes MacGyver. Uh but uh The way I understand this guy, of course it's fiction, is that he can get in any situation and he'll take a paperclip or a wire. It's kind of like Ken Spranzo. He can take anything And he'll take whatever he has at hand and work that thing around and get out of the worst predicament. Does anybody know the show? Am I fairly close on how that thing works out? No matter what, he'll take something, figure it out, and get out of it I'm telling you, MacGyver has nothing on God. God can take our mess and our predicaments and the most horrendous things. And if we will humble ourselves before him and trust him and do what he says, bring that fruit, he can turn that thing around and make something out of it. Amen I hope this message made sense. So let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask now you'd help us. And I pray that you'd help us to be tender-hearted and not harden our hearts against you. And when you speak to us, that we trust you and respond in faith. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many this morning say, preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I've got it settled according to the Word of God. I trusted Christ as my Savior. That's not a doubt in my mind. But you'd say, preacher, my life as a Christian isn't bearing the fruit that I know God would like for it to, that God expects. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. That God will help me be a fruit-bearing Christian. That my life will reflect to this world what God intends, God's glory. God's goodness. Is there any like that, preacher? I know there's areas in my life that are not bearing that fruit that I know God saved me to do. And and that needs attention. God bless you a bunch of hands. How about it? Any others, preacher, I know the Spirit of God has spoken to my heart this morning. I'm telling you, God is very patient. God is very persistent. And he's speaking to you now. Don't say no. Don't do what Israel did and send them away. Let's humble ourselves for the Lord. Say, yes, Lord, make that right. Here's what you're looking for in my life, and I want to present it to you. Is there someone here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure if I die now I go to heaven? I hope so. I'd like to know. I wish I would. Hope. But you say, I can't honestly say that I'm sure And God wants to help you settle that. And God wants you to know for sure. Is there any this morning say, preacher, pray for me? I need that settled in my heart That when I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. Is there any like that at all? Uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. God will help me get that settled in my heart. I'm looking around. Any at all? Somebody, preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled in my heart. Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts, you know where we're at. I pray you'd help us to be humble. Submissive and trust you and let you have your way in our lives, whatever that may mean for each individual. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads above.