Fact, the first time I heard him was right there about where Mikhail was sitting. I was sitting there in this youth youth rally, this very youth rally, November Thanksgiving, I remember listening, I was sitting right there Had the number of opportunities since then to listen to him preach. In fact I had one opportunity where he taught Bible Institute here and I was in his class. I I mean he's just been such a blessing in my life. He's done a number of things for me and I really appreciate Brother Motherman I know he loves young people, and he's got a message for you. So open your hearts and open your Bible as he comes and speaks for us, brother. Samuel, if you would please, 2 Samuel chapter 23 Anytime you preach to uh teenagers, there's certain things you can do. You can preach on heaven, you can preach on hell, you can preach on the second coming. And really uh use some shocking illustrations, etc. , etc. But as I prepared this message specifically as I was praying and asking God to help, um God wanted me to preach a message on one word. It's not actually in this portion of scripture that we're going to read, but topically it is. I if if if you think about and that there's a I'm all for preaching on smoking dope and drinking beer and this wicked and shouldn't bar hop and rock and roll music. I'm I'm all for that kind of preaching. But I've told our church, I think a lot of times the way we present Christianity to Christians and to teenagers is like this. Actually, as a Christian, I'm a Rolls-Royce salesman, and I have uh you come to me to talk to me about buying a Rolls-Royce, and I stand here telling you why you shouldn't buy a Nissan. Instead of showing you the aspects of the Rolls-Royce. Yeah, you're right. Today I'm going to show you the aspects of the Rolls-Royce, but I want to talk to you on the subject of this one word. And and and I I I don't know, man, if you got any spirituality about you at all, the power in what you've just heard And now knowing that I'm going to preach to you a message God gave me to me this week for you called Stand. Let's all stand, if you would, please, 2 Samuel chapter 23 and verse 11. This is one of my favorite portions of scripture, though it is short. The Bible said, and after him was Shema, the son of Agi, the Harerite, and the word Harorite means a mountaineer. And the Philistines were gathered together into a troop where was a piece of ground full of lentils, and the people fled from before uh fled from the Philistines But he, meaning Shammah, stood in the midst of the ground and defended it and slew the Philistines, and the Lord wrought a great victory Father, I pray you guide my words, help me only to say that which is deemed by you. Father, I I am not worthy to be here to address these young people, but I pray God that you'd call somebody out of here Lord, in the full-time Christian service, whether it be in pastoring or evangelism or missions or or whatever the case may be, God, though we would like to see all, Lord, I know you're looking for one man. One young woman that says, Hey, I'll be the one. Thank you, Lord, for letting me be sensitive enough to the Holy Spirit of God To know exactly what you wanted me to preach today. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Take you may be seated There's times that you have to stand and you're going to be hated. I'm a former Prince George's County police officer. But before that I was a I was a presidential guard for Ronald Reagan Probably our la last great president. I remember standing when I was raised in a in a small town. There's only one thousand four hundred people in my town. It's kinda like I I live in uh Fairmont, but I pastor in Mannington, West Virginia now and I try to tell people I I lived uh somewhere like in between Joe Town and Mannington. And I wind up one day standing out at Angers Air Force Base as Air Force One is coming over top of me, and I'm thinking, man, I am standing here looking at the president. It's pretty neat. I actually was a canine handler for Ronald Reagan. It was a bomb dog handler. But when I got out of the military, I went into the police department and I was already saved. I got saved at sixteen years old. And uh when I went into the military, didn't live for the Lord the way I should, led my wife to the Lord at a at a a as a teenager But then when I went into the police department God got a hold of my heart and I started standing up for God. He said, when'd you start standing? Well I I was an only child so I didn't ha I didn't have to stand against my older brother, old m older sister Didn't have to but I had a bunch of cousins. My mama had eight sisters and we uh I was a uh only child in my family had to stand against my cousins all the time. One time I was a little boy, I was probably eight years old, my cousins were beating me up out in the front yard. I know that never happened to you. And uh my I walked in, I told my dad, I said, Hey, my cousins out there beat me up. He said, Well boy, get a stick and beat them with it And so I walk I I got out there, man, I found me a good stick and I caught my cousin that just punched me, he wasn't looking at me, I cracked him right in the shin with it. Something I've learned in life is when something happens to you and it's a stick, whether it be cancer or hardship or whatever, get the stick out and beat the devil with it. Use it for the glory of God. But when I was in the police department it came to a point to where I was in constant confrontation as an officer trying to be one that would tell people about the Lord. I used to go and crack houses, drag people out, put 'em on the street, and I'd start witnessing to them up against my car, but my partners would stand back and go, Amazing Grace, what you gonna do now, Bowman? You know? But I'd witness to these people. One day, one day I I I'm on a traffic stop and and there's a car in front of me and uh I I went back and it was so dangerous in the area where I was. Eleven of my friends are now dead But I stood at the back of a cruiser a at at the back of my cruiser because I had a car pulled over and this guy walked up. I didn't see him When he walked up I I I I turned 'cause he said, Hey Bowman, I had death threats on me, etc. , etc. And I turned and I'm I'm Fix him pull my weapon on him and he said, Oh no, man, no. He's walking by me like this. He said, Hey man, you don't remember me, do you? I said, No, I don't. He said, Buddy, you told me about Jesus. He said, It works. It it works. You know, sometime in your life you need to be willing to stand up because people's lives depend on it. One of my dear friends got murdered uh by uh the the DC s uh wasn't the DC sniper, but the DC cop killer back in in in the early 90s. A friend's name was John Novobilski. And uh every day I'd go to work and I'd take my Bible and and I had to ride with him. I had just been in a shooting and they put me in the cruiser with him. And every day I'd I'd get in the car and say, Hey, look, Nova man, you know you gotta get saved and he said, Man, put your Bible up and leave me alone. Well he did that for a couple of weeks and I just kept on witnessing, kept on witnessing to him, and finally he was murdered. After his funeral, there was thousands and thousands of people at his funeral. I've never seen anything like it. That that that hearse going down the inner down I-95. Y'all from I-95 area. That hearst going down to I-95 and I was allowed to be one of the my squad were the cruisers, we had four cruisers in front and eight cruiser uh eight cruisers in front and four cruisers in back to hold the traffic off And we were taking that hearse down the interstate as an awesome scene. After it was over, um we went to the funeral and it was rotten. My dear wife was there with me and I said, This is making me sick. She elbowed me in the in the side and said, You need to shut up. We're sitting there and these priests are saying this and saying that, and it's all garbage. All garbage. He's ushered into heaven through his baptism. No, he wasn't. You only go to heaven through the blood of Jesus Christ. So after the funeral, I walked in my my uh Squad room and it there's probably 30 police officers in there. And when I walked in, one of my friends named Steve Steve Goggin. Anybody related to Steve Goggin? One of my friends, Steve Goggin, was sitting in there, and we're about this distance, Brother King. He said, hey Bowman, he said, what did you think about the priest's sermon today at the funeral? And I looked at him and I said, Well, politically it was pretty good, but spiritually it was absolutely rotten. And man, it was like God turned somebody gonna turn a light switch on because cockroaches like I mean the officers were just boom boom boom uh just running and getting away because they knew it's there was something going on here And Steve said, Well, why'd you say it's spiritually rotten? I said, Hey Steve, won't you let me sit down here and tell you why it was rotten? He said, Go ahead, man. I took my Bible and I sat down with him and went right through the Romans Road. I was amazed that my my brother in law, he's still on the depart department. He called me a couple of Months after I was off the police department and he said, Lee He said Steve Goggin was in Laurel today and he was working vice. That means run after drug dealers. And he was up in Laurel and he ran around a corner chasing the guy, and when he did, the guy was standing waiting on him when he came around the corner and shot him. I you know, Steve never got saved that day. But I thank God. I thank God that God allowed me to be bold enough, what God did for me to stand up in the midst, in the face of adversity, and say, Let me tell you about Jesus. Because I learned even from the press that he then went to a Baptist church and all his family was in church. And that he was a great great servant in this church. So I I uh that doesn't make you saved, but that's an evidence that a devout Roman Catholic something changed. There's gonna come a day in your life I'm not preaching, I am not preaching to the young people that are interested in uh uh immorality, drugs and rock and roll. Do what you're gonna do, knock yourself out, and when the bottom when you get down to the bottom, the ball bottom falls out, we'll still be here to help you, and so will God I'm talking to a young person that wants your life to count. I'm talking to somebody, I'm telling you, this is the greatest life you could ever live. God's never gonna leave you, God's never gonna forsake you, God's never gonna hate you. I I I preached on Wednesday night to my church, yeah, it's bad in here, but no no friend, we have no king but Jesus. I'm not gonna stand around and lick my wound And act like a wounded dog. I have no king but Jesus, and Jesus has always stood for me. And son, it's about high time somebody starts standing up for God. I I I get amazed at young teenage boys. You know you know, something I've learned in police work and something these guys know about me personally and I'm not bragging at all But I'm telling what, your physical physique and your power doesn't mean nothing. It means there's not a man in this room that could take me physically. It it ain't gonna happen. You say, well man, that's kind of boastful. No, I'm just telling you straight, but you know what? There is someone that can whoop me and whoop me beyond belief, right? Who's that? Mike Tyson and among other ones. Just to put them on the list. Now listen what I'm trying to tell you. Your physical statute doesn't make any difference. How much you can do this or how what kind of ball game you can play or Oh, that's all fun, but it's gotta be within balance. Because let me tell you something. There is the the when you when you think about manhood, you know you know what you know what young people need at North Marion High School They n they need some young people just gonna stand up for God. That's what they need. And you know what the w you know what the world's sick of? The world's sick of a hodgepodge Christianity that's playing hokey pokey, got one foot in the world and one foot in the church and and and Saying, well, that's Christianity. No, it isn't. I want to ask you to turn to a lot of scripture. I want you to go with me to Genesis chapter 39. I want you to look at verse 11. Your manhood is not based on whether you're physically fit or you can take somebody. That may be helpful to you in the future, but that's not your manhood. You know what a young lady needs? Yeah, she needs someone eventually when you get married, when you're about eighty, uh need need someone need that's what your mama thinks, right? Okay. Okay, but Uh uh you you oughta be in shape, you ought to be able to defend your family, but that's not that doesn't give stability to your home. What gives stability to your home is being strong spiritually. And let me tell you something. If you want to make your life count, you need to understand uh several things. You're gonna have to stand and you're gonna have to stand strong against temptation. Right. You're going to have to stand strong against temptation. Look at me at Genesis chapter 39 and verse 11. Speaking of Joseph, Joseph stood in the face of temptation. The Bible said, and it came to pass about this time that Joseph went into the house to do his business, and there was none of the men in the house there were were were within. Sorry And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me, and he left his garment in her hand and fled and got him out. Now, okay, so let me give you something to think about. Joseph is a godly young man and he is in slavery at the hands of his own brothers. Man, what what a family. Now listen. This wicked woman wants him to be immoral with her. We can learn a couple things from here that Joseph might not have paid attention to, that we can pay attention to. Listen, listen, don't don't don't lose me I'm not going to try to hang from chandeliers. I'm just going to try to reason with you from the scriptures. Joseph stood in the face of temptation. He walks in. There's no there's no none of the normal people there. Let me tell you something, young people. One way to avoid uh immoral temptation is don't be alone with people. That that's a good that's a good Bible principle. Just don't do it. Well you say, Well it's okay it's no no, just don't be alone with people. Well it's okay it's my family. Well Tamar had a brother, a half brother, and it went wrong too. You shouldn't be alone with them. You're gonna have to stand in the face of temptation, then let me tell you something. You're gonna have to be looking for it at all times. You've got to be vigilant at all times. One thing law enforcement told me taught me was be vigilant at all times. Always. Don't let your guard down. That's helped me in the ministry. And you know what in the ministry, every time I've let my guard down just like this It's like the devil goes, paw with an overhand right. As soon as I let my guard halfway down, I'm getting I'm getting popped right and so I just keep it up Just keep the door up. Now let me give you an example. Watch me. You gotta stand in the face of temptation and you're gonna have to be vigilant at all times. Many years ago, back in the err min many okay, many years ago, back in the early nineties, uh my wife um and I did not have any children at the time and We were both on the police department and my parents were visiting with us. They were sitting in the backseat of our car. We pulled down into Georgetown Park Mall. I don't know if you knew anything about Dortham Park Mall. It's in Washington, D. C. and I don't think I have to explain anything other than that on the crime level So when we pull down into Washington, Georgetown, Washington Park Mall, I'm talking about being vigilant at all times So when I pull down into the mall, I park the car, and when I park the car, three guys walk on this side of our car, three guys walk on that side, and the last guy bumps into me. When he bumped into me, I just leaned down in the car because everybody's still sitting in there. I I said, hey, just stay in the car. This don't look good. When I stood up, all six of those guys were standing at the back of my car. I'm in plain clothes and they're looking at me and I'm looking at them and finally I said I don't know what you're looking at, but you better get your eyes off of me. Well God said, what you gonna do about it? Well I pulled my nine millimeter and I said, well, there's sixteen rounds in here and there's six of you. What do you think I'm gonna do about it? All I saw was Pow They would have robbed us that day. That's right. That's right. Once your purity's robbed, you can't ever get it back. Once it's gone, it's gone. If you're gonna stand for God, you're gonna have to be on guard. You gotta stand in the face of temptation. Let me give you the next one. Look at me in 2 Kings chapter 2. I mean 2 Kings chapter 5, please. 2 Kings chapter 5. Second Kings Chapter five. Second Kings Chapter Five. I really, really want to see young people do great things for God. I I I really I really want you to understand Man, you l listen, the world is deceptive. They're liars. Never take the bait. It's always poison. Never, never, never take the bait. It's always poison. If you really understood how the devil hates your guts and would like for you to spend eternity with him, Somewhere in your life you need to say, you know, you know what? I'm not doing that. Let me transition to the second one. There's a little girl in Second Kings, and she's a slave. She's a slave. And and and the in the home where she has been enslaved She's there. Not her mama. Her mama's not there. Her daddy's not there. Her brothers and sisters. Her grandma. We don't know anything about her family other than they're not there and she's in a foreign land. This man named Naaman has leprosy. And I want you to look on me in 2 Kings chapter 5 and look with me what it says in verse 1 Now Naaman captain of the host of the king of Syria was a great man with his master and honorable because by him the Lord had given deliverance unto Syria And he was also a mighty man in valor, but he was a leper. See there it is. Hey yeah, you you you understand? This man was a mighty man and there were things that could get a hold of him. Leprosy would change my life. I think it'd change yours and yours. You understand? Just because you have some kind of status doesn't make any difference You gotta make sure that you're right with God. Now wa watch what happens. Watch what happens in verse two. So he's a leper, and the Syrians had gone out by companies and brought away captive out of the land of Israel. A little maid, just a little girl, and she waited on Naaman's wife. What a pitiful, pitiful situation of a little girl being captive in a foreign land, and here she is. Servant this this this man's wife. But she know he has and she knows he has leprosy. Look with me in verse 3. And she said unto her mistress Would God, my Lord, were with the prophet that is in Samaria, for he would recover him of his leprosy. You you know what? I I I see people they they put their kids in the world and then they try to tell me how great their kids are gonna do something for God. Right. Yeah Let me let me tell you something. If my kid don't know nothing about God, one day they're going to be away from me, and then what are they going to do when they're confronted with situations where they need to respond in a right way? Now what we would say was uh you know most of our kids raised in a situation where you got such hypocrisy in the home, you say, well what what are you talking about? What watch this? That little girl had been raised by a mom and daddy that made sure they knew who the man of God was. Not only was that little girl raised in a home to where they knew who God who the man of God was, she knew what God can do for him. You know what? That little girl, listen to me, some of you so selfish that you will not ever get to a place where you're going to serve God. Right. I'm talking about laziness and procrastination to where you ain't gonna well if I'm not told to do it, I'm not doing it. You say, What are you talking about, preacher? Here's what I'm talking about Here's a little slave girl away from mom and daddy, the comforts of home, don't have grandma, don't have nothing, and here she is living in a in a warrior's home, and he's sick, and she has an opportunity to say something because she sees a need Let me tell you something. You're gonna be the one, you're gonna stand up, you you you need to start seeing the need. You say what are you talking about? Uh if the ca if the carpet needs to be vacuumed, uh pick up a vacuum. Don't expect somebody else to do it I if there's if there's trash out in the parking lot, start serving God now. Just downstairs there's a roll of torp toilet paper in the bathroom, fell on the floor, it wasn't but nobody and I picked it up You understand how simple that is? I'm not picking up a roll of pork toilet paper and putting it on the back of a toilet just to do it something. I'm doing that because that's God's toilet paper. Say that's a ridiculous illustration. No, what's ridiculous is being so lazy you won't do nothing around the church thinking somebody else is gonna do it. If you don't start serving God now, you ain't gonna do it later, friend. Do you know that in youth groups like this that there are young people People that come in and they come in off the street, they come in from difficult homes, and they come in and you won't even talk to them. Do you not see the need that they need the man of God? They need that they need to know the power of God, they need to know God, but yet most people that come and visit a church, they stick there because initially because someone is an encouragement to them. Whereas in a world while we got our our clickest little clicks This little girl didn't have a clique. She didn't have her family. But when she saw the need, she said something about it. You gonna serve God? You gotta stand again in the face of temptation, and you're gonna stand when no one else will stand and meet a need. Go me over to uh second chronicles thirty-four, please. Second Chronicles thirty-four. Second Chronicles thirty four Are there needs? Yeah, there's needs in the church. There's there's How many times how many times do I have to walk by a windowsill to see something would you do that at the house? That let stuff sit on the windowsill? Then don't do it in the house of God. Go get a tissue or go get a or or don't lick it up, but go get a tissue, go do whatever you gotta do and clean it up. Don't let Cobb Webb stuff. You say, well, that's the preacher's job. Oh no contraire, my friend. That ain't the preacher's job. That's that's 2 Chronicles 34 and verse 1. When you see a need, meet it. 2 Chronicles 34, 1. And Josiah was 8 years old. He's a whole whopping 8 years old when he began to reign. He reigned in Jerusalem 1 and 30 30 years. And he did that which is right in the sight of the Lord, and walked in the ways of David his father, decline neither the right hand nor the left. Verse 3, please. For in the eighth Okay, now here's here's a concern I have. Listen to me. Listen, some of you are drifting out la la land. Come at, come at, come at. I ain't trying to keep your attention. I'm just preaching the Bible. Whether you're gonna be a candle or a rock is up to you. Listen what I'm trying to tell you When it comes to a point to where you're 16 years old, this young boy is a king, but at 16 years old he wanted to know God. Not only at sixteen, at twenty-six, son, I'm telling you right now, that Joker stood up. He sent the he sent these men back to the house of God. They come back and say, Well man, we found the w we found the the the book of the law. He said, Read it. When he found out what was in it, I mean his heart was tender, the Bible teaches. His heart was tender, and God said, I tell you what I'll do. I'm not going to bring wrath in your day against you. I'll give you mercy Basically is what God told him. But that man stood up in such a way, by the way, I don't think he had too many friends in the religious crowd Why watch with me because I want you to go with me in 2 Kings 2 Kings chapter 23 and I want you to notice something. 2 Kings chapter 23. Here's what Josiah did. Josiah stood when the whole nation had been going in the wrong way, and he brought them back to God, and here's what he did. He started stamping and breaking and and taking care of everything that was wicked in his nation and stood up against it Now, if you're ever going to serve God, you can't serve two masters. You can't have your hand in the hand of the devil and the hand of Jesus and think it's going to work out that you're going to serve God. Listen to me. Listen to me. Some of you have so been so indoctrinated that you think Well what is serving God? I mean is it like he like he said a while ago, making money and that there's nothing wrong with making money, but if God wants you to do something else And you set an endeavor to do something else, it's always going to run into a dead end. It's always going to lead to death. There is a way that seemeth right unto man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. Now watch. You're going to stand for God When when is it that you and I are going to make our mind? How old are you? You're ten. When do you think God takes notice that you do right? Now, now, Josiah was eight years old and the Bible said that he did that was right in the sight of the Lord. Josiah was 16 years old and he they found the Bible. Josiah was 26 years old and son did he ever Wreak havoc on wickedness. You know what that teaches me? Listen to me. You know what that teaches me? I can't I can't have anything wicked in my life and think I'm I'm gonna be right with God. It don't work. Ain't gonna work. Okay? Look at me look look what happened with the people. Watch. Second Kings chapter twenty-three verse twenty-one. And the commit king commanded all the people, saying, Keep the Passover to the Lord your gods is written in the book of the covenant Surely there was not holding such a Passover, such a Passover from the days of the judges that judge Israel, not all the days of the king of Israel, the kings of Judah. You know what the Bible's teaching In other words, there had never been a Passover hell like that in all the days of the judges or the kings You know what happened? One man stood up and the people took note in the fact that they said, Man, we need to be right with God. Amen. By the way, hey, hey, let it not be said in our youth groups that not only are we not right with God, but that we're hypocrites. And you know what? You don't have to be mean to stand up against people. You can just say, Hey man, we don't do that here. We don't talk like that here, we don't do that here, that, that and smile at them real big and just do it do right. You don't have to be mean, you ought to have to intimidate people, you don't have to do that. You just stand up for what's right. Let me give you another one Look on me in Daniel chapter 3, please. Daniel chapter 3, you know the story well, and you know these young men stood up against pagan influence. Pagan influence. Daniel chapter 3. Daniel chapter three, standing up. Daniel chapter three and verse sixteen Daniel chapter 3 and verse 16 the Bible says this. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered and said unto the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, we're not careful to answer thee in this manner. If it be so, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, uh uh fiery fiery burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of thy hand, O King. But if not, be it known unto thee, O King, that We will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up. In your life, I just told my church a story. I think it's very good. I think it could be a great help Listen to me. Look, look, look, look, look. I've known a lot of people in my life. Now outside my mom, my dad, my grandmothers, my wife, my boys. If you look at the external relationships that you have with people, truly, when you've been in need, how much has a lost person's thing stood for you? How how much has a lost person run to your aid? Yeah, I know they can do things, but I mean really stand with you through thick and thin. Do you know that these three boys, Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach, and the Bed to go stood up against the world system, and the world system, you heard what he says? Loves those that it can command and that's exactly what Nebuchadnezzar did. He said, You're gonna bow down to the music, you're gonna worship me, and if you don't, you're gonna burn. And buddy, these were some bad jokers. Do you know what? They didn't have muscles, they couldn't take anybody. in the crowd, they stood up for God. And God took note of it that these jokers, that l let me tell you something. These three boys were bad to the bone. You know why Because they weren't afraid of the world, they're not afraid of the devil, they're not afraid of the world system, and they were not even afraid to die, and they said, We're not going to be careful, we're not going to sit around and bite our fingernails, Nebuchadnezzar, then figure out how we're going to answer you, but we're not valid. And if you burn us, hey God's still gonna deliver us because heaven is a lot better, I'm telling you. Listen They stood up against pagan influence. It's going to come a time in your life where you're going to have to make sure you are careful about where you go, you are careful about what you listen to, you are careful about what you but when it's time to stand up, stand up. Stand up for God. Because that's the thing you need to do if you're going to be a servant for God. I I I tell you one thing, God said I'm looking for a man to stand in the gap. Listen, listen, listen. It's hard to go in churches and you know what we've got a bunch of ladies that stand, got a bunch of ladies to do the work, got a bunch of ladies say I'll do this. I'm having to debate whether to close my bus routes down You know why but uh I they nothing wrong with a lady driving. But I got a bunch of guys been telling me for five years they're gonna get CDLs and they ain't got it yet. Maybe he can find some bus drivers. What's what's wrong with us, man? Somebody's got to stand up in the face of paganism and realize our nation is not upside down and to going the wrong way because of of liquor and drinking and all this No, it's because we won't stand up in the face of paganism and say, no, let me tell you about Jesus and let me show you what it is to live the Christian life. Okay, so with that thought, I'm going to give you this Standing is going to cost you. Isn't that what he said? Standing is going to cost you. Look at me in Ephesians chapter 6. I know you're getting hungry, getting sleepy, getting restless, and the mind's capability to comprehend is only according to what the seek can endure. Well, come in Ephesians chapter 6 and verse eleven. The Bible said in Ephesians 6 11, put on the whole armor of God that he may be able to stand without uh against the walls of the devil. You're going to get attacked. You're gonna get attacked. But yeah, if you if you neglect the Bible, you're not gonna be able to stand. Look on me look on me in uh Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 13 Ephesians chapter six verse thirteen. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God that ye may be able to s to withstand in the evil day, having done all to stand And you're gonna have to do it with purpose of heart. Go back with me to Daniel chapter one. You're gonna have to make your mind this is not, this is not okay. Let me let me share something with you. When you're talking about serving God, this is not some emotional decision, though it is ba it it uh it is emotional. But that's not the root of my decision. The root of my decision comes because of the word of God and the call of God on my life and me saying, I surrender. That's right. You know you're never gonna serve unless you surrender. We gotta surrender, all of it. That's right. If God asked for that, yes Lord. If God asked for this, yes Lord I heard a great preacher one time. He said he said he had a battle with sin in his life to it was such a point. I want you to look at Daniel chapter 1, verse 8. Daniel chapter 1, verse 8. Look what the Bible says But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with a portion of the king's meat, nor with a wine which he drank. Therefore he requested of the prince of the eunuchs and he might not defile himself. Okay This preacher many years ago said that he had he had some problems in his life. And it was like he had keys, and those keys represented his sin. He said it came down to where he was holding on to the keys. He wasn't involved in it, but in his heart he was holding on to it. And he would go to the Lord in prayer, and he said, if you could picture the Lord walking up to me, the Lord would walk up to listen. And he would start talking to the Lord about his sin. God, I can't. I can't. And he said the Lord turned and started walking away, if you could picture that. And he said, that old preacher, he said, I figuratively got on my knees and just held my keys out like this. He said, I can't give it up, Lord, but you can take it from me. He said it's like the Lord went over, took the keys from him, and listened to him. Sin is going to bring nothing but death and mayhem in your life. Living righteous, living righteous. It's going to pay you the best benefits that you could ever imagine. Because friend, it pays to serve God. Amen. God loves you, God wants to help you, but it's going to cost you something. You gotta have to make your mind up, I'm I'm gonna surrender. Isn't it amazing how you surrender your mind to music? Isn't that amazing? Isn't that amazing how we surrender ourselves to watch football teams like West Virginia that lose? When we expect them to win. Isn't it amazing how we surrender our lives in in peer pressure? No, friend, stand up for what's right. Let me give you the last thing. You're gonna f you're gonna have to stand in the face of temptation. You're going to have to stand in the in the in the form of meeting needs. Stop walking around and asking what you can do and find something to do. You're going to have to stand even if you have to do it publicly like I did and thank God I did. But David, 2 Samuel chapter 24, please. 2nd Samuel chapter 24. I'm going to give you two quick points. 2nd Samuel chapter 24. Second Samuel chapter twenty-four. I want to invite you to verse twenty-four. And the king said, 2 Samuel 24, 24, and the king said unto Aruna, Nay, but I will surely buy it of thee at a price. Neither will I offer burnt offerings unto the Lord my God of that which does cost me nothing. What I find in the life of Stephen, in the book of Acts, this young man stood in the face of religious paganism, adversity, heresy, whatever you want to call it. And he just preached. And when he got through preaching, they decided they're going to kill him. Do you know anytime that anybody does anything great in the Bible, there's a great sense of urgency? But there's a great abandonment to themselves. Stephen knew what he was facing. And when they took him out to stone him, they laid his garments at a young man's feet named Saul. That's the Apostle Paul. And Saul was consenting unto his death. In other words, he thought, that's a good thing. Let's kill this dude. And all Stephen was doing was preaching Jesus Christ. You're gonna go in your school. You'll go in your school. Somebody say what what's the matter with you man? You get religious. You you know what when they did to that meet to they did that to me on the police department? You know when their babies were dying and their wives are sick, you know who they called? They didn't call their beer drinking buddy, they called me at three o'clock in the morning. But when Stephen died, the Bible teaches that Jesus was standing for him. I can get through this world and through this difficulty because I know Jesus stands for me. I've told you the story, I've told my my church the story, I'll tell it again. It's worth telling. One friend of mine said, You tell the same story. They tell him, You tell the same story, Brother Skinner. He said, Well, at least I got one. My little boy here, Elijah, was born with an incurable disease. He's doing great now, because evidently his disease wasn't incurable. Amen. But when Elijah was a little boy, my wife and I had given up everything we owned and we were in evangelism. We lived in a little room at our church called the Prophet's Chamber. And that prophet's chamber was a couch and a bed and a little bathroom area, and that was it. That's where we lived. I used to have a fifth-wheel uh trailer and it broke down. It wouldn't fix it. So here I am homeless. Sold everything I got. And Lajes is very, very sick at the time. Forty to sixty percent of the skin is off his body. Gone. I'm in Delaware. I'm preaching a revival. When I come in from the revival, I had a great time in Delaware preaching. It was good to see what the Lord was doing. When I walked in the room, I opened the door, and my wife was standing there with Elijah in her arms. She said, he's suffering, and I'm hurting. My wife has never griped, never complained to me ever. One day she told me before I was called the preach, she said, What's the matter with you, man? She said, You're afraid for living for God and being poor? She said, I've been poor. I'm not afraid of it. Why don't you do what God wants you to do? I walk in the door, and when I walked in the door, she's standing there and she's telling me, he's suffering, and I'm hurting. I walk right past her. Isaiah, Isaiah was was four years at the old time, he's a guitar player up here. I walked right past him, didn't say anything to him I got on my knees at this couch and I got on my knees and when I got on my knees I said God David came home and Ziklag was burned. His men wanted to kill him. And I said, God, you you told you David told you all all he wanted you to do was speak to him And I said, I know you've given me your word, and I know you've given me the word of God, and I know you speak to me through the word of God. I said, but God, I feel like quitting And I said, I have got to have you to speak to me. Listen to me, and I'm done. Listen, you don't want to miss this. I got done and when I when I finished praying, I sat up on the couch. When I sat up on the couch, Isaiah, four years old, standing and looked at me. He said, Daddy. I said, what? He said, there's something I gotta tell you. I said, what is it, Isaiah? He said, I've got to whisper it to you, Daddy. And I said, well, come on up here on the couch. And he jumps up on the couch. And you know how little boy is. He breathes that little warm breath on your ear before he tells you. He says, Daddy, the Bible says, fear not, for I am with thee. Why wouldn't I stand for my God in adversity? Why wouldn't I stand for God in the face of temptation? Why wouldn't I stand up for what's needful? Why wouldn't I be willing to stand up against paganism? Why wouldn't I like Josiah not be afraid of what a nation thinks about me? I'm going to stand with God That's the same reason why I'm not gonna be a good guardian, a good guard a gardener of your church. I'm gonna be a good guardian of your church. And when I need to tell a reprobate to get out of the church, that's what I'm gonna tell 'em. When I stand up and preach, thus saith the Lord, when the town calls me the talk of the town, 'cause I preach against dancing, I'm preaching against dancing, the prom and the rest of it, and it's amazing to me how God turns things around. That's an amazing thing. Why wouldn't I stand up for God? God's never left me destitute. God's never left and it pays to serve God. God's blessed me. God's helped me. But people that I've been raised with, people I was friends with, They've all forsaken me, but he never has. And why in the world wouldn't I give my life for him? He died for me. Stand up and be a man for God Doesn't have anything to do with your physical physique because there's always someone that could whoop you. Always Stand up for God and be a man and be a woman of God and say, I don't care. How many it all God wants one. I'm gonna do what God wants me to do. I love Micaiah. Micaiah said, I'm gonna speak what God tells me to speak, and I'll tell you. Tell my church all the time, I am not your buddy. I didn't come here to be your buddy. I come here to be the man of God and tell you what the Bible says. If you don't make up your mind as a young man, a young woman, you're gonna stand, and you're gonna stand. I don't care. I'm gonna be nice, I'm gonna be kind, but I'm gonna tell you right now, I'm gonna tell He had ears, One of the dearest losses that I've suffered, one of the last things, is telling a friend of mine, buddy, your music is going down the tubes, and I ain't got nothing to do with it. Our ministry together is over. That's a hard thing to do. But it's a right thing to do. People tell me all the time, Well, you're still you're gonna stand with them and stand, and I told this lady the other day, buddy I told her, ma'am, I ain't standing with nobody but Jesus Christ. And if you're gonna accuse me of standing with someone else, it's cause you can't you're not on the right side. I'm standing where the Bible stands, I'm gonna stand where the Bible stands, and that's how it is. Has he ever done anything against you? Has he ever hurt you? Has he helped you? Are you saved? Do do you have h d heaven as your hope? Why wouldn't you stand for him? By the way, those people you go to school with ain't gonna like you they they ain't gonna know who you are in five years. They're gonna have to look in a yearbook to find out what your name is. They don't care about you, but he does. Stand up for Jesus. Every head bowed and every eye closed. I've had to stand against my own family. Now you can talk about hard thing to do, man. That's hard thing to do. But Jesus has been so kind to me, the one of the main things that's going to keep you back from standing from God It's the keys to something you're holding on to. If I regard iniquity, it doesn't say if I can commit an iniquity outwardly, it said if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. Just hold your hand out, surrender your life, surrender your desires, surrender your wishes, and every good thing that he listen. It's like we're asking people to go to their own funeral. No, friend. We're inviting you to a life of abu- the abundant life. The abundant life. As the music begins to play, who in here says, Brother Bowman, I I don't even know for sure if I died, I'd go to heaven. I don't know that for sure, but I need to get that settled. Friend, let me tell you what, if you're here and you're not saved, of course you're here, but if you're not saved, you are a person and inside you are troubled and you know you know you're not right And you're afraid to die and go to hell. And you should be. You should be afraid to die and going to hell. You know, I go to church, but I'm not saved. Look. When it comes down to you standing up and receiving Jesus Christ, don't expect somebody else to do it for you because they can't He said, Pastor Bowman, I'm not even saved. Would you please pray for me? Would you raise your hand that I could pray for you? Anyone at all? Pastor Bowman, I'm not saved. But I really need to get that settled. I don't have a Bible answer why if I died I'd go to heaven, but I'd like to know that. Anyone at all, would you raise your hand that I could pray for you? Is there just one person? Is there just one person that would say, hey look? I'm going to put it all on the line and I'm going to be like Shammah and I'm going to stand in a bean field. And you know what? Shammah stood in a bean field because it was God's bean field. There's no reason to fight for a bean field other than the fact it was God's. And what's God's, I ought to be willing to stand up and fight for it, even when it doesn't make any sense Send one young man that say, you know what, I I I I I got pride in my life, I think I'm that and think of that, and I've battled the same thing. And I'm telling you, friend. Your physical fitness and all that stuff, as I've said before, doesn't make a hell of beings. It's being spiritual and being right and being a man of God, being willing to stand up in the face of adversity and temptation and stand up for need and being a leader. Being a leader. God's calling somebody. God's dealing with somebody's heart today. God has me here for such a time as this. Friend, I'm telling you, God divinely has put these messages together. And I'm trying to show you a Rolls Royce. Not telling you why you shouldn't follow the world, but what you should do for God. With heads bowed, eyes closed, would you please stand to your feet Now listen to the call. If you're serious about putting it on the line, I'm telling you you won't regret it But if you don't, you'll have regrets for the rest of your life. I'm serious about putting it on the line, but if if you do, you won't regret it. But if you don't, friend, I'm telling you right now, it will be a life of regrets. If God's such a heart in these messages and God dealing with you right now, why don't you respond to the altar and do business with God right now? Come on. Come on. Hey, listen, you're in the middle of the aisle, you say, I what I need to do. You need to walk the aisle, get out on your knees, and say, God, help me with all power that I can stand for you. Would you come Come on, if God touch your heart, move. Let's go. What about you, you send uh just ask somebody, let me through, let me through Deal business with God. When God speaks to your heart, you need to respond. Those of you still standing, you may be seated. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Those of you seated, I want to ask you this question. Who in here says, Brother Bowman, I I'm still seated? But God did speak to my heart, and I want to I want to ask you to pray for me. Anybody like that at all? Would you raise your hand? Those of you still seated, God spoke to me. God spoke to my heart. Yes, God bless you. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. God bless you. Thank you. Now listen to your friend. You've asked me to pray for you because God spoke to you. That's what I face in church all the time. You know what you need to do? You need to come down and get on your knees and ask God for yourself to help you. Come on, you raise your hand and said, I'm gonna pray for I want you to pray for me. God spoke to my heart. Get up right there. Right there Come on, would you be the one to walk down the aisle and say, look, I've got to deal with business with God right now. Come on, there's two, there's three, there's four, there's five, who else? There's six, there's seven. You raise your hand and said, Preacher, would you pray for me? Would you pray for me? Friend, you need to be in a habit of laying out all on the line for God and coming to God and praying and saying, God, would you help me? Just let them bow and say, let it let me pass. Let me pass. If you raise your hand, I'm gonna pray for you. But you need to be in a habit of asking God to help you and meet your needs on your own behalf. The music is going to continue to play and the invitation is still going. Is there anyone else? Is there anyone else? I'm gonna have a word of prayer for these that have raised their hand, but the invitation is still open. Father, I do pray, God, that you'd help these young people. They raise their hand and say, God spoke to me in some way in this message and preacher, I must you to pray for me. God, there's so many of them. I don't even know how to pray for them, but I know you do. You know their needs, and I pray, God, that you bless them and help them. God help them to stand what it doesn't make any sense to stand on the fact that I need to do it because God told me to do it. Thank you for your goodness and your grace. And I pray, God, that you bless on the message to come. I pray, God, that you'd fill Pastor Skelly with the power of the Holy Spirit of God to stir our hearts to be more righteous and to live for you. In Jesus' name I pray, heads are bowed, eyes are closed, people still praying at the altar. While they're still praying. Let's pray the sweet Bamba.