That's great. Alright, well, let's open our Bibles again to the book of Psalms. Book of Psalms. Psalm 51 in your Bible, Psalm 51, right about the middle of your Bible. How many are experiencing right now a turkey coma? Okay. I am experiencing a turkey coma as well. Let's stand together. It's difficult to sleep when you're standing. Not impossible, but it is difficult. And so this will help us here for a moment. Psalm 51. Let's do this. Just wake up the person next to you. Just give them a good slap. No, no, just kidding. Too late. Too late. Psalm 51 If you've been saved uh for uh a period of time, you probably recognize uh Psalm 51 as being uh the psalm that David wrote after he had sinned with and then covered up the sin of adultery and then murder with Bathsheba and Uriah And now uh he's been confronted uh by the man of God using the word of God and David has got is getting right. And uh The Lord's so good to us because he gives us in in this real life situation the words of David, this this this psalm of repentance And uh I want us to read a few uh verses, and then we'll come back and look at some others here in a bit. Psalm 51 and look at verse 1, where the Bible says, Have mercy upon me, O God. According to thy loving kindness, according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgressions. And I know that you may not have used those words, but we've all said things like that. Lord, would you please just take away that sin? I mean, just just just blot it out, erase it. Verse 2 Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity and cleanse me. From my sin. For I acknowledge my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against thee Thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight, that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest. Behold, I was shapen in iniquity And in sin did my mother conceive me. Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts, and in the hidden part, thou shalt make me to know wisdom. Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Make me to hear joy and gladness that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice, hide thy face from my sins, and blot out all mine iniquities. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me Cast me not away from thy presence, and take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation, and uphold me. with thy free spirit. And we'll look at these other verses before the message is over. But in this last hour, I'd like to speak to you on this topic. When you mess up, sess up. When you mess up, fess up. You see, I don't really know what you all will do with your lives. I don't know. And and this may be the last time that we'll ever see each other. I know for a fact it'll be the last time that some of us will ever see each other. Others of us will see each other from time to time and here and there. But for some of us This will be the last time that we'll ever see each other. So I don't know what you're gonna do with your life. I don't know how God's gonna use it. I don't know what your future holds, but there's one there's one thing I do know about every single person in this room. One thing I know, and that is you're gonna mess up. To some degree. If we say they have that we have no sin, we we deceive ourselves. The truth is not in us. If we say that we have not sinned, we make them a liar. And his word is not in us. And so we know to some degree, in some way, shape, or form, we're going to mess up. And I just want to encourage you in this last hour that when you mess up Sess up. And the Bible will give us a pattern for exactly how to do that. Father, thank you for giving us these great meals today. Lord, not just the turkey and stuffing and mashed potatoes and green beans, but Lord also the great spiritual meals. So we've heard the Word of God and been challenged by it. Lord, how wonderful to know that our our spirit can be fed. Lord, I do pray that as both messages have so clearly delineated that we would be those people that would be willing to be that one that would take a stand for Christ. Lord, I pray that in those ways in our lives where we walk out of that beaten path and we don't stand when we ought That you would help us to confess that, to get it right, to get back to where we need to be, to be those people whom you can use once again. Lord, please. Bless this message I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated and thank you for standing. I was telling you a little bit earlier that my My mother and my father were divorced uh when I was three. It was a very sad situation. Uh my dad actually met another woman. uh at the workplace and uh came home one day and my mother found out about it and my mother basically said to my dad, listen, you know, you've got to choose. You can't you just gotta be her or me And my dad chose her. And uh I remember I was three going on four years of age, my brother was four going on five. We remember the actual day when my dad left our home and we stood on the front porch and we were holding my mom's hand and and it was a it was a sad and traumatic time in our lives. I thank God for my mother And for her faith and for her courage and for her stickeness and her faithfulness and uh just praise the Lord for her. And there are some teenagers. uh in this very room uh this afternoon that have a a single uh parent household or maybe you have a stepparent, a stepmother, or a stepfather, or sometimes in in some cases both. And let me just encourage you that God can use your life. And circumstances outside of your control are the will of God. And uh not that God wanted my parents to split up, but that God could use that And so don't get bitter about it. Get better because of it. And God can use it. And He did in my life. But My mother we didn't have much money and my mother would work as a nurse at the uh at the nursing home, the a convalescent home and sometimes she couldn't afford babysitting and she'd take us with her uh for the night shift. We'd sleep in one of the empty beds in the at the nursing home. All these old people. We just thought that was normal, you know? And uh there they were. They were about on our same intellectual level as three year olds, but uh there we were and had a good time with it And uh but my mother she she always had a positive spirit. She always did. And uh we didn't have uh two nickels to rub together, but back in those days uh gas was cheap. Back in in those days. Uh gas was cheap and and I mean literally, you know, just the fifty cents a gallon or whatever. And we had a big old nineteen sixty eight Chevy and Paula and she'd put us in the back seat, no seat belts, and she put us in the back seat and uh We would uh we'd go everywhere. We lived in Connecticut. We'd we'd go to Boston and do all the free things in Boston, do Freedom Trail and go to Quintus Market and walk And we'd go to we'd go to Maine, we'd go up uh along the the Kangamangusta highway and we go to climb Mount Washington and we'd go down to Washington D C and crash on my cousin's uh apartment floor and do all the time. free things in Washington DC or we'd go to New York City and crash on the uh the uh the the floor of my mother's friend who lived in Stuyvesant town, Lower Manhattan and we'd go all throughout New York City, pay one fare, ride the subway all day long. And I mean I'm just telling we didn't have any money, but we did everything. We always traveled and my mother had friends everywhere and we'd just go kinda hang out in their place and we just loved it. We grew up and just loved life. And she had these friends uh that lived down by the shore in Connecticut. And uh I wanted to say they live down by the beach, but as good fundamentalists we don't go to the beach. And so they live by the shore. They live by the coast. And so we'd go to the shore and go to the coast, but never to the beach. And there uh she was. We'd love to go down, hang out there, uh, with my my my mother's friend. Her name uh was Priscilla and her son's name was Stephen. And we love to go down because Stephen was uh the age of my brother Stephen and and me. Uh we were all just within within a year of each other. There was the three of us and we were like the three amigos, like the three musketeers and we'd play and and do all the things that young boys would do. play army, you know, beat up the girls, all those fun things, and we love going down and seeing Steven. The only negative The only negative to going down and seeing Stephen was Stephen's mother, Priscilla, whom I believe was a direct descendant of Adolf Hitler. Okay? I'm just telling you, this lady was mean. She even sounded like Adolf Hitler. Boys, huh? Come sit at the table or I will come. Cut off your fingers. Okay. She was just weird. And so when we would play down at Priscilla's house, we would we would make sure that we played far away from the house. We would just go out on these l on these excursions. And as long as we were away from Priscilla, you know, we felt like we were out of the concentration camp. So we were just having a good time. Well, um, one particular day We were out behind Stephen's house playing in the woods. And of course as a kid you're thinking that we're miles away. We're probably like, you know, twenty feet from the house, but you know how that is. As young boys, we're out in the woods playing and having a good time and And and and something happened to me. Um and and I I I I hesitate to say this publicly, but I feel like we're close. I feel like I can trust you. I feel like you'll never take this and use this against me. And by the way, I appreciate that. Thank you so much. But uh I I had this problem when I was a kid I would forget things. Now, how many would be honest with me and say, Pastor Skelly, I also forget things from time to time? Okay, forgetfulness is not a big deal, okay We forget. I forgot to do the term paper that you've been announcing for fifteen years, Miss English teacher. I forg Forgot, you know. So we forget things. You know, officer, I forgot that the speed that was fifty-five, that's why I was going ninety-seven, you know. But uh, I forgot. And sometimes we you know we use that as an excuse, but uh you know generally people forget normal things, like they forget their car keys or they forget uh you know their cell phone or whatever. But I would forget Um I would forget that I had to use the bathroom Which was very, very bad in third grade when I tried to hold it and couldn't and there I sat in the puddle. That's a whole different story. The puddle story is a different story. But I I would forget to use the bathroom until it was an emergency. And y yeah, how many of you have a younger brother s y younger brother typically who's maybe in the uh oh four to seven year old range? Okay, so you know what I'm talking about, right? Because they get so busy doing what they're doing that they forget they have to go tinkle, right? You know what I'm saying? And so they'll do they're they're doing this. You know, they're like dancing around you're you're saying, Hey, what? You have to go to the bathroom? Yeah! And then they run And so typically my mother would would remind me at those times that I was breakdancing that I had to go to the bathroom. And uh uh but my mother was not there. So really the entire story from now on is my mother's fault. See, life is much easier when you have somebody to blame. And so uh I I was out in the woods And I was kind of dancing around and my brother said to me, Kurt, do you have to go to the bathroom? Now you're saying, okay, well what's the big deal? I mean you're in the woods, you're a boy, the world is your bathroom. Do you know what I'm saying? But but here's the problem I I didn't just have to go. I had to I had to to go go Do you know what I'm saying? Not just go, I had to to go go. So I couldn't just Go there. So now I had to get back to the house where Adolph uh Mrs. M where Priscilla was And so man, I began to run. Man, I am sprinting. I could have won an Olympic event. I mean, uh I'm flying, I fly up the back deck stairs, I go up Across the deck, I go through the double doors, I go through the dining room, I go down the hallway, there's the bathroom door, I open the bathroom door, I shut the bathroom door, I lock the bathroom door because I am a locker of bathroom doors. That's a different story. Don't be always knock before you go enter a bathroom. But anyway I lock the bathroom door, I turn right there with Within a just small step is my goal in the form of a porcelain shaped toilet. I just have a few steps But alas, my journey came to an abrupt and very messy end It was at that point that I realized I didn't just have to go go. I was sick sick. And I went went. And there were bodily fluids coming out of my body from various openings. I mean it was going everywhere. I'm talking about on the wall, on the floor, on the sink. I mean it was like Explosion City I'm telling you. And so like what do you do? Like what do you do? You're like nine years old Okay, you don't ever clean up after yourself. That's what mothers are for, and if mothers aren't there, sisters can handle it. But that there's nobody there. What do I do? So it was as if the Lord had already provided himself a towel. Because right there in front of me were some towels and they were Beautiful towels. They had nice little decorations on them. They had been knitted, no ornamented, just so I thought Well praise the Lord. I didn't know there were things called decorative towels. I didn't know that. I just thought a towel is a towel. What do you use a towel for? Use a towel to wipe things up and there's some stuff that need to be wiped. And so there it was. And so I just took the towel and began to kind of wipe down some things, you know, and man, it's looking good. And then the Lord provided a hamper. There was a hamper right there, so I could throw the soil towels in the hamper. I no longer needed my Winnie the Pooh underpants, and so I was able to put those in the hamper as well. And uh and then I noticed that After I'd cleaned everything up and it looked just fine, I noticed there were several splotches on the floor. And but it was almost as if the the guardian angels had protected the little ornamental rug. on the floor. No splotches on the rug, so I figured, hey, pick up the rug, put it on top of the splotches. You can't see them anymore. So man, I'm telling you what, I'm all done, I feel better. I everything's wiped up, the towels, the underpants, they're in the hamper, the rug is on top of the splotches. I kind of look Hey, I'm going back out to play. And so if Priscilla's not around, I was hoping she was sleeping or maybe dead. But anyway, so I mean I went back outside Amen. We're playing and we're having a grand old time and everything's good until I heard the shrill sound of Mrs. Hitler. It went something like this. Boy. So man, when she called, you ran. So we ran over there dutifully and we stood there at the bottom of the deck. She's looking down on us. And she asked this question I thought was kind of odd at the moment. She said, I'd like to know which one of you boys Is not wearing underpants. I was thinking like who asks questions like that? I mean that's TMI, right? I'll never know why her son Stephen did this. But he took his pants and he did this. I am I'm thinking you had to check So then my brother ready ready for this I am so what am I supposed to do? I am then she said this. One of you's lying and I'm checking. I don't want you checking. So I had to come up with my best answer at that moment. I said, uh, you know what? Um uh uh I forgot. I'm not wearing underpants. And I'll tell you what, the next five minutes of my life were like, whoa. You know the as funny as that story is, let me say this. Uh that's typically the way human beings deal with their messes. Oh maybe not as as uh infantile in their thinking as as a nine-year-old. But somehow we just think that if if we mess up, as long as we can cover it up sufficiently to our view, it didn't happen. We understand that God has senses that we don't have. He looks under rugs and in hampers. He can smell things that we could never smell. He has a sense of cleanliness that you and I don't have. He that uh whoso covereth his sin shall not prosper. He that covereth his sin shall not prosper. Who shall confess it and forsaketh them shall have mercy. For nine months, David put the rug over Closed the hampered door, put the towels away, and thought everything was okay. One day, God sent a preacher. That preacher put his finger right in his face. And he made him admit it. That's what God wants you to do. God wants you to agree with him That your sin is as bad as he says it is. That's what the word means, by the way, in 1 John 1, verse 9. If we confess our sins, the word confess means to say the same. If you'll agree with God that your sin is sin and it's as bad as he says it is, then you're on the road to recovery. When you mess up, sess up. Consider with me three thoughts, and we won't be long. You're listening listening well. Okay? But consider with me three thoughts. What to do when you mess up When, not if. What to do when you mess up? Number one. When you mess up, number one Acknowledge your faults. Acknowledge your faults. Say, Pastor Skelly, really? I mean just admit that it happened? Yeah. You know, so many people don't admit it So people so many people have the inability to admit that they did something wrong. It was always someone else's fault. Well, you just don't know. I you know I I I was abused as a child or my grandmother didn't give me enough cod liver oil Or you know, you know all these excuses and I was neglected, I was always the last one to be picked for kickball, you know, I I've got a liver condition or whatever We make up all these excuses about why we're different and why we were justified in doing what we did, but listen, when you see it, it's your fault. When you sit it's your fault. Yeah, there might be extenuating circumstances and there might be contributing factors, but at the end of the day, you do what you do because you choose to do it. I'm at a kid and College, he was one of the most amazing kids that I've ever met in my life. He's the greatest basketball player who's ever lived. Kid I met in college. He's better than Michael Jordan. He's better than LeBron James or or Kevin Durant or or or Kobe Bryant. I mean he's the best basketball player who ever is about five foot seven. White. But he's the best basketball player who ever lived. He never in his lifetime ever missed a shot. Effer. He played basketball almost every day. Never missed a shot, not one. Say Pastor Skelly, really, yeah, really. Now I'm not saying the ball always went to the hoop. I'm just saying he never missed. I was fouled. It was the rim's fault. My wrist hurts. It's windy out. No, he never missed It was always someone else's fault. It was always another condition. He never missed. That's the way some of you live. You're the greatest Christian who ever lived. You've never sinned. You've never done one thing wrong. You'll never admit it. It was always your sister, always your brother, always the other kid, always justified, always a reason, always the excuse. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry but I was wrong, but You can't acknowledge it. See, uh an acknowledgement is always short, it's always simple, it's always sincere. If you've got to go on this long, convoluted, paragraph by paragraph explanation about why you got involved in sin. You're just trying to justify. You're just trying to cover up. Listen, sin is I was wrong. God, I admit it. I acknowledge my fault Notice what David acknowledged here in Psalm 51. Notice first of all, he acknowledged the effects of sin. He acknowledged the effects of sin, how sin affected him. Notice what it says in verse 8: Make me hear joy and gladness. That the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. Hey, sin will hurt you. Sin has a uh a hurtful effect upon a life. You can be hurt Physically because of sin. I could show you people that are sick today because of sin. The Bible says in First Corinthians chapter eleven, There may be many weak and sickly among you, and many sleep because they disaster The practice of the Lord's Supper and our spiritual decisions can have a deleterious, a a harmful physical effect upon our life. And David said, I acknowledge that. If you read some of the other Psalms, I believe that David had a uh a uh a uh a sexually transformation. Transmitted disease. I think that David had a venereal disease in his body. He talked about the disease of his loins that he had, and I think as a result of his sexual sin, there in 2 Samuel chapter 11, and he said, Listen, I have a physical problem in my life because of my sin. He acknowledged that. Sin will hurt you, sin will harm you. Notice what the Bible says there in the verse 9. The Bible says uh uh sorry, verse eight again, make me to hear joy and gladness. And so not only was he hurt physically at the end of the verse, but notice this emotionally, I don't have any joy, I don't have any gladness, I don't have a right spirit. And verse 10, I feel alone. I feel away from your presence. I don't have the joy of my salvation. I I I I'm in this funk. I'm in this depression. I can't get up in the morning. I Go about listlessly on the uh on the outside I'm hurting. On the inside, I'm depressed Well, you show people by the way, what does our society do? They just give you a new medication. I'm on my meds. Just give you some other pills. Give you a shot. Give you some counsel. Listen, we don't need shots and counseling. We need the word of God and confession and repentance. Repentance. Acknowledge this. Sin will hurt you. Sin will harm you. Sin will haunt you. It's ever before me, David said. God, ever when I get up, I think about it. When I go to bed at night, I think about it. Why did I do it? Why did I cover it? God, what was I thinking? It wasn't worth it. Sin will take you farther than you want to go. It'll keep you longer than you want to stay. It'll cost you more than you want to pay. It's never worth it. Fet lie of the devil. David said, I messed up. God, I admit it. I acknowledge the effects of sin. But not only did he acknowledge the effects of sin, watch this, he acknowledged the essence of sin. What is sin in its essence, in its essential component? What is sin? Well, notice what the Bible says in verse 4: He says, against thee. He's speaking to the Lord against thee. Thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight. And may I say this that you might not sin in sight of your pastor and you might not sin in sight of your ma mom and dad you might not sin in the sight of your best friend and you might not sin in the sight of your youth group or any other human being but you always sin in the sight of God The eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the good, and there is God watching, always watching your life. And David said, God, I get it now. Yes, I sinned against Bathsheba humanly. Yes, I sinned against Uriah humanly. Yes, I sinned against Joab and I sinned against my wives, and I sinned against my children. I sinned against my nation. But God, I get it now that all sin at its core is God word. I sinned against God. And when the prodigal son came home in Luke 15, he said to his father, I've sinned against heaven. And in thy sight. First thing he said, I get it, I get it, Dad. I've sinned against heaven. I've sinned against my heavenly father. And that's what you do. The Bible says in Numbers chapter 15 that when we sin presumptuously, are you listening? When we sin presumptuously, what that means is when we sin knowing ahead of time it's a sin. That's presumptuous sin. Knowing ahead of time that what I'm about to do is wrong, I'm about to lie, I'm about to lust, I'm about to lose my cool, I'm about to Fill in the blank. When we sin presumptuously, the Bible says we're doing two things. Number one, we are blaspheming the name of Almighty God, and we are despising His Word. So to blaspheme God's name means that we are abusing his reputation. We're saying, God, I don't care about you. We're saying, God, I don't care what you think. God, I don't care that you're watching. I'm about to do this, and I don't really care what you think. By the way, your word is meaningful. And so uh before I send them just gonna take the page of scripture and rip them out and I'm gonna throw them in the fireplace and I'm gonna take this Bible and kick it across the room and throw it in the mud. Say, Pastor Skelly, I'd never do that, but you are doing that. I've never said that to God, but you are saying that to God. Well, I'd never do that to my Bible. I I don't even put another book on my Bible. Listen, I don't care what you do in practice, that's what you are doing in essence. That's what the Bible says. David said, I get it now. I acknowledge the essence of sin. I acknowledge the effects of sin. I acknowledge the entrance of sin. Where does sin begin? I'll tell you where it begins. It begins with some woman taking off her clothes on a rooftop. No, that's not where it began. That's not where sin began. You know where sin always begins? Right here. Right here. Otherwise you can blame somebody else. Oh no no. Sin begins right here. Your own sinful, unguarded heart Keep thy heart with all diligence. I mean, guard it out of it are the issues of life. You gotta guard it. David didn't guard it. Notice what he says in verse 5 of our text He said, I was shaped in iniquity and sinned. My mother conceive me. It's my problem. Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts, in the hidden part. Thou shalt make me the wisdom. God, I get it now. It was this. I was a man after God's own heart, but I got to the place where I didn't have to guard myself. I thought that I was okay. I didn't go to battle. I didn't guard my heart. Oh God, I get it now. It's me Come the problem. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in my sight, O Lord, my strength. And my Redeemer, with my whole heart I've sought thee. Oh, let me not wander from thy commandments. Thy word have I hidden mine heart that I might not sit against thee. Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh, and David got it. It's me, God. There's always going to be people dressed wrong. There's always going to be images that if you want to, you can click on it and go watch that channel. No, it's the heart we have to guard. David said, I get it. The entrance of sin. Hey listen, you want to get right when you mess up? Acknowledge your faults. Alright, watch this number two. When you mess up, acknowledge your faults. When you mess up, number two, ask for forgiveness. Say, Pastor Skelly, I mean, really? You're going to tell us that? I mean, obviously, but it's not obvious. Let me tell you what one of Satan's greatest tools is. One of his greatest tools is this to get people to the place where they think they can't ask for forgiveness anymore. Because I can guarantee you there's a teenager in this room. That will say, you know what, I've done it, I've done it, I've done it, I've done it, I've been sorry, I've asked for forgiveness, for forgiveness Peter said, Lord, uh uh, how many times shall I forgive my brother? Seven times. I thought it was magnanimous to offer seven. Jesus said, I say not unto thee seven times, but seventy times seven. If that brother comes in sincerity and asks for forgiveness, you should forgive him an innumerable number of times. Do you think that Jesus would have told us to do that if he wouldn't do that for you? I'm not justifying sin. I'm not saying that the Jesus is just our credit card and keep on sinning. But I'm saying in sincerity and in truth, when you come back to him and say, Oh God, I failed again, and oh God, I'm sorry again, and oh God, remember. forgive me. God will and God can forgive you. Notice please the basis for forgiveness. See it in verse 1. The basis for forgiveness. The Bible says, Have mercy upon me, O God. According to thy loving kindness, according to the multitude of thy tender mercies, brought out my transgressions. David understood, God, I have no right to be forgiven. I failed you and I I'm a jerk. And I I'm a I I'm a I'm a loser and uh and I I've fallen again. I don't deserve this. And and God I'm not coming Claiming it, and I'm not coming demanding it. And sometimes people say the wackiest things, well, yeah, I just claim forgiveness in Jesus' name. Really? You just sinned against the Holy God, you're claiming forgiveness in Jesus' name. Where's the contrition? Where's the sorrow? Whereas the I don't deserve it because that's what mercy means. I don't deserve it, and God, I shouldn't even be here. I should be dead, and I shouldn't be the king, and I shouldn't have any more of your blessings. But God, if you can find it within your case. God, would you have mercy upon me according to thy loving kind? I don't deserve it. God, please. Is that how you come to God? Or are you like the average 21st century person, the Laodicean Christian? You're rich, increased with goods, you don't have need of anything. You're owed. And what we loathe at election time. Ah, freeloaders, just taking advantage of the government. That's what you do with God You have this entitlement mentality, and you're owed, right? You're better, right? Whereas the I don't deserve anything but hell attitude. Where's a God, but by your grace there go I, and God I failed you, but would you please have mercy upon me? See, that's the basis. Watch this. Notice not only the basis for mercy, but would you see this? His beseeching for mercy. And I think herein lies an important principle. Look all the way down at verse 9. I'm sorry, verse 7. The Bible says, purge me, notice the imperative, purge me with hyssop, I shall be clean. Wash me I shall be whiter than snow. Make me. Do you hear joy and gladness? That the bones that thou hast broken may rejoice. Hide thy face. Blot out. Create in me. Renew. Cast me not. Take not, restore, uphold. He said, Oh God, I've got the habit. Make me, wash me, help me, God, O God. When's the last time you had an O God time? When's the last time you came to an altar or better still, by yourself, got down by your bed, and shut off the uh iPod and shut off the iPad and shut off the iPhone and shut off the TV and shut off the computer and just got down on your knees and said, Oh God. Oh God, something's gotta change. Oh God, I need you to speak to me. Oh God, would you do a work on the inside of me? Oh God, I want to be different. Where is that? Where's the passion? We don't want it anymore. Where is that? Does anybody ever beseech for anything anymore? Where's the importunity? Where's the God I'm not gonna let you go until you bless me? Where is that We're so lazy, fair, we're so mediocre and lukewarm and lackluster, we pray our little prayers and say our little things and quote our little verses and go our own carnal way and wonder why God doesn't bless our lives. Where's the teenager that will say Say, Oh God, I've got to have it. Where is that? David said, I'm beseeching God. The basis for his asking, his beseeching and asking. Notice his belief in forgiveness. Purge me with hyssop. And I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. You know what's keeping some people back from forgiveness? What's keeping some teenagers and even some adults back from walking on for God is you don't really believe that God will give you another chance. You really believe that you're under some kind of punishment from God the rest of your life, you've got to walk around like wowzy wowzy woo woo. You know yeah, God's been good, but you know I just really blew it and I can never do anything for him. And you know, I'm just gonna kinda muddle through I've seen a lot of Christians live that way. David said, David said, God, if you'll forgive me, I know I'll be clean. I know I'll be clean. People might not forgive me. People might point their bony finger at accusation. People might throw it in my face, but God, if you'll forgive me, and I can get that forgiveness on the inside, and you take away not only the sin but the guilt that comes along with that sin. God, I know if you forgive me, it'll be done. Right. Do you believe that God can forgive you for what you've done? I do. God does. Do you You acknowledge your fault, you ask for forgiveness, but watch this number three. See, here's the part of the passage we never preach. Here's the part of the passage. We we kind of say, well, okay, ask forgiveness. Acknowledge what you've done. Okay, then that's it. But that's not where the passage ends. No, David said, God, I'm going to come to you and I did, and I'm going to ask you, and I did, and now God, here's what I'm going to do. So when you mess up, acknowledge your faults. When you mess up, ask for forgiveness. But watch this, number three. When you mess up, anticipate your future. Anticipate it. Anticipate what God wants to do with your life. Now you can tell me a lot about your past, but what can you tell me about your future? You can tell me a lot about your past, what you did last week, what you did last year. You can show me pictures. You can take me to journals. You can show me places. But I'm not interested in your past. Because you can do nothing to change him. But you know what I'm interested in? I'm interested in your future. And notice how David anticipates his future. Would you see verse 12, please, of our text? Psalm 51. In verse 12, he said, Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. Uh hold me with thy free spirit. In other words, God, if you'll do this and all the other things I've been asking for, watch verse 13. Then Then, and notice this, David now speaks future. Then will I, or then I will Lord, if you'll wash me, if you'll forgive me, if you'll restore, if you'll uphold me, if you'll give me that joy, God, if you'll bring the forgiveness back If you'll give me a second chance Watch this, then will I teach transgressors thy ways, and sinners shall be converted unto thee In other words, watch this. David said, God, if you'll forgive me, I will spend my life helping others. I'll spend my life helping others. I'll I'll I'll I'll put my arm around some other teenager and say, Don't do that. I did that's not worth it. The fact is there's teenagers in this room that have lost their purity There's teenagers in this room that have done some heinous things. There are some adults that made some terrible decisions at your age. And you can't undo that, but you can be forgiven of it. And you can walk on from it, and you get voice, and you can help others in it. Are you listening? So David said, God, if you'll do this, then I'll help any, I'll help everyone else that transgresses. I'll tell the next guy on the rooftop: don't look. I'll tell the next guy that gets involved in adultery, don't cover it up. I'll come to their side. I won't judge them. I'll help them. I'll love them. God, I'll be part of the solution. I'll join a bus route. I'll help the junior church. I'll go to the rescue mission. I'll go to the nursing home. I just want to use my My life to be a blessing to people because God, you are such a blessing to me. To help others. To give my life out. But not only will I help others, watch this, I'll honor God. Notice what he says. I love this in verse 14. He says, Deliver me from blood guiltiness, O God. Lord, if you'll forgive me, thou God of my salvation, and my tongue shall sing aloud of thy righteousness. Oh Lord, open down my lips and my mouth. Shall show forth thy praise. God, if you'll deliver me, God, if you'll help me, God, if you'll restore me, God, if you'll give me joy back, God, if you'll forgive me, God, If I get that second chance, I will speak up Everybody's gonna know where I stand. I'm not gonna be in the witness protection program. I'm not gonna stand over in the corner with my hand over my mouth. Everywhere I go, not obnoxiously, but people are gonna know that I love Jesus Christ. Let me just say to all of you that go to a public school, what an opportunity you have. What a mission field you're in every day. What a chance for you to tell people I love Jesus and something as simple as taking that lunch food that needs to be prayed for I've seen cafeteria food. And taking that lunch food and bowing your head and saying, Oh Lord, would you please bless my food today and bless these my friends around this table in Jesus' name, Amen Take your Bible and put it on top of your science book. It's a good place to put it, by the way, and to carry it to class and let people know I'm a Christian. Put an I Love Jesus sticker inside your locker. Let people know that you're going to open your mouth for the Lord. Open our mouth for our football team and open our mouth for our favorite candidate on the political political ballot. Hey, it's about time that we open our mouths for Jesus Christ. David said, God, if you'll forgive me, I really don't care what people think. I'm going to help others. I'm going to honor God But then he included one last thought. I'm going to help others. I'm going to honor God, but God, I'll tell you what else I'm going to do. I'm going to humble myself. Because I understand I understand God what happened here. What happened here was I got a little bit too full of David. And I lost a little bit of you. God, I I get it now. I'm never gonna think of myself more highly than I don't think. But I'm gonna think soberly according as God has dealt to me that measure of faith. God, I I'm a king, but but I'm a man, and as a man, I I'm prone to wander. Lord, I I feel it. I I'm prone to leave the God I love. Here's my heart. Oh, take and seal it. Seal it for thy courts above. Is thy thine all on the altar of sacrifice laid? Your heart does the Spirit control. You can only be blessed and have peace and sweet rest as you yield him your body and soul. And notice what David says in closing. In verse 16, David said, Thou desirest not sacrifice. Else would I give it. Lord, you name it. You want my palace? I'll give it. You want all the cattle in the field, I'll give them. You want all the sheep I've ever watched in a lifetime of shepherding, you can have them all. Lord, you want all my trophies and my crowns? Lord, what sacrifice do you want? You name it, I'll give it. But God, that's not what you want. By the way, God doesn't want you to barter with Him, too. Well, I'll just start tithing more. And God wants more than your tithe. Well, I'll start going to church more. God wants more than your increased attendance. Well, I'll just have higher standards. God wants more than your external signs of holiness. You know what God wants? God wants you. God died for you. Do we get that? He hung naked on a cross, bleeding in shame for you. And if you were the only human being who ever lived, he would have done that for you. God, you don't want my sacrifice, you want me. God gave it the sacrifice. Thou delightest not in burnt offering. Here it is, verse 17. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit. A broken and the contrite heart, oh God, thou wilt not despise. God, you want my heart You want my devotion. You want my unmitigated praise. You want integrity. You see on the inside to the outside, God, I humble myself. I get down upon my face. Lord, you see. See me for who I am, I can't fake it with you. I can't make people think well. Uh uh I can't make you think well of me when you know what's on the inside. And so God, I just come to you uh says simply as I am to say, God, do a work in In my life I am completely and unalterably humble in your sight. By the way, when God gets the heart, then He can do good. And thy good pleasure unto Zion? He can build the walls of Jerusalem? Then shalt thou be pleased with the sacrifices of righteousness with burnt offering, whole burnt offering, then shall they offer both upon the altar. In other words, God's not against you serving him. God's not against you increasing your attendance at church. He's not against you giving more. God will be pleased with all the future things you do if you'll get your heart. Right first. But what we want to do is we just want to make deals with God. Do a little bit more, and that'll buy me a little corner of my heart I can keep all to myself. No, you can't keep any part of your heart to yourself. It's time for us to sell out to Jesus Christ. I challenge you. To sell out to Jesus Christ. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes for just a moment. Every head bowed and every eye closed, please, and nobody looking. It's been a full day of Bible and fellowship. It's been a great day. It'll be a great weekend because tomorrow we'll go to our churches and we'll hear more preaching and teaching. It'll be wonderful. But at this moment, God has called us to a decision point. Now is the time. This is the place. And you are the person. Did you hear me? Now is the time. This is the place, and you are the person to whom God has spoken. Oh, I know you've heard my voice. I know you've seen my image in front of you, but we've preached the Word of God. And God wants to do something special tonight in your life. With heads bowed and eyes closed, who would say, you know, Pastor Skelly, there's an area in my life that God highlighted to me, something I've been doing. Or watch this. Maybe something that I've not been doing that I should be doing. But it's a sin in my life. A sin of commission. I'm doing it. A set of O mission, I'm not doing what I ought to be doing. But Pastor Skelly, when you were preaching that message, God showed me that in my life. And I want to confess that to him. I'm not asking you to confess to me. I want to confess that to him today. Pastor Skelly, I've messed up. And I'm fessing up right now to the Lord. Would you lift your hand up good and high? Lift up good and high. All across the room. Good and high. If it's good enough to lift, it's good enough to lift high. That's part of it, isn't it? And you may lower your hands, and I appreciate that. In just a moment, I'm going to ask you to come and spend some time at this altar. But I'd be remiss if I didn't ask this question as well. I've got