I have to tell you, sometimes uh those of us who get the privilege of the microphone pretty regularly, um we preachers. Sometimes we hesitate about taking a text from a passage that everybody knows. And I don't know why we do that. But we we all are just a little bit now. I have pretty much gotten over that Of course I've been preaching for about 800 years, so you know uh it mm but uh but you know uh uh we we do we've we we have a tendency to say well they've all they've all heard that. Well maybe so But now I'll tell you how I feel about the Bible. Number one, as a preacher, I don't think you can bleed it dry. I don't I don't care how many times you've preached out of it, I don't think you can bleed it dry. And uh and not only that, but the second thing is, I think if you'll read the Bible, remembering what it is you're reading, that it is the Word of God. And listen to it that someone God gave us. I don't listen, uh I don't know how many hundred times I've read the New Testament. But but many hundreds of times. Uh now that's and that's not all big a deal. You can do that pretty easily if you just do it And and I've read the Old Testament a number of times through as well. Not as many, but but a number of times. Now, uh I'm just telling you all that to say. I'm reading a text from a passage that you probably know very, very well tonight And you say, why are you doing that? Well, because I just feel like I want to and and uh hopefully the Lord put it in my heart uh to give it to you tonight. But it's Luke 15 Luke 15. I said all of that, and I don't do that as an apology, I just do it as an explanation. So you'll think so you'll know I'm comfortable reading a familiar text And I hope I can be a blessing to you here in these next minutes together. We'll look forward to hearing Brother Fox again and whatever else music-wise we've got. And then Brother Harper will be up in a little bit. And by the way, we're going to do this again tomorrow in the morning, ten o'clock, and uh and then again tomorrow night. So you look around, somebody you know you could invite, invite them to come. Just tell them to come. We'll be good to them. We'll treat them so many ways. They're bound like some of it. Amen? All right. Luke chapter 15 And uh he said, a certain man had two sons. This is verse 11. And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. And not many days after the younger son gathered all together and took his journey into a far country. And there wasted his substance with riotous living. And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land, and he began to be in want. And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and he sent him into his fields to feed swine, and he would fain have filled his belly with the husk that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto him And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my fathers have bread enough in despair, and I perish with hunger I will arise and go to my Father and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants. And he arose and came to his father. But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him and had compassion ran and fell on his neck and kissed him. And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe, and put it on him, put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet, and bring hither the fatted calf and kill it, and let us eat and be merry For this my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found, and they began to be merry. And of course verse twenty-five and following tells the story of his older son. That uh in a way was a prodigal in his own right. Uh and uh we'll not read the rest of that. I have a friend in another part of the country That uh has a statement that he makes, and it really doesn't matter what you tell him. Um if you tell him that uh you enjoyed a big meal at the Mexican restaurant, He'll say, very interesting. Or if you tell him you just bought a new car, he'll say, very interesting. He doesn't say interesting, he says interesting. And so he he says that, I mean it's just it's just part of his MO, it's what he does. Now, uh what I have in front of me and what I've read to you, I find to be a story that is very interesting Very interesting. And I call this message a story of great interest. And I do so because there are some people of interest. Namely, the father, the younger son, and the older son. The father apparently is a man of wealth Man of resource. Uh he's got things apparently in abundance. And uh these boys have been working with him And uh and everything I see out of this father, I'd use another W word, and that's the word wonderful. I think you you have a hard time finding things about which you can complain about this father In fact, I don't think it's a stretch to tell you that uh there's a real sense in which the father in this story Is a human represent representation of God the Father. And uh he's illustrating it for us. Now no human can adequately adequately do that, but In this case, the Lord's given us that and I think picturing himself in some ways. So, yes, the father is a person of interest. Not only that, but this younger son Now, I have to say about him, I I think uh in one way in in a sense he's weak. And I'll elaborate on that in a minute. Uh he he he is weak And because of that, he became wayward and uh headed off to some other place And uh and really became a wanderer, like a vag vagabond. Uh he was he he had a home, but then he didn't have a home. And so uh again I look at this and the the people here are people of interest. The father, uh, I find him interesting. I find this younger son interesting, and the older son Uh I want to call him a rascal. I I want to call him uh well maybe some other uh terms that would uh That would uh sound a little bit demeaning to him because here is a guy, I mean he had stayed home, he was at work, there's things you can say about him that were good, but when his when his brother came back He fell apart. And he, in his own right, I think, became a prodigal. And all of the wailing and carrying on that he did just does not represent him well But again, I find him to be an interesting case study. I've known a lot of people like him along the way And uh I've known people like uh this other younger son as well. So uh whenever I read this, first we have people of interest. But then we have some places of interest. For example, the father's house. I mean that's a place of interest. These boys, oh, they were working there uh on the farm, but uh they had a roof over their head. They had a place to lodge. They had a place of safety. They had a place where the meals were always ready, always on time They were well taken care of. They had just about all that they needed simply because they were living in the Father's house. Now, uh I find the the place, the father's house, to be a place of interest. Not only that, but I'm gonna look out beyond the house. That that family farm to me is a place of interest. It's a place where that uh Uh they're all pitching in, they're helping, they're working, the the father obviously is orchestrating things, but these boys have responsibilities. And it's uh number one, it's great when families work together It's great when families love one another and they pitch in and they they're just all mixing and working and doing the things that that uh families do and building that farm into something way beyond what it was the day that they took possession of it. So I find the farm a place of great interest as well. I'm telling you, and I know some of you have farms, maybe a little farmets or whatever, and uh and I'm telling you it's a great place to raise a family It's a great place to uh just call home and maybe you got a little creek running through the property or maybe a little pond where you can uh raise a catfisher too. You know, all those kinds of things. I mean just good things when you realize you're living out there in that that kind of an environment. So the farm is a is a place. I mean it's providing for the family. They're eating off the farm. All of that And it's a place of interest. Now, a third place of interest is that road that the prodigal boy took when he left the farm. I look down that road and it's not an interstate. It's not even a blacktop road. It's a road that's got some bumps on it, but he's he's headed down that road, uh headed out, he doesn't know where And he's going down there. But this road, remember, it runs both ways. He's going now, he thinks. My mother used to say, uh that guy thinks he's got the world with the tail with a downhill drag And you gotta think through that a little bit, but but uh in other words, uh that guy thinks I mean everything's easy. He's just he's got a down downhill uh run going Now, I think this guy, he thinks, I mean he's got money in his pocket all at once. I mean he is ready to roll. Everything's gonna be great. But he's going down that road not realizing the potholes that are in the road, and yet there comes a day when he's going to come back up the road. I think much slower Then when he went down, he went out all in one piece. I mean he went out whole, but he's going to come back broken. He's going to come back a mess. He's going to come back with hurts. and heartaches and uh and and broken down in some ways. But I find the road to be an interesting thing. You've got to be careful what road you get on and how far you go on it And roads away from the farm, ro f uh roads away from the family place, away from the father's house, always takes you further than you think you're going to go And it'll take you places that you never dreamed existed, and a lot of them are places you should not ever be at the start place. And that's why this boy, place number four that I find of interest, is the far country. Now Where is this? How far is it? We don't know. Might have been 10 miles, it might have been 100 miles, might have been 200, who knows how far it was, but it was far enough away Out from under the father's care, out from under the umbrella of the family, out from under the well-being that the farm created And uh all of this happening, but I got money in my pocket. I I met I you know I I want to do something, I can do it. I've got the money, he's saying to himself And uh he does all of that, and all at once the far the far country begins to to get into him. It begins to soak up all of his resources, it begins to take away from him The things that he had until ultimately every every little smidgen of resource that he had was gone I mean the world, I mean it it's like a parasite. It's like a bloodsucker. It'll latch into you and it'll draw out of you every imaginable ounce of strength that you ever had. It'll take from you and uh lie to you in the process. And it meant that he wound up in the fifth place of interest I find here, not just the farmer the f the uh father's house and the family farm and the road both ways and the far country, but he winds up in the pig sty. Now, ra raising hogs is an honorable thing, but not to a Jew. And uh he winds up in the pig style And I and I'll tell you this, uh raising hogs, and we did some of that when I was growing up, you if you if you have to attend to them It's hard to get the smell of it off of you. It's hard to. And uh and not not just of the physical odor here, but I'm just telling you, this boy, he he's going to carry the stench Of the pig sty on him for a long time to come. In fact, here we are still telling his story. And he's still got the stain of it. And uh how long he spent there, we don't know. But ultimately he made the trip back up the road. So whenever I read this great parable, I see people of interest, three of them, I see places of interest, five of them. And then there's some events of interest. Like, for example, we'll back up to the place here where the prodigal is restless. He's got everything going for. I mean I mean ultimately ultimately he he's probably gonna get in on uh part of the resource not just to get what was handed to him, but he's he he he and his brother probably owned that thing uh after a while. But no, he's restless. It's like I want to be my own boss. I want to do what I want to do, and I'm just tired of somebody telling me what to do You know, it's it's like the young man who gets up one morning and slips out of the house and goes down to the recruiter's office and joins the army because he's tired of people telling him what to do. This boy is sick of authority. He doesn't want anybody saying to him, Go do this He wants to say, I will do this, I will do that. And uh he wants to be in charge of himself. And so he's restless. So what does he do? He goes to his father and struts himself in, and he says, Father, I boy, I hate to even say it this way. He says, I want what's coming to me. That's a dangerous statement. You know, sometimes we think, oh, we are entitled to, well, are we? Ha ha. You know, and I thank God every day for the grace of God and the goodness of God. God is so good to us beyond anything we I mean what we deserve is not what we get. By God's grace, we're getting a lot of things we don't deserve. Yes Now, the prodigal was restless, so he said to his dad, Give me what I got coming to me, and he leaves, takes off down that road, gets down there to the far country, and begins to wastefully Uh expend the resources that the dad had put in his hand, spending money wildly, going out living riotously, doing all kinds of things that uh no human being ought to do Gets himself associated with a crowd. You know, what do we call them? Fairweather friends. You know, he's got money, so man, they like him They're gonna they're gonna really enjoy his company because he's buying the the food and the drinks and whatever else is going on. He's buying it. So he makes bad associations One of the hardest things that any of us will ever have to do is looking to somebody that maybe has demonstrated bad character and they're very persuasive in trying to get you to go along with the bad things that they're into, one of the hardest things that you'll ever have to do is to look at somebody and say, I'm sorry, but I'm going to have to back away. I'm going to have to pull back from our friendship. I don't want to, but I'll have to But I'm telling you, as you get things straightened out in your life and begin to think like you should, just just plan and know that one day you you are going to have to do that Because there's going to be some far country people, there's going to be some pig sty people that are going to try to pull you in and get you to go where you don't need to go. And they'll associate themselves and uh and try to convince you that you ought to go along. And of course, this this guy winds up getting himself occupied uh in a in a profession that was an embarrassment to his heritage, an embarrassment to his family, I mean to uh work in that pig stye. I mean, you understand the Jews do not do pork and uh it just the way that it is. And ultimately he wound up absolutely destitute and desperate. And that's when he said Uh I'm gonna do something about that. So we've got people of interest, places of interest, events of interest, and then there's some choices of interest This young man, here he is, destitute and desperate, and he says, I know what I can do, I know what I will do. I'll go to my father, and that's a good step. He said, I'll go to my father, and I'll say to him, Father, I've sinned against heaven and against you, and I want to come back. I know I don't deserve to be your son. By the way, he was his son every step of the way. This is not an illustration of an unsaved man. He was a son at the start, all the way down to the pig sty and back. He's saved. He's a son. Alright? He said, I'm no more worthy to be called your son. Just make me like hired hell. In between the lines, I think I see this. I believe the father may have looked at him and said, Hired help my foot You're not hired help. You're my son. And then he turned to some of the hired help. And he said, uh bring a robe, the best robe, and put it on him. Put a ring on his hand. And uh kill the fatted calf. We're gonna have a celebration. Because my son was away, he was gone. He was dead, and now he's alive. I've got him back. I I'm guessing the father is thinking, man, I I'll never see him again But he was glad when he came home. So the choices, oh yeah, the prodigal made a choice about recovery. And the father made a choice about redemption. Whenever we were lost Hellbound. We didn't have a prayer. We didn't have a hope. And the Father made a choice about redemption, and he sent the Lord Jesus. to come to earth and be virgin born and live a sinless life and die on the cross and resurrect from the grave and ascend back up to heaven to make arrangements so that I could and so that you could and anybody else and everybody else could be saved, born again, and go to heaven one day. My you think about that, the Father made a choice about redemption. Now It's also interesting what the other brother did. And uh again I I don't particularly want to belabor what he did because I don't I don't like what he did. Listen, when somebody when somebody comes back You know we need we need to get the red carpet out. You say, well, uh they've I've had them come back and they they disappointed us and they they didn't last three weeks. Yeah, you've got to continue to be willing to be hurt. The moment you're not willing to be hurt, you're treading toward being worthless. And nobody should be putting themselves in that position. But the fact of the matter is, this old boy, he just couldn't stand it. He'd been there working every day, and all at once this brotherhood wasted his living, well, he misbehaved. So, yes, we got uh we got people of interest, places of interest, events of interest, and choices of interest. And let me just enumerate for you some lessons of interest. Some lessons of interest. Even a Christian setting, even a Christian home, a Christian family, a good church, issues can surface. You may have a setting at your home or at your church that is precise, I mean it is as pure as the one here presented by the Father's house. And yet there can be termites get into the character of some of your folks. And some things can happen And you say, Well, I thought this was a good my family was headed right. I I thought this was a good church. And and you've got to realize issues can come even in the best of families and in the best of places. Not only that, but I also see here the pushback against authority Pretty often leads to a person going astray. When you reject the authorities, the God given authorities that God's put in your life When you reject those authorities. Now, again, I'm talking about God-given authorities who are behaving like godly people ought to behave. And when you reject their authority, it's probably not going to come out well. It's probably going to cost you. And obviously well illustrated here. And uh this boy got money all at once? And any time that we provide full funding of the lusting heart, it's going to lead to some brash behavior. Man, I got money in my pocket, man. I can buy this, buy that, do something else. You ever notice a lot of these people who win the lotteries? And by the way, I preach against the lottery. Here in Maryland they always said, you know, you gotta play to win. No, no, no, that's that's wrong. You gotta play to lose. Which is what most people do. But they let a few people win, and sometimes people win with a big chunk of money, and I'm telling you the stories, the stories are legion about people whose lives have been literally ripped to shreds Because they won the lottery. People have even been murdered because people come after them. Because they've got money You fund un uh godly lust, and it often leads to bad behavior. Not only that, but when you get free from authority Often wasteful spending takes place. Unexpected pressures can come from unforeseen circumstances. This boy never dreamed he'd be in the far country. He never dreamed he'd be in the pig sky. But it came nonetheless. Famine came to him. He was hungry, and so he he did something that he never dreamed that he would do Pressure like this often leads to bad associations. Gets people into situations and circumstances that, my, how did they get here? Dire circumstances can come when we reject authority, move out from under the umbrella that's protected us. False friends, they're in abundance. They're out there everywhere. But whenever you are no longer of value to them, they will fade in a hurry. They'll disappear on you. And somewhere along the way, hopefully, all of these budding prodigals, hopefully an awakening occurs and a restart uh develops like it did with this young man The grace of God, like in this case, so generously always, he welcomes us home. Strange it is. Over the years, we've seen people make choices, run out into the world, begin to do a lot of ungodly things, and then the day comes when they wake up. And so often it's like, I don't deserve my fa I don't I don't know if will my family take me back. I've even made the phone call for some people Who came to me first and said, I I don't know what to do. I said, pick up the phone. Call your family. Well, I I don't know. I said, give me the number, I'll make the call for you. The grace of God generously welcomes the prodigal back. By the way, the contrast between the father's house and the pig sty There's no comparison. No comparison. You you think you know I I hear people sometimes it's like Well I know that church got all kinds of standards. You can't smoke, you can't drink, can't you then, you know, so on and so forth. And it's it's like, you know, we're all bound up, we're all tied up, we can't We can't move according to the way some people tell it. It's not so, but it's the way some people tell it. Now it's true. We don't drink, we don't smoke, we don't chew, and we don't run with those that do. But anyway Something like that. But the fact is, I'm telling you folks, the way of the Lord and the Christian life And living close to the Father's house and working out on whatever he's got us into, there is nothing to compare with that. The world has nothing, nothing, nothing to compare to that I'm telling you, the way of the Lord, the way of the Lord Jesus, the way that the Lord would have you to go is the best thing you could do with your life. If I were to sit down and say, I'm going to write out a resume here of how I want it to be, I could not do as well as when the Lord says, do this, do this, do this, and don't do that, don't do that Sometimes you know we think all those commandments. Yeah. Tell you why the Lord gave us those. You know, around around some of these mountains here. In fact uh one of the Caldwell was driving coming to National Highway sixty eight and uh I didn't I didn't say anything to you about it but A couple of times he was driving and I'm looking off down and my stomach turns. You know? Now I'm glad I'm glad there's some barriers. You say, why that why they put those barriers in there to keep wild drivers like him from from going off the edge? You know, I'm glad for the barriers Glad they're there. They're there not to keep us from having a good time, but to keep us from hurting ourselves. And so it is with God's word and God's commands. And you and I just have every reason To be excited about what we have in the Lord. And whenever you come to Christ, well, uh He I I think He makes out a little deed because a little deed for you because he said In my father's house are many mansions, and I go to prepare a place for you, for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am, there you may be also. So, folks. I find this uh Luke fifteen to be very interesting. People of interest, places of interest. Choices of interest, events of interest, and some lessons of interest. Very, very helpful To me, and very interesting to me. Dear Lord, thank you for your blessings. Thank you for your goodness to us. We like these prodigal boys, we've all got our issues and we've all made bad choices sometime or another. And Lord, we thank you that we always have the freedom to come back up the road. Make our way back to the Father's house. And Lord, if there's somebody listening tonight, either here or uh out somewhere else who listen to this tonight or later and they uh they need to come back Lord, I pray that you'll put it in their heart to know that the grace of God is always bountiful. It's always exactly what we need. Totally adequate and abundant even. To help us. So thank you for what you'll do tonight in this service in Jesus' precious name. Amen