Alright, Titus chapter number two. We're going to begin reading in verse number 11. Read down through verse 15. If you would, follow along as I read. Verse 11, Titus chapter 2 For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared unto all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust We should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world, looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ. Who gave himself for us that we might that he might redeem us from all iniquity, purifying unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works These things speak and exhort and rebuke with all authority. Let no man despise thee. I'd like for us to come back. And read that verse 13 together in unison. You've got it there. Maybe you have it memorized. Of course, this is our memory verse for the month of April. But let's read that together. Ready? All together. Here we go Looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father, I ask now you bless our message this morning. I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I yield my will to you, and I present my body anew. And I pray with all my heart that you would speak through me. And out through the airwaves and through the internet, however it gets out there, I pray that you would speak the hearts in homes and living rooms and kitchens, wherever folks may be. I ask, Lord, that you would challenge us and help us in this matter of the coming again of the Lord Jesus Christ. Fill me with your spirit. Have your way. Help us, Lord, to make good decisions. In light of the truth that will be presented here this morning from your word. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen. I've entitled the message That blessed hope. That blessed hope. Now we've been memorizing this verse 13 through the month of April. I hope you got it down because it is a significant verse and it deals with one of the most life-changing truths in all scripture, and that is this. Jesus Christ is coming again. The Blessed Hope. Now I want to give a little background on the book of Titus. Small book here in the New Testament Maybe you haven't given it much thought. If you've never read the book of Titus, I'll challenge you. Uh you could this afternoon, Sunday afternoon, just take a little time. I probably could read it in a half hour at the most Just read right through that thing. And uh tremendous book of the Bible. And uh a little background on the book here, the penmen, if you notice in verse number one. The penman of this book is the Apostle Paul. Now we understand God is the author of all scripture. God simply moved on Paul's heart and mind. Prompted him to write down what uh what God wanted recorded for us, but Paul was the man that God used to pen the book of uh Titus. The recipient of the book is this young fellow by the name of Titus. We don't know a lot about this fellow. We're not given a lot of information of him in Scripture. He's not mentioned in the book of Acts at all. The church here that he's pastoring is not mentioned in the book of Acts. So we don't know a whole lot about him, but we do from a few other references in Paul's epistles uh we find out that he was a Greek believer. Uh he had gotten saved, no doubt, out of heathenism and paganism. Uh we uh he was one to Christ by the Apostle Paul If you come back to chapter 1 and look with me at verse number 4, we find that out. Notice what Paul says to Titus. Now look at this next statement. mine own son after the common faith. Now why would Paul refer to him as my own son? It's because Paul led him to Christ Paul was uh was a uh a tremendous soul winner, and Paul had come across this young man, shared the gospel with him as we do. out soul winning, no doubt, very similar, shared the gospel with them. And uh Titus trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. So he was a Greek, he was a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, led to Christ by the Apostle Paul. If we study what the New Testament tells us about Titus, we come to this conclusion, at least I do. He was a young man of tremendous integrity. He was a young man that had perhaps unusual spiritual maturity about him. Paul had used him, particularly with the church at Corinth to uh help assist in transferring money, uh taking the money from the church at Corinth down to Jerusalem. He was somebody he could trust, somebody that was integrity. somebody that was mature that Paul couldn't trust him to help him uh deliver that money. He uh uh was used uh Paul used him to uh send letters back and forth uh from wherever Paul was, probably in prison, to the church at Corinth. So Paul trusted him uh tremendously. Paul had a uh a lot of respect for this man And so uh he was uh uh highly respected by Paul, highly trusted by Paul, and assisted Paul in numerous ways. Um and so we come to the conclusion, at least I do, he was spiritually mature and a man of tremendous integrity, a young man of tremendous integrity. He is given the responsibility of overseeing this church that's here at Crete, this uh island of Crete. Um And as we study the book of Titus, we don't get a real positive picture about this church here at Crete. uh they had some very serious issues. Um probably not quite as bad as the church at Corinth did, but they had some serious issues. One thing we discovered is they had a terrible testimony in their community. They had a terrible testimony. Let me just say this. A church that claims to be the believe the Bible, a church that claims to be the body of Christ, ought to have a good testimony in its community. It ought to be whether they agree with us on our doctrine or not, they ought to respect us for having a good testimony. And so it's very important for our church, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, conduct ourselves in such a way that uh the we can be uh uh respected in the community and have a good testimony for our Lord Jesus Christ. Church at Crete did not have that They had a very poor testimony. Apparently they were very difficult to work with. We picked that up, several statements that Paul made there. And uh one thing becomes very obvious in the book of Titus. Paul did not think too highly of the folks there in Crete. If you would look with me at chapter 1 and look there at verse number 12. Notice Paul's statements. about these folks on the island of Crete. He says verse 12. One of themselves, uh yeah, verse 12, one of themselves, even a prophet of their own, speaking about the Crete A prophet of their own said, the Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, and slow bellies. Uh wow. That's not very complimentary. I've seen some big bellies, but I'm not sure about a slow belly before. And so anyway, and notice what he says, verse 13, this witness is true. He says they say that about themselves. And Paul says, I agree. They're evil beasts They're liars. They're slow bellies. Paul said, Yeah, that's the truth. It's like Paul saying, Amen, that's correct. And then he goes on. He says, Wherefore, rebuke them sharply. That they might be sound in the faith. I don't know how you take that statement, but it sounds to me like Paul didn't think too highly of these folks And so there were some issues going on in the church. Titus, this young man, is given a responsibility to oversee this church in Paul's absence. Um and uh he's got his hands full. He's got his hands full. So what what is the theme of Titus? Paul's writing to Titus He's got this responsibility. And uh I guess he t he addresses various uh issues there, the leadership in the church, uh uh Titus established leadership in the church and different things. But I guess if you want to Boil down the theme of the book of Titus, it would be this. This is what I come up with. That what we believe will directly affect how we behave. In other words, what we believe will directly affect how we live our lives. Now, I hope you got that. What I genuinely, sincerely believe Will have will will dictate how I behave myself, how I conduct myself. Now the other side of that is this How I behave, how I live my life, is an indicator as to what I genuinely believe It is possible to say I believe one thing, and then live my life in a way that's contrary to what I say I believe. And what that lifestyle reveals is that what I'm saying I believe and what I actually believe are two different things And Paul is simply saying this, listen, they claim to be Christians. They can't claim to believe the Bible. They claim to believe in these fundamentals of the faith. But their lifestyle does not indicate that. They're living contrary to what they say they believe, and what we really believe is going to determine how we live our lives. I've often said over the years um uh that being a fundamentalist, being a fundamental Christian, and by the way, we are an independent fundamental Baptist Church And what all that simply means is we believe in the basics of the Bible, the fundamentals of the Bible. And to be a true fundamentalist, to be a true fundamental Baptist church is more than simply having a doctrinal statement, a fundamental doctrinal statement on a piece of paper in our Constitution or something. To be a true fundamentalist means those fundamental doctrines that I uh that I hold to affect how I live my life They affect the way I behave. They affect the decisions I make. They affect how I interact with people. They affect what I invest my life in. If I genuinely believe those things, And so it's one thing to say I believe this, and it's another thing to live a life that is uh that is affected by that. And so Our passage here that we just read, verse 11 down through verse 15, there's four, I see four very important doctrines. In these few verses here, and I just want to touch on these, and then I want to briefly look at verse number 13. But the first doctrine I see here in verse number 11 is salvation by grace. Salvation by grace. Now what does that mean? Notice what he says here. For the grace of God that bringeth salvation. What is it that brings salvation to a person's heart and life What is it that saves a person from God's judgment, from separation from God all eternity? What is it that saves me from my sin? It is the grace of God that bringeth salvation. In other words, it's a gift being saved from sin in hell, having assurance of a home in heaven, having eternal life is a gift that God gives to me. It's not something I earn. It's not something I deserve. It's not something I can merit. It is a gift that God gives to me by faith, putting my faith in Him. The word grace itself simply means to receive something that I do not deserve, to receive something that I cannot earn, that I have not earned. And so he's pointing out that you and I are saved not by our church membership. You can be a member of your church for decades and die and go to hell. You can be baptized and never be saved. Those things don't save us. It is simply the grace of God by trusting Jesus Christ. my personal Savior, receiving that gift of God, which is eternal life, by trusting what Jesus Christ did on that cross, buried, and rose again. And so if you're not saved, I'd plead with you this morning, right there where you're at, uh, you can get on your knees and call out to God, God, have mercy on me, a sinner. And God will hear you, and God will save you if you believe that He died for your sins. Turn to Him and trusting Him as your Savior. By the way, let me just point this out at the last two words of that verse, the last two words It says, uh hath appeared unto what? What's those last two words? Say it with me. All men. What he's saying here is uh it's available to everybody. Uh let me without getting too far off track here, let me just say this. God's salvation is not offered to just an elect few. God's salvation is available to all men. God doesn't choose these people can be saved, these people can't. No, no, no, none of that. It's to all men, to all men. Whosoever will Shall can be saved, shall be saved. And so, uh salvation by grace. I see a second doctrine here real quickly, and uh we got some sixty-four million dollar words here, but Sanctification of the saved. Look at verse 12. Teaching us that, look at this, denying ungodliness and worldly lust. We should live soberly, righteously, godly in this present world. All that sanctification means, I'm just separating myself from the world to the Lord. Getting that sinful stuff, uh, uh getting the the things of the world and the sins, the things that are contrary to God's holiness. Things that are contrary to what the Bible instructs us how to live. I put them out of my light, denying ungodliness and uh worldly lusts. And I live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. That's a lifelong transformation. Lifelong transformation. We get saved, we become a new creature. Old things start passing away. All things start becoming new. God works in our life. God convicts us and challenges us, and we become more and more and more like the Lord Jesus Christ. That's why church services, the preaching of the Word of God, is so important. God uses that to help uh change us and help us deny these ungodly things. Uh and especially in a time when this when we can't get together physically In service, I'm telling you that daily devotions is so important right now. It always is important. But especially now That we stay in God's word and we humble ourselves in prayer before the Lord on a daily, regular basis, and so that we can grow and um Then uh uh the third doctrine, verse thirteen, the second coming of Jesus Christ. We'll say a word about that in a moment. Then verse 14, I notice the sacrificial atonement of Jesus Christ. Look at verse 14. Who gave himself for us. That word for means in place of. In other words, he was our sacrifice. He gave himself to be judged for our sin in our place For us, the sacrificial atonement for our sins. He did it in our place, was buried, rose again, and gave himself for us that he might redeem us from all iniquity And we could be his and he can change our lives. So uh one of the central doctrines all through scripture, Christ gave himself for us, the sacrificial atonement of Christ. Now I said all that, I wanted to get verse thirteen, and uh this is what's had my attention all this week, all month we've been memorizing this And uh this week the Lord just stirred my heart, and I wanted us to look at this. Uh, verse number 13. I got three words from verse 13. You might want to jot these down. Just write these three words down From verse number 13, looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ. First word is this. Write this down: anticipation Anticipation. Notice he says looking for. I looked up that word looking for. I've got the definition for it. I tried to see how it's used. Other places in scripture, that phrase, the word it comes from. And it simply means this: anticipating something. I'm looking for him, anticipating something. One definition was this. waiting anxiously for. We don't do this too much. Years ago, before we had Walmart here in town, we would every Friday night we go to Uniontown. And just about every Friday night, we go to Uniontown, do our shopping for the week, and um uh take the boys, Kathy, we'd go up there. And we'd hit all the stores up there. We'd go to Walmart. There was a Kmart there, I think we'd go sometimes. And then we'd go to the mall. Oh, we'd go to the mall. And uh walk around there. And Kathy was, I'm gonna go in this store here and look at clothes. I don't want to go in that store and look at clothes. So I would sit outside the store in the mall area there and sit on a bench and we didn't have cell phones then, so I'd have a book or something I brought along and read And she'd be in there and uh I would be waiting patiently out there for her, anticipating someday she's gonna come back out of that store And we'll be reuniting and go get something to eat. That's kind of the idea of this phrase, looking for, anticipating, waiting, waiting, waiting, uh for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ Now I'm going to give you another big word here. Now this is still under this anticipation thought. But here's a word concerning the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, imminent return of Christ. The imminent return of Christ. You say, what does that mean, preacher? Simply means this. Lord Jesus Christ can come back at any moment. Any single moment. Jesus Christ can come back. The coming of Christ is an imminent event. In other words, could happen at any time. Jesus Christ, the rapture of the church, the return of Christ in the air, could happen before we finish this message. Could happen before noon today, before we sit down and eat lunch together. The Lord could return. By the way, I'm fine with that. That'd be a blessing. Uh rapture out of here. No more quarantine. I tell you, if we get raptured out of here during the quarantine, first thing I'm doing, I'm gonna start running up and down the streets of heaven. I'm gonna go to everybody's house. I'm gonna visit everyone. And just see some people. But the return of the Lord could be at any moment. It is an eminent event. We are anticipating it. We're down here waiting, waiting, waiting. We're not looking for signs. Uh we sing the song Signs Are Everywhere, Signs of the Times Are Everywhere. And listen, I'm not dis discounting that. I think we can look around and boy it sure does Sure does look like the coming of the Lord is everything's in place. But the Bible doesn't tell us to watch for signs, to look for signs. We're supposed to be looking for Jesus. We're not looking for the sign. There's no signs that have to take place for Jesus to come back. Uh we're not looking for fulfilled prophecies. You say, oh preacher, look around. There's uh Israel's back in the land and all these things, these fulfilled prophecies. Yeah, it could be And uh I know uh God keeps his word and God fulfills his prophecies, but we're not told to look for fulfilled prophecies. We're told to look for Jesus coming. We're looking for Jesus Now, uh are there fulfilled prophecies around? Could be. Uh it sure looks like things are lined up. And I'll tell you one thing. Um Uh this uh this whole pandemic thing and the government shutting things down, I'm telling you, I can see with new clarity how the uh the world governments could say, hey, you're a danger to society, you may be contagious, we need to put this little microchip in your hand or on your forehead and you can't go to the store and you can't buy and you can't do anything until you get approved, you get that thing in there that we can verify that you're not contagious. I'm not saying that's what's happening. But I'm saying I can see with new clarity how that could take place very, very easily, and the whole world would walk in line and fall in line with that. And so, but we're not looking for signs. We're not looking for the mark of the beast. We're not looking for the Antichrist. We're not looking for uh the events of the tribulation period. We're looking for the return of Jesus Christ. The rapture is what we're looking for. And so uh we're we're waiting for that You study the New Testament church, you go back in early church history, you read the book of Acts and the New Testament epistles, and you'll find this to be true. They were more focused on the second coming of Christ Than they were about death. They were more focused on the return of Christ than they were about heaven or hell. They were talking about Jesus coming back, Jesus coming back, Jesus coming back. They weren't concerned about the grave. They were looking for the glory of Christ's return. One fellow put it this way: They weren't looking for the uh undertaker, they were looking for the uppertaker. They were looking for the rapture of the church. And I want to suggest to you Uh we need to get back to that. Uh oh we're we're gonna we have so many of God and so much of this and heaven and hell. Listen, all those things are important, not disregarding that But the first and foremost in our heart and mind ought to be looking for that rapture, that trumpet sound, and uh raptured out of here. Looking for that blessed hope, anticipating, waiting on it Take your Bible, if you would, and come over to 1 Thessalonians. Now you kind of come back towards the front of your Bible, turn to your left in your Bible. And you get to 1 Thessalonians, and I want you to notice in chapter number 4. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. Paul is giving up one of the most detailed explanations of the rapture of the church. And you come down to verse 16, 1 Thessalonians 4, and verse number 16, and notice what he says. For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. This is the description of what? Somebody help me It's a rapture. He's talking about the rapture. The Lord Himself descend from heaven with shout, voice of the archangel, trump of God, the dead in Christ rise first. Now look at verse 17. Then what's that next word? Talk to me. We which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the church. You can write in the Mars of your Bible there, rapture, caught up together. That's where we get the idea of the rapture. So shall we ever be with the Lord, wherefore comfort one another with these words. You notice verse 17 how Paul worded that? Then we which are alive. We which are alive. You know what that tells me? Paul was anticipating the coming of Christ in his lifetime. He was not expecting to die. He was not planning on dying. Now later on, it got towards the end, he realized that It w it wasn't going to be raptured. He referenced his coming death. But at this point, his eyes were on the sky. He was looking for the return of Jesus Christ. Uh years ago. I got saved in 1979 and right around that time frame, the early 80s, I think, late 70s, early 80s, there was a um A thing going around where everybody, all the Christians, at least in my circle that I ran with, had these little pins. Just about everybody had a little pin And it said this, perhaps today, perhaps today, I don't know if any of you have been around long enough to remember them. Perhaps today everybody had the little lapel printed. Perhaps today. And the whole idea was that to remind us and remind one another that Jesus Christ might come back today. Jesus Christ could be coming today. Can I suggest Maybe it'd be a good idea to get that attitude back again. Might be a good idea to get up every single morning and just say, you know I'm kind of anticipating Jesus coming back today. Maybe today is the day that the rapture takes place. And absolutely looking for that blessed hope. So my first word is this Anticipation. Quickly, let me give you my second word. Expectation. Not only did he anticipate the coming of Christ, We must expect the coming Christ. Look what he says here. Come back to verse 13 of Titus 2. Looking for that blessed hope. Blessed hope. Now we use the word hope as uh boy I hope it doesn't rain all day today. Uh we don't know if it will or not. We kinda hope not. Uh I hope it doesn't rain on Tuesday. I want to go fishing. I hope it uh doesn't snow or freeze Uh I want to go turkey hunting. Uh I hope uh we say it that way. We're kind of wish and we kind of, you know, we have no control over we're not certain, but that's really what we would like That's not how this word is used here. This is a blessed hope. The word hope, as it's used here and other places in Scripture, simply means this: a confident expectation. And so uh Paul is writing to Titus and he says, uh uh looking for that blessed hope. You could put it this way. the joyous expectation of the second coming of Jesus Christ. I put it this way in my notes. The return of Christ is not a hope-so uh doctrine. It is a no-so doctrine. It is something we are absolutely certain of. We are sure Jesus Christ is coming back again. You cannot take the Bible literally and not believe in the second coming of Jesus Christ. It is taught in Scripture very, very clearly. First of all, we have the promises of God all the way back in Genesis. God made promises of the coming of a Messiah, the coming of the Savior, the second coming of Jesus Christ, when He will rule the world. You have promises all through Scripture. We have prophecies all through Scripture. In fact, the Bible scholars tell us there are more prophecies of the second coming of Christ than there are even of the first coming of Christ. And so we have God's promise, Jesus Christ coming back again, rule the earth. We have prophecies all through Scripture. We have the pronouncements of Jesus Christ Himself. Jesus says, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also. Jesus said over and over again, I'm coming again, I'm coming back, I'm coming back. We have the pronouncements of the Lord Jesus Christ. We have the proclamation of angels in Acts chapter 1 verse 11. This same Jesus that you have seen go up into heaven. shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go. Uh the angels pronounce it. Then we have the precepts of all the apostles, the teachings, the doctrines, all through the epistles, of the coming of Christ, the coming of Christ, the coming of Christ. Listen, I can tell you one thing for sure this Sunday morning, Jesus Christ is coming back again. There will be a rapture. We can expect that at any moment. We anticipate it at any moment. You asked me, preacher, do you know when Jesus is coming back again? My answer is no. I don't know when he's coming back again. I have no certainty on that. Could be today. Uh I would like to anticipate his coming today, but I can't say with certainty when Jesus is coming back again. Somebody asked me, preacher, is Jesus coming back again? And I can say with absolute certainty, Jesus Christ is coming back again. Uh the rapture could happen at any moment. That old trump of God and the angel shout could happen at any moment. Any moment. We anticipate the coming of Christ, the rapture of the church. We expect the coming of Christ, the rapture of the church. And my third word is this: manifestation Look what he says here. Looking for that blessed hope and the glorious what? Help me. The glorious what? Appearing. I hope you didn't fall asleep at home there. The glorious appearing, the manifestation of the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh, I tell you, those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, we may be sitting at lunch, we may be sleeping in bed at night. We may be driving down the road. We may be s uh uh going into a store wearing a mask. I don't know. But at any moment that trump of God could sound that uh angel shout And we're transformed in a moment in the twinkling of an eye and into the very presence of Jesus Christ. And we will see him face to face. And it will be a glorious manifestation, the glorious appearing of our great, of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ. I do want to point out here, notice he says, the great God, Jesus Christ, is God. That's the deity of Christ there. And when Christ returns, when that rapture takes place for the church, the believers, we will see Jesus Christ and we will know fully and completely that this is God Almighty in the flesh. Jesus Christ. The coming of Jesus Christ is the coming of God Almighty in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. The only solution to our world's problems. And I'm telling you, we got a good we got a good illustration. We saw very, very clearly that it uh the uh the the great leaders of this world uh find themselves in situations that they do not have answers to. And I'm telling you, the only solution to our world's problems, the only solutions to the f the sin and the wars And the problems of this world is the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ will come back again, and he'll make things right. Jesus Christ come back again, we'll get these glorified bodies, and no more viruses, no more strokes, no more cancer, no more heart disease, no more influenza, no more diabetes. And God will change us in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye. And then after the tribulation period, He'll reign for 1,000 years from Jerusalem. And this whole world will experience blessings that it has never experienced before. Jesus Christ has come again. That's the blessed hope. This week I read about a businessman that uh uh was at home and uh he left something at his work and the boys the kids were there and he says uh I gotta run back to the office. It was just down the road away as they could walk and He says, uh he said to one of his boys, he says, why don't you come along with me and uh we'll go down the office. I just need to do a few errands and pick up a few things here at the office. So the boy went along And uh they got to the office and the dad told him, he said, I'll just be a minute. You just sit out here outside the office on the curb here, and I'll be right back out. You just wait patiently, and I'll be back out. I'll be back You just wait patiently here. And Dad got in there and like dads do sometime, he got things came up and he got involved with this and then Somebody had to talk to him and uh before he knew it a half hour went by, an hour went by, and he was in the back of the office and he didn't think and he went out, slipped out the side door, and went on home. Forgot the boy And he was home for a couple hours. Finally, it was dinner time. They got the family together and they all sat down. The little boy's seat was empty, and the dad said, Oh no. I left him down at the office. He went running down there. Just about dark. Went running down. And there was a little boy sitting right where he left him. And he said, son, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And his boy was tired, he was scared, he was hungry, and he said, Dad, I knew you'd be back. You told me you would. I knew you'd be back. I was just waiting for you. You know, that's the attitude we ought to have as Christians. I know Jesus is coming back. I'm going to be faithful and I'm going to keep my place and I'm going to serve him and I'm going to live for him and I'm going to deny these ungodly lusts and these worldly lusts and I want to be as much like Jesus. Because I know he's coming back. He promised. And it could be any moment. Are you ready for Christ's return? Are you living for the Lord? If the rapture took place right now, would you be ashamed at his coming? Would you be ashamed of how you're living your life, the things that are part of your life, actions, your behavior, lifestyle? Oh, I tell you, when Lord when that rapture takes place, there's no time to make things right We gotta do it now. We gotta do it now. You have loved ones and friends unsaved, are you witnessing? Oh, how wonderful would it be to be raptured out of here as we're sharing the message of Christ with others. What a blessing that would be If you're not saved, it's not a blessed appearing for the unsaved. It is a fearful event, left behind, lost for all eternity. I urge you, trust Christ as Savior. Call out, God, be merciful to me a sinner. Come in my heart and life. Save me from sin and hell. You'll trust what he did for you on that old cross, buried, rose again. God will forgive you and save you. Let's pray together. Father, I ask your blessing now on this biblical truth of your return. Help us to be prepared, Lord. Help us to live every moment, anticipating, expecting your return. And we'll see you. Bless us now, we ask, in Jesus' name. Amen.