Thank you for allowing me to be here. I'm gonna set my uh my w uh Phone heroic, I think uh the pastor said I think had thirty minutes, right? Is that what it's uh not really, don't worry. Don't worry So first of all I want to say that I'm a believer in Jesus and declare that Jesus has uh saved me from my sins and that's the the primary reason where I I think I can uh speak about these things. And then as Pastor Letheman has said I am a family doctor, but I do OB as well, and I've delivered in the past 30 years a little over 2,500 babies here in Garrett County. And each time we deliver a baby, so there's at least that many and more because of my partners and so on, we give them we give the babies a t-shirt. And on that t-shirt is the verse that was read, one of the verses that was read today. Psalm 139, verse 14. We have the first part of that verse. It says, I will praise thee Fine fearfully and wonderfully made. So every baby gets that and the parents know that we declare that as physicians there at our practice So as a physician, you might figure I I love science. And some people will say to me as I get into some discussions, we'll call them Say, well, how can you be a scientist and argue for life? How can you argue against evolution? How can you argue against these things if you're a scientist? And I say it's because of my love for science that I Actually I I argue that even more vehemently as I understand the the creative nature of God and be ab and be able to rejoice and have joy because of understanding that. So I will I will hope you all see one thing at least today, if you don't remember anything else that I say, and especially you young people today, that your science needs to align with the Word of God. Don't try to have the Word of God aligned with your science because as we all know, science changes. The world was once flat, according to scientists And then many godly people got together and said, hey, wait a minute, scripture doesn't really line up with that. Guess what? The world isn't flat. The world is round. And so Science changes, the Word of God doesn't. So as we look at life, as we look at things such as evolution and so on, make sure your science aligns with Scripture. Don't try to distort Scripture to align with your science So the question that doctors have wrestled with for years is when does life begin? And I think that ans that has been answered even in the secular scientific world Life begins at conception. You may say, wait a minute, that's surprising. Are you sure that even secular scientists would say that? And actually they do. But they distort some of this, and we'll talk about this in a second. So at the time that the sperm uh enters the egg, enters the second lining, we'll get a little scientific here, called the zona pellucida there They have found now, about ten years ago, they were able to see this with an electron microscope, that thousands of atoms of zinc get released. And when that happens, light comes forth. And that actually lasts for about two hours when conception occurs, this light happens. Well Science finally caught up with what the Bible said because 2,000 years ago John declared in John 1 9, he's speaking about the true light, and that's Jesus. He says That, meaning Jesus, was the true light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. So John was declaring at that time, even though he probably didn't quite understand it fully that Jesus, who is the creator, the true light, was actually lighting each human being at the time of conception. Alright, so now s scientists, secular scientists wouldn't say that that is a necessary Jesus doing that, but we know that it's Jesus lighting every person. And so scientists would so they The pro-abortion folks have lost the argument of when does life begin. They've lost that. So now they've changed the argument. And so now the argument is when is human personhood achieved? So they they distort that and they say when is human personhood achieved? And they ask the question, when does the pre-born, I didn't want to say a pre-born baby, but when does the pre-born baby actually become a human person? It wasn't good enough to say that that baby has life. Now they want the baby to have personhood. So some would those of us who are pro-life would say that happens at conception. Personhood occurs at conception. Others would say, what happens at the time of a heartbeat? Well, the heartbeat times when that has occurs is changing, of course. So you said science changes. God's word doesn't. Before it was around ten weeks we would say that we could see a heartbeat because of the ultrasound technology. Now in our office, when we do our ultrasound at our first visit, it's six weeks. we can see a heartbeat. So some would say personhood occurs at six weeks. And so that's why a lot of these heartbeat laws have come come to pass. And the heartbeat laws I think are good because they protect you know babies uh up to that point, but I think that's not really good enough. Others would say personhood occurs when the baby looks like a baby. So, you know, we do this ultrasound of six weeks. They come back at around nine weeks and the baby is actually jumping. The arms are flopping, the legs are kicking. At nine weeks you can see that. And the parents say, wait, wait a minute, that was just three weeks ago we did that ultrasound. So some would say personhood occurs when the baby looks like a baby Around nine to ten weeks. Others would say, well, it's a time of viability. Well, viability used to be, when I was first in practice 30 years ago, that was around 28 to 30 weeks. We could We could save a baby who was born at that time. Then it dropped to 26 weeks. Now viability is actually at around 23, 24 weeks. So we deliver a baby 23, 24 weeks. Usually that baby will live And so now they say personhood is around that stage because that's when a baby could could survive outside of the womb. That changes as you can see. That's what happens when you rely on science to define what personhood is. Others would say, and this is the state of Maryland, unfortunately, that birth is the time of personhood. So that's why they can argue for uh partial birth abortion. So that as the baby's being born you kill the baby as the baby's being born through the birth canal. And the process, I won't explain it, but it's an awful process. And our legislatures, especially in the state of Maryland, many of them, not all of them, thank you support that, all right, that atrocious procedure. And that's because they say that personhood occurs at the time of birth Some, like the the previous governor of Virginia, would say that actually it's after birth. It's a month or so after. They it's arbitrary. He was a pediatrician and said something like that. So it's when they can contribute to society in some way. So when we don't start with Scripture as our foundation, then we get into trouble. So God tells us, as Pastor Lutherman has already said, in Genesis one, he says that we are made in God's image. So we are image-bearers At conception. It doesn't say we obtained the image of God at 24 weeks. We obtained the image of God at birth He says we obtain the image of God when we are created. And because we are image-bearers, therefore we have personhood. So don't be dissuaded. Don't let someone get you into an argument and say and get you to say, well, person is at this point or at this point. No, it's when we are image bearers, which is at the time of conception. The other thing that's kind of angering as a physician is the argument that pro-life doctors and pro-life people in general would take the life of the mother for the sake of the baby When you hear that argument, tell them they are lying. That is clearly a lie. Those of us who are pro-life and have delivered lots of babies who dealt with women who are in emergency situations, bleeding, hemorrhaging, and things like that We would never take the life of the mother to save the life of the baby. Many times we can save both of them. Unfortunately, there is a rare, very rare circumstance where you have to take the life of the baby meaning deliver the baby. Doesn't mean you d torture the baby and you deliver the baby early. Try to save the baby, but if the baby's too early, a baby many times can't be saved. and to save the life of the mother. Now the in the rare circumstance the mother may say no. Don't do that to save the baby But that's pretty difficult to do. Usually you have to save the mother to save the baby. So when someone gives you that argument, especially young people in school, you hear that argument, tell them that's a lie That does not happen where doctors do that. They take the life of the mother. Even in cancer treatments, there are times where a mother will say, you know, will have breast cancer during uh the pregnancy. And she may s forego treatment for a time, but many times it's only until 24, 26 weeks, the baby's delivered early, and then she can get her her treatment. That is up to the woman though. The doctor will start treatment at the time they discover the cancer, unless the mother says, I want to forego it for a time. That is a lie that people use, especially legislatures use, to get people to think that we are, those of us who are pro-life, are against women and for the baby. So I will say also that we also need to be careful in the way that um healthcare providers, especially physicians, but also uh midwives are being trained nowadays. Even 30 years ago Um I was pressured um at that time, it was before it was would have been thirty, four years ago, I was pressured at that time to perform abortions because I was told by our director that If I didn't perform w be able to I was if I wasn't able to perform an abortion, I could risk a mother's life. And that's another lie because clearly The procedure that is done to perform an abortion, all of us can do because we do that in situations of miscarriage. And we learn that procedure and we become very very skilled at that procedure. You don't have to do it on a on a live baby and perform this awful heinous uh procedure. So in training there are pr there are pressures and I was it was a point where Director was telling me I needed to learn this and I said, I will leave tomorrow if you continue to pressure me. I because I was teaching other residents. And so Um he backed off when I said that because he knew he was going to lose one of his uh teachers. But um but there are a lot of nurses many times who are pressured to be involved with the procedures. There are doctors who are pressured. And if you stand on the Word of God as your foundation, you won't be moved. You won't be pressured to think that that's a a good decision. So remember, the Word of God is first. Science changes, God's word doesn't. Thanks. Thank you, Pastor. Do I need to turn this on or is it on? Thank you, sir. Well, good morning, brothers and sisters in Christ. I thank you for this warm welcome. And it is a pleasure to meet with you again. I am very, very thankful that Pastor Leatherman has a passion for Christ. And supports all life that our Heavenly Father in heaven has created. Today I stand before you as a proponent for the sanctity of life. Legislation in the great state of Maryland. As a legislator committed to the cause of protecting life Navigating the indoctrined political landscape of the Maryland General Assembly has been both challenging and a privilege. It is our pursuit of crafting policies that uphold the sanctity of life. We find ourselves at the intersection of a deeply held conviction And the diverse perspectives within our community. Maryland, a state known for its rich heritage history and vibrant communities, Is a microcosm of the very beliefs and values. It is within this tapestry of opinions That we as pro-life legislators must carefully, carefully navigate. Simply put We're outnumbered. The committee system in which a bill travels through to become law, the chairman or chairwoman Has the ability to call for or not call on votes on any legislation within their scope of work This means a pro-life bill, many times, while allowed to be presented, will remain in the drawer. Never to see the light of day or voted upon. Now the process does allow for three-fourths of the legislators. to force that piece of legislation to the Senate floor, but we simply don't have the numbers. Our commitment to the sanctity of life extends beyond the partisan divide. It transcends political affiliations. And speaks to foster a culture that values and protects every life from conception to natural end. We acknowledge that the complexity of the issue, recognizing there are diverse perspectives that exist within the Maryland General Assembly. However, many borderline pro life legislators are challenged By intimidation, retribution, by the majority of party that wants Maryland to be a safe haven for abortions By placing on the ballot this year a constitutional amendment to enshrine the right of abortion with no restrictions. In championing the sanctity of life legislation, we strive to strike a balance that respects individual freedoms. While upholding the inherent value of every human being. Our goal is not to impose a single belief system But to create a legal framework that reflects the shared values of compassion, respect, and the protection for the vulnerable Since Roe v. Wade and it being overturned, praise God I firmly believe that the time to focus on education, not legislation, has come. Let me repeat that. I firmly believe that the time to focus on education, not legislation, has come. Seventy-two percent of our population in Maryland says they will never terminate the life of a baby. But is unwilling to stop an um another person from this heroic, horrifying practice The number keeps on climbing due to scientific evidence, acknowledging when life begins. However, the progressive left has cemented the access to an abortion in the majority of Marylanders. However, through prayer, grace, understanding, and education, we can bring this number even higher So through education, our Heavenly Father will begin to see his children turn to him and not the abortion clinic. We serve a mighty God who can turn the hearts of others to choose life. As I engage in the political discourse surrounding legislation being presented this year It is imperative that we foster open dialogue and genuine understanding. We must listen to the concerns of my colleagues Acknowledging their nuances of their perspective, and work collaboratively to find common ground Without compromising my morals or my ethical dogma. Navigating the General Assembly requires building bridges. Across party lines, engaging in respectful debate, and fostering a spirit of bipartisan. The sanctity of life is not a partisan issue. It is a fundamental principle that transcends political ideology. So as a pro-life legislator, I must lead by example, demonstrating that unity and a purpose can triumph over decisive rhetoric. With the new legislative session starting this month, physician assisted death advocates And several states are more optimistic than ever that 2024 could be a pivotal year in the advancement of so-called death with dignity bills nationwide. Proponents of the Medically Aid in Dying in Maryland believe that this state is among the nation's most likely You finally permit qualified patients the right to exercise full-body autonomy when confronted with a terminal illness. Now, Daniel J. Brown recently wrote in Maryland Matters. That's a political newspaper about Maryland politics. Said that there is a shifting political dynamics, growing with a public back that has fueled hopes for potential legislation in this upcoming year. The State's House Health and Government Operations Committee chair, Delegate Jocelyn Penick Penya Melnick, she serves in Ann Orundel as well as Prince George's, has confirmed that she plans to reintroduce the assisted dying legislation. However, a bright spot is that her colleague, Delegate Bonnie Collison from Montgomery County, acknowledges that there are hurdles still remaining on the Senate side. For that reason, President Bill Senate President Bill Ferguson of Baltimore City said physician-assisted dying should merit a real conversation this year. And along with I'm saddened, the recent endorsement of Governor S. Moore has provided another boost to Maryland's aid in the dying movement. This bill will come to the Judicial Proceedings Committee, which I am a member. But I'm saddened to say that I believe I'm the lone member who will be opposing it. So if we can stop this and God's will can be obtained, it will be in the Senate floor. This will be the fight of the twenty twenty four session. Your prayers For each and every legislator down there are welcomed and needed Now, despite the failure of prior legislative attempts, including a Senate tie in twenty nineteen Unfortunately, public opinion has constantly reflected broad bipartisan support for expanded end-of-life options. Most recently, in a 2021 Gonzagas Research Media Service poll, showed the backing of nearly seven out of ten Marylander voters, with a majority support from Democrats and Republicans alike. In conclusion, as we advocate for the sanctity of life legislation in Maryland We must remember that it is our duty as pro-life legislators. It's not just about passing laws But it is about fostering a culture that cherishes and protects the sanctity of life every life. May the efforts be guided by compassion, understanding, and a shared commitment to building a future where the value of life is upheld. And celebrated by all. Praise be to God. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Well, not a lot of good news coming out of Annapolis, is there? And uh but I appreciate men and women like Senator McKay that are willing to stand up and say no to death And say no to some of these things. And I appreciate something he emphasized. I want to share From a biblical perspective, the sanctity of life. We had the medical perspective. Appreciate Dr. Savopoulos coming in. He's actually on call, and so that's why you see him slipping out And then uh Senator McCain coming in, giving us a report there. But I want to look at it from the biblical perspective. If you go to Psalm 139 again, if you would, um he made the statement That um, and and this is the way I took it. I can't quote them uh verbatim, but this is the way I took it. Change has to begin on the level of the population. We are the ones that elect people to office. It is the people that elect. And until the mentality of the people that vote changes, I don't think much is going to change up there. Do you think I'm close? And so how do we change The thinking of people. Even folks that say, Oh, I'm uh uh I'm not aga I'm against abortion, I would never get abortion, but I don't want to tell someone else they can't That thinking has to change. That's like saying I'm not against somebody murdering I I would never murder my neighbor, but I'm not against somebody else murdering their neighbor. That's the same mentality And so how do we change that? How does that change the medical profession, honest, genuine Medical science supports the fact that life is sacred, begins at conception. It's unique. It's special. It's miraculous Politicians have to defend that. That's part of their responsibility to protect life Now, what does the Bible say? If you would, Psalm 139. And before we read this, I want to quote the Lord Jesus Christ. In John chapter 10, verse 10, Jesus made this statement. Listen carefully. He said, I am come. He says, the thief cometh not, and he's speaking of the devil. The thief cometh not, but for the steal. And to kill and to destroy. Then he made this statement. He contrasted what the devil's up to. He said, But I am come that you might have Life, and that you might have it more abundantly. I'll say very emphatically, our God is pro-life. He is pro-life. Psalm 139, verse number 13 says, and Dr. Savopoulos re referenced it. Pastor Matt read this earlier. But notice again, verse 13, for thou hast possessed my reigns. This is David speaking, King David. Thou hast possessed my reins. Thou hast covered me in my mother's womb. I will praise thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvellous are thy works, and that my soul knoweth right well. My substance was not hid from thee when I was made in secret, and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth Thine eyes did see my substance being yet unperfect, and thy in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them I want to speak just quickly, I just have a few minutes, on the sanctity of life from God's perspective. Let's pray. Father, bless now. I ask you to fill me with your spirit. And help us, Lord, use us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Psalms 139, I think, is one of the most beautiful and well-known passages of scripture. uh in all of scripture declaring the wonder and the value of an unborn child. We are fearfully and wonderfully made If we study this if we had time, we'd see it's obvious that life is extremely precious to God From the moment of conception till the moment we're called home, God considers life to be very, very sacred. From the womb to the tomb. Life is to be cherished. From the womb to the tomb, life is to be valued. Life is to be honored. Life is to be protected. Give you three reasons here very quickly on why life is sacred. Number one, life is sacred because it's God's creation. It's God's creation. Now I don't know if I'm going to have time to get to all that I have here. I never have time to get to everything I have But um uh Genesis chapter one, if you got your Bible, come on back there. Again, this has been mentioned here a little bit ago. Genesis chapter one. And uh verse number 26. Of course, this is the account of creation. And by the way, we believe the Bible means what it says and says what it means. This is not figurative speaking. This is literally what took place. I'm confident of that. And I guess you want to put it this way. If God said it, it's so Notice in verse number 26, it says in verse number 26, Genesis chapter 1, and God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the fowl of the air, over the cattle, over the earth, over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. Now notice verse 27 So God created man in his own image. In the image of God created him, male and female. The book of Genesis is a book of beginnings. And the book of Genesis declares that God is the author of life. God is the one that gives life. Government doesn't give life. Medical scientists do not give life. God gives life. And God alone Has the ability to give life, and God alone has the authority to take life. He's the giver of life, he's the author of life, and he is the only one that has authority to take life. Um in the book of Job is a fascinating book. I I enjoyed uh studying the book of Job. But at towards the end of the book, Job is engaged, of course he's Going through all these trials, and he's engaged in these debates back and forth with some of his friends. Towards the end of his experience there, uh, a young fellow steps up by the name of Elihu Now, this is guy, my impression of it, like you, he's a little bit arrogant, he's a little bit know-it-all, he's just a young guy, and uh he's giving his opinion. But in Job chapter 33 and verse 4, he makes a tremendous statement He says this. He says, the Spirit of God hath made me. The breath of the Almighty hath given me life You know what he's saying? He's saying God is the one that gives life. God is the one that gives life. There is nothing in existence that is self-originating other than God Nothing in this universe is not self-originating. I'm here to tell you, we didn't come from a big bang. We came from God's word. God spoke the world into existence. Nothing on our planet is self-originating. There is no life that is self-originating. Non-life cannot produce life. Only life can produce life God is the author of life. Everything alive, every living thing is indebted to God for its life. God is the author of life. As the author of life, God is the only one that has authority to declare when life should end. So life is sacred, the sanctity of life, because of its source, because God is the one that gave us life. We're in the image of God. We don't have time to go to all of these, but in Genesis chapter 25 and verse 21 and 22, we have this account where Rebekah has these twins in her womb. And they're struggling in her womb. And the Bible makes this statement, and here's quoting from Genesis 25, quoting, the children struggled together within her. Now I find it interesting, God didn't say the fetuses within her struggle together. He didn't say the bob a blob of of uh uh molecules struggled together within her. God considered those two boys to be children while they were still in the womb of the mother Life is sacred from the moment of conception because life is a gift from God. It is created and given to us by God. These unborn sons were still considered children by God. Again, we don't have time. I wish we did. If you knew how fast I was going through this, you'd be very, very proud of me. In Luke chapter 1, in fact, we are going to take time and go here. Would you come with me quickly to Luke chapter 1? And here we have John the Baptist in the womb of Elizabeth, and Jesus Christ is in the womb of his mother Mary. And in Luke chapter 1 and verse number 41, these mothers meet. An amazing thing takes place. In Luke 1, verse 41, it says, It came to pass that when Elizabeth heard the salutation of Mary, Elizabeth, the mother of John the Baptist, Mary, the mother of Jesus. That when Elizabeth heard the salutation of Mary, look at this, the babe leaped within her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost, and she spake out with a loud voice and said, Blessed art thou among women Blessed is the fruit of thy womb. Whence is this unto me that the mother of my Lord should come to me? For lo, as soon as the voice of thy salutation sounded in mine ears The babe leaped in my womb for joy. The baby in Elizabeth's womb, John the Baptist, in the womb of his mother. leap for joy. Now keep that and come over to chapter two with me very quickly. And notice verse twelve Now in chapter one, where is Jesus? Where is baby Jesus in chapter one, what we just read? Where is he located? In the womb of his mother Mary. Now, in chapter 2, look with me at verse 12. And yeah, this shall be a sign unto you. And ye shall find the babe wrapped in swathery clothes lying in a manger. Verse 16. And they came with haste and they found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. Where is Jesus located in chapter 2 He's in the manger. But did you notice God uses the same term in the womb and in the manger, they're both a babe. No difference. Didn't reference it some pre-born life. No, it was a baby in the womb. It's a baby in the manger. Later on and in chapter 18, verse 15, the Bible says they brought infants to Jesus. For him to bless him. That word infant in chapter eighteen is the exact same word as the word babe in chapter two, Jesus in the manger. The exact same word as the word babe in the womb of Mary. I'm here to tell you, life is a sacred, sacred thing from the moment of conception because God is the author of life. God creates light. It's sacred because God is the creator. It is sacred because God is the author. It is God that determines what when life begins and what life is, not man. Scientists don't determine uh like God does. I appreciate what Dr. Svabla says. You start with the Bible and then you build off of that. Number two, life is sacred because not just because God created it, it's God's creation, number two, but because of God's commands Because of God's commands. God's value of life is evident by his commands concerning life. In Genesis chapter 9 and verse 6, God says this: listen, Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed. For in the image of God made he man. Exodus 21, verse 12 says, He that smiteth a man so that he shall die shall surely be put to death. Leviticus 24, 17, he that killeth any man shall surely be put to death. And then of course uh the commandment uh sixth commandment in exodus chapter 20 verse 13 thou shalt not kill God obviously values life to a point that if somebody presumes to take another person's life, they forfeit their life. Life is sacred because of God's commands. If somebody says, Alright, I'm going to take this person's life, God says, Alright, you've just forfeited your life. And by the way, I still believe capital punishment applies today. If you give me some time, I could go to the. . You say, well, we're in New Testament. Listen, I could show you from the New Testament where God still has capital punishment in place. God values life. And you take, I'm telling you, God's very, very clear. You take someone's life, God holds that person severely accountable. For taking the life of another. It is sacred in the eyes of God. God gave it. I do not have the right to take it away. Any unjustified killing. I do not have the authority for that. And then number three, the last one, I'll end with this. Number one, God created life. It's sacred because God created it. We go all through the Bible and prove that It's sacred because of God's commands all through Scripture. God defends life. God defends life. God defends life. It's valuable. It's precious. He cherishes it. He defends it. And number three, because of God's concern for life. Scripture makes this clear from the moment of conception God has a plan and a purpose for every single life. Come back where we started, would you? Psalms chapter 139 Verse number 16, he makes some interesting statements. I enjoy doing word studies. I like to look up a word, where it comes from, the words it comes from, how it's used other places in scripture. And you get this comprehensive idea of what God is talking about. In verse number sixteen, the Bible says, Thine eyes did see my substance Yet being unperfect. That word unperfect means undeveloped, but in the process of developing. He says, God saw me when my body was still being developed, as these organs were growing and developing. God saw me. My substance was not hid from. He says, I will praise. Where am I at? 16. Thine eyes did see me uh my substance yet being imperfect as they developed, uh as Dr. Svopoulos described. And then notice he goes on. He says, and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth. Thine eyes did see my substance being yet imperfect, and in thy book All my members were written. That word book is referring to a specific kind of book. How about this was interesting? It's not just some book God has. It's a very specific book. It is a book of legal accounts. A legal ledger is what the word comes from. In other words, now this is leathermanism, all right? I told the Sunday school class, if I ever teach something that's maybe not directly in Scripture, but I think it's true. I'll tell you, this is Leathermanism. I'm wondering if God isn't saying here that He has legal rights for every little conceived baby. From the moment they're in the womb, their name, they are in the legal accounts of God. And they have legal rights to life. And those rights are to be defended. By the parents, by the government, by the community, by society. I'm telling you, God's concern for life Then he goes on, it gets more interesting. And in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned when as yet there was none of them He says, God fashioned my body, my substance, my body as it's developing. God had it fashioned even before they were. He says, even as yet there was none of them. You know what I think when he says it was fashioned? The word fashion there means to be designed in detail You know what I think he's talking about? I think God has a blueprint for every single life. God fashioned it. God fashioned it. He has a blue Just like you build a building, you have a blueprint for the door will be here and the windows are there, staircase here, basement, kitchens over here, the Bedrooms here, living room, and you got that all planned out. And this is what the outside will be, and this is what look I think every single person, every one of us sitting here are designed by God specifically like he had a blueprint when we were conceived of what we were. Listen, don't you complain about the body God has given you. I'm so tired. I'm telling you, we are hurting our young people when we allow them to be convinced that they have to look the way the world tells them or they're of no value. You have to have this figure, you have to have that or the other, you have to have this collar hair, you have to have this, that, and that. Listen, I'm here to tell you, God made us individually, specifically designed the way we are And we are to use this body that God has designed and God has given us. We are to use it for His glory and for the advancement of the gospel. God's concern for light. In Jeremiah, again I've got to quit. Jeremiah chapter 1. I wish we had time. Verse number 5, Jeremiah said that the Lord fashioned him while he was still in the womb. He was fashioned by God, designed by God. Jeremiah said, God tells Jeremiah, I knew you when you were in the womb. He was recognized as a person by God while he was still in the womb. He said, I sanctified you in the womb, set you apart for a specific purpose. Hey, I want to tell you, every one of us, young people downstairs, teenagers here, all around here, every one of us, God has a purpose for every single life. He has a plan and a purpose. We are here not by chance. Doesn't matter what the circumstances were regarding your conception, doesn't matter what home you may have come from. Doesn't matter what your background is, I'm here to tell you. God has a plan and a purpose for your life. Just like he did Jeremiah. And he says, I ordained you. I have that plan and purpose. Jesus said, I'm come, you might have life, that you might have it more abundantly. This subject touches home with me a little bit. My mother was adopted. She lived in multiple homes the first four, five, six years of her life. Passed around, foster home, foster home, foster home. She'd tell you stories. One of the last times I was up there, she got books out and just pictures of different homes she was in and and this the the social worker records of the experiences in those homes. It's my mother. She finally was adopted by my grandparents that raised her, raised her in a Christian home. I'm glad. I'm glad. Now I don't know my grandmother, my maternal grandmother, I don't know her, my mom's maternal mother, biological mother, I don't know her. I met her one time, years ago. I don't know what her frame of mind would have been. I don't know what her view would have been. I'm glad abortion wasn't available. My mother came into this world. At least it wasn't to the extent it is today. I'm glad that my mother's mother gave birth. to my mother. And today she's a wonderful Christian woman. She knows the Lord as Savior. And today, because of my mom, of course I'm here. I thank God, you ask my wife, I thank God every day for the life that He gives me. Thank you for the life, the gift of life. Now we have one shot at this thing called life. There's no do-overs, there's no reruns, there's no, hey, I hate to tell you, there's no reincarnation. You're not coming back as a rhinoceros or whatever. We got one shot. You with me? We have one opportunity. Don't blow it. Thank God we make a mistake we can get back up. There's a lot of decisions we make in this thing we call life. Some are incidental, others have profound consequences. God's given you, and God has given to me a precious, precious gift. It's called life. Most important decision to make in life is the decision whether I'm going to trust Jesus Christ as my personal Savior or not. Here's the thing. That life that begins, that moment of conception in the moo womb of the mother, that light. That is the beginning of a life that will never end. This body dies, but you and I are spiritual beings. You and I are a soul. I say this all the time. We do not have a soul. We are a soul, and we have a body. And when this body dies, the Bible is very clear, we go out either unto eternal life or eternal separation in a horrific place Jesus described hell. And the determining factor between whether I go to heaven when my physical life is over, or I go to this place called hell when my physical life is over, the determining factor isn't whether I'm a church member. Isn't whether I was some good, helpful neighbor. Isn't how much money I gave. The determining factor where I spend eternity is what I did with the Lord Jesus Christ. We're all sinners. If we die in our sins unforgiven, we're separated from God for all eternity. Worst thing that can happen to a person is to die in our sins unforgiven. But when I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, He forgives me all my sin. He gives me the gift of eternal life. Forever with him in heaven. And he makes me into a new creature. This morning in my devotions, I was thinking back the night the Lord Jesus saved me. And when I accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior back May 7, 1979, I called on him in my bedroom. I called out, Lord, come in my life. I need you to be my Savior. I trusted him. Something profoundly happened inside my heart and soul. Something changed inside my heart and soul. God gave me eternal life. He gave me a new life. And it's all through trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. We stand for life. Amen. We stand for life. We're not backing down. We're going to stand firm on the word of God. Every life is precious. From the womb to the tomb, from the moment of conception, till God calls us sound eternity. We stand for life. We defend it. We'll speak up about it. But just as important as we're going to stand for trusting Jesus as Savior to have eternal life. Have eternal life. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask their Lord you take our attempts this morning. In a world, in a culture of death, I pray you take our attempts and use it to bring life. In a world so full of darkness, moral and spiritual darkness, I pray that you would help us to be a light shining. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I want my life to count. God's given it to me as a gift. It's only last a certain time I get one shot. I wonder how many would say, preacher, my life, I need to give some attention to how I'm living my life Maybe there's some adjustments need to be made. Maybe I need to draw close to the Lord. Maybe you're saved. You need to draw close to the Lord. How many would say, preacher, I want my life to count? I want the Lord to have his way in my life. Any like that uplifted hand? Sure, who wouldn't say that? I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I have some friends and family, and they don't know the Lord is Savior, and they have this, they don't have a biblical worldview, and you say, I want to be a good witness. I want not just my lips, but my life to testify the goodness of God. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I'll be a good witness to unsaved loved ones and family. Any like that? Sure. God bless you. Hands all around. I wonder if there's some this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. You say, preacher, pray for me. God will help me get that settled. Pray for me, preacher, that God will help me make that decision and know that God has forgiven my sins. I have a home in heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. Pray for me that God will help me. I don't help me. Father, bless now our invitation we ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand against