When you find that, if you would, go back to Genesis around Genesis thirteen and just slip a little note in there or card or something. Mark put a marker there. Genesis around Genesis thirteen And we're going to be using our Bibles a bit. I figure it's no use just carrying your Bible to church and then let it set in a pew. We might as well use it. Amen? And so we're going to do that a little bit tonight, and uh we're going to start out in 2 Peter 2, and we're going to jump back and forth between Genesis 2 Peter and a few other New Testament passages perhaps. Alright. Everybody found it? Genesis 13, 2nd Peter Peter chapter 2. We'll start out in 2 Peter chapter 2. Notice with me two verses, verse 7 and 8. 2 Peter 2, verse 7 and 8. It says, and delivered just lot. Now it doesn't mean only lot. And nobody else, it means Lot was a just man. And delivered just Lot, vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked. Now look what it says in verse eight. For that righteous man dwelling among them in seeing and hearing Vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds. I want to talk about the deliverance of Lot. The deliverance of Lot. Verse 7 it says, and he and God delivered just Lot. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless our study tonight. I ask that you would help us to um Learn about Lot and understand a little bit what's being said here. And I ask your blessing now on our study. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Lot is a very complex person. If you study his life and the biblical account of this man Lot is very dramatic and it becomes very complex. Just a little, I'm just going to try and give a very quick rundown of this man Lot. We've heard of him. We know of Lot's wife, right? She turned into what? Saul, she looked back. We know all about that, but what do we know about Lot himself? First of all, he was a nephew of Abraham. He was the son of Abraham's brother. At some point in Lot's life, perhaps as a younger man, we don't know at what point, but at some point his father died. Abraham's brother died. He was taken in by his grandpa for a while, and then eventually, when Abraham is called out of Ur the Chaldees to go to Canaan land, Lot goes along with them. Now having said that, let's look at Genesis chapter 13. And uh we have this uh account of lot. Genesis 13, and look with me at verse number one. And Abraham went up out of e uh out of Egypt and his wife Uh that's not the passage I want. Of course I wrote the wrong passage down. And uh verse 31 of chapter 11 I was close. Genesis eleven, verse thirty-one. And Terah took Abraham his son. And Lot, the son of Aaron, his son's son, and Sarai his daughter-in-law, his son Abraham's wife, and they went forth them, fr went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees to go into the land of Canaan, and they came unto Haran and dwelt there. And the days of Terah were 205 years, and Terah uh died um uh uh in Herod. Now come down to chapter twelve. Here's what I'm looking for, verse four. Bear with me if you would So Abraham departed as the Lord had spoken unto him. By faith, he leaves his homeland. He's heading to this place he doesn't want to know where he's going. And look what it says. And Lot went with him. And so Lot's a nephew of Abraham. His daddy dies. He lives with his grandpa for a while. God calls Abraham out. And Lot goes with him on this great adventure. They don't know where they're going. They're trusting God. God's just leading them. It appears that they had a pretty close relationship. We know that Abraham loved Lot dearly. You see that later on when you study the life of Abraham. We believe they had a very, very close relationship. Abraham became like a father to Lot. However, they began to prosper. If you would, look at verse numbers 6 and 7 of chapter 13. And it says, and the land was not able to bear them. Abraham and Lot, verse 5, Lot also which went with Abraham, had flocks and herds and tents. Verse 6, and the land was not able to bear them. that they might dwell together, for their substance was great, so that they could not dwell together. So they prospered, and it they ran out of room. And notice what happens, verse seven. It says, And there was strife. Between the herdmen of Abraham's cattle and the herdmen of Lot's cattle, and the Canaanite and the Perizzite dwelled in the land. uh than in the land. So uh they they have they're prosperous and their prosperity begins to produce strife So Abraham says, verse 8, he says to Lot, let there be no strife, I pray thee, between me and thee. His relationship was too important. We can't be fussing. And so he says, and between my herdmen and thy herdmen, for we be brethren, is not the whole land before us? Separate thyself, I pray thee, from me And so they need to separate. There's too much, they're too prosperous. They don't have room for both of them, and they're fussing. So they make this separation. Now this is a key Lot chooses, he looks out over his options where to go. He does no doubt does scouting And he finds that in the plains down where Sodom is and Gomorrah, they are very well fertled And uh uh he's got cattle, and so he chooses the fertile land plains down at Sodom and Gomorrah, verse 10. And Lot lifted up his eyes, and behold, all the plain of Jordan, that it was well watered everywhere, before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the Lord Like the land of Egypt, as thou comest on the Zora. Then Lot chose him, all the plain of Jordan, and Lot journeyed east And they separated themselves one from the other. So Abraham gives Lot the option. You can go wherever you want, you choose. Lot sees this tremendous fertile land, great for cattle. He's going to make a lot of money. He's going to become very, very prosperous. It's down by, it's down in the neighborhood of Sodom and Gomorrah. But it's pretty good land. There's money to be made. There's success to be had down there. Yeah, that Sodom and Gomorrah, we know what they are. But but I couldn't make a lot of money So Lot makes this choice to go down toward Sodom and Gomorrah. In fact, look at verse 12. So Abraham dwelled in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelled in the cities of the plain. Look at this, and pitched his tent. What? Towards Sodom and Gomorrah. I've wrote in the margin of my Bible, and this isn't the message, but I wrote in the margin of my Bible, you fall the way you're leaning. Right? He's leaning towards Sodom and Gomorrah. And lo and behold, come over to chapter 19 of Genesis. And verse number one, now in 13, he chooses the fertile lands down there. He pitches his tent towards Sodom and Gomorrah. By the time we get to chapter 19, verse 1, look where he's at. And there came two angels to Sodom at Eden, and Lot sat in the gate of Sodom. He ends up moving into the city, and not only does he move into the city, he becomes an active member in the society of the city. Now sitting in the gate, he didn't just pull a lawn chair out and just sitting there by the gate watching the sunset. When the Bible says he's sitting in the gate, it means he has a position in that society. Means has a p position of influence, possibly a position of authority. Now remember he's extremely wealthy. He was when he moved down there No doubt, handling his cattle as he was very good at it. No doubt he became extremely wealthy. And I'll tell you, the world loves wealth Now we're not told all this, but I got a sneaking suspicion, the folks of Sodom and Gomorrah, the leadership, they saw Lot and they saw his prosperity, and they began to invite him in. And Lot ends up in the city of Sodom and Gomorrah, becoming an active member in the society, maybe a leader in the government there. God sends two angels down to check it out. They're about to bring judgment on Sodom and Gomorrah. Uh when they get down there, the men of Sodom and Gomorrah are so wicked you can't even speak about their deeds. Just unbelievable perversion and wickedness. And in verse number eight, notice what Lot does. Now remember, he was raised by Abraham, the friend of God. He was raised in a house of faith, in the Word of God, and in the worship of Jehovah. And notice, if you would, verse number eight. The men of the city begin to assault these two angels that are in the form of men, take the appearance of men, and do unspeakable things. Look at verse 8. This is what Lot says to the men of the city. Verse 7. He says, I pray you, brethren, do brethren, do not sow wickedly. Behold now I have two daughters, which have not known men. Let me, I pray you, bring them out unto you, and do ye unto ye to them as is good in your eyes. Only unto these men do nothing, for therefore they came under the shadow of my roof. He sacrificed his daughters. to this unbelievably ungodly crowd and says, you can do whatever you want to my two daughters. Would you agree with me? That's fallen pretty low. You can't get much lower than that. And this is Lot, Abraham's nephew, worshiped at the altars that Abraham would build as they traveled. He's forcefully removed from Sodom, and we mentioned this last week, verse number eight. Uh or I'm sorry, verse number sixteen. And while he lingered, these angels told him, You get out of here. God's wrath has fallen on these cities. God's judgment's fallen, these cities, you need to get out of there. And he lingered and he lingered and he horsed around. Finally, verse 16, while he lingered, the men, these two angels of the Lord, laid hold upon his hand, and upon the hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two daughters. The Lord being merciful unto him, they brought him forth and set him without the city. So he's forcefully brought out of uh out of the city. Verse 26, his wife looks back, she turns to Saul. And then you think he's gotten about as low as you can get. And while they're fleeing, they go up in the mountains, get away from the wrath of God on the cities, his two daughters, in verse number 32. Get their daddy drunk, and they seduce him to commit incest. Would you agree with me? That's about as low, as low as a person can get I mean, it's shameful to me to even speak of these things behind the pulpit. But this is the biblical account of this man line. Now here's the thing. We get to 2 Peter chapter 2, and we read just a moment ago that God referred to Lot as a just man. As a righteous man. Twice he refers to him as righteous and just. How many people like me wonder, how in the world can that be? How in the world can that be? To be honest with you, I've said this often before over the years, if I didn't know, 2 Peter chapter 2, and I'm reading through the life of Lot, I would never know this was a saved man. I would never say that about this man. But God says he was just. He was righteous. Twice he says that. Now here's my thoughts, and I know what time it is. I'm going to give three real quick. I want us to consider the salvation of Lot The salvation of Lot. There's two things we know for sure. There's a lot we don't know about here, not told, but two things we know that we are absolutely sure of. Number one is Abraham's salvation. We know that Abraham is saved. In Romans chapter 4 and verse 3, it says, Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness. Abraham's faith in God, his belief in God, his reliance upon God and the coming Messiah no doubt was involved in that. He believed God, he believed God's word, and God says I'll put righteous, I'll make the that man is considered a righteous man because he believes my word. He trusts me. He's a righteous man. We know that Abraham was a saved man. Now I know saved is a New Testament term. But Abraham had salvation. It's very clear. Second thing we know is that Lot had salvation. Now, the only reason we know that is because of what 2 Peter 2, verse 7 and 8 tells us. It says He's righteous. He's just. Now, when and where did Lot get this righteousness? Well, there's no way to determine the time or the place of Lot's salvation. I would tend to think. That it was possibly when he left Ur to go with Abraham on this journey, not knowing where they're going, just trusting God's leadership. I would tend to think that at that point, as a young man He had made a decision to trust, put his faith and trust in Jehovah, and by faith follow his uncle Abraham off to wherever they were going. Now, I can't say that for certain. That's speculation totally on my part. I do believe it was before he moved to Sodom. I do believe it was before he moved to Sodom. So Lot was a, using a New Testament term, was a saved man, in spite of what all we know about him. He was a saved man. Now that flies in the face of some people. They say, no way, somebody could live like that and not be saved. But the Bible says he is. I'm not going to argue with God. I'm not going to argue with the Bible. The Bible says he's saved and he's righteous. He's just. I've got to take God as word. Amen. Whether I understand it or not. So at some point, we know this to be true, at some point, if a person has salvation, there's some point where they make a conscious decision To put their faith and trust in Lord God, whether they are looking forward to the Messiah or we're looking back to the Lord Jesus Christ So when and where we can't say, but we know Lot was saved. Number two, Lot's chastisement Now here's where it gets interesting to me. We get to Peter, 2 Peter, and we say, whoa, lots of saved men. He has salvation. He's just. And I've read all this stuff, and here it says he's just. And so I go back with that understanding in my mind, I go back and look at the life of Lot again. And I noticed something. When Lot first showed up down in Sodom in that area, when he first pitched his tent down there, God intervened And brought chastisement, I believe, trying to get Lot's attention and redirect him. Take your Bible back to Genesis and look with me if you would Or h hold it, let me back up a little. Go ahead and turn to Genesis chapter fourteen. But uh Lot's chastisement. Here's the thing. A saved man will experience chastisement. How many folks here are you saved to know it? Say amen. How many people know what I'm talking about when I talk about chastisement? Maybe some could connect a little better this way. Getting a whooping. Huh? Going to the woodshed. Anybody here ever got God ever take you to the woodshed? Yeah. We get out of sorts, we start to drift, and God steps in and brings chastisement. One thing we know from Scripture If a person is genuinely a child of God, God will bring chastisement when they drift from the will of God. We could spend a whole series on that. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 6, for whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. Hebrews 12, verse 7, for what son is he whom the father chasteneth not? In fact, Hebrews 12 goes on and says that if a person claims to be a child of God and they do not experience the chastisement of God, God does not chastise them whenever they drift. Their claim to be a child of God is illegitimate. Now there's a term that Hebrews chapter 12 uses to describe that, that I'm very uncomfortable with But it's a strong biblical term. He says, and I'm putting in my one words here a little bit, but he says, if a person claims to be a child of God and they do not experience the chastisement, the correction Of God. Their claim to be a child of God is illegitimate. They are spiritual bastards. Now that's a term I don't like to use, but it's in the Bible. So we know from Hebrews chapter 12, Proverbs, other passages, we know that God chastens his children when they tend when they drift, when they go astray, when they refuse to make things right. So having said that, I come back and look at the life of Lot. And I say, all right, Peter tells me he's saved. Is there any indication of this chastisement in Lot's life earlier? Before he's getting into all this. And I think there is. Now here's where Genesis chapter 14 And notice Lot is down towards Sodom. And I'll begin reading in verse 8. What happens here is you have these five kingdoms. And uh Sodom and Gomorrah, the leadership of these two kind uh cities and uh other areas, they are they're in a fuss with some other cities, little nation cities And these cities come in, and they're fussing, they're at war. Look at verse, we'll pick up in verse 8. And there went out the king of Sodom and the king of Gomorrah, and the king of Adma, and the king of Zeboim, and the king of Bela, the same as Zor, and they joined battle with them in the vale of Siddam. When Shedor Loamur, the king of Elam, with title, king of nations, and Amraphel, king of Sinar, and Ariok, king of Elizar How many people think I did pretty good reading those names there? I impressed myself. And it says, and the Vale of Siddham, where they're having this battle Was full of slime pits. Now look at this. And the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled and fell there. And they that remained fled to the mountains. And they, these five kings that I read their names so eloquently, took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah, all their victals, and went their way. Now look at this. And they took Lot, Abraham's brother's son, who dwelt in Sodom and his goods and departed. You know what I think happened? I think Sodom pitched his tent towards uh I think Lot pitched his tent towards Sodom. I think he started getting caught up in the society of Sodom. He got caught up in the entertainment and the And the the lights and bright whistles and bells of what was going on in Sodom. And he got lured into that. And now he's living in Sodom And I think God sends these five kings down there to attack these cities and it specifically says they took Lot and his goods and took him out of there. You know what I think? I think God was taking Lot to the woodshed. I think God was making it very, very clear to Lot, you need to get out of here. And if you don't get out, I'm going to get you out. And he sent these kings, they took them out. To go on, make a long story short, Abraham gets a little army together of his own household, he arms them, and they go out after Lot. And they rescue Lot and they get him back out of the hands of these kings that have taken him hostage. And guess what Lot does? He goes right back into Sodom. Goes right back. Then we get to 19, and he's in the leadership, sitting in the gate. God was chastening what? You know who God chastens? His children. God does not chasten the unsaved. I don't discipline my neighbor's kids. When our boys were small, I don't discipline my neighbor's kids. That's their God doesn't discipline the devil's kids. God disciplines his children. I believe God was chastening his child Lot, trying to get him out of there. Chastisement is correction. And God is seeking to correct Lot in the direction he was going. But in Genesis 19:1, as I said, Lot ends up back in Sodom. And then I consider Lot's deliverance. Come back to Peter with me, and I'll end with this. Peter is warning about the false preachers and teachers coming in and introduce wicked doctrine, wrong doctrine, wicked lifestyle And he uses Sodom and Gomorrah as an illustration how he takes that seriously, that type of lifestyle. By the way, I think some of our denominations in America would do good to study this passage. They're bringing this ungodliness in. But then he makes this statement. He talks about Sodom and Gomorrah, God turned their cities into ashes. And he says he delivered just Lot. Now, like I said, it would be difficult to come to the conclusion that Lot was a just man. I wouldn't if if some preacher came and told me that, I wouldn't believe it if it wasn't right here in the Bible. A righteous man. If it wasn't for this passage, it would be very, very difficult to believe that. Now here's my question. I'll end with this. How can the Bible say, how did God, how was Lot considered righteous by God? I'll tell you how. The same way Abraham was considered righteous by God. A man is not considered righteous in the eyes of God because how he lives his life. Not by my works, not by my behavior. Righteousness comes by faith. Romans chapter number four and verse three. By faith Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him. for righteousness. Abraham was not righteous in the eyes of God because he built altars everywhere he went. He wasn't righteous in the eyes of God because he worshipped Jehovah. He wasn't righteous in the eyes of God because of any works he did or how he lived his life. He was righteous in the eyes of God because his faith was in the Lord God Jehovah And that faith, to Abraham's credit, he sought to live up to the standing that he had in the eyes of God. Now you follow what I'm saying? God saw Abraham, his faith. He said, I'm declaring that man righteous. Abraham, because of that, said, you know, because God considers me righteous, I want to seek to live a righteous life Here's the thing, we don't live for God, we don't say no to sin, we don't submit to the Lord, we don't try and obey the Bible so that God accepts us as righteous. We do all that because God has already declared us righteous. when we trusted him as Savior. Am I making sense? Our Christian life, our Christian service, trying to seek to live a godly life, our humility is all rooted in gratitude for what God has done for us, not in order to get God to do that for us. So Abraham was righteous by faith, not because of the godly life he lived, and he lived a tremendously godly life, not perfect, but godly. And Lot was righteous, became righteous the exact same way Abraham did, because his faith was in Jehovah. The difference Is Lot decided he is not going to live up to the standing that God has declared him to have? Lot would be what we would call what the book of Corinthians would refer to, 1 Corinthians, as a carnal believer. He lived for the flesh. He lived for the world. He was worldly to an extreme. And yet God says he was a righteous man. So here's the lesson. We must not. Here's the lesson. Do not use the example of Lot for an excuse to be a worldly Christian. Do not use the example of Lot for an excuse to indulge in the sins of the flesh and the sins of the world. Stop and consider what happened to Lot. He paid a heavy, heavy price. For the way he lived his life. Huh? Am I right or wrong? Okay? It's possible for a saved man to live an awful life, but it's not possible for a saved man to live an awful life and not suffer the consequences. So my advice for myself and all of us, let's make sure of our salvation and then let's live for God And let's do right. And let's seek, we'll never live up to the standing we have in Christ, but let's seek to live as close to that as is humanly possible. And learn from Lot. Amen. Father, I ask you to help us now. And please bless. Lord, we want to live for you. We want to please you with our life. And Lord, we're ashamed of when we come up short. So I pray you'd help us to learn from Lot. Help us to remember his wife as Jesus told us to Help us, Lord, to determine to live for you. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, if there's some tonight, say, preacher, and this is between you and God, so please. But you'd say, Preacher, I've allowed some things to slip in my life. Now I'm not talking about to the degree that Lot did, but it starts somewhere. And maybe there's some tonight say, preacher, pray with me. There's some things in my Christian life that really need to be addressed. Some things, there needs to be some ad there's some adjustments that need to be made. If I'm going to live the life that God saved me to live. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. There's some adjustments that need to be made, sure. If the truth were known, there'd probably be three times the number of hands up is what there are Because it's a constant struggle, it's a constant battle. Let's ask the Lord to have his way. And if you and I are saved, those of us who know Christ, let's just commit ourselves to live a life of gratitude to the Lord. Not for not be not so that he does things for us, but because of what he's done for us. Father, bless the invitation I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.