Take your Bible now and turn me to the book of Romans. Romans chapter one We're going to start in verse uh I'll uh start in verse thirteen and we'll read a uh a couple of verses here. The Apostle Paul says, uh, through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit in Romans chapter 1, verse 13, now I would not have you ignorant, brethren, that oftentimes I propose to come to you, but uh was led hitherto, that I might have some fruit among you also, even as among other Gentiles. I'm a debtor both to the Greeks and to the barbarians, both to the wise and to the unwise. So as much as is in me, as in me is, I am ready to preach the gospel to you that are at Rome also. For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. For it is the power of God and of salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first, and also the Greek. For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith, as it is written: the just shall live by faith. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we come to you tonight and we're so grateful, Lord, for uh this marvelous gospel that you've given uh given to us through these uh inspired writers Thank you, Lord, for churches that are all over the world preaching this very, very gospel. Not unlike I'll be preaching tonight And I thank you, Lord, that uh through that that preaching, through the foolishness of preaching, that you've chosen to save some, don't understand it. All we know is that when we give the word of God out and preach the the simplicity of the gospel. Somehow it touches hearts and you work in those hearts and people get saved. I thank you, Lord, for the privilege that I have to be preaching tonight. And we trust that you'll bless the message. And also, Lord, as we show the chapter and that you'll get honor to yourself. Thank you again. For the privilege we have of just being here together as fellow believers in Christ's name. Amen. And amen. The Apostle Paul What a what an unusual man. It's going to be, I believe, one of the one of the things right after we we talk to uh to Christ and and meet him and maybe that'll be for a million years or two and we'll talk with him. Uh maybe we'll meander over and see the Apostle Paul and sit down and talk with him about some things. He's uh it was an unusual man, fellow that uh was hated by a lot of people. Here in these verses here, he he said he's not ashamed of the gospel And uh because it was the gospel that changed him. Remember, he was on the road to Damascus, and I think we all probably in here know this the story of of uh the apostle Paul, Saul of Tarsus. And he was uh but his his life was was totally changed as a result of of this gospel that he's he's talking about here, that he's not ashamed of The uh uh the marvel, I guess, uh is that here's a guy that was hated by just about everybody. You stop and think about it, he lived in a time When uh Jews were hated, the Romans were hated with Jews, and he was both Roman and Jewish, you know, a citizen and so forth forth and uh uh and he was a Pharisee, a religious nut, and he was a Christian. And all those people were hated by somebody, so he's a guy that was hated by just about everybody somewhere along the line. And yet there was one thing that he he held on to and one thing that he that it just seemed you could just sense as you read through his his letters, uh there was a a uh uh a wonder about this this miraculous gospel that changes lives. Did you ever stop about uh stop and think about about how the how the gospel I mean really down in the nitty gritty how the gospel affected your life when you got saved. I I I oftentimes uh go back and and uh think about uh uh the night I got saved and and And I tried to remember and thank the Lord, you know, I'm forgetting some of the before I was saved things so that I can just sort of forget about that. I don't want to put you know, I don't want to uh uh spend much time on that anyhow. But uh uh the there's just something uh about the gospel Now what is the gospel anyhow? The gospel that the Apostle Paul's talking about, the same one he talks about back in in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, where he says, and uh I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received. How that Christ died for our sins according to Scripture, was buried, rose again the third day, according to Scripture. And that and in those in that simple verse, in those few sentences, why uh the gospel is totally exp explained. Where Jesus died for our sin, that's the substitution. And uh uh and provided the salvation for us. The Apostle Paul, not afraid, not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it's the power of God and the salvation to everyone that believeth. The Apostle Paul was careful to mention that it was the gospel of Christ that he was not ashamed of. There's a lot of gospels out there, if you want to call their false gospels, and he covers that in the book of Galatians in the first chapter where where he mentions uh where he says, and though an uh though we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed And then he repeats that because he wants you to understand that there there are other gospels out there We run across them every once in a while. And he says once again, as we said before, so say I now again, if any man preach any other gospel other than uh unto you than uh than ye have received, let him be Accursed. Question that always comes up when you talk to somebody who is unchurched. Or somebody who perhaps is an agnostic or even an atheist, one of the things that always comes up is one, uh, why are there so many different churches? And uh they know just like you and I know that all churches don't preach the same thing. A lot of them have, you know, church written across the top of the door, but they that they Yeah, they they don't preach this gospel. They preach a gospel of works or maybe it's uh the keeping of uh sacraments or uh that type of thing. But the gospel that he was talking about is this gospel of Christ. The gospel of Jesus Christ. And that's the one that has the power of God on it. All these other gospels, uh I I think about uh, you know, I uh I watch the news, you know, and and and I see a picture of uh this North Korean uh Uh what is is he a king, a president, a empire emperor or what is he? I don't know what he is. You know the uh what is it? Un his last name. Kim Jung un or something like that. What is it? Rocket Man. Rocket Man. That's easier to remember. I think about I think about him and uh you know they they'll have uh a demonstration periodically they have these these big parades. and uh then they have their soldiers that's doing the goose step. That there's something about the goose step that I just the It turns me off. I don't know what it is. Maybe it's because uh in World War Two uh Hitler's uh Nazi Party goose stepped everywhere they went. And uh but I but uh uh I think about I think about the the regime that he has there. And of course it's a a uh a dictatorship of the worst kind. There's people are are just under the he uh under his heel, the military heel of of his administration. And uh That is the thing that most other gospels do to the people who adhere to them. They put them in a position that is where they can, where they're under under domination and submission. uh to the uh to the hierarchy. And whenever you see that happening, then you know that there's there's something wrong with that gospel Because the gospel of Christ is a gospel of peace and freedom and with no confusion added into it. The Apostle Paul says, I'm not ashamed of this gospel of Christ, because it's the power of God and the salvation to everyone that believeth. Human reasoning, the gospels of human reasoning and human effort can only lead to shame and confusion. And of course, God is not the author of confusion. The Gospel of Christ. Is the good news of God's, first of all, His marvelous compassion. The manifestation Of infinite love towards the guilding and the perishing men. A love stronger than death In uh 1 John chapter 4 and verse 10 it says this, herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and he sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. to be a satisfactory sacrifice for our sins. The good news of God's uh uh gospel Is a miraculous, about us miraculous redemption. Redemption that is in Christ Jesus possesses an infinite power. To satisfy all the holy demands of God's righteousness. The amazing thing about the gospel And uh the condition of man. When you think about where the Apostle Paul was, where you were before you got saved, you're at enmity with God. The natural man uh you know uh hates the things of the spirit. And so the Apostle Paul, as well as you and I We uh we couldn't uh uh we couldn't contact God, couldn't get in touch with God. There was a a he we were alienated from his presence. But this marvelous gospel reached across that barrier through Jesus Christ, who became a man, they might taste death for every man. and uh bridge the gap between God and man and gave us an opportunity to know God. His His perfect righteousness was satisfied through the Lord Jesus Christ, the gospel of Christ. In Colossians chapter 1, verse 19, 14, I'm sorry, it says, In whom we have redemption through the blood, even the forgiveness of sin. The good news of God's magnificent resurrection. The gospel is the good news. Of God's magnificent resurrection. Not only salvation from sin comes to us through Christ, but the sure hope of a glorious body, a glorified body, a body like his his his very own. There in in 1 John chapter 3 In verse one and verse uh through verse three, it says this. I'm getting it there. It says, Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. Beloved now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, or we shall see him as he is. Have you ever spent any time just meditating on those those verses? And thinking about what it's gonna be like when we're chained the moment in the twinkling of an eye. And uh, you know, uh I guess when you when you get my age you you think of uh the new body primarily, you know, that's what you're thinking of. But you know there's going to be something else that's new. You you're going to have a new mind, new mindset, a new new attitude, a new the I mean it's going to be totally new. Everything about you is going to be new when that uh resurrection body is is given to you. When we see him face to face. I can't uh can't even imagine uh y you know what lies ahead for those uh who know Christ when that that change takes place. You see We've had a measure, a measure of what God can do in a person's life. We have uh if you've trusted Christ as your Savior, you you've had that measure of peace that comes as a result of knowing God. Knowing that your sins are forgiven, that you don't have to worry about uh about death or hell again But uh there is an inner an uh an inner uh spot inside of you that that uh does not know that peace. There's still a part of us that still is uh uh has the old nature, still is in there. And that's going to be all changed in that moment, the twinkling of an eye And it's going to be a uh a change that'll be so deep-rooted that uh we we'll hardly recognize ourselves. It's gonna be an exciting time. It's described also over in in uh First Corinthians. It's described over in uh uh 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and so forth. And we've all read those verses, I'm sure. It's also uh The good news of uh of e of an eternal satisfaction. It says I shall be satisfied in Psalm 17 and verse 15. It says I shall be satisfied when I awake. in his likeness. Uh that satisfaction is what I was talking about a moment ago. The total, complete peace and satisfaction. that God is going to uh give us. Uh I like that verse. I shall be satisfied when I awaken his likeness. My That's going to be an exciting time. The deeper yearnings of the inmost heart shall be fully met when we are made fit for his everlasting fellowship In the presence of the Father's glory. What a glorious gospel we have. Not just the physical changes, but the inner change as well. Why he was not ashamed of the gospel. Perhaps we can explore that for a moment. He was not ashamed because, number one, it was the power of God. What power seems uh uh pent up in the gospel of Christ? There is in the dynamic force of Almighty. Of Almighty love and mercy and righteousness. It's a love that melts the heart of stone. Mercy like the ocean's fullness to cover every sin. Righteousness as pure as light into which the trusting soul is brought. I I like those words, so I pinned them down, and I'm not going to tell who it was that wrote them. I'm going to take all the credit. He was not ashamed because it's the power of God unto salvation, unto salvation. My, when we think of where we were when Christ met us, and we met him When we think of what our life could have been had we never come across the Lord Jesus Never trusted him as Savior. Never had our life changed. Never received him as our Savior. I can't even, I don't even like to think about it Nan and I have often talked about our life uh since we've been saved. Don't dwell on much before that because really it's just uh it's a part of us that uh is just sort of uh faded away. I like uh what uh uh General uh Douglas MacArthur said when he gave his last farewell speech to the cadets at uh point uh at West Point. And he f ended up his saying by saying, old soldiers never die. They just fade away. I sort of feel like that sometimes. I'm just sort of fading away into the past some somehow. But anyway Because of the power of God and of salvation, the gospel of Christ means that the great strength That God has, the power that He has, is directed at one thing, and that is directed at the gospel that saves souls. It's directed at the at man himself to uh the salvation of of mankind. And You know, we we I think sometimes we we uh get discouraged when we don't see the uh you know the people coming forward in the services and and uh Uh we feel like that uh you know that um we're just sort of out here alone, you know, preaching and but nothing's happening. But you know that g this is not the only place in the world. Where we go to church down in Kentucky is not the only place in the world. If we just stuck with that and just st uh you know focused on what was taking place there, we might get discouraged. But around the world, the gospel is still something new and something vibrant, something that's exciting and something that changes lives. And people are when they get saved and they see the changes taking place, there's so much excitement going on. And there's there's revivals breaking out even among the Muslim people. In areas. And those kind of things we have to remember that it's the gospel of Christ is the power of God. And the purpose is unto salvation. And so God's power is directed to that end, to see people saved He not only came to see uh seeking to save that which is lost, but his the the power of his throne The power of his being, the dynamic power of himself is directed at one thing And that's the salvation of the lost to mankind. Those who have been created in his image, he wants to see them once again, a spitting image of himself. And he does that through the gospel of Christ and the changes that take place in their lives. The salvation is twofold The soul is saved from sin and the wrath of uh by being uh reconciled to God, but also the life is saved from the fruitlessness and the and the failures of this world. I guess that's one of the the greatest things about salvation. Yeah, I know there's a place in heaven reserved for me. I know he's preparing a place for me, and I'm looking forward to going there and seeing mom and dad, you know, the Lord and the apostles and all that. But you know, right now, here in this nasty now, we might say, uh, I thank God for for this this time here. And the life that in spite of the sin that's out there, where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. In spite of all that's going on in the world and and uh the uh the evil and the wickedness that's that's out there, there is uh a measure of grace that that the believer can enjoy even in this life. And praise God for the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's the power of God unto salvation. But he was also, he was not ashamed because it's the power of God unto salvation. To everyone that believeth. Why, you know, those words there, they oughta they ought to do something to your heart Because it's it's it's it's to everyone that believeth. And I I look at that word everyone and I think about the the verse that says he's not willing that Any should perish. And that's about the same thing as everyone. I see I see God as not one who has a limited atonement and says I I'm going to save just a certain segment of of society and and the rest of 'em can go to hell. That's not the God that I serve. He's the one that that is determined that everyone have the opportunity. I really believe that even i in the the the deepest part of the jungles of Africa or South America or uh uh wherever, in Cambodia or whatever. I believe that if if uh that individual looks around and sees the creation and in his mind he says, you know There is something to this that I cannot see, and I sure would like to know more about it. And in my heart I believe that God will take a Philip and send him down there to preach the gospel to him. And that gospel, once it's preached to him, will be a gospel that is going to change that individual's life Thank God for the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's the power of God and the salvation to everyone that believes. Sin is smitten man with the heart disease. And the wonderful thing about the gospel of Christ is that it deals with the heart. All these other gospels that are out there deal with the with uh uh the do's and the don'ts They have their laws set up, and if you follow these laws, why you'll be able to make it. And that's their attitude. But the gospel of Christ deals with the heart of man. You see, the heart is desperately wicked. It's deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who could know it, the Bible says? So it's the heart of man that God has to deal with. That's the reason why the the the do-gooders and and the keep the golden rule and all those those kind of of gospels that require an action. cannot do anything for an individual. It doesn't touch the heart. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. God is concerned about the heart, and he deals with the heart because he knows the heart is what's going to change the man. You're here tonight and you've you've perhaps uh trusted Christ uh many years ago and maybe recently. But you know that there's some areas in your life that's still kind of rough. Well God's really pretty good at at uh filing off the rough edges, you know. Uh he could stick you in a box and uh turn on the tumbler, you know, and kinda knock all those edges off and make you just nice and smooth. It's better if you do it yourself though, you know, rather than let him do it. He chastens those whom he loves, but he'd rather you just look at your own life and say, you know, I there's some areas that I can improve And that's what this meeting's all about this week. It's not about Don Williams and doing the chalk drawings, and I hope they're entertaining and and that you'll work for them and we'll see people come and perhaps get saved But it's it's about a self-examination that we need to be doing to try to uh move up one more step in our spiritual life. to uh make some make some good choices and uh recognize that that uh We we've already enjoyed the gospel, the benefits of the gospel. He's saved us and we know that we're on our way to heaven. But there's there's this uh this thing of uh the judgment seat of Christ that we need to be thinking about as Christians here and I believe we ought to You know, w just like these chalk drawings, uh, you can say, well, I don't think you ought to have to work for 'em. I think you ought to just give 'em out, you know. You know that's not gonna work Well the jet seed of Christ, I think is you know, we're gonna see about the rewards and that kind of stuff. And uh we need to be thinking about that. in our daily life here because it's going to make a difference. We may not realize exactly where it's going to make the difference, but I think it's going to make a big difference, uh, p particularly through the uh during the millennial reign You're here tonight and you're saved. You've got to praise God that you've received that gospel of Christ. But if you're here and you've never trusted Christ, well The picture, I guess it really doesn't have a thing to do with this message. That doesn't surprise anybody though, does it? But there is a hidden picture there that I want us to see because I I believe we can pull it in and make it uh uh mean something anyway. If we never lights out, I'll show the trock dry.