Matthew chapter 5, and I'd like for us to uh read together verse number 14, if you would. Matthew chapter 5 and verse 14. Ready altogether. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. I've entitled the message, and I'll think you'll understand the title here in a little bit, but I've entitled the message, The Kind of Christians America Desperately Needs. The kind of Christians America desperately needs. Let's pray together. Father, I ask now you'd bless our time in your word. I ask that you would speak our hearts and challenge us. I pray, Lord, that there would be a revival in my heart, in my home, in this church, in the homes of this church, the hearts of the members that make up this body of believers. We need you, Lord. We are in a desperate hour, and we need the moving and stirring of God in a mighty way. And so we're asking for that. Maybe, Lord, a spark could just begin here this morning. And uh fan a great, great revival in uh at least our church and community. And so bless now, fill me with your spirit. Lord, I I have nothing in and of myself to offer of any eternal Eternal or spiritual value. It has to come from you this morning, Lord. And so I present my body anew. I yield my will and pray that you would speak through me Through me, our hearts and lives. Help us make right decisions today, Lord. Help us respond to the truths of your word. In Jesus' name I pray Amen. Yesterday our nation celebrated its two hundred and forty-fourth uh birthday. Uh You say, wow, that's a long time. That's actually young as far as the age of nations go. We're a fairly young nation, two hundred and forty four years. And I want to make it clear. I made the statement at the beginning of the service. I want to make it again, and I'll say it over and over and over. I love the United States of America. I thank God for my country And you think of all the places in the world where God could have had us born, all the places in the world where we could have been born and grown up, and God in his providence And his plan and purpose for our lives allowed you and I to be born in the United States of America, to have such a Christian influence available to us. And um I'm telling you, we uh we thank God. Uh there's several things about our country. I mean we could just go on and on, but I'm grateful for the quality of life that God has given to us here in the United States of America. How many how many how many military folks have we got here that traveled around around the world? Any of you have been traveling to other countries, third world countries, some of y'all on vacations you've traveled around I'm telling you, we are, in many ways, we are the envy of the world for a lot of countries. I've been places where people would give their right arm just to live in a house like I live in Just to have available to them the quality of life that you and I have. I tell you, if we're not careful, we become ungrateful and we become critical and we lose sight of how good God really has been to us. The quality of life. There's an anti-American sediment that's been brewing for several decades now. And it has foster festered and it has gained it has gained traction in our media. In uh in uh our entertainment industries, sports, and in our po in uh in our leadership, uh in uh in the government, an anti-American sentiment They're not trying to correct America. They're trying to destroy America. Don't misunderstand what's going on. But I find this interesting. As critical as these people are, as anti-American as these people are, I don't see any of them leaving our country. In fact, they're trying to get more people here. Why is that if we're so awful? If we're so hated, why don't why don't they just leave? You know why? Because you're gonna hard press to find the quality of life anywhere in the world that you find here in the United States of America. Now I want to make clear we're not better than anybody else. You know, we're we're all sinners saved by grace, whole world. I thank God for Merker for the quality of life. I thank God for the freedoms we have in our country The freedoms. Freedom of speech. Freedom of assembly of worship. We have lived in the last four months. I don't know about you. Oh, I know this is true. I know this is true for all of us None of us had lived under the level of government control of over our lives at any point like we have the last four months. I mean controlling everything. Now they've got out in California churches can't even sing hymns in their church, government telling a church they can't sing hymns in church. Listen, this is the freest country in the world. And I pray we don't lose that. I pray we don't lose that. Freedom of speech, freedom of resistance. Now please don't misunderstand. I recognize the seriousness of the virus and the safety hazards. I understand all of that. But freedom is precious. Freedom is valuable. And if it's not defended, it will be lost every time. Be lost every time. So I thank God for the freedom of speech, freedom of worship. I venture to say we have folks tune in to our website, listen to sermons from this pulpit in countries where they can't assemble together like you and I can here. I guarantee you they are. And they're listening online. Um let me say this, and I'm done uh this isn't a political message really, but I want to make a few statements I thank God for the freedom of the Second Amendment. I tell you, that's important. So we say, well, what's the big deal? I tell you, that is That is apart from the first amendment, that's that's the most of By the way, if you didn't have the second amendment, we wouldn't have the first one very long. Right? Freedom to defend ourselves, to arm ourselves. I travel in other countries on mission trips, at least I used to, I don't know if that'll ever happen again. But um and they say uh they'll say you guys can have guns there in America? I say, yeah. They say, do you have a gun at your house? I said, yeah, I do. How many do you have? I say, none of your business. But the ability to defend ourselves is a unique freedom that is not known around the world. What I'm trying to say is I'm grateful for our country. For the quality of life, for the freedoms we have. I'm grateful for the generosity of America. The Los Angeles Times a number of years ago, of all papers Los Angeles Times did an article and they said, of all the nations of the world, America is the most generous nation. of any nation in the world. We give more to charity than any other nation. And they list about five others. I think it was the United Kingdom. Uh Ireland, they had several of them listed there. I think Israel was in on that. But they said all of those combined only come to half of the amount of charity that is given as the United States gives. What a giving country Now you watch, you watch, the more liberal a society becomes, the less generous they become. That is a fact. The more liberal a society becomes, the more liberal a nation becomes, the less generous they become. And America has been a very, very generous country. And so I'm grateful. I'm grateful that God, in his providence, allowed us, the Americans, to live here and enjoy what we do. We don't deserve it any more than anyone else does. But God has been gracious to this land and God has been good. And we ought to be thankful. By the way, let me say this. If you're a child of God, if you've been saved, you're born again, you and I have something we can be grateful regardless of what nation we live in. I was down in the Dominican Republic last year, a year or so ago, and preaching for Brother Steve Sidler down there, and we visited out in the city, and the poverty in parts of that city you can't even imagine. And they bring them in from these poor, Kathy was there, and just the neighborhood where the church is, they bring them in. Just almost incomprehensible poverty. I'll tell you what, I met some of the happiest Christians I ever met in my life. Living in that squalor, living in these homes that uh you you you've got a uh your garage is nicer than some of their homes they live in, your outbuildings. Or nicer than some of their homes. And sing and rejoice. I tell you, if a person's saved, we got something to thank God for, regardless of what nation we live in. Regardless of what the quality of life may or not be, we can rejoice in the fact that our sins are forgiven. We have a home in heaven. Brother, this world's not our home. We're just passing through And we got a home in heaven. Those that are saved, if you're saved, let me say this, if you've not been born again, if you've not trusted Christ, heaven is not your home. The Bible says the wicked will be cast into hell. You need to be saved. You need to be saved. And so we can rejoice in our salvation. We can rejoice if we're saved. We can rejoice in the fact that God takes care of us. I found that folks live in the hardest countries in the world that know the Lord and Savior, God takes care of them just like he does you and I. Meets their needs and helps them. I was reading an article I was reading a letter from a missionary in Chile uh yesterday, got in the mail an email last night uh on uh um uh what's it called when the military takes over the Uh no, not the government, but runs martial law. They're under martial law. They cannot leave their house. Without permission from the military authorities, and that only two times the uh only two days out of the week for one hour at a shot. They can go to the grocery store, go to the pharmacy, back home, uh, martial law You know what I found out, folks, and you know what that missionary was saying? The people there are rejoicing in the Lord. They're saved Sins forgiven. God taking care of them. And so we can rejoice in the Lord regardless of what our circumstances. We can rejoice if we're saved. We have the Word of God. How many people are grateful for this book right here? Thank God for this book. Man, I was reading this morning. God stirred my heart. I was reading uh and uh it was like God was speaking right to me, address addressing issues in my life. This reading this morning Thank God for the Bible. Every Christian ought to spend some time every day reading their Bible. Amen or not Every Christian ought to ought to read together. Thank God for the Bible. I thank God for uh our church. I thank God for the Holy Spirit living within us. So we have much to be grateful for as Americans for what God has blessed us as Shame people, trust in Christ, all that God has done for us. But we have a lot to grieve over also here in our country. These last four months have been a level of government control we've never experienced before. We see upheavals in our society. And I don't, you know, and I don't want to rehash all that. It's right in front of our face every day. But the fact of the matter is, we are in a time of moral and spiritual turmoil in our country, violence and murders. Blaspheming God, fornication, wickedness, perversion on every hand, thrown in our faces. Drunkenness, rebellion, idolatry. I'm afraid, I'm afraid that we as Americans have taken our freedoms and our prosperity for granted. We become unselfish. We become We've become selfish, I should say. We've become ungrateful. And we've abused this liberty that God has blessed us with. And we need revival. This is what I'm getting at. We need revival. I don't believe, I don't believe the answer to our country's problems is found in the White House. I don't believe it's found in the State House. As important as they are, and as important as elections are, and we're doing registration for election voting today. I hope you get registered. As important as all that is, that is not the answer to our nation's problems. We say, how many times have we said it? We need prayer back in school. How many people ever heard that? We need the Bible back in the in the White House. I'll tell you what, maybe we ought to start with getting prayer back in our homes. Getting the Bible back in our homes Maybe that's where the problem is. Maybe that's where we need to start. First, get it back at how about getting the Bible back in our churches? Huh? Back in our homes. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 4. First Peter chapter four. Did I mention the I had eye surgery this week? Oh is we they had the yard sale while you're turning there, 1 Peter 4. I had the yard sale and um you know I couldn't hardly carry anything. I could just sit in the shade there and you know It was I felt terrible. And um and so I had to pick something up and my eyeball just about came out So I I just wanted to share that with you. 1 Peter chapter 4. I want to begin reading in verse 14, but verse 17 is what we're what I'm getting to. Verse 14 says, If ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye. For the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you. On their part he is evil spoke he is evil spoken of, but on your part He's glorified, talking about the Lord, of course. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or as a thief or as an evildoer or as a busybody in other men's matters Yet if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God on this behalf. Now look at verse 17. For the time has come that judgment must begin where? At the house of God. And if it first begin at us, what shall the end be of them that do obey not the gospel of God? I want you to notice what this verse does not say. Notice what it doesn't say. It doesn't say that judgment must begin at the White House. Anybody notice that? How many people believe the White House could use some judgment? Yeah. Doesn't say judgment must begin in Congress. I think people think Congress could use a little bit of judgment of God there. Yeah. It doesn't say it must begin in the state house or the courthouse or the county seat or the schoolhouse. It says judgment must begin where? At the house of God. What is that? It's the church. That's us here today. Can I say this? That's Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. God says judgment must begin here. Not out there. Must begin at the house of God. Now, we do need judgment in these other places. There's no bound. And God will judge the nations But that's not where it starts. That's not where the attention and the focus, the primary attention and effort and energy must doesn't begin there. It begins here in the church, our church, churches. Is where that has to begin. Now look at a couple words he uses here. He says, For the time has come that judgment must begin. I got looking up that word begin. And it has this idea. It's the first thing to do. We get our word commencement from the word that that word begin is translated from. The first thing to do, the starting place, begin. Oh, what are you going to do today? Well, I'm going to begin with having my devotions today. I'm going to commence that. That's how I'm starting my day off. So he says judgment must first begin, first in chronological order, first thing to do, at the house of God, and then look here, he uses a word along with that, and it fit And if it first begineth us, that word first, I got looking that up, has two ideas to it. There's two aspects to that word first there. One is chronological order, just like the word begin. This is the first thing you gotta do. First thing, we do this chronologically, but it also has this, first in rank or honor. In other words, the most important thing to do. So he says that judgment in the house of God, in the church Is the beginning point and it is the highest priority, must begin there. Must begin there. So he's talking about us It's all about us. I believe God's telling us in his word that his mercy and revival come into our country and God's mercy being poured out on our nation must begin With you and I, the church, you and I. Proverbs chapter 14, verse 34 says, righteousness exalteth a nation. But sin is a reproach to any people. I tell you what, we ought to be ashamed of our sin. Now I'm ashamed the way they're behaving down in Baltimore. I'm ashamed of the way they're behaving in DC and out in Minnesota. I tell you what, we need to be ashamed of our own sin. We'd be ashamed. If we would get as worked up about our own sin as we do about the stuff going on out there, maybe revival would come. I'm trying to bring this thing home This is where it begins. This is the starting point. This is the highest priority. You and I getting right with God. And it's true in any country, any country, America, whatever. It's the people of God that determine the spiritual temperature of a country Righteousness exalteth a nation. That word exalteth in Proverbs 14, 34, means this: make honorable, respectable. Righteousness makes a nation honorable and respectable. For our nation to return to the Lord and to righteousness, it must begin in our churches, it must begin in our Christian homes. Now, how does this happen? Let me give you my outline here, real quick. Number one, The kind of Christians America needs right now, I put this down, are humble Christians. Would you take your Bible, turn with me to the Old Testament, and we're going to go to a bunch of verses here. Go with me to the Old Testament. 2 Chronicles. Now you go down through there, you get to Genesis, Exodus, you get up to 1 2 Samuel, 1 2 Kings, you see them, go towards the back, you get to 2 Chronicles. Now a lot of us are familiar with this verse, but I want you to see it. If you don't have this underscored in your Bible, I really recommend it Committing it to memory would be even better. 2 Chronicles chapter 7 and verse number 14. Second Chronicles 714. Find it there. Second Chronicles 7. 14. Look what this says. What's the first word there? Somebody help me. If I circled that word in my Bible. This is conditional. If who? My people, who's that? Christians, you and I that know the Lord. Now he's talking to us. If my people, which are called by my name, and now he lists about four or five things here. That his people, the people of God, need to do if he is going to forgive our sins of our nation and heal our land. And our land needs healing. And so he lists a number then. Now remember what Peter said. First, begin. The starting point. It's at the house of God. Now notice what he says, the starting point for you and I. Getting this right. What's the first thing? They must what? Humble themselves. Humble themselves. I'm telling you, our biggest enemy in the United States of America is not the liberals, not the commies, not the socialists, um, who else? Uh the fascists or all of them it's not that. I'll tell you the biggest enemy of the United States of America is pride in our churches. In Christian hearts, getting proud. My way, me, it's all about me, my rights. My people which are called by my name shall humble themselves. Humble themselves. He that humbleth himself shall be exalted, made respectable, honorable Humble themselves. I got looking at Scripture and all through Scripture, every person that had a profound impact on their nation was a humble Christian, was a humble person of God. If you would, go with me. Now you're back here in the Old Testament. Go a little bit farther back towards the beginning of your Bible. Go to Numbers chapter 12. God's judgment upon Egypt, and God's deliverance of Israel from Egypt. Began in the heart of a fellow. Who was that man's name? Somebody help me out. The judgment on Egypt and the deliverance of Israel from Egypt began in the heart of who? You follow my thinking? Moses. Moses. It began when Moses at a Burning bush, humbled himself before God, submitted to God. In fact, he took his shoes off his feet because he was on holy ground and he humbled himself before the Lord at that burning bush, and that began the process. That brought God's judgment on Egypt and delivered Israel, and they became a mighty nation. It began in the heart of a man of God. Who humbled himself before the Lord. Look at Numbers chapter number 12 and verse number 3 Notice what the Bible says about this man Moses. Numbers 12 and verse 3. Now the man Moses was very what? Meek. Look at this. Above all the men which were upon the face of the earth. God used Moses to have a profound impact on two nations, Egypt and Israel. And it all began when he humbled himself before God. That word meek means strength under restraint. You could define it this way. Uh uh humble strength. Humble strength. Humility. Humility It all began in the heart of a man who humbled himself before God at a burning bush. Proud Christians need to humble themselves. Need to humble themselves. Anybody here ever get proud? Anyone know what I'm talking about? We get on our high horse Brother, we think we're it. We've got this and got that. I tell you, you know what I think? I'll tell you what I think. I think these altars right here Have a greater impact on this nation than we give them credit for. You follow what I'm trying to say? God's people humble themselves. And it doesn't have to be this location. I mean wherever I'm saying we get humble before God and God have mercy on me. God, I'm a sinner. I deserve to go to hell. God looks for that. He that humbleth himself shall be exalted. He that exalts himself shall be abased. America needs humble Christians. I thought about Nineveh. And God spoke to a prophet. He said, I want you to go to Nineveh, that great city, and preach unto it. Yet 40 days, and Nineveh will be destroyed. Simple message, a sober message. And what did Jonah do? He fled the other way. He was proud. I ain't going to those people. I ain't preaching to them. I ain't doing that. He just disregarded the Word of God, just pushed aside the Word of God. Where'd he end up? Where'd that lead him to? The belly of a whale. But you know what happened in the belly of the whale? He humbled himself. He confessed his sin. And that whale vomited him up. Boy, what an experience. And he washes up on shore, I'm assuming, washes up on shore fish gut contents all over him. And he shows up. He humbles himself and he does what God says. And you know what happened to Nineveh? Whole city got saved. The king got saved. The whole city repented of their sin. I mean, million plus people turned to Christ. One of the great revivals in all of history. Why? Because one guy in the belly of a whale humbled himself And said, Yes, Lord, not my will, your will be done. What I'm trying to say is this, humble Christians, when we humble ourselves before God and we say, Yes, God, you're right, I'm wrong. Has a profound impact on a nation. Profound impact. Um, I got thinking in uh Babylon, Israel turns against God and gets proud God hauls them off into captivity for 70 years. And uh they're over there, and King Nebuchadnezzar is full of himself, all proud, and he builds this big statue and he says, When we start playing that rock and roll music It might have been country and western music, I'm not sure. We we start playing that ungodly music. Uh you all bow down the knee and worship this great statue of me So as far as we know, everybody did that, except for three guys. Anyone know who they were? Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. That was their Babylonian names. And they said, we're not going to bend and we're not going to bow. And they refused to bow to that ungodly statue in their ungodly music. So we're not giving into that. He says, all right, if you don't bow, I'm going to throw you in the furnace. I'll give you one more chance. You bow and worship that idol, you're going in the fiery furnace. They said, listen, God can deliver us from your fiery furnace. We're not worried about that. But even if He doesn't, we're still not going to bow ourselves to the ungodly pagan statue Alright, in the fire you go. They threw them in the fire, and the fellows, get this, they bound them in ropes And they threw them in the fire. The guys that threw them in the fire, the furnace was so hot, it killed the men that threw them in the fire. They said, what in the world? King Nebuchadnezzar looks in there and he sees those guys, not just, they're not bound anymore, the fire burned off the ropes, but never touched them. And he said, there's a fourth man in there. He's like the Son of God. Those guys came out of that fire. Didn't even smell the smoke. I built a little fire on our back deck. I mean I don't burn our back deck. Um I have a little campfire back there. And uh I'll come in. Kathy says, You're burning the fire, weren't you? I said, Yeah, how do you know? You smell like a ashtray back there. And I wasn't smoking cigarettes, I was burning the fire Those guys came out of there, didn't even smell the smoke. And you know what old Nebuchadnezzar did? He humbled himself before God and he says, Your God's the true and living God. You know why? Because three boys humbly humbled themselves before God and said, we are not going to disobey our God. Old Nebuchadnezzar got, I believe he got saved. If not, he at least acknowledged the true and living God. They had a profound impact. on the nation of Babylon, because they humbled themselves before the Lord. Not long after that, their buddy Daniel He's worked his way up the chain of command. I mean, he's like number two in the nation. He's like the vice president. A godly man They pass this ridiculous law. Anybody hear of any countries passing ridiculous laws? I've heard of that. They passed this ridiculous law that you can't pray to anybody except the king. First thing David Daniel did was what? He went to his window, faced towards Israel, and prayed three times a day. He humbled himself before God. And all his peers and all the um, I was going to say a p political party, but I don't know what political party they were. But uh they all turned on him. And uh they said, he's praying! Needs to be cast in the lion's den. King's hands were tied. He passed the law. Tie Daniel up, throw him in the lion's den. All night long that king couldn't sleep. He knew what he did was wrong. Next morning comes out, Daniel, you're God able to deliver you from the mouths of the lions? Daniel's using a lion for a pillow. He wakes up. Ah yeah, the Lord shut the mouths of the lions. Oh boy gets saved, I think. Nations impacted again Because one young man humbled himself before God. I'll tell you what America needs. America needs some humble Christians. Humble Christians. I put this statement down. The hope of our nation is found in the humility of God's people. Hope of our nation is found in the humility. Say, what can I do, preacher? What can I do? Well, vote, you know, and and do this, write letters. I write letters all the time to the elected officials. I'll tell you what we need to do is humble ourselves before God. Get right with God. Don't excuse our sin and justify our sin and somehow defend our sin. No. We humble ourselves before God and we Uh uh turn from our wicked ways. Then God moves. God moves There's not a politician that ever lived can do for this country what this country needs. Only God can do for this country what this country needs. And God does it in response to the humility of his people. Say, preacher, how do I humble myself? Well, it's a decision I make. If nothing else, I bow and say, God, humble me. That hurts. Anybody here ever been humbled? Man, it's not an enjoyable thing, but it's a powerful thing So number one, America needs humble Christians. Number two, I put this down. America needs Christians who are totally devoted to the Lord Jesus Christ. Totally devoted to the Lord Jesus Christ. Turn with me to Luke chapter 14. Luke chapter 14. And notice with me verse 26. Jesus made some shocking statements here, to be honest with you. I think it rattled his disciples when they heard this. Back in the New Testament, Luke chapter 14, and look with me at verse 26. Now, I'm convinced he's talking to saved people here at this point. He's talking about a saved person, a person that's believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, and becoming a disciple. There's a difference. He's becoming a disciple. Now look what he says. If any man come to me Now look at this. Hate not his father and his mother, and wife and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also. He cannot be my disciple. How many people agree with me? That's kind of a hard saying there. Hate his mother? Hate his father? His wife, his brothers, his sisters? What are you saying, Lord? Now, the Lord is not telling us we should have malice towards our family. He's not saying we should have bitterness and despise our family. He's not saying that. What he's saying is this. And other scripture bears this out. He's saying our love and commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ ought to be supreme over all other loves and all other commitments. How many people agree with me? Our commitment and our love to our family ought to be high on the list of priorities. But there's one above it. There's one above it. And that is our commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. Our love to the Lord Jesus Christ. I love our country, but I'll tell you, I love my Lord Jesus Christ more than I love my country. I'll tell you this, I will not, by God's grace, I believe this is true, I will not deny my Lord Jesus Christ for this country or any other country. America needs Christians who love Jesus Christ supremely and are devoted to the Lord Jesus Christ supremely. Um I think it was F. B. Meyer, I forget, it was a preacher, years gone by. And uh he was to be married. And his fiancee said to him, she said Is there anyone in this world that you love more than me? White to be, fiance, is there anyone in this world you love more than me? And he looked at her and he said, Yes, there is one that I love more than you. She said, Pray tell, who would that be? He said, It's the Lord Jesus Christ. And she says, then I know everything will be alright. And everything will be alright. If I love the Lord like I should, I'll love my wife like I should. If I love the Lord like I should, then I can take my country. I can love my country like I should. But if I love my country more than I love the Lord, we got problems. If I love my family, my wife and boys and grandchild and uh church family, if I love all this more than I love the Lord, we've got problems. Jesus says, He cannot be my disciples. Look at what he goes on there. And look at verse 27. And whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. Jesus Christ is calling for 100% commitment and devotion to the Lord Jesus Christ. By the way, you don't hear that a lot of preaching in churches in America today anymore. Oh, we have a good time. Enjoy yourself. You're here to be happy. We're here to live for ourselves. No, no, no. We're here to live for the Lord Jesus Christ. And deny ourselves and take up our cross daily and forsake all and follow Him. Paul put it this way in Galatians chapter 2, verse 20: I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I. But Christ liveth in me. Philippians chapter one and verse twenty-one he says, For me to live is Christ Romans 12, 1 and 2, he says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice Holy, acceptable unto God. It's your reasonable service. You're not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. And you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. What's he saying? Full devotion. Sell out to Jesus Christ. All out for Christ. Hey, that's what America needs. That's what America needs. Christians who have an impact on their communities for Christ are totally devoted to Christ. My wife and I were talking the other day. Sometimes God uses people that this world considers are weird. You ever notice that? We were talking about a fellow that God used in phenomenal ways, and I said, you know, the guy's a little odd. And Kathy said, most people God uses are a little odd. So I'm glad I meet that qualification there at least. And have our church does. Number one, we need humble Christians. Number two, we need Christians devoted to Christ. Totally devoted to Christ. And number three, I end with this. He probably anticipated this at some point, but we need Christians who pray. Christians who pray. You ought to vote? You ought to be involved? You ought to contact your uh authorities? Speak up I tell you, if we don't pray, it's all meaningless. We've got to pray. There has never been a revival in any nation in all of history that did not begin with prayer. There has never been a home, can I say this? There has never been a home, blessed of God, where prayer did not permeate that home. I'm on a bit of a campaign, personal campaign, to get prayer back in our homes. My prayer, my burden, my concern is that every single home that makes up Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, that the husband and wife in that home pray together on a daily basis. I'm not going to stop preaching that. I'm not going to stop pressing that until I'm convinced it's true. And then when we're all praying, I'm going to keep preaching. Let's keep doing that. We need that. Every mom and dad ought to pray with their kids every day. Gather the family. I'm telling. Oh, I told the prayer at prayer breakfast yesterday morning, old Lester Roloff and hit the nail on the head when he says the family altar must be in every single home. There was a day in America, Brother Heinball, where Christian families got together on a daily basis and they prayed. Mom and dad and the kids gather together, read scripture, sometimes sing, and pray together. I've been missing my dad. I got thinking this week, and I'd forgotten this. He had told me this years ago, and I'd forgotten about it until just this week. He said when he was a young boy The church there in town was having a tent meeting. And he said there was a preacher. He said he was a hellfire brimstone preacher. He said they put straw, uh, not straw, um, sawdust down. And he said, they called him Pop, his dad they called him Pop, my grandfather. And he said, Pop said at the beginning of the week, we're going to revival. Now they've been attending church and stuff. We're on a revival. So they went to the tent meeting. I think it was two weeks long. They went every night. Hellfire brimstone. I'm telling you, our tr our country could use a good bit of hellfire brimstone preaching again. Dad said they preached the wrath of God, the judgment of God on sin. He said, one night, ha, walk that aisle. He said, I believe Dad got saved that night. And he said, we came home, family, we were at their church. We came home. He said, before we went to bed, he said, Pop gathered the whole family together. And he said, from now on, every single day, this family, we're going to read the Bible together and we're going to pray. Dad said, to the day I left home, We've had prayer and Bible reading together as a family. The impact I had on my daddy. The impact my daddy had on me. Only God knows the results. We need revival of prayer in our homes. We need revival of the family altar in our homes. And I know, uh listen, I'm I'm I'm just trying to challenge this. I'm asking God to use me. But I know a lot of families in our church need to get that started. Maybe you did it in the past, it died out. Maybe you've never done it. I'm telling you, you want God's blessing on your children You want God's blessing on your family. We want God's blessing on our church. We want God to revive our nation. It has to begin with prayer. If your family, whatever you're sitting, maybe you're a single parent, maybe an unsaved spouse or whatever, I don't know. But if you can't get the family together, uh uh My my dad, when he got s uh when he got saved, uh uh he would bring us kids in the bedroom. He'd read the Bible to us and pray. Do what you can. Pray, pray, and pray, and pray. I was reading about a church up in Canada years ago Canadian paper. Oh, by the way, God can do for you and I something no politician can ever do. Hey, God can do for you, your home, something no preacher can ever do. No other person in the world. Need the Lord. Need the Lord. Church up in Canada There was a storm that went through a town up in Canada years ago, and the newspaper said this. We're glad to announce that the windstorm which blew down the church did no serious damage to the town. The idea was this: that church was so insignificant that its destruction was not considered a loss to that town. One of the most appalling things to me in these last few months. One of the most appalling things to me. And I wrote to our governor, I wrote to every one of our representatives, and I use these words: the most appalling thing to me. That churches have been considered non-essential, our communities. That speaks in volumes about the spiritual well-being of our nation When a liquor store is more essential than the house of God. You say, well, those stinking politicians. No, you know who made the church non-essential? It wasn't politicians. It was church members. Churches, non-essential. I looked up the word non-essential, and it means this: not very important. And when Christians view sports and games and vacations and TV shows are more important, more essential. In the house of God, we shouldn't be surprised when the world says, no, that's not very important. Now don't expect the world to love us. Don't expect the world to lift us up. They ought to know that we have an impact on the community. I'm telling you, a town is better off with a hellfire and brimstone Bible preaching church than they are without one. So we gotta pray. We've got to humble ourselves. We've got to commit ourselves to Christ. Sharing my heart this morning. I believe this with all my heart. That's where we're at. That's what we need. You say, preacher, you think little church out here in Oakland, Mount Lake, we could have an impact on the nation? I believe we can have the ear of God, and God can have an impact on a nation. I think we can humble ourselves before God, and God can respond and heal our land. I can't change our nation, but my God can. If I get right with God, then I can see him do something. You follow what I'm trying to say? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you'd help us to humble ourselves, get our stinking pride out of our hearts and minds. Lord, I pray you'd stir us just to sell out for Christ. All in all, Jesus Christ is my life for me to live as Christ. Lord, teach us to pray. Get prayer back in our homes. Get prayer back in our personal lives. Pray in our churches. I thank you, Lord, for the men that prayed yesterday. I thank you for the ladies this coming Saturday. We're going to pray. Or we need you. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I struggle with pride? And I just get so full of myself all the time. I get mad and I want this. How many would say, preacher, God spoke to my heart, and I need to humble myself before the Lord? Is there any like that? Uplifted hand. I got my hand raised. I get I get caught up with myself. Any others around Maybe we need to confess that as sin and just say, Lord, humble me. Help me to be humble. Say, preacher, I'm not living for the Lord like I should. He's not supreme in my life. I got so many other things that are That come before him and I know I need to put the Lord back. I need to make Jesus Christ my all-in-all sell out for him. Is there anything like that, preacher? I just need to sell out for the Lord. I tell you, our nation needs it. We need it God bless you. What about this matter of prayer? Let me get personal. How many would say, preacher, by God's grace, with his help, we're going to establish a prayer altar in our home Family order. We're going to pray, read that Bible. With God's help and God's grace. Is there any like that? And this is between you and the Lord. God's help, I'm going to do it. Maybe just personally, it's just you. Oh, I tell you, it's so vital. So vital. There's someone here listening, maybe online or you're in the service, you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven. The Bible says you're under God's judgment. Until those sins are forgiven, the only way they can be forgiven is through putting our faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. Accept Him as your personal Savior. Rennie here say, preacher, pray for me. I'm not saved. I need to trust Jesus as my Savior. Is there any like that at all? Any at all? Preacher, pray for me. I need that Online, if you're watching or listening, please let us know. Contact us. We'll help you trust Christ. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name.