Chapter number seven, if you would turn there with me. I'll get mic'd up here and um Matthew chapter 7. We're going to be looking, I want to read verses 15 through 20. We're not going to be looking at all these verses. In fact, we're not even going to get to my outline My introduction is seventeen pages long, so not quite that many, but Matthew chapter seven, verse number fifteen. The Bible says, Beware of false prophets. Beware of false prophets which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. He shall know them by their fruits. Then he kind of illustrates what he means by knowing them by their fruits. Did you notice through the sermon he does that? The Lord does that often. He'll make a statement. He'll reiterate it and then he'll illustrate what he says. Anybody notice that pattern? Well, that's what he's doing here again. He says, beware of false prophets and come to you in sheep's clothing. But inwardly they are ravening wolves. You shall know them by their fruits. Now he he illustrates. Do men gather grapes of thorns or figs of thistles? The obvious answer to that is what? No. Even so, every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast in the fire. Wherefore, now he restates what he said in the beginning of verse 16, wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them. And so he's introducing another subject here. It's a statement he's making. And he's talking about false prophets. So we're going to talk about false prophets. Let's pray. Father. Lord, I've thoroughly enjoyed this study in the Sermon on the Mound. And Lord, as this sermon winds down, we look at these final statements you're making here. I pray that you would use these verses to challenge us, instruct us. Lord, I think about our church and how you've blessed us, and we ask that you would help us to heed these warnings here, particularly this, and apply it to our lives as individuals, but also as a church To beware of false prophets. I pray you'd use this passage to help us understand what they are and how to identify them and how to respond. So I need you to fill me with your Holy Spirit, Lord. I present my body anew. With all my heart, I pray you'd speak through me and to us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. As you have been said repeatedly throughout the series, a Sermon on the Mount is an instructional sermon. I think I have a little bit of a ring here in this. Does anybody else hear it, or is it just me? Might be I hear voices in my head. I'm trying to think what Maybe not, maybe it's just me. But um it's an instructional sermon on discipleship. It's not evangelistic. I always want to emphasize that. And he is discipling his disciples. He's basically saying this, you claim to be my disciple, then these are the, these things ought to be true in your life, these attitudes. This response interaction with other people, people they don't treat you the way you they ought to treat you. This is how a disciple responds This is how a disciple deals with all these various issues in life we face. Now he's coming to the end, and he's making some very, very important statements. I think he's he's winding the message down and uh he's making these very, very important statements. And I think what he's telling us here, if you think back to what we studied in the previous message, verse thirteen and fourteen, entering at the straight gate, wide is the gate, broad is the way to lead to destruction. Uh and many there be which go in there at straightens the gate and narrows the way that leadeth to life, and few there be that find it. And now this statement here about false prophets, then the next statement in verse 21 and twent through 23 where he says Not everyone that says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven. There's kind of a theme running through here. I think one thing he's touching on is this. The gospel is not something to be trifled with. He's making some pretty strong statements. And the impact of these statements is very, very significant. So the gospel is not something to be trifled with. Just think about the fact that straight is the gate that leadeth to life. That tells me we need to give careful attention. If a person is negligent about the gospel, negligent about their salvation, they're just trifling with it, they're just playing games with it, they're going to find themselves caught up in the crowd That goes to the wide gate that is very simple, very easy to go through, and they find themselves that leads in a way that leads to destruction. If a person trifles with the gospel and just says, well, I think I'm good enough, you get to verse 21, 22, and 23, we find the Lord say, I never knew you. And those are tragic thoughts. And so I think the underlying a underlying theme here is the fact that the gospel is not something to trifle with. We need to give very, very careful attention to the gospel. And we need to be very thorough in our understanding of the gospel. You witness to people uh uh very much at all, you'll find people you'll ask them about, are you saved, you're going to heaven You know, if you use the phrase, I don't think you should, but if you say ask someone are you saved, you know, they get all kinds of answers And uh we need to be very, very thorough in our understanding that we know exactly what does it mean to be saved? What is the gospel and how is a person saved? We talked about that Sunday morning a little bit And then also, along with that, I think he's pointing out that discipleship is not something to trifle with. It is a very serious decision As a believer to say, you know, I am going to be a follower of Jesus Christ. And I really believe that's a decision every believer needs to make. I think once we accept Christ as Savior and we begin to grow, I need to decide. Am I going to be a disciple? Am I going to take up my cross and follow him? Am I am I going to dis deny myself? and uh and follow Christ, be His disciples and all that goes along with that, the the tremendous cost that is involved in being a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ is not something something we ought to take lightly. I don't believe. I think he's In fact, we mentioned this several times before. It almost seems sometimes like the Lord tries to talk people out of it. Did you ever notice that in the Gospels? And great multitudes come and he says, Oh listen, if you don't hate your mother, father, brother, sister in your own life also you can't be my disciple. And so he's telling us here it's something that needs to be taken very, very serious. It's a very serious decision It is a very costly decision. And I use that term costly hesitantly. Because in the grand scheme of things, we're gaining heaven. You know, so what is the cost to us? Can I can I tell you something that really greats me? That I'm going to anyway, so I I need to get that. But uh sometimes and you don't hear it a whole lot anymore, but sometimes you'll hear some great football star or some movie star, they'll get saved or whatever, some something, they'll get saved and um then they'll go out and give their testimony and they say, oh I gave up millions of dollars and I gave up all this stuff and I gave up all this stuff oh to be saved You know, we don't give up anything to be saved. We are gaining so much in salvation. And so I said that to say this. I say it's costly to be a disciple. In a sense it is, and we talked about that, but really in the grand scheme of things, the the Lord rewards us for it in the end. And so that's an amazing thing. But we do need to understand, listen, if I'm going to be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, if I'm going to Do what the Lord says a disciple does. If I'm going to be what the Lord says a disciple is in this sermon and other places in Scripture, then it may cost me some friends It may cost me a job even, perhaps. It may cost me some pleasures of this life and things of this life. And so there is a price, humanly speaking, on a temporary basis, to being a disciple. May cost some things. Sometimes people lose relationships with family members Because they become a follower of Christ. Sometimes they lose a job. I can't do that as a disciple. I can't be involved in that type of thing as a disciple. And so, you know, uh uh, and so there it is a narrow way. And we we suggested last week it's even difficult. Paul repeatedly spoke, and others throughout the New Testament spoke, of tribulations and persecutions for Christ's sake, and shipwrecks and left for dead. And it wasn't an easy road. And so the Lord is telling us here, I think something he's implying through all of this is that the gospel is not something toy with. And being a disciple of the Lord is Jesus Christ isn't something we ought to flippantly think about or do. How many of us seen people get all on fire for God? It lasts a little bit till things got tough, it costs a little bit Then they faded out and you never see them again. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And the Lord warns about that. And he says, listen, you need to count the cost, you need to understand. You know, this disciple saying it's not something that's done lately, it's not something that's done flippantly, but it has to be a serious decision. Yes, this is what God would have me to be, this is what God would have me to do. So, this last section here, I see the Lord dealing with some dangers that we as disciples will face. He was talking about requirements and expectations and How we respond all the way through here, how we pray, all that. Now he comes here and he's kind of touching on some dangers. Verse 13 and 14. What would be the danger that he touched on in verses 13 and 14? Just look uh uh somebody look at that. What would be the danger there? Uh the the danger, verse thirteen and fourteen, last week's of missing the straight gate, right? Right? The Broadway it would be very easy to go that. There's a danger there of missing that straight gate or misunderstanding what it means the no the way is like. And so I think um indirectly he addressed the danger there of missing the straight gate going through the Broadway misunderstanding what the life of a disciple is about and uh thinking, oh, it's just easy, it'll be cake, oh, being saved, you know, and he says, no, it's a narrow way. It's a it's a narrow way. Then a passage we just read, I the obviously the the the danger of being deceived by false prophets and counterfeits, people and influences that are not what they present themselves to be. And so he says we have to be careful of that. Then verse 21 and 23, we'll look at this later on. But uh the mistaken on salvation would be a real danger. Thinking that because I'm doing all these things, and the Lord gave these expectations of a disciple, and then thinking, well, I'm doing all these things, therefore I'm saved. The Lord says, No, no, no, that's not what salvation is about And then the last part, verse 24 through the end of the sermon, he talks about building on sand or on a rock, and he talks about the importance of obedience. And he warns us of living a life of disobedience to God and when it's all said and done, how that plays out. And so there's warnings here. And I think, as I was looking at this last section here, there's almost an undercurrent. theme through this and uh I don't know if you see it but I kind of see this undercurrent theme. Uh and what we're go down at um the men's getaway. It's the Elk River right there. where we stay is like the headwaters of the Elk River. You get down to Charleston, it's a big river, it's huge, but it's it's um it's kind of like what river around here would it be similar to the Yacht maybe something like that? Yeah, something along those lines. It's not huge, but it's not a little trickle either. But there's a part, there's a section just upstream from where our cabin is that in the summertime when the water levels are low, the stream itself actually um Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. Oh, I thought it was the Lord calling. I'm sorry. Yeah, Tarzan. Oh yeah, that's true. Here's a good tip. I like Cindy's idea. When your phone make the ringtone Amen. It says Amen. That way if it goes off, they'll think you're just Amen and the preacher. But it might be at the bad time. So we need to rethink that. Anyway, back to my sermon. Um this river in the summer it runs underscround. It actually runs underground. The bed's there, the water the river bed's there, but there's no water. Water's running underneath and later on it comes back up. So the river's flowing down, it disappears, dry bed, then a little later it comes up. I think there's kind of like that undercurrent type thing here in these last in this last section of the sermon. And it is this, God's judgment. God's judgment. As I got looking at this Nearly every one of these at some point leads to at least the implication of judgment we're facing. The straight gate, narrow way, broad way, and many there beats leads to destruction. It's the judgment of God. False prophets and all of that, knowing their fruits. Verse there when he says, Not everyone says, Lord, Lord shall enter the kingdom of heaven. Again, the implication there is coming judgment, obedience And I think we find that theme all through Scripture. The judgment of God, the coming judgment of God. How many people here especially appreciate the book of Psalms? I thoroughly enjoy that. We're reading that at night in our devotions, working our way through the the Psalms. I love the Psalms, praising God, encouraging verses, waiting on the Lord, forgiveness. I'm going to preach from Psalm 32 Sunday, Lord willing. And all these things, I love the book of Psalms, but if you pay close attention when you're reading through the book of Psalms, sprinkled all through the Psalms are references To the judgment of God. Judgment of God. The judgment of God. It's almost like the psalmist kept in the forefront of their minds the fact that one day we face judgment. One day we have to answer to God. And this all through Scripture. And I see this as the Lord's winding down his sermon, he's in under currently, under In directly referencing the fact that, hey, there is a coming judgment. You say, Brother Otherman, we're saved. We don't face judgment. Oh, as Christians, we do face judgment Not for our sins, not to be sentenced to hell. That's all settled on the cross by Christ, to judge for us. But we do face judgment for our lives as Christians Paul said the terror of the Lord referencing it. We shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. And so and then of course for the unsaved, the great white throne judgment at the end of the millennium. for the new heaven, new earth and stand and the sentencing that takes place there. And so this idea that, you know, there is a judgment in our lives The direction our lives are leading to that point in the future when we will stand before our Creator, our God, our Savior. And uh be held accountable and be res and be uh held responsible for our actions. And of course, as believers, that has a whole nother aspect than the unsaved. But nevertheless, it's true. I put this down. God's judgment is accurate. It's absolutely accurate. The accuracy of God's judgment How many people ever had a situation where judgment was made and it was totally wrong? Man's going to get it wrong. Man's going to get it wrong, but I'm telling you, God's judgment is accurate. And I put this down, God's judgment is thorough. God's judgment is thorough. How many folks here ever met someone and your initial reaction, you made judgment, first appearances, uh what's the what's the phrase? Um first impression And your first impression, you made a judgment, you came to a conclusion about this person, I don't like her. Or oh, I like her. Anybody here? Oh, I don't like it. Anybody here ever make a first impression and get a pr and you made a judgment? How many folks later on after you found them out your first judgment was completely wrong? And maybe their appearance, or whatever reason, and uh I was wrong that they weren't what I thought they were Uh oh. Good, Ness. Yeah, you can talk like that because uh she's not here. But um Oh, she thought you were a jerk and she found out Oh you weren't, oh This is getting out of hand here really fast. Um But the Lord's judgment is not going to be that way. The Lord's judgment isn't going to be by outward appearance, by initial impression. It's going to be by what we really are. I was um I got a uh place I like to go. If I got an evening free, I got a lake I like to go to, take the canoe down, go fishing. It's just so beautiful. I was down there last evening and um just had a uh down there for a few hours before dark and I was working along and there was this tree so on the other side I didn't fish over there a whole lot and there's this big tree came out right along the water and there was two Oreoles up flying around there Charlie And um I was looking at them, I looked at a tree and I thought it was just I was just caught up in the beauty of the place. And I come around the other side of the tree. On the one side that I came up to, it was just a beautiful tree, branches, leaves on it, you know, looked great. And I came around the other side. I wished I'd have taken a picture of it. The whole other side of that tree was just rotted out. I mean you could see where the woodpeckers had just devoured it and s and critters were getting up in there and um no doubt ants and termites that whole and come around the other side And here you look and see that whole inside of that tree was just rotten. On the one side, the first impression, boy, that's a nice, good looking tree. It's beautiful birds up there and all this I come around, it wasn't anything what it appeared to be. And I wouldn't I wouldn't be surprised to come down there another couple weeks. That thing's laying down in the water. And I think a lot of times if we're not careful, I think that's a lot what the judgment of God's judgment's going to be. Down here, boy, we put on a good show, we look pretty good, we've got the leaves and we've got the bark But the Lord looks around the back and he sees the heart and he sees what we are. And that's where the issue is And so the Lord's judgment is very, very thorough. So he's bringing this all to a head, this sermon here, and he's uh um You know, he's addressing what we are as disciples, not the impression we give and all of this, but he's addressing some tough things, and the implication behind this is that there is a coming judgment. We have to answer for this. Now We come to our section here, and he is addressing false prophets. And he injects this in here, and he says, look at verse 15. He says, what's the very first word? He says, what? Beware. He's warning them. He's going through this is what a disciple does, this is how a disciple interacts, this is how they react to things, this is how they pray. down that whole list and he says, uh now listen, make sure you enter the straight gate. The way the destruction is broad, it's wide, the straight gate, the gate is narrow, the way the gate is straight, the way is narrow Oh, beware of false prophets. In fact that word beware there is a very strong word. I picture myself sitting in the audience there and the Lord speaking. I hear him saying this very sternly. Beware He's saying this very, very strongly. The word beware has this idea of paying special attention to. Beware. Or I put it this way, to be a specially alert for something. When we were in Mexico with Brother Hummel, Dan Hummel, there was a camp that they had, Brother Wheeler had, and we were going to go out there and he says there's a shorter cut we could go through to get over there through the mountains He says, but a lot of the what we call cartel up there, they call mafia. And he said a lot of the mafia are up in there. He says, we'd probably be okay, but it's a little risky. He said, you really have to beware when you go up through those mountains there. And what he's saying is if we and we didn't go that way, which I'm very thankful for. But um uh he says, and what he was saying was when you go through there you have to be especially alert. You cannot be careless when you're driving through there. You cannot be naive Now to use that illustration, you're driving through that mountain and there's a car set along the side and they're acting like they're broke down and they need help. Knowing the situation, knowing the circumstances, you would be very naive to think that, oh, this is fine, no problem, I'm sure it's legit. Right? That would be naive to think that you would be very, very cautious. You'd be very, very careful, because that's how they set it up and then they jump you. And so the Lord is saying, beware. Be very, very cautious. Pay special attention to. Don't be naive. If we say somebody is gullible, what do we mean by that? We mean they're what? If they're gullible. Let's believe anything. They're just whatever say, oh yeah, they'll just fall for anything. And the Lord's saying, don't be that way. Don't be gullible. Don't be naive. Don't be careless about this matter of false prophets. You need to be very very cautious. You need to be very very alert, watching out for them. I don't know why it is. Um ideas, but I don't know why it is But it seems like people are especially gullible when it comes to matters of faith. Does anybody notice that? It seems like you can have a tremendously intelligent person and will believe the dumbest stuff about religion Anybody follow what I'm saying? I mean, the most bizarre things. Intelligent people, highly educated people, people who can use reason and logic. By the way, biblical Christianity is not afraid of reason We're not afraid of logic. We're not afraid of scientific discovery. But some of these most intelligent people will believe the most bizarre things. And the Lord says, don't be that way. I don't know why we are that way, but we'll we'll say all this, but some ridiculous thing is that we're out in Colorado, we lived in Boulder for a few years. And uh Boulder is, I think, if there was aliens, that's where they would be. That is the weirdest place I've ever been. And I'm out there in the church parking lot and I was doing something. This guy's skateboarding around. He's probably in his twenties. He told me he was a student at the university there. So he's probably a fairly intelligent person. And I went, uh And I offered him a gospel track and tried to engage him a little bit and ask him, you know, for sure, uh, you know, where you you're going to heaven when you don't oh no. And he started to tell me this story about some uh planet somewhere and these alien things and he's been in contact with them. He's going to go to that planet. I mean just the most bizarre thing And I I didn't say it this way, but um this wasn't the lingo back then, but if it was, uh uh I said something to this effect, really? Seriously? And he goes, oh yeah, yeah And so the Lord says, listen, don't be gullible. Hey, these TV preachers don't buy everything these guys are saying. Um I've had people here as pastor for almost 24 years. I've had folks that attend here, now, none of y'all of course, but um I've had folks tell me to come up and say, oh I got I sent in this $25, this thing, and he sent me this cloth. And you know, and if I do this, that, and it's gonna make me well. And I say, come on, man. You gotta be careful about this. Don't just buy this stuff. Don't just you know, believe everything that's said. Uh these uh TV preachers, um cults. You know, people just get struck into the most ridiculous teaching So unscriptural and so unreasonable. I don't mean to be unkind, but I'm telling you, Mormonism has the weirdest doctrines in the world by anybody's standards. It's just bizarre. And yet you have highly educated, very successful people in the world buy into that. And so, you know, and the Lord says, beware, listen, use your heads. Be alert. And again, I don't mean to be unkind, but the Catholic Church has some really bizarre teachings. Just some strange things with their relics and some of the doctrines and some of their history. And you know, you have educated, highly educated people, and they just buy into this stuff because some Guy in a dress says this is so. And then they buy into it. I don't mean to be disrespectful, but it just boggles my mind. uh what some people buy into. And then even within our circles, sometimes I've been in churches where there's folks that are just strange. And yet they're perceived as being very, very spiritual. You know, and they're just weird And you get to know that there's nothing spiritual about them. They're just weird. And uh I'm uh I'm digging a hole here. So anyway But you follow what I'm saying? We have to be discerning. We have to stop and think, wait a minute, does this line up from scripture with scripture? Is this actually what the Bible says? Is this what the Bible teaches? And so this Lord gives a very, very stern warning. He says, Beware, beware. And he gives us some information here. And again, we're not going to have time to get into details, but he warns us what their tactics are. Look again at verse number 15. Beware of the false prophets. Now he says this is their tactic. They come to you in what? Sheep's clothing. That's their tactic. And then he says what they really are. Beware of false prophets. Now here's their tactic. They're going to show up in sheep's clothing. But what they really are are what? Ravening wolves. And then he says, this is how you identify them. And I can imagine the people's minds working. They're saying, Beware of false prophets. Okay. And he's saying it very sternly, beware. Alright. False prophets. Alright. Here's their tactics. They come in, they look like sheep. Hmm. But they really are ravening wolves. And what would the question be? If they look like sheep, but they are really ravening wolves, what would the natural question be? How do I identify them? How would I know the difference between the false prophet and the true prophet if they all look like sheep? And so he explains. And by their what? Fruits you shall know them. By their fruits you will be able to identify whether it's a false prophet, whether it's a sheep or a wolf in sheep's clothing. By the way, this is not the only time that false prophets are addressed in Scripture. You'd be surprised how often God addresses and warns us about false prophets. Turn with me, if you would, to chapter 24 in Matthew. And we'll end with these. I got a several verses here. Well look at this. Matthew 24 and verse number 3. I want to go down through these, and we're going to come back and just kind of give a summary of what the Bible teaches about false prophets. Just a quick summary statements about it. The next week or whenever we'll get into the outline of this passage. Matthew 24. Look with me at verse 3. He says, as he sat upon the Mount of Olives, the defa the disciples came to him privately saying, When shall these things be? Now if you go back to verse 1 and 2, he's talking about the temple that it's all going to be torn down and all of that. And he says, Tell us when shall all these things be, and what shall be the sign of thy coming and of the end of the world? So that's the context. He's telling him what will be the sign of his coming, what will be the sign of the end of the world Jesus answered and said unto him, said unto them, look at this, what's the next two words? Take heed, beware. That no man deceive you. For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ. And shall what? Deceive many And ye shall hear of wars and rumors of wars, see that ye be not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet For nations shall rise up against nation, kingdom against kingdom, and there shall be famines and pestilence and earthquakes and diverse places. These are the beginning of sorrows. Then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted and shall kill you, and ye shall be hated of all nations for my name's sake. Then shall many be offended and shall betray one another and shall hate one another, and many False prophets shall rise up and deceive many. So here he's talking about the last days. He says, beware of false prophets. Come down to verse 23. He references false prophets again. Then if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is Christ, or there, believe it not. I've read that many times, I've thought, when not to believe in Christ. When it's a false Christ, don't believe it. For verse 24, for there shall arise what? False Christ and false prophets And shall show great signs and wonders. Oh, preacher, they must be true. They did these amazing miracles. Insomuch that if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect. You notice how often the word deceived is used through there? Come over with me to 2 Peter, way back. 2 Peter. And here Peter references false prophets. 2 Peter chapter 2 And we're going to start reading in verse 1. He starts them right off in verse 1. Look at this. But there were also false prophets among the people, even as there shall be false teachers among you. Don't notice what he says. He doesn't say there might be. He doesn't say there could be. He says what? There shall be. It's going to happen. He told the Ephesian elders. He said wolves are going to come in in Acts in Acts chapter twenty. Even uh shall bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that bought them, and bring upon themselves swift destruction, and many shall follow their pernicious ways. By reason of whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of, and through covetousness shall they with feigned words, there's that wolf in sheep's clothing, deceit. Shall make merchandise of you, whose judgment now of a long time lingereth not, and their damnation slumbered not. Come over one more. I want you to notice 1 John chapter 4 And uh first John chapter four, verse number one. Beloved, be believe not every spirit. What's he saying? Don't be gullible Don't be naive. Don't believe everything you hear. Don't believe everything they say. Oh, this is Christianity. This is what the Bible. No, no, no. Believe not every spirit, but what? Try the spirits. That word try means the test or prove them. How would I try a spirit? Alright, here's a guy. I don't want to believe every word. He says something is true about God. He says this is true about God God tells me, alright, don't believe every word. Try it. Test it. Prove it. How would I do that? How would I test what he's saying? The Bible, the Word of God. That's why we bring our Bibles to the church. If you ever hear a preacher like one said in town here years ago, he says, I've got a word of knowledge from the Lord. You don't need to bring your Bibles this week. I'll give you what God's word is. If you hear that You leave that church. If that's ever said from this pulpit, you leave this church immediately. Because the Bible is our sole authority. The Bible is our test of the truth. And so prove, but try the spirits whether they be of God, because many false prophets are gone out into the world. So I'm trying to set the stage of what the Lord is addressing. He's saying to his disciples. He's addressed all these issues. Now he says, beware of false prophets. Beware. Nobody's exempt. They will come. In fact, I put these three things down. They're characteristic of the last days. Characteristic of the last days. Two, they're very deceptive. They're very deceptive. And number three, they're abundant. To pick that up, many, many, many, many. They're everywhere. Everywhere. And December 7, 1941, Sergeant Joseph Lockhart was working a radar in Pearl Harbor. His radar indicated to him that there was unidentified aircraft coming in to the island. He immediately went to his commanding officer and he said, Sir, I've got on my radar, unidentified aircraft coming in. What should I do? Here was the commanding officer's statement. Don't worry about it. I'm sure it's nothing. Within a few hours, 3,000 Americans lost their lives. You know what the problem was? They did not beware. They were not alert. They were not anticipating anything. And I listen, we don't want to be paranoid, we don't want to go around, you know, the see a false prophet behind every little thing But I do say this, we need to be very, very careful. We need to be alert and guard and make sure that everything we say and do is according to the Word of God. Amen. We have to watch out for false prophets. Now they are now it's one thing to mistakenly do something. It's another thing to deliberately put on sheep's clothing and deliberately attempt to alter, is what he's talking about. All right, let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray that these thoughts and these warnings you'd help us to take them very seriously. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to be cautious and to be wise. to know the Word of God, I pray that you would help us and challenge us in this matter. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, and I'm trying to think how to apply this to an invitation But maybe the challenge is this for you and I tonight, to determine that we're going to learn, study and learn and know our Bibles well enough. So that when something is not true, we identify it and we we can identify it right away and not be fooled by it. And maybe the challenge will also be this, to keep on our guard What are we allowing into our home by way of TV? What are we allowing into our home by way of internet? What are we allowing into our home by way of publications And these types of things that influence us, they appear good, they appear fine, they appear good, but we find get it and we find out, hey, that is not right. That is not what it ought to be. So I wonder how many tonight would say, preacher My concern, my burden tonight is to be a little more cautious, be a little more diligent in knowing the Word of God and guarding the influences that I allow into my own heart and life and into my home. Is there any like that? God bless you, hands all around. Of course, my responsibility as pastor is to guard the church in that way also. And so uh we all have a a role in this. Father in heaven, I pray you bless now as we give an invitation that maybe you would uh stir our hearts to pray and be diligent, not paranoid, but just not careless either. And so uh help us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.