It's down in verse number six is where I want us to go to. I was reading this portion in my devotions early in the week, last Sunday Mon Sunday or Monday in the morning. I read this and and the Lord just struck my heart As I read about Jonathan, and down there in verse number six, a statement he makes caught my attention. I underlined it in my Bible with red ink. In verse number six, it says, Jonathan said to the young man that bare his armor, Come, let us go over unto the garrison of these uncircumcised. Now Israel and and the Philistines were in battle and war again. The Philistines were a perpetual uh uh enemy of the nation of Israel and Israel would defeat them, wipe them out, and they would regroup and come back again. They were just relentless, these Philistines, trying to destroy the Israelites Well they're at a standoff in this battle. Israel's on one side, uh the Philistines are on the other, and um they're just kind of at this uh uh uh standoff here between the two. Jonathan and his armor bearer slip down as Pastor Matt read. They slip down into this ravine between these two sharp rocks And uh they're looking up to where the gat where the uh Philistines were and where their camp was, and they were all embedded in their entrenched in their camp, ready for war. And he says this. So that's the context here. He says to his armor bearer, come let us go over unto the garrison of these uncircumcised. That's the Philistines. Now look at this statement. It may be that the Lord will work for us. And then he explains his statement. He says, For there is no restraint to the Lord to save by many or by what? view. God can use a lot of people. God might just use one or two. It's no restraint to the Lord. And I like what his armor bearer said there. He responds back to Jonathan and Jonathan's vision, his faith here. And his armor-bearer said unto him, Do all that is in thine heart, turn thee Behold, I am with thee according to thy heart. How many people would like to have somebody with you with that attitude? I can hear some others saying, Are you nuts? There's no way you and I can go up there and do this. But the armored bearer, he knew Jonathan. And he knew the character of Jonathan and the faith of Jonathan And he says, listen, I'm with you. Whatever's in your heart for us to do, I'm with you. I want to speak this morning on the faith of Jonathan. The faith of Jonathan. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, Lord, it was a good week. You've blessed us in a great way. Kids had a blast. Souls saved. Teachers worked so hard. Everybody And now, Lord, we look forward to uh in the coming weeks and months, coming years. Lord, we're looking for your return. Maybe today you'll come back, Lord. That's our heart's cry. That's our anticipation, our longing. For the return of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. But Lord, until then, I pray you'd help us to be found faithful. Help us, Lord, to trust you, have a vision of what you can do with us and through us. And so I yield my will to you, Lord, this morning. I want your will to overtake my will I present my body anew, and I plead with you with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit, dear Lord, and you be the preacher. You speak your word through my lips. To our hearts and minds and help us make the right decisions this morning, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen. There are ten men in the Bible that go by the name Jonathan The most prominent of those ten, several are just mentioned in passing and various genealogy lists and things like that. But the most prominent Jonathan in all scripture is the Jonathan we're reading right here. He is the son of King Saul. Now, King Saul was the first king of Israel. It was not God's intention for Israel to have a human king. God's intention was for Israel to have the Lord as their king. But Israel rebelled against God and they demanded, they said, we want to be like the nations around us. Isn't that just like human beings? We want to be just like the Joneses. We want to be just like the neighbor. They got a new car, we got to get a new car. We want to be just like Jed Jones. I thought of it right when I said that. But um Uh we want to be like everybody else. Uh I don't know about you, my mom used to say when I was little, I'd say, Mom, everybody else is doing it. Anyone ever hear that? You know what my mom said? She said, if everybody else is jump jumping off a bridge, would you jump off the bridge? I probably would have, being knowing me. But it wasn't God's intention for Israel to have a human king. God was to be their king. But nevertheless, Israel demanded, and God said, All right. I'll give you a king. You want a king? Here you go. And they paid a price for it. King Saul started out fine, but he ended up a mess. And he ended up exactly what God said it would be. But Jonathan is the son of King Saul, this man that God allowed Israel to have as their king. He became later on, we don't have time to deal with all of Jonathan, but later on he became a dear friend of King David. Now David was the king of God's choice. He was a man after God's own heart. And we've been studying David on Wednesday nights for the last 117 years, and um we've been a long time in our study of David. And Jonathan became a dear, dear friend. David and Jonathan were just knit together, their hearts were knit together. So Jonathan, I see Jonas Jonathan as an unsung hero in the Bible. You know, in in any any war, battles, in society, in anything. There's always going to be what we call unsung heroes. Does anybody know what I mean by that? These are folks that make a difference, but they get little attention. These are folks that have a profound impact for good. But for whatever reason, there's little attention drawn. There's little or no accolades For what they've done, an unsung hero. And in my book, in my mind, Jonathan is one of those unsung heroes. He was overshadowed by his father's uh uh uh extravagance, his father's uh just ridiculous actions of his father seemed to overshadow the character and integrity of his son Jonathan And then David, of course, a man after God's own heart, he's killing Goliath with a stove. He's defeating the Philistines by the tens of thousands. And Jonathan's there doing his thing, serving his God, living for the Lord. And so he's a bit of an unsung hero in my mind. overshadowed by his father and overshadowed by the uh David and the greatness of David. David was a great man, no doubt about it. I see Jonathan as a tremendous example for you and I, a tremendous role model Of faith, courage, consistency. How many folks here you're saved? You know it. Say amen How many folks here like me, one of the difficult parts of the Christian life is consistency. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Boy, sometimes we're up, sometimes we're down Sometimes we're on fire for God, and other times the seems like the fire almost goes out. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Study the life of Jonathan. Consistency, consistency, consistency. What an example. What a role model for you and I, even though he's overshadowed. Nevertheless, he's a tremendous man here in the Bible. He's the firstborn son of Saul, the oldest of all his siblings He grew up in a king's home, King Saul. He grew up in the palace. He grew up with the king. You can think about what his childhood might have been like growing up, having the best of everything having uh opportunities that maybe average uh young people at that time would not have had. And so he grew up with the best of everything in Israel in the king's home I believe there were two primary influences on Jonathan's life. Now, I think this is a key in understanding Jonathan. The primary influence, anybody want to take a shot, who do you think would be the first and primary influence on Jonathan's life? It'd be his father, right? King Saul. I want to say this to our fathers. You are a huge influence on your children. Just by the fact that you are their father. is profound. And so regardless of King Saul's integrity or lack thereof, nevertheless, he was a very prominent influence on the life of John the Baptist. I just put a list of things about his father. And our study this morning, our message isn't about King Saul. But he influenced John. He was his father And the thing I noticed about King Saul just quickly, he was a very impatient man. You know anything about King Saul? He was an impatient man. He was an impulsive man. He would act. He wouldn't think things through. He would just react. Anybody here get yourself in trouble because you didn't think it through first? Anybody ever say this to yourself? Boy, I wish I'd have thought that through a little bit more before I did this. Yeah, that was King Saul. Impulsive, impatient, inflexible. In fact, one of his downfalls was because he was the prophet Samuel said, you're stubborn. And stubborn, listen, if you're stubborn, don't brag about that. The Bible says stubbornness is as a sin of witchcraft. Solomon uh and King Saul was stubborn. He was inflexible. And he was insincere. We have a number of times when Jonathan's father, King Saul, would promise something, never meant to keep that promise. He'd make a statement. It was meaningless. What he said and what he did were often completely unrelated. Insincere. Insincere. So this is the influence on Jonathan's life as a young boy growing up. As a young uh uh toddler and then a uh a junior and then into his teen years. And he had a father of that of that character. And that was a tremendous influence. Then there was a second influence on Jonathan's life. As he got into his twenties, into his his uh uh beginning of his career in his father's military in the military uh of Israel he came across this fellow David He came across David, and their hearts were knit together. And David was far from perfect. We understand that. But David was a man of integrity. And David was a man of intensity, a very passionate man. When he praised God, he praised God with all his heart. When he was fighting the bat when he was fighting the Philistines, he was fighting them with all his strength. When he was uh uh um living for God, it was every ounce of his being was applied. David was a intense man, a passionate man. He was a man of integrity. He was a man of intelligence David was a brilliant strategist. He was a brilliant military leader. David was no dummy. He was intelligent. And David was, I put this down, he was impassioned. And by that I mean this: he was tender-hearted His heart went out to others. You find him throughout the life of David. You find him showing compassion to people. Though he could be the most intense warrior on the battlefield Yet at the same time, his heart was so compassionate and tender. He wanted to help people. What a contrast. King Saul, tremendous influence on the life of Jonathan as a young man. King David, who uh eventually became King David. What a tremendous influence on Jonathan in his adult years So Jonathan had this dichotomy of influence, polar opposites, and yet they affected him. They were factors in who and what Jonathan was. Jonathan respected and honored his father in spite of all these flaws, in spite of all this character flaws that King Saul had. Jonathan honored him. He respected him. Listen, I still believe, I'm still old-fashioned enough to believe young people ought to honor their parents Say, yeah, but my daddy's this or my mom is that. Listen, doesn't matter what they are or what they aren't, a young person ought to honor their parents. Not trashing them, talking bad about them, not not uh disrespecting them. They ought to be honored. In fact, one of the promises of God is the honor uh the first commandment with promise is to honor thy father and mother. Sometimes young people come when I was youth parents, they'd say, Preacher, uh Pastor, they used to call me Pastor Dennis in Indiana. They say, Pastor Dennis, what's God's will for my life? I said, as a child, it's very simple. Obey your parents. Honor your parents. So Jonathan, though he honored and respected his father, it's interesting, you see very few, if any, of his father's flaws in his own life. You see very little of his father in the life of John uh of Jonathan. Anybody here, I don't know about you, the older I get, the more I see my daddy in me. I look in the mirror, I see my father sometimes, except he had more hair than I do. And um anybody here ever say to your child, you're just like your father. Ladies, you ever say that We don't see King Saul in Jonathan very much at all. In spite he honored his father, he respected his father. We see that if we had time, I could show you from scripture. Where Jonathan showed tremendous honor, tremendous respect to his father. Nevertheless, he did not allow his father's flaws to become his flaws. Now let me throw a little challenge out there. We must not allow other people's shortcomings to hinder us from being what God wants us to be. Did you get that? Too often we blame others for our own failures. Well, I'm the way I am because my daddy did this or didn't do that. And when I was little, my daddy He didn't uh he didn't take me fishing enough or he didn't do that for me. That's why I'm a serial killer today Listen, we have got to be able to rise above the negative circumstances we find ourselves in and be what God instructs us to be, regardless of what others may or may not be. Um we must rise above our past and even our upbringing sometimes. Now, if you've got a good godly Christian mama, you've got a good godly Christian daddy, you ought to thank God for it. You ought to rejoice in that and praise the Lord for it. You grow up and you don't you didn't have that kind of home. Maybe the the Bible was never read, maybe the language was banned, maybe the uh liquor flowed, maybe there was uh adultery and fornication And all of that going on in the home, listen, you don't have to allow that to determine who and what you are Can rise above that. I'm so tired of hearing people excuse their own failures because of their parents did this or didn't do that. Listen, be a man, grow up, and be what God's called you to be Quit blaming others. Quit blaming your past. I tell you, I respect Jonathan. Man, what an unsung hero. He could have turned out to be something awful, but he didn't He did not allow that to affect him in a negative way. And then Jonathan comes across David. And again, I wish we had time to look at this in more detail, but He comes across David there after the David takes out Goliath with that sling and uh stone. Anybody familiar with that? We all know that story. Just a young boy, probably fourteen, fifteen years old maybe. He sees Goliath out there. Saul, King Saul, they're up on their side of the hill. There's a valley in between. The Philistines are over there. This giant comes out. I defy the nation of Israel, the armies of Israel. Send me a champion. And we'll battle it out just the two of us. This guy's eleven foot tall, four hundred pounds or more. He's got these swords and shields and he his shield was so big he had a guy just carry the shield out in front of him And here's this little strapping shepherd boy, 14, 15 years old, comes out and sees him, says, Why are you all afraid of him? I said, Are you kidding? Have you seen him? Look at him. He goes, Have you seen God? He gets that saying boom. And Jonathan is up there. He's a military leader at this time. He's in his twenties. And he's up on the hill with King Saul and they're all trembling up there, oh, this giant. And Jonathan's standing there and he sees David. And something about this young man's faith in God and this young man's courage and this young man's vision and cause says, man, that's what I am attracted to. And the Bible says Jonathan and David's hearts were knit together. He saw something in David that he admired. He saw something in David that he respected. He saw something in David and he said, that is what I want to be. That is what I want my life to be. And they were attracted together. You know, I found that who we admire says a whole lot about what kind of person I am. Do you get that? Who I admire, who I really think is something, says a whole lot about the kind of person I am. We used to tell the young people, you are now Or you are becoming like the people you choose to associate with. You get that? You are now, or else you're becoming. Look at the crowd. Look at the people you admire. Look at the people you look up to. That says a whole lot about me. I tell you, we've got a society today that the vilest of men are exalted. The most wicked, perverse, foul-mouthed, unfaithful people are millionaires, billionaires, exalted and honored. And uh I mean of all stripes. Listen, I don't care if a person's uh conservative or liberal. If they use God's name in vain, they're sinning against God. I don't care what their political persuasion is. If they're not faithful to their spouse, they're sinning against God. And who we admire. It says a whole lot about what kind of person we are. And Jonathan saw David, a man of integrity, a man of faith, a man after God's own heart. And he said, That's what I admire. That's what I respect. Jonathan is a tremendous man. My hat's off to him. I have phenomenal respect for Jonathan. His name means given by Jehovah. The Bible references three stages in his life, and I kind of touched on these a little bit. But the introduction to Jonathan, we're introduced to David uh to Jonathan in scripture here. He's already a grown man. We know nothing about his childhood other than what I referenced, what his daddy was like. As far as I can tell, King Saul had one wife He had a concubine on the side, but he had one wife. That was Jonathan's mother. And so he he we're introduced to him. He's a grown man. He's a leader in the military at this point in his probably mid-twenties. And then we're introduced to what I call the intermediate part of his life. This is where his father begins to fail spiritually, and Jonathan is drawn to David in this Intensely loyal friendship is developed and it becomes a sacrificial friendship, even to the point where Jonathan says, listen, I'm next in line I'm the Prince of Israel. I'm to be king after my father. But I submit that over to you. It's God's will for you to be king. And he sacrifices his own future for the man God has chosen to be the next king. Is that character or not? And the sacrificial friendship that he steps aside and lets God's man, the David, become what he should be. And then the final years of his life, his life was taken young He didn't live out all his years. He was killed on the battlefield. Saul became obsessed with killing David. His father Saul became dominated by envy and paranoia. Made foolish decisions, but yet the whole time Jonathan remained neutral. Not one time would he attack his friend David. But at the same time, neither would he fight against his father. He just stayed passive. He stayed out of that. And eventually he was killed on the battlefield with his father and all his brothers by the Philistines. We're told very little about Jonathan. I've pretty much told you for the most part what we know about him. But in my opinion, Jonathan is one of the finest men that ever lived. One of the finest men recorded in Scripture, Jonathan, the unsung hero, a man of integrity I want to give you just in a little bit of time we have, I want to give you three characteristics that stand out in my mind about this man Jonathan, and maybe we can learn from it. Maybe we can ask God to help us have these characteristics. Number one Jonathan was tremendously loyal. Tremendous loyalty. Look with me if you would at 1 Samuel chapter 18. Come a few chapters back here. And notice with me verse number one. Everybody doing all right? How many Bible time workers? How many people worked in Bible time this week? Raise your hand While you're turning to first Samuel 18. Uh how many people worked in Bible time this week? And uh uh you sure wish you could be laying in bed getting caught up on sleep right now. And um So just stay awake. Some of y'all are catching up on your sleep right now. Look at chapter 18, 1 Samuel. Look at verse 1. It came to pass. When he had made an end of speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit, I circled that word, with the soul of David. And Jonathan loved him as his own soul. I put in the margin of my Bible, kindred spirits. Kindred spirits. What does it mean to be loyal to someone? What does it mean to be loyal to a cause? What does it mean to be loyal to another person? Well, the word itself means to be faithful. To be faithful to that one. It has the idea of being faithful to my word. A loyal person, a person who is loyal to their word, when they say something, when they say they're going to do something, they do it. That would be Amen. They say something, they're gonna do it. You ever hear the old timers say, Yeah, I remember back in the day, a man's word a man was as good as his word. I'd say we could use that today. Now you gotta sign a contract when you buy a Coca-Cola Good is his word. Loyal to his word. Loyal to commitments means I'm faithful to my commitments. I'm faithful to my obligation. The word loyal has a sense of belonging, a sense of devotion. Loyal. Jonathan believed in David. He was God's man. The presence of God was evident in the life of David, he says, loyal to him. He trusted David. He was loyal to his friends. The Bible speaks a lot, speaks very highly of loyalty. I tell you, we live in a society now where being loyal is frowned upon. We live in a society now when that which is good is made to seem so evil, and that which is evil is made to seem so good And today loyalty is mocked and loyalty is laughed at, but I'm telling you, God speaks highly of loyalty. Loyal to that which is right. Loyal to that which is true. You say the whole world believes a lie. Well, be loyal to the truth. Loyalty. Loyalty. The Bible speaks highly of loyalty. Proverbs 17:17: a friend loveth what? At all times. Loyal. Loyal. I've sought to be loyal to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. We have a lot of people in our church have been loyal to the body of Christ. Loyal Loyal to one another. God speaks very, very highly of loyalty. Jonathan was tremendously loyal. Can I remind you, God is loyal God's loyal to his word. God is loyal to his people. I like what John chapter 10 and verse 28 says. I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. I'm glad when I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, God says, I'm never going to die and go to hell. I've got eternal life. Nobody can take that from me. And God is loyal to that word. Listen, if you've trusted Christ as Savior, you can rest assured, your sins are forgiven, you have a home in heaven When I I was told this a thousand times, when I got saved May 7, 1979, trusted Christ savory, he changed my life. I was thinking this morning, earlier this morning before church, I thought, what would my life be today if Christ had not saved me? Forty years of drugs and fornication and liquor, what would my life be if Christ hadn't saved me? I was shortly after I got saved, I was, I didn't really doubt my salvation, I didn't understand. And I came across Romans 10:13. Romans 10, 13 says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And I knew I called on the name of the Lord. Good heavens, I was desperate. I call in the name of the Lord to be my Savior. Come in my life. Forgive me and save me. And it says, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I thought if I'm not If I call, I know I call in the name of the Lord. If I'm not saved, if I die and go to hell, God lied to me. Because he promised That whoever calls on his name shall be saved. Period. I'm glad God's loyal to his word. You can rest on that. Rest assured. God is loyal. God's loyal to his word. Romans 5:8. But God commendeth his love toward us while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. I'm glad God was loyal and died for me even before I was loyal to him. Before I trusted him. God commendeth his love toward us while we were yet sinners. I like Hebrews chapter 13 and verse 5. He says, and I give unto them eternal uh No, that's John. Hebrews 13, 5 says, um And Jesus said unto them, I will never leave thee. God says, you trust me as Savior, I'll never abandon you. I'll never leave you. I had a little boy this week. We sat back, uh, where were we at? We were in uh uh I think we were down in one of the counseling rooms, a little uh a little Braden was his name, about six, seven years old. And he was in here and Mr. J. B. uh. told the story, gave the gospel, he said, uh anybody want to be saved? Want Jesus come in your heart and take away your sins, save you, give you a new life? And little Braden raised his hand And he came back, I said, Why'd you raise your hand? He goes, I need Jesus. I said, Okay, come with me. And we went downstairs and um those chairs are so small that um I didn't fit in them. It wasn't 'cause I was big, it was the chairs were so small. And so we sat down on the floor and little Braden kind of snuggled up beside me. We got their Bible out And I went through and and he's center, yes, I've done bad things. And uh he was very emotional and uh Jesus I believe I went through the gospel, took a little while, and explained it as carefully as I could. I said, Braden, would you like to pray? Ask Jesus, come in your heart and be your Savior, take away all your sins, give you eternal life. He says Nothing like that. I said, okay. And so I prayed with him and he called on the Lord to be his Savior. He wrote his name down on the track. I gave it to him. And I said, Are you happy? He says, I'm happy. And uh he came back. I'm glad. That God is loyal to his word to little Braden, and he will never leave Braden. He's never going to forsake him. He's never going to leave him. Jonathan was tremendously loyal to his word and to his friend. We have a God that is tremendously loyal to us. John 15, 13, greater love hath no man than this. A man laid down his life for his friends. Jesus, so loyal to us, he laid his life down for us so that we could have eternal life. What's the most important loyalty in life? Say, well, a person needs to be loyal to their spouse. How many of you agree with me a person ought to be loyal to their spouse? Amen. Don't make me keep using this. I believe a person ought to be loyal to their country. Say, well, the government, uh, I don't have to be loyal to a particular party, but I can be loyal to my country. Pray and work for the good of my country. Loyal to spouse, loyalty country. How many people believe you ought to be loyal to your church? Amen. Support it, pray for it, impart. But I tell you, there's something that supersedes all of that. And that's loyalty to my Lord. Jesus said the greatest commandment is: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind. That's loyalty to my Lord and Savior. I'll not deny him, I'll not forsake him. I'll be loyal to my Savior. You know what I found If a person will be loyal to their savior, they'll be loyal to their spouse. Amen? You're not loyal to your spouse, you're not loyal to your savior. I found a person's loyal to their savior, they'll be loyal to the land that God put them in, their homeland. If a person is loyal to their savior, they'll be loyal to the body of Christ, their church. Most important loyalty in life is my loyalty to my God and my Savior. It's better to obey God than man, the disciples said. Loyalty. So Jonathan was tremendously loyal. Number two, I notice a second characteristic. Look down at verse number three of 1 Samuel 18. And that was sincere humility. Verse 3 he says, then Jonathan and David made a covenant because he loved him as his own soul. Look at this. And Jonathan stripped him of the robe that was upon him. That was his robes of royalty as a prince. Stripped him of the robe that was upon him and gave it to who David, and his garments, even to his sword and his bow and to his girdle. Everything that Jonathan had as a son of a king. Everything Jonathan wore as a prince in Israel, he humbly gave that over to David. Man after God's own heart. Humility. Humility. Someone said a proud man continually looks down on others. A proud man. Looks down on others. Looks down on. If I catch myself going around looking down on others and obsessing over the faults of others, all I'm saying is, I'm a proud man. A proud man. A proud man looks down on others. A proud man focuses on the faults of others. Someone said it's better to seek humility than to seek wealth or fame. So I study that book right there. I learned something about God. And this is what I learned about God. That God honors humility. God honors humility. You know what God does? When God wants to honor What what what do what does man do? If man wants to honor someone in the educational realm, they give him a doctrine. Oh, I'm going to call him Dr. So-and-so. And there's nothing wrong with that, don't misunderstand. Dr. So-and-so. Years ago, Fred Schindler had a college there, uh seminary there in um uh outside of Philly, and uh they gave me a doctorate. I don't never use it, it's on some of our literature Man says, Oh, we want to honor you, we'll give you a doctor. We're going to call you this. We're going to knight you, Sir Douglas, in England. And uh so I just knighted you, Doug. When God wants to honor someone, what title does he give them? Servant You know, I think Moses is one of the greatest leaders in all of history. You study his life, what an amazing leader Moses was. But you don't find one place Where God refers to Moses as my leader. You know how he refers to him? Over and over and over and over. Moses, my what? Serpent. David, my servant. Paul refers to himself all through the epistles. He says, Paul, a servant of God. I believe the greatest characteristic of a Christian, the most mature greatest characteristic of a Christian is that of humility. Putting aside pride, Jonathan was sincerely humble. Humility is the greatest standard in the kingdom of God. Let me read to you a passage from Matthew chapter 18, just quickly, just four verses. Notice what it says. It says, That that same time came the disciples unto Jesus. Listen carefully. Are you listening? How many folks are listening? Say amen. How many folks aren't listening? Say amen. All right, pretty good. I just thought I'd try, see what happens. And uh disciples came to you and said, listen, who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? Wow, that's quite a question. Lord, who's the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? Listen to what Jesus said. The greatest in the kingdom of heaven. This is what Jesus said. He called a little child unto him, and he said him in the midst of them, and said, Verily, verily I say unto you, except ye be converted and become as little children He shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same as the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. And whosoever shall receive one such little child in my name receiveth me. You know how to be great in God's kingdom? You know how to be great in the realm that really matters? We learn to be humble. Learn to be humble. Put away myself, my self-pride, my self-will, my self-righteousness, my self-focus, my self-worship. Put all that aside and humble myself and give myself to serve others. Others, Lord. Yes, others. And serve God. What a tremendously humble man. Jonathan could have stood his ground and said, I am prince, I'm next in line, you'll not take my place. But he said, No, no, no, no. Step back, you take it. You take it. And then last of all, I am with this. I see a tremendous loyalty. I see sincere humility. And I see in Jonathan strong faith in God. Strong faith. Come back with me to chapter 14 if you would I saw this on reading in my Bible just uh seven days ago, six, seven days ago in the morning. In the middle of the verse, he says, It may be that the Lord will work for us For there is no restraint to the Lord save by many or by few. What a statement of faith. Jonathan believed God He trusted God. His faith was in God, not in his abilities, not in his wisdom, not in his understanding. My faith is in God Almighty. And he can use a bunch, or he can use just a few. My faith is in God. His faith in God gave him an optimistic attitude. I don't see any hint of depression or doom and gloom, negative. Oh, this is hopeless. We're outnumbered. We'll never make it. You don't see any of that. You see a man that says, Listen, God can do this. Nothing is impossible with God. Faith. He looked above his circumstances and saw the Lord. I thought about Joseph. All that Joseph went through, his brothers tried to kill him, they sold him in slaves, they lied about him, they lied to him And then when it's all said and done, Joseph said, listen, you meant this for evil, but God meant it for good. His faith was in God. Um I thought about uh H. G. Spafford was a assistant to D. L. Moody. And his family was killed in a in a in a ship going over to England. The ship sank and And his whole family was killed, his wife and his daughters drowned in the North Atlantic. And the he he got he was in England. They were coming over to see him. And he came back and on his way back, as he was sailing back He told the captain of the ship, please tell me whenever we get to the space spot where my family drown, where my family die. And finally, the notice came to him in his room, and he came out and stood on the edge of the ship as they approached the area where his family died, their bodies down deep in the ocean. And he wrote that old song, When peace like a river attendeth my way, when sorrows like sea billows roll Thou hast taught me to say, it is well, it is well with my soul. What faith! You understand? From his perspective, it makes sense. I'm serving God. But he says, I trust you. It's well with my soul. I trust you. I trust you. People in our church I think of lost loved ones and they say, I trust God. Tanya Crosby was blind from Early childhood. She wrote thousands of songs. Someone asked blind Fanny Crosby, what's your favorite song? Of all that you've written, what's your favorite song? She said, Blessed Assurance Jesus is mine. Oh, what a forte of glory divine. Faith in God gives us an optimistic attitude. You say, oh, our country is going to hell in a handbasket. Yes, but there's a God in heaven. God can bring good out of evil. God can take ashes and make them beautiful. God is not restrained. An optimistic attitude, an act of courage, him and his uh uh his uh armor bearer step out and take on the entire Philistine army, just the two of them. Because his faith was in God. True faith produces boldness, courage, doing what's right regardless of the cost Doing what needs to be done regardless of the danger. My faith is in God and it gives me boldness. Courage of faith that wins others to Christ. It's the courage of faith that has an impact on a community with the Word of God. It's the courage of faith that reaches nations with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Stepping out in faith. And doing what God's called us to do. And I end with this. His faith in God brought a victorious outcome. Read verse 15 and 16. The Philistines are defeated by Jonathan and his armor-bearer. And God steps in and gives a great victory. One man believed God, and God gave a victory. Anyone recognize the name Alvin York? Anybody recognize that name? How many folks recognize that name? Alvin York. A few. Alvin York was a soldier in World War I, American soldier. He's in the army. He was in a particularly difficult battle, just a country boy, I believe from Tennessee. He was in a very difficult battle. Six of his fellow soldiers was killed, three of his commanding officers was kill were killed, and he found himself in charge of this uh uh group of soldiers. As they faced the Germans, he they entered into another battle And Alvin York himself took out uh uh uh thirty German machine guns Killed 20 German soldiers and captured himself 132 prisoners of war, brought him back Now I'm not sure it was, I think it might have been Alvin York. Somebody said to him, where did you get all them? He goes, oh the woods is full of them. Go get some One man, one man with a little integrity and courage made a profound difference One last question, I am with this. Anybody here recognize the name Edward Kimball? Edward Kimball. Anybody recognize that name? Edward Kimball was a Sunday school teacher. In Boston, in in in Massachusetts, Boston, I believe. A little boy came to his class. He had seventh and a uh seven and eight year olds. A little boy, or it might have been young teens. It might have been nine and ten year olds. It was that age group somewhere, but he taught a Sunday school class, boys class. He taught them the Bible. One day the little boy came and visited. And he taught them the Bible and told them the stories of David and Goliath and all these fascinating Bible stories. That week, Sonny came and left, and that week. Edwin Kimball thought, I need to go visit that boy that visited my Sunday school class. I need to talk to him about the Lord. Got the address and found him down. Here he was uh worked for a cobbler, a fellow at Fix Shoes. And he said, I'm looking for this boy. And they said, oh, he's in the back there. And Edward Kimball, just an just a guy that believed God, just a fellow that believed the Bible and said, I want to do right. He went and found this little boy and he opened his Bible and showed him from the Bible how to be saved. That little boy bowed his head and trusted Christ as Savior. And God changed that boy's life. And he started winning others to the Lord. Then he started teaching Sunday school classes. Then he started holding meetings in the community. Just gather people together and he'd tell them how to be saved. Then he went to other areas. And God began to use D. L. Moody, the greatest American evangelist probably in the history of our country, won millions of people to Christ. All because one Sunday school teacher said, I believe the gospel can save anybody. They went and told someone how to be saved. Jonathan was just a man, one fella that believed God. Tremendous faith, humbled himself, and God used him in a great way. God can use you, God can use me if we'll humble ourselves and trust him and let him use us. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I ask, dear Lord, you'd help us to learn from the life of Jonathan. Lord, I believe you can use a little church up in the hills of Western Maryland, and we can have an impact on this world with the gospel if we'll just trust you. We'll just be loyal to you and humble ourselves and trust you. I want you to use our church. I want you to use me To bring people to Christ, change lives, heal homes. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many say, preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved, and I want God to use me I want to make a difference in the world that God has placed me. I'm just going to trust the Lord under me. Is there any like that? Rachel, I want God to use me. Well, let's be loyal to the Lord and one another. Let's humble ourselves. And then let's just trust God that even if it's just me, God can still use me. With many or few. I wonder if there's some here say, preacher, I know I'm saved and I really like for God to use me, but there's some things in my life that are grieving the Lord. There's some things there that are not right. And I need to get them right. I need to get that settled. I need to make these decisions and get things where they ought to be. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. I know There's some areas in my life that need attention. Any at all, God bless you. Hands all around. Maybe there's some say, preacher, I don't know. I'm saved. I don't want to die and go to hell. I want a new life. I want eternal life. I want God to forgive me. Give me that new eternal life. I can live now and go to heaven someday. You say, Preacher, pray for me. God will help me get that settled. Is there any like that? Preacher, I need the Lord to save me. I need the Lord to come in my heart. Any at all? Now Father, I ask you to bless our invitation this morning. Have your way. Help us to make those decisions in faith that need to be made in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed.