Looked at this passage last week and what I really wanted to do in last week's message was get down to verse number uh thirty, the last little phrase there, and we never made it to that that passage, that there, as I wanted to, and so decided to come back to it again this week and look at it again. And I want us to notice there in verse number 30, it says that when he saw, when Peter saw the wind, boisterous, he was afraid, and beginning to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me. That phrase is what caught captured my attention the other week and I've been as I said been wanting to get to that. Last week we got preaching and we didn't ever did get to that section. I'm going to try to, I don't know If we're going to get to it today, I'm looking at my notes, but uh we'll see what happens. We're just gonna stay here till we get to it. And uh no, I'm kidding. Um But uh some things trust the Lord will use it to be a blessing. But this is the shortest prayer in all the Bible. Lord, save me. So I'm entitled to the message, The Shortest Prayer, The Bible's Shortest Prayer, or I have a subtitle to it, What to Do When You're Sinky. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our time in your word Lord, I pray that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you would speak through me. That is my constant prayer is preaching your word. I present my body to you, I yield my will to you, and I ask you with all my heart to fill me. I pray you give all of us open hearts and open minds, that you would speak to our hearts, that you'd direct us and help us, challenge our faith, I pray Lord, if there's something in our hearts and minds that needs correction, I pray you'd use your word to correct us. Lord, maybe some need encouragement. Maybe some need a little uh uh a little uh push maybe to s get us to step out in faith. I pray that you would do that. And I pray particularly everyone that's involved in Bible Time that maybe you'd use a few thoughts this morning to encourage and challenge and strengthen us for the week of service ahead of us. So again, bless us now and help us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. The Bible's shortest prayer, Lord save me. Peter is sinking. He's walked on the waters. We looked at it last week. And he prays a simple little prayer. As I got looking through the Gospels here, I noted that the Lord repeatedly is working on the hearts and lives of the disciples. We find that the disciples are repeatedly, one, they're being corrected in their thinking. The Lord has always challenged them. We find over and over again the Lord is trying to correct them in their thinking. Now, last Sunday night, Pastor Brett had a tremendous message on our thinking. And I notice here that the Lord is correcting. I think if you would turn back to Matthew chapter number 5, I'll try and point out what I'm trying to say here. Matthew chapter 5 is the Sermon on the Mount. And we've been studying this from Wednesday nights for quite some time now. And we noted that the Sermon on the Mount is for disciples. He's preaching to saved people. And notice in chapter number 5 of Matthew, and I want you to notice in verse number 21, just a little phrase, he says this, ye have heard that it was said. This is what they've been told. This is what they've been taught. This is how they thought. Then come down to verse 22. But I say unto you. So what is he doing? He's changing the way they think. They've been thinking wrong. They've been taught wrong. They've been hearing Wrong. And the Lord says, I need to correct your thinking. I need to change the way you're thinking about this subject. Here is what I am saying unto you. Come down, verse number 27. We find the same thing. Ye have heard that it was said by them of old. Verse 28, but I say unto you, again, here's another air. He says, You've been taught wrong, you've been thinking wrong, your understanding is incorrect on this subject. Let me clarify it. Let me correct your thinking. Let me correct your understanding of this. If you would, notice over in verse number 31. He said, it hath been said. Again, this is what you've been told. This is what you've been led to understand, led to believe. But verse 32, but I say unto you. Verse 33 says, again, ye have heard. Verse 34. But I say unto you, come down to verse 38. Ye have heard that it hath been said. Verse 39. But I say unto you, verse 43, ye have heard that it hath been said. Verse four uh forty-four, but I say unto you Do you catch what the Lord's doing? He is changing the way they think. He is changing the way they perceive things. He's changing the way they understand various issues of life. And I believe it is vital for our spiritual growth. Let me ask this, how many folks here this morning you're saved and you know it? Say amen. You know what God is doing? Once we trust Christ as Savior, God begins working in our life and He begins working in our heart and mind. to change the way we see things, to change our perspective on life, on the world, on God, on ourselves. He is renewing our mind. He is altering the way we think. How many people after you got saved, you saw some things differently than before you got saved? Can I get a witness? How about church? How many folks before you got saved? Church was not that important. You didn't think a whole lot about it. After you got saved, suddenly it became very, very important. Sure, it's the way it was for me The Bible, my whole perspective, my whole thinking, my whole attitude, my understanding of various areas, the Lord begins changing. And that is a lifelong process And we find that all through the Gospels, the Lord is trying to correct their misunderstanding of life and these types of things. God has to change the way we think about God Himself. The way we view ourselves, the way we see the world. Before I got saved, this old world, this was home. This was me. This was my home. After I got saved, I found out this world's not my home. I'm just passing through a whole different perspective. Whole different frame of mind, whole different understanding on the world, on sin. I'm sure there's many folks here. Before we trusted Christ as Savior, sin was not that big a deal. In fact, a lot of us had pleasure in it. We enjoy it, but boy, I got saved. All of a sudden now, and sin is still an issue, but now it's a grief to my heart. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? And so he changes our perspective on sin, the world, self, God, on priorities He's trying to get these disciples to have different priorities. Listen, for the believer, our priorities are not the world's priorities. What the world holds high in value and so important for the child of God, God changes our view on that. He changes our thinking on that. And then those things that the world considers so important for us are not that important. So he alters our values. One area the Lord is working on changing the disciples' thinking is It found in Mark chapter 10. Would you turn over there with me? Now keep Mark for uh keep Matthew 14 handy. We're going to come back to it in a minute. But in Mark chapter 10, I just want to highlight this one area where the disciples had a wrong view of something. They had a wrong way of thinking about something, they had a wrong understanding. And the Lord rebukes them pretty sharply. In fact, there are several places in the Gospels where he does this. In Mark chapter 10, notice with me, if you would, verse number 13. And they brought young children to him. Now I got thinking about Bible time. And this week, we are going to pull out all the stops, and we are doing everything we can, and we've been working hard. We want to bring young children to the Lord Jesus Christ. We want to bring young people. First through ninth grade, first through twelfth grade, we're bringing in. Now notice what he has to do with the disciples. And they brought young children to him that he should touch them. I feel agree with me. That's a good thing I'm praying that this week in Bible time, we can bring young children to the Lord Jesus and that He through His Spirit would touch their hearts and minds. They would believe on Him and be saved We're praying that this week young children, all through the teenagers, the Spirit of God would touch their hearts and minds, and we'd see young people surrender to go to the mission field. Wouldn't that be a wonderful thing? I'm praying and I'm trusting, I'm looking to God to raise up some young people who would be willing to go to Kazakhstan, give their life, take the gospel to the country of Kazakhstan. Wouldn't that be a wonderful thing? Thursday night we're going to challenge our teens to at least pray about that, consider giving themselves to missions. So we want God to touch them. We want the Lord to touch them. Maybe young men be preachers Got talking to uh Brandon. We're I saw Rusty back there. So got talking to Brandon. It was two years ago this week that Brandon trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. And now God's called him into the ministry. He's leaving in a couple weeks to go out to Heartland College, study missions, wherever God leads them. That's what we're praying for this week. That God would touch the hearts and minds of our young people And see them give themselves to the Lord. But the disciples had a wrong perspective. And the Lord had to change their thinking, had to change their understanding. Look what happens here. They brought young children to him that he should touch them. Look at this. And his disciples what? Rebuke those that brought them. Now I don't know exactly how that played out, but this is the way I picture it in my mind. These folks are bringing their children and and they've heard of Jesus and they've heard of his power, they've heard him preaching, and perhaps they grasp To some extent. This is the Son of God. This is the Messiah. And I want my child to know him. I want my child to experience him. I want him to bless my child. And so these people are bringing their children to Jesus Christ that he would touch them. But the disciples' view of children, the disciples' perspective and their understanding of children, We're not somebody that needed the Lord. Was not somebody that Jesus would care about. They weren't some type of people that Jesus would invest any kind of time or effort into. And they come in between these children and their parents and the Lord Jesus Christ and they rebuke them for bringing children to Christ. How many people agree with me? Their thinking was wrong. Their understanding was wrong. And children in their minds were not somebody that God loved and that Jesus cared about and that could come and experience the blessings and the hand of God in their life, but children were a nuisance. And children were in interference. And children were in disruption. We've got our schedule. We've got our ministry. We've got our work. We don't have time for these children. The Bible says the Lord rebuked them. Listen to me. I'll take a little child crying in the church. I'll take that any day over no children in the church. And these children, that's not a nuisance, that's not an interference, that's a child that God loves. And that the Lord wants to touch them and bless them. We're going to bring children in this week and and uh are they gonna be disruptive? If you say no, you don't know what you're talking about, you never work with kids. Uh uh is it gonna be a hassle? Yeah. Is there gonna be bubblegum stuck here and there and stuffed under? Yeah. But I'm telling you the Lord loves these little children. I tell you, you can't hardly get a better song than Jesus loves the Lut. Children. Sing it with me. All the children of the world, red and yellow, black and white, they are precious in his sight. Jesus loves the little children of the world. And he rebuked them. He says, your whole understanding of this is wrong. Your whole perspective on what this is about is wrong. And see that? The little children come right in while we're missing that. Don't tell me God doesn't have a sense of humor Look at verse fourteen. The disciples are rebuking them. But when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased. That phrase much displeased, I got a little doing a little study on that. You know, I found out it meant it means this: indignant. That's a strong word. The Lord Jesus is intending that these disciples would rebuke people for bringing children to Jesus. It has this idea to be very upset. And there's a, let's see, look what he says here. He says, suffer the little children to come unto me. And forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of God. For I say unto you, whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein. And he took them up in his arms and put his hands upon them and blessed them. Isn't that a beautiful picture? The love of the Son of God, the love of God in the person of Jesus Christ for little children. And bring them in there. In fact, he suggests there, does he not, that we need to be more like a child rather than trying to get these children to be like us, at least in our faith. Now I don't want you all to come up on the platform and cry for mama all the time. I don't want you all to do that. But we ought to have the faith of a child. We ought to have that simple trust. And so the disciples, their thinking was completely wrong, their perspective on God's attitude and the role that children play in the body of Christ and in the heart of God. They need to be corrected on that. They needed to be corrected on that. I want to ask our church to pray this week. To pray that God will touch the hearts of children. That their understanding would be open as Mr. Tyler and Mr. Jonathan and Mr. Aaron, as they present the Word of God, to the children that they would understand, believe, and receive the gospel and be saved. And that those are the children that already know the Lord. And I thank God for our church and our workers, That have such a burden to wing children to Christ. Many of these children have already trusted Christ. But my prayer is that, and I hope we're all praying, that God will touch the hearts of the saved children, that they would give themselves to live for God. And just sell out and give a whole life to the Lord Jesus Christ. DL Moody had somebody asked him about a meeting he had, and he says, uh said, did anybody get saved? He says, yeah, we had two and a half people saved. And he said, uh he said, we had two and a half, two and a half saved. He said, two and a half. What do you mean? Two adults and a child? He said, no, two children and an adult. He said the children got their whole lives. The adults only got half a life left. Pretty insightful, huh? I'm praying we can see little children. Trust Christ. and uh give their lives to live for the Lord. And wouldn't it be wonderful to see God raise up ones to give to go into the ministry For the next generation to have young men standing behind a pulpit like this, preaching the old King James Bible. Wouldn't that be wonderful? So what we're doing this week is so vital, and we need to have a clear understanding. We need to understand. And see these children the way God sees them. Do we ever want to choke them? Yes. I've been doing this for a long time. But we want to do it in Christian love. No, we love them dearly. So the Lord's creation, this is the reason I never get to my subject. But the Lord corrects their thinking. We want to see it the way God sees it. Amen? See these children the way God sees them. Let me quickly give it this old introduction. He corrected their thinking, he challenged their faith. We find over and over the Lord is challenging the faith of his disciples Again, chapter 14, come back to Matthew there. And we looked at this last week a little bit, so I don't want to rehash it. But in verse 31, I imagine Peter never dreamed he would ever be referred to this way. And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand and caught him and said to him, O thou of little faith, Peter sees the wind and the waves, he begins to sing. Lord, save me. God grabs him and saves him. And he rebukes him. He says, Thou of little faith. Constantly the Lord is challenging the disciples to trust him. To have faith in him. All through the gospels, it's a constant rebuke. In fact, some of the Lord Jesus' strongest rebukes to the disciples was their weak faith, their little faith. And he challenges them to have faith in him and trust him. The Lord would, and we touched on this last week, the Lord would push his disciples sometimes in situations to test their faith To stretch it a little bit and strengthen it. I look at my own Christian life, and many of you could say the same thing. I look back over my Christian life and I see where God put me in situations sometime where my faith was tested. How many people know what I'm talking about? Anybody ever been there? My faith has been tested. God, you promised this. God, you said this, and I don't see it. And I'm ashamed to admit it. So many times I go through a trial like that and I go through a test and I look and I say, you know, I thought my faith was stronger than what it was. And so many times I find myself ashamed that I didn't have stronger faith than what I did, and I doubted and I feared And I trembled at what was happening, and then when it's all said and done, I look back and say, God, you've been faithful, and my faith has been so weak. And God pushes us and he stretches us and he challenges us. So that our faith would grow and be stronger. It's vitally important, one of the most important aspects of the Christian life is learning to trust God. Learning to wait on God, learning to trust him, that in his timing, in his way, if I will just trust him and follow his instructions, God will take care of things. God will take care of things. In our Christian life, in our Christian service. I thought of this, and let me address some of the Bible time workers and the teachers in particular. I think most of our teachers have done this before, but there's uh inevitably there's a little anxiety there. Particularly if you don't do it very often, you think, boy, I don't know, I'm a little nervous about this, I'm a little anxious about this I know a lot of times the Bible time evangelists come through with us doing a day rally. We do the junior high. We call it day teens at seventh and eighth grade. Most churches anymore don't have day rallies. They all do them in the evenings. I like the day rally. And so they don't get to do the day teens, the junior high level. They don't do that program. And a lot of times they'll come in. I was working with one of our guys last night that's going to be working with them. kind of going over some things. And they come in and say, you know, I'm really s I'm really scared about this. I'm a little anxious about doing this age group. I've never done this before. We've never done this. And I tell them all the time, I say, listen, whenever we're afraid, and I'm preaching to myself as much as anybody now, but when we're afraid and when we get anxious, that's a tremendous time to trust God. For God to prove Himself What did David say in the Psalms? What time I am afraid I will trust in thee. And what a great opportunity it is for us to have faith in God. When I'm teaching a class and I'm very, very anxious, I've got a bunch of kids out there. Or whatever a bus route or something, and I'm a little anxious about that, what a great opportunity to say I'm going to trust God And let me just say this to the teachers. Listen, it's not our gifts, it's not our abilities that win children over. It is the Spirit of God that wins them over. And I just love them and give the word of God to them and trust God that God speaks to their hearts and God draws them to their self. Christ does it. Christ does it. So the Lord is constantly challenging his disciples to strengthen their faith and stretching their faith and putting them in situations where they have to exercise faith and grow. And the other thought I had here was this, the Lord is also constantly rescuing the disciples from disaster. They would get themselves in terrible situations. They get fussing among themselves, and they put themselves in danger of division within the disciples. They would fuss over who is the greatest. I tell you, you read through here sometimes, and I'm reading about the disciples, and I think, this sounds like first grade. Which one's the greatest? I'm greater than you. Uh-uh. I'm greater than you. I don't know they said it that way and we think, oh, how childish. Wait a minute. I've been working with adults. I'm adults. A lot of ways we're not much different, are we? We get thinking too highly of ourselves. Well, I deserve to be treated better than that. Well, who do they think they are? Well, follow what I'm saying? And the Lord would have to step in and say, wait a minute, wait a minute, hold it guys, you're messing up. You're going to make a disaster out of this. He that exalteth himself is going to be abased. But he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. He said this one place, he said, the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many. And he had to rescue them. They get fussing and they're on the verge of division and the whole thing's going to fall apart. And the Lord steps in and says, wait a minute, you got this all wrong. And he would rescue them from storms as we read here. Now the thing about all of these areas All these areas of Christian growth that God is doing, changing their thinking, challenging their faith, rescuing them from these disasters they get in. A key aspect of all that is prayer. Prayer. Now I've got Bible time on my mind. I want to say this. The key to success in Bible time this week is going to be God's people praying. Teachers, workers, registrars, kitchen workers, church folk, shut-ins, everybody that's a part of this church. We absolutely have to have the prayers of God's people. And you see that all through Scripture, prayer, prayer, prayer. And that leads me to my text. Lord, save me. The shortest prayer in all the Bible. And God's working in their lives and God's doing this. And in the midst of this, we have this prayer rises up. Just a simple little prayer. A simple little prayer. Prayer is vitally important when we're facing trials. I have no doubt I'm talking to somebody right now. I have no doubt in my mind, I'm talking to somebody right now. You're going through a trial. You've got something going on in your life, I'm telling you, you better bring that to the Lord in prayer. You better saturate that trial in prayer. In times of temptation, I have no idea, crowd this size, there's no doubt, I'm talking to somebody that there is some temptation that Satan is dangling out there in front of you. And you feel your heart drawn to it, and you feel your sinful nature being drawn to you. Say, preacher, I am struggling with this. It's there, I know it's wrong, and I'm being enticed by it strongly. I tell you what you need to do, you need to pray. I tell you good prayer in times of temptation is what Peter prayed. Lord, save me. Lord, save me from this temptation. Lord, save me in this trial, save me from doubting and becoming weak in faith. In times of making a decision, we ought to saturate it in prayer. Now our young people aren't in here, they're out in the barn for the most part. But I would challenge our young people, when they get into senior high grades and even into college years, that is such a crucial time of life, right or wrong. Every one of us here in many ways are dealing with decisions we made back in our late teens. We are. Coming out of high school, make the decision where I'm going to go to college. That decision affects the direction of my life. Who I'm going to marry. What my vocation is going to be. what direction I'm going to go with my life. And those are, that's a period of, that's an age group, that's a period of life where decisions made there in some ways can never be undone. And they're affect the rest of our lives. And our young people need to learn to pray and to seek God And look to the Lord to let Him lead and direct us. And you and I need to pray for the young people that they'll be wise and make good decisions. So prayer is such a vital factor in all these areas. When we fail God, and there's not a man on earth that doesn't fail God at some point or another, not a woman on earth that doesn't fail God at some point or another. And when we fail and we recognize it, we need to come to God in prayer. And when we're serving God, serving God. Peter is in eminent danger. He is going to drown unless God steps in, unless Jesus Christ. Steps in and rescues him, he is going to die. And he prays, Lord save me. Lord save me. Lord save me. If there's an unsaved person here this morning, there's an unsaved person you're here and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven. You don't know for sure that God has saved your soul from sin and hell, let me say this, you are in imminent danger. Unless God steps in and you die in your sins, you are lost for all eternity. And the prayer that an unsaved person needs to pray sincerely from their heart, Lord, save me. From my sin, from the judgment, your judgment on my sin, and from the the uh consequences of my sin, God save me. Peter's in eminent danger physically, and for the unsaved, they're eminent danger spiritually. This was a I'm going to give you a list here real quick, I promise. One, it was a brief prayer. The shortest prayer in the Bible. Three words. Lord, save me. A brief prayer. I want to suggest to you a brief prayer is a biblical prayer. I believe a brief prayer in the Bible often are the most powerful, most effective prayers. I got looking at some of the prayers in the Bible. I find two prayers recorded in the Bible. That may be five minutes or longer in praying. When Solomon dedicated the temple as one of the longest prayers in the Bible, you read down through there, it takes about five minutes. And Luke and John chapter 17, where the Lord prays. That's a fairly lengthy prayer. It's about a chapter. I don't think it takes five minutes, perhaps, to read through that prayer. The majority of the prayers in the Bible are very brief. Very brief. Very brief. Listen, you don't have to be a great orator. You don't have to come. Listen, there's a lot of titles that we can give the Lord Jesus Christ, and He deservedly gives them. And there's a place And there's a lot of things we can praise the Lord for, and that deservedly so, and there's a place for that. But I found sometimes the most effective prayers are simply this, Lord help me. Lord, meet this need. Just a simple brief prayer. Just telling God what I need. The Bible says in James 5. 17, the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. I got looking at it. I noticed what it did not say. It doesn't say the effectual lengthy prayer Of a righteous man. It doesn't say the wordy prayer of a righteous man. It says the effectual servant prayer. Doesn't say anything in like. Is there anything wrong with a long prayer? No, not in and of itself. Hey, if I've got a lot of burdens on my heart, if I've got a lot of issues I'm dealing with, sometimes I need to pray a long time to pour them all out to the Lord. But I'm saying you, for the most part, our prayers don't have to be long. Just to the point. Listen, if I've got sin in my life, I need to deal with that sin. Just get right to the point. Lord, this is sin I confess it. You're right. I agree with you. I assess it the way you assess it. It's wrong. Lord, I have this need. This bill needs to be paid. I don't have the resources. Lord, help me. I need help here. Lord, my friend is saved. My family member is unsaved, I mean. My friend is unsaved. Lord, save them. Work in their heart. A lot of times the brief prayer is the most effective prayer. Again, there's nothing wrong with a long prayer if there's a lot on your heart, but simply long, rambling, ongoing prayers I do not believe are effective. Are generally not fervent, just rambling on and on and on. Let's get to the point. So I noticed his prayer here was very brief. Also, I noticed his prayer was very broad. In other words, it covers every need he had. Lord, save me. I'm telling you, that one prayer covers so much of the Christian life. Salvation of the soul. Lord save me. When I knelt by my bed, did I ever tell you about this May 7, 1979? Right after Laverne and Shirley, I picked up the evangelists in Cumberland. We're driving back, and one of them said How'd you get saved, preacher? I said, I am glad you asked. I told him my story and the whole thing. You know when I knelt by my bread uh my bed there that night, I I don't know what words I said. I couldn't tell you. But I know this, I just calling out for God to have mercy on me and forgive me and save my soul. I tell you, that's a broad prayer. Lord, save me That encompasses so much. And then once we're saved, sometimes we need to be, once our soul is saved, sometimes we need to be saved from sins. You know what I'm saying? In the Christian life. I hope I'm not confusing this. But we need to be saved from struggles and doubts. Sometimes maybe a marriage is going bad. Lord save us. God save this thing. Maybe a ministry is faltering. Lord save this ministry. I tell you, that prayer is a very broad prayer. It covers a lot of areas, and we're facing temptation, we're overwhelmed with trials. But I noticed it was a very blunt prayer, very abrupt. Lord, save me! There's not a lot of formalities going on. O thou most high son of Jehovah, thou who encompasses eternity from eternity past to eternity future, thou art God, you are the creator. And they're blessed to the point No ceremonies going on here. Listen, we don't have to cross our heart and hope to die when we come to God and pray. Just be very blunt. Lord, I need this. Lord, this is what I need. There are scores of titles for Christ. There's thousands of praises, and they all have their place. But when there's sin to confess, just confess it. Don't cover it up. Don't justify it. Don't excuse it. Lord, this is sin. When there's a need to be met, don't try and impress God with anything. Tell Him what the need is. How many how many people here maybe you work with folks? I don't know how you are. If somebody comes to me, I just want them to tell me what they need What they want, right? Do you ever have somebody come and they just beat around the bush and beat around the bush and try and figure out what are they saying? What are they after? What do they want? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Finally feel like saying, what'd you just tell me I think sometimes God's that way. Would you just say it? Now he knows, we know he knows, but he wants us to be blunt, I think. I think he just wants us To tell us, Charles Holmescher, the founder and director of Bible Time, has been with the Lord a number of years now, dear friend of mine, unusual man in a lot of ways. I'm telling ya, I never heard anybody pray like Bro Homster prayed. He would just uh that one time the bus broke down We had 55 Bible time evangelists. We're in Denver, inner city of Denver. We're doing these projects. We're doing rallies all around these projects. Just not in, we just go out practice and we go out into these projects. I mean, they're dangerous. And uh finally we're coming back. It was dark. One of the buses broke down. And uh All these advantages, they're all experts on everything. And so the one guy said, I know, let's pour gasoline down into the carburetor and then it'll start. So he poured gasoline over the whole engine. I mean he just spilled it everywhere Alright, turn it over. Boom. Boom. We're back in the office and he got it. Boom said the bus is on fire. Where are you at? We're in Denver. What? So he said he said he called he called me Danny. He said he said let's pray. So we got down. He prays something along these lines it was like, Lord, I don't know what in the world's going on Or if you don't step in here, this whole thing's a disaster. And he just started, he was, it's it's bizarre. He was like he was just talking to God. Isn't that what prayer is? He's just telling God, God, this is driving me nuts. These guys are the end to me. I need you to step in here and intervene. I think that's what the Lord says. Be blunt about it. Tell the Lord. Don't beat around the bush. And then I notice it's a very biblical prayer. Lord save me. Lord, save me. The thing I noticed about Peter, he's at a point here in his life where he realizes I can't do this myself. He's at a point in his life, Christ, you're the only one that can do this for me. And I tell you, you can't get much more biblical when I realize, Christ, you're the only one that can do for me what I need to do. That's the message of the Bible. God has to do it. God has to do it. What'd Jesus say? Without me, ye can do nothing. And when you and I get to the point in our life where we realize God, this whole thing called life is bigger than me. And I need you. And without you, I can't do this. You're not getting much more biblical than that. It's biblical prayer. Physical prayer. I'd have fell when I got say a bunch of drug addicts and ex cons, who was just a rough crowd in that meat pack and plant There's one guy, when God saved me, turned my life around, changed me, and one of those other fellows was so antagonistic to me being a Christian, it just irked him to death. He came up one time, he says, Leatherman, your religion and this Jesus stuff is just a crutch. Because you can't handle life. And that guy was the biggest coke addict in that whole place. And I said, you know, we're really not much different except I'm leaning on Jesus and you're leaning on drugs. And I made the statement to him, I said, no, it's not a crutch. It's the stretcher, it's everything. I can't do nothing It's not me leaning on Jesus. It's Jesus carrying me and doing everything. And so it's a very biblical prayer, Lord, you have to do this. I can't handle this. And then last of all, it was a very beneficial prayer, and by that I mean this. It was effective. Lord save me, and God saved him. Lord, I need you to do this for me. And the Lord did it. The Lord did it. And I'm telling you, when we come to Christ believing, We believe that God is who he says he is, and we believe that God will do what he says he will do, and we follow his instructions. We can be confident that we come to him in prayer, that God hears us and God answers prayer. This week we're bringing children in here. I don't know. I believe the majority, maybe all of us, you feel the way I do. I want God to save these little kids' souls from sin in hell. With all my heart, I want God to save them from lives of sin and alcoholism and drugs and infidelity and fornication. I'd like to see these little kids give their hearts and lives to Christ and live pure, godly lives for God's glory. Amen or not. And we need to pray. And we need to be very blunt, we need to be very clear, and we're very straightforward with God. This is what we want you to do. I need revival in my heart. We need revival in our church. We need revival in our nation. And we need to come to God and say, God, this is it. We're desperate. We need you to do a work. Save us from ourselves. Save us from our unbelief. Save us from our cold hearts. Our lack of burden for the loss. I came across a stat, and I meant to share this earlier in the message, just this week through the mail, some sobering facts. Listen to this. 1% of people who come to Christ, 1% are saved before the age of 4. That's understandable. That's pretty young. Eighty-five percent of people that get saved are saved between the ages of four and fourteen. That is the crowd we're bringing in this week. What I'm trying to say is this, this coming week, this property is going to be filled with the hottest prospects for salvation on planet Earth. Ages 4 to 14. From age 15 to 30, 10% are saved. After age 31, only 4% of the people that trust Christ are saved after age 31. I can't document that, but that sounds pretty accurate to me. What I'm asking us to do this morning, and again we're going to do it tonight, I'm going to ask us to pray. Let's get our hearts thoroughly right with God. If there's something not right in our hearts, let's deal with it so that God can move this week and maybe save a generation and maybe save our country from his eminent judgment. And at least postpone it for a generation or two. A lot of people got some grandkids. I'm concerned about the country my granddaughter's going to grow up in. And what we're doing this week is so vitally important, and we've got to pray. We've got to pray. I don't know if this is much of a message, but I know this. I shared my heart this morning. And I believe many people here, you share the heart I have, what we're needing God to do. Let's pray. Father in heaven, We need you to save us, Lord. Some of us have already got our souls saved. That's not what we're talking about. We need you to save us from indifference. From coldness and unbelief and doubt and fear, selfishness. We need revival. We need healing. We need your intervention We stand before you this morning on behalf of these little children and teenagers, and we're asking you with all our hearts that you move this week and bring many souls into the kingdom, raise up some preachers and missionaries, godly young men and ladies. And we need you to do that. We can't do it ourselves. In Jesus' name. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many say, preacher, I need God to stir my heart. My Christian life has gotten cold, a little indifferent. I just need to be honest. I just need to be blunt. I'm not the Christian I know I ought to be. I need God to intervene, stir my heart And set my soul afire and renew my love for him. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher? That's what I need. God bless you. Hands all around. That's what I need, preacher. How many say, preacher, I know some kids are going to be this week. I'm going to commit myself to pray that God does a great work in their hearts. There's a great harvest of souls. And lives dedicated to Christ. If any like that, say, preacher, I'm going to pray with all my heart this week. God does a great work. God bless you. And teachers are going to pray and give themselves and bus workers. And workers across the board, just giving ourselves that God will do a great, great work. Let me ask this question. Is there some here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? Say, I don't want to go to hell. I like to know that God has forgiven me and saved me and have that settled in my heart. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, pray for me. I need that settled in my heart. I don't want to go to hell when I die. I want to know I'm saved. Any dog, by the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me that God will help me. How about it? Anyhow? Now Father, please bless our invitation. We've shared your word. You've spoken our hearts, I believe. Now help us to respond in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation as she plays. How about it this morning?