Go ahead and take your Bibles, turn Genesis chapter three or I'm sorry, Genesis chapter six is where we're at. We're studying the life of Noah. And uh we're in the early stages of our study. We're working through the this chapter here, getting up through uh Lord willing before long we're going to get into the building of the art and The flood and all of that. There's a lot of fascinating things behind that. We're going to look just tonight at verse number 13. And uh this is tonight's gorgeous message. I love that. I'm going to put in the bulletin gorgeous message by Pastor Leatherman. And um I like that a lot. Genesis 6 verse 13 And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me, for the earth is filled with violence through them, and behold, I will destroy them with the earth. Now today's Easter. The Easter message is a positive message, but tonight it's not real gorgeous. It's a pretty sober message we're looking at here. And the amazing thing is, is what uh the more I'm studying Genesis 6, and I've read it scores of times, I've studied it, I've preached from it, because I'm studying it now in detail. I'm seeing 2011, 2012, more and more in this passage here. So my title of the message is The End of All Flesh So let's pray. I'm going to try my best to get to the point and let us get out of here. But let's ask the Lord to speak to our hearts in the meantime. Father, as we look into this passage, we do ask you to speak to our hearts That you would challenge us to be true to you in these last days, Lord, in these wicked days, that we could be men and women of grace. of purity, of holiness, faithfulness, and that you would just help us. I yield myself to you. I present my body anew, Lord I ask you to take me, fill me with your spirit, speak through me tonight, and let your will be done in our lives. In Jesus' name, amen We're facing, as I'm studying this, I'm almost getting, not really, ashamed isn't the word I want, but um uh we're getting repetition Through Genesis 6 up to this point, almost to the point of it being extreme. It seems like God is saying the same thing over and over and over and over. building up, leading up to the time he gives Noah the instructions to build the ark. And um there's a reason for that When God repeats himself, he's doing it on purpose, and he has a a reason for that. Sometimes I get criticized a little bit for uh being repetitious, maybe in my Sunday school lessons or what like that. Going over the same thing over and over. But you know what I found? Sometimes that's necessary for it to sink in and get a hold of us. And many times I'll do that deliberately. And I think that's what God is doing here. He is emphasizing a truth. And let me just say this here. I believe what God is trying to do here, what God is communicating, is he's emphasizing the fact how bad the world was. Morally leading up to his flood. God is explaining that he was just in destroying all flesh And he's emphasizing that over and over and over. It's almost like, and I'm putting this in my own words, it's almost like he's saying, listen, you need to understand how wicked things were leading up to my decision to destroy all of mankind. And he says that over and over and over here in various ways in these verses. So he's emphasizing a point and again he's trying he I believe he wants us to remember this truth Why would God want us to remember? Why would he repeat it and repeat it and repeat it how bad things were, how corrupt man had become? Why would he want us in 2011 to remember that so clearly that he repeats it so often? What would be the reason? Let me suggest because we'll end up repeating it in our world. Jesus said, as it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be in the days of the coming of man. And it's almost like he's saying, listen, the world you're living in, the society, the deterioration of society worldwide, is not something new. It's happened before. And so God is being very repetitious here, almost on the border of extreme. Something else is interesting. I was looking at verse 13. Well, that's such a powerful message. It's making people's nose bleed. You know you got the power of God when people's nose are bleeding when you're preaching. No, Xander will be alright. Something else I noticed here. Look at verse 13. I want you to think with me here a little bit. Who is God speaking to in verse number 13? He's speaking to Noah. He's speaking, and my impression here is, correct me if I'm wrong later, but um uh my impression is That he's speaking to Noah privately here. It's God and Noah speaking. What God, the information God is giving to Noah is not being made available to mankind at the time, in the context here, is not being made available to mankind in general God is telling Noah, hey, this is what the story is, this is what the condition is, here's what I'm going to do, this is what is going to happen. Out here, they're not aware of that yet So God is giving Noah information that is unknown to the rest of the world, mankind in general. And God often does that. In fact, in 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verse 14, and I was going to turn there for the sake of time, we won't. In 1 Corinthians 2 and verse 14, God says this: listen to this. He says, the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit. In other words, God is saying that the unsaved world The world that does not know Christ as Savior, the world that is dead in their sins and trespasses, without God and without hope. That world does not understand the spiritual truths that God communicates to his people. You follow what I'm saying? Did you ever talk to somebody or interact with somebody who was an intelligent person? I mean, they were intelligent and educated perhaps, but when it came to spiritual things, they were a dumb bunny. And you know what I'm talking about? It's like they couldn't c like they were kindergarten. And you think, why in the world don't you understand what God is saying here? You know why? Because they're not spiritual. They don't know Christ. They don't have the Spirit of God living in them. And so God communicates sometimes things to those of us that know the Lord as Savior In ways that the world doesn't understand. Now let me throw, I thought of this just as I said that, let me throw a word of caution out We are not suggesting that God gives revelation to people outside of His Word. What I'm trying to say is God will speak to us through his word in ways in ways that perhaps God's people understand that the world looks at it and they just don't get it. You follow what I'm saying? So God is speaking to Noah here. Something else in this passage. I see God, see if you can get this from my perspective. I see God maneuvering behind the scenes. The world in Noah's day is going on their merry way, their wicked, ungodly, corrupt way. They're living in their sin, they're carousing, they're going on, however you want to describe it, they're doing it. But behind the scenes, God is maneuvering He's got Noah. He's giving information to Noah. In a little bit, a few verses, we're going to find he's giving Noah not statistics for building the ark. What? Specifications, I think, is the word I was wanting. He's giving him the specifications and all this stuff for the ark. The world's just getting up, going on, taking God's name in vain, blaspheming, adultery, fornication, cussing, swearing, drinking, carrying on. But God's over here working, maneuvering, setting things up. He's about to bring judgment on the world The world doesn't even know it. God's putting things in place. You know, I found several places in the Bible where God did that. Remember Sodom and Gomorrah? Familiar with that story? Question, Sodom and Gomorrah, good place or bad place? Terrible But sodomores getting up, going about their wickedness, ignoring God, living for the flesh, doing their thing. But unbeknownst to Sodom and Gomorrah, God's meeting with Noah. Aren't Noah. Let's see. Noah was not in Sodom and Gomorrah. He's meeting with Abraham. Gorgeous message, just gorgeous. You made my day, Mary. You made my day. God is meeting with Abraham. He says, shall I tell Abraham what I'm about to do? They said, yeah, he'll he'll he'll he'll he'll handle it. He'll deal with it correctly And God and Abraham, it's almost like Abraham is an auctioneer. Do you ever get that impression reading that? Will you give me 50, Lord? Give me 50. Will you save it for 50, 50, 50, 45, 45? God, will you give me? And I'm not trying to be light there, but what I'm saying is there's information being passed on. God is maneuvering. He's sending down. And the day that that fire and brimstone fell on Sodom and Gomorrah, God had been maneuvering for leading up to that, and the people in Sodom and Gomorrah had no idea. They thought everything's fine. We're living in sin. We're living without God. We're living in disobedience to the word of God. Everything is fine. The sun's coming up. The sun's going down. My bills are being paid. Hey, we're having a big old time But behind the scenes, unknown to them, God was maneuvering. And that awful day was approaching. I also thought of Nineveh Remember the city of Nineveh? Good city or bad city? Bad city. Idolatry, wickedness. In fact, they got to the point where God said, in 40 days, I'm going to destroy this city. But for at least three days, probably weeks, perhaps months before that, God was maneuvering. God was calling a prophet by the name of not Noah, Jonah. And God's calling Jonah. And then we know the story of Jonah, the knucklehead, and he's trying to run from God and all that's going on there. The whole time that's happening, Nineveh's going about their wicked business. None of us going about their sin, their wickedness, not giving a thought that just maybe God is paying attention Just maybe God is actually doing something to deal with it that they have no clue about. Isn't that just like us sinners? We think we've got the tiger by the tail. We think we are living, we're doing our thing, we've we're having a big time. Ain't nobody gonna mess with me. I've got it all planned out, I'm having a big time. And little do we realize the whole time God is working, and that dread day of judgment's coming. Now, praise the Lord for Nineveh, it was a different outcome than it was for Sodom and Gomorrah Finally, God was able to get Jonah to Nineveh. Three days late and a couple dollars short, but he got there. And Jonah cried out, 40 days and Nineveh shall be destroyed. And guess what happened They heeded God's message, repented of their sin, and God spared them. Isn't that great? But the point I'm trying to make is this, and what I'm seeing here with Noah is wow, the sinful world. Goes on their merry way and lives in their sin and ignores God and do's uh does their thing. Behind the scenes, God is working, God is maneuvering, until judgment falls. So God's dealing with Noah here, and it's behind the scenes, and uh reality is about to take place. He makes three statements To Noah in verse number 13. First statement is this, and I'm going to reword them into my wording just to help us grasp it and think about what's being said here. First statement he makes is this: Time is up! The time is up. Look at verse 13. And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me. I think what he's saying here is: Noah, time's up. The word flesh in the Bible is used primarily two different ways. One is to refer to mankind in general. The other way the term flesh is used is to refer to the sinful tendencies of us as beings. The Bible talks about sins of the flesh. The works of the flesh. And the fact of the matter is, we are fallen creatures. We're born with sinful natures. And the tendency Of our flesh, you remove the conviction and character of the spirit, and just our flesh get its own way, the tendency is to do wrong, is to indulge and engage in sinful things. That's why when you're some when you're flipped through the TV station and there's something there you know you shouldn't see, but you just hesitate for a second when you see it, then you catch yourself and go on. That's the flesh, tendency of the flesh. There's a little bit of juicy gossip being going on. Boy, the first reaction is, who? What? And then you catch yourself. Amen? And we don't indulge in it. That's the tendency. So the word flesh. He says, the end of all flesh. Is come before me. Now, is he talking about all of mankind? Could be. Although there are eight people who survived. So it's not the end of all flesh necessarily. You know, with that expression, uh I tend to lean towards the idea that he's saying man's period of time that he's been indulging his flesh is over. Man has indulged the flesh to such a degree, he is so corrupt. He is corrupt to the point that it has become violent. And that indulgence of the flesh, I've had it. I it's it's over. The season of flesh is done. I'm going to deal with it. And that's my impression of what's being said here. In other words, God's patience with man's wickedness is over. You know, it's a dreadful day when God begins dealing in judgment. It's a dreadful day when God begins dealing in judgment. We live in what we call the church age. Some people call it the age of grace. I don't like that term necessarily because I mean I like the term, but I don't like that description because Man has always been saved by grace. So this is the period of time, the dispensation, if you will, of what I like to refer to as the age or dispensation of the church, where God is working through the local church. That's why it's important, and I'm glad you're in church tonight. This is what God's working through. And we've been in this church age for now 2,000 years, thereabouts. And the world has deteriorated and deteriorated and deteriorated. And we live in a society now where you can have earthquakes almost weekly. of a degree that we've never seen before in history, and nobody considers the fact that maybe God is trying to say something. Huh? You have tsunamis taking place like man has never seen since the flood You have devastation and riots and upheaval. You have wars and rumors of wars like the planet perhaps very few times has ever seen. And yet nobody in the world stops and thinks, you know, maybe there's a God in heaven who isn't real pleased with our behavior. Maybe we need to reevaluate how our how we're living. Now I'm not saying an earthquake or a tsunami or some type of tragedy like that on a specific area is God being mad at that specific area necessarily because no doubt there's good people who live there and godly people live there. But I am suggesting this The earth as a whole, the Bible said, Jesus said in the last days, these types of things are going to take place. And God says, I've had it. Time is up. What is true on a whole for mankind is also true for you and I as individuals. We must not presume On God's gracious patience with us. I may be talking to someone here this evening. I don't know. It's between you and God. I'm a preacher. This is my responsibility. But I may be talking to someone this evening that you've been living in disobedience to God for a long time and nothing has happened. There's something hidden in the closets of your life, unknown to others, maybe not known to your family or your spouse or your parents or whoever It's wrong, you know it's wrong. The Bible condemns it. And it's hidden, it's hidden, it's hidden, and you've gone on long enough with that that you unconsciously have the idea. It's no big deal. God's word is very clear. There comes a point where God's patience runs out. There comes a point when God says, time is up. No more. I'm not indulging, I'm not tolerating your indulgence in this sinful activity anymore. It's going to end Um classic example of that, Aiken. Huh? He was so convinced he got away with it. that when God's winding up people one by one, picking them off, his tribe, his family, his household, even when it got down where obviously God knew what was going on. Obviously i if anybody else would have been there would have said Hey, you know, I'm had. But he was so convinced he was able to get away with it. And it wasn't until God forced it out So God says to Noah concerning mankind, time's up. Time's up. Time's up. Second thing God says to Noah, I notice here in verse 13, again, I put it in my own words. This world's sin is terrible. Time is up. Their sin is terrible. Look at verse 13 with me God said unto Noah, the end of all flesh has come before me. Now look at this. For the earth is filled with violence through them. Now God had already said that just a few verses before in verse 11. God has been saying repetitiously they're corrupt, that they're wicked, they're ungodly, they're perverse. They don't pay any attention at all to my principles and my commands. They don't give any thought at all to what my will and my plan is for their lives. They've completely ignored me. And that has brought it to the point where they are becoming violent. And here's the thing about the flesh, and we touched on this before, but God is repeating it. Here's the thing about the flesh. You indulge the flesh, it wants more. The flesh is never happy. The flesh is never satisfied. You have a young, you have some young people. Uh and I'm I'm I'm glad that young boys are interested in girls. In this day and age, I'm worried if they're not. Uh huh And I'm glad that young girls are interested in boys. But God has put perimeters for the interaction of boys and girls, young men, young ladies, right? God's put some perimeters there. That's a whole nother message. But the flesh is such that it always wants more. And so we're just going to hold hands. Innocent enough. But you know what? The flesh likes that. Ooh. I want more. Am I right or wrong? And after a while the flesh isn't satisfied with holding hands. Now we need to Come on And I'm okay with the guy wanting that. But I have a problem with them indulging it. Follow what I'm saying? And suddenly the flesh says, ooh la la. I'd like more of that. And then goes to the next level and the next level. And the next level. And then finally, one of the two says, wait a minute, this is wrong. No, we've gone too far. Now the flesh is being denied. And the works of the flesh begin to swell up. What do you mean? I want it! I have it! And violence breaks out Right or wrong. It's true in alcohol. It's true with any indulgence of the flesh. If that flesh is fed, it demands more And more and more and more until it eventually comes to a point where it can't be fed anymore. That need, that desire of the flesh, it is impossible to satisfy, and then it becomes violent. And it doesn't matter how unreasonable it is, it doesn't matter how ludicrous it may be, the flesh wants it, and the flesh will have it. And you have violence. You have women being beat around. You have folks being robbed at gunpoint. You have anger flaring up and people being beat to a pulp. In the news, a couple 14-year-old kids killed a little 11-year-old person. Flesh. And God is saying to Noah, it's gotten to the point. Man has indulged his sinfulness to the point where it is impossible for him under any circumstance to be satisfied and it is broken out into violence. That's the picture that he's given us here. Unrestrained sin produces violence. Again, I I wanted to go there, but For sake of time, we won't. James chapter 3, verse 14 through 17 compares the wisdom of the world with the wisdom of God. You know what the wisdom of the world is? Number one, first Man, you gotta look out. Dog eat dog. You better take care of what number one. You know what the wisdom of the world leads to? Strife. Violence. Selfishness. The wisdom that comes from above is first pure. In other words, it doesn't indulge the flesh. It's peaceable. Hey, when I'm content with what God has given me, I don't have to get in a fuss with people. The flesh is being denied, the flesh is crucified, and thus it produces peace. And so he's saying here: this sin has gotten to the breaking point where violence, cruelty is widespread. And then the last statement he makes here in Genesis 13 The end of all flesh has come before me. The earth is filled with violence through them. Look at this. And behold, I will destroy them with the earth. Ah, now God is beginning to reveal what his intentions are. Up to this point, he's been saying stuff like this. I wish I would have never made him. Oh, they grieved my heart. I can't believe well God doesn't say I can't believe God is saying they're so wicked. I wished I never would have created them. Now he's talking to Noah. He says, Noah, I've got a plan. I know what I want you to know what I'm going to do. I am going to destroy them and all the earth. Here we have the first indications that God is sending universal judgment to the earth. From here on out, God begins using words like this when referring to the flood. Now at this point, God hasn't told Noah that it's going to be a flood. He just says, I'm going to destroy them, I'm going to annihilate them, I'm done with them. All everything on the earth. I'm going to wipe it all out. He doesn't know how at this point. Noah is not told how But from this point on, God begins using words like all of mankind, the whole earth, everything that breathes. God is telling us here, this is going to be, and this becomes significant a little bit later on in our study, but God is saying that this isn't just going to be a little local flood. This is going to be the whole world. This is everything. So we have the first indication here that this is universal judgment. Judgment. Not a very popular word. Not a very gorgeous word, but it's a biblical word. Judgment. We live in a day when people mock the idea of God judging anything Well you let some preacher get on the news and mention judgment and and you'll have Katie Kirk and uh the guys I think of are Dan Rather and Peter Jennings. They're not even around anymore. Who are the cur who are the guys now? Uh the guys that are now. Well you get some pre-turn there and sub s suggest something Suggest something. Hey, maybe all these volcanoes and earthquakes and floods and riots, maybe mankind ought to pay attention. Maybe there's judgment coming. Brother, they'll eat you up like you're insane They mock the idea that there's any sort of judgment coming. Or even in, I hate to say it, even in our Christian circles, you get a preacher, get up and preach something about judgment on sin. And they might not mock it, but you know what they do? They don't do this literally, but figuratively. Hmm. I'm not paying any attention. I'm not going to let it affect what I'm doing or not doing in any way, shape, or form. I am going to ignore the message of judgment. God loves me and provide for me? Oh yeah, huh? That sounds good. Judgment on my sins? Hmm. Right or wrong Here's the bad thing about that. In responding that way, all it does is feed more ignoring of God's judgment When the world mocks judgment, all it does is reinforces the idea of mocking judgment. And it snowballs. And it's snowballs Until the point, the Bible says, before the Lord comes back, in not so many in so many words, that anybody that stands For the truth of God's word or the fact that we're accountable for our actions is going to be ostracized. They're going to be ridiculed. And they're going to be persecuted, and the people persecuting are going to think God's service. Judgment is coming. It will be total. I found that very seldom does man call his sin great, his own sin. Very seldom does this man say, boy, you know what I did is really bad. You know what we do? Do you hear what Robin did? I can't believe it. By the way, I know what she did. And I can't believe it You know what I found out? Nobody ever gossips about themselves. Is that true? Nobody puts on Facebook. You wouldn't believe what I do. Somebody told me this morning, yeah I get on Facebook, I don't write anything, I just catch up on all the gossip going on Nobody calls up, Brother Jerry, you won't believe how sinful I am. You wouldn't believe what I Nobody does that. You won't believe what Tom does it. Talk about others. Am I right or wrong? We minimize our the severity of our own sin. We play it down if we acknowledge it at all. But God doesn't do that. He deals with it for what it is. Very seldom does man call his sin great. We find nicer words for it. Oh, it's not sodomy, it's an alternative lifestyle. Now that's an easy one. We all agree with that. But how do we bring it home Oh, it's not adultery, it's an affair. No, it's adultery. Well, it's not stealing, I just kind of borrowed it Boy, I just got convicted about Lonnie's buffer. I still got that thing. Man, a live. I wish you wouldn't come to church. You'd convict me every time I see her I just gave them an excuse to stay home. How many folks here have been ever been in preaching and you got convicted by the preaching? Anybody here ever have here ever been preaching and you got convicted while you You follow what I'm saying? We downplay it, downplay it. God doesn't downplay it. I want to end with this. What I take from this passage that I studied here tonight for tonight. What I take away from it is we better take our obedience to God seriously. God, it's a very real possibility. This verse tells us it's a very real possibility that God is even right now maneuvering, unknown to you and I, putting things in place to deal with our disobedience. Even now. And we can go on our merry way until the judgment falls. Or we can say, hey, you know, I better take this serious. God's recorded this event of the flood and all these things so that I can learn from that And I can avoid God having me to deal with my sin. I like the passage here in 1 Corinthians, dealing with the Lord's Supper. He says, if we would judge ourselves, we would not be judged. If we come and say, Yeah, God, you know you're right. This is wrong, I've got to change it. I've got to God, this is right, I need to start doing it and do that, and then God says, Ah, I don't have to deal with it. They've dealt with it. They've confessed it, forsaken it, I forgive them. It doesn't require chastisement. That's the best way. Let's take it It seriously. Father, bless our invitation now. It's been a good day, Lord. You blessed us. A lot of visitors. Easter's always exciting. Help us to finish it out, Lord, humble before you Lord, help us as we go into this week. Take seriously your instructions to us, your warnings, your commands. Help us, Lord, to be pure and peaceable and God. So we trust you and obey you