The wood in unison. Verse number six. And uh I want to zero in on one statement there. And uh Lord willing, the way I have it planned anyway, we'll see how it goes. Uh we've probably been using our Bibles a bit, looking at different verses throughout both the Old and New Testament. So uh have your Bibles handy and uh let's uh let's look at this verse here. Genesis 3, verse 6. Let's read it together. Ready? All together. And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food and that it was pleasant to the eyes, a tree to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her, and he did eat. Now here's the phrase I want us to notice. It says, when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, now look at this next statement, and that it was pleasant to the eyes. What does that sound like? It was what? It looked nice, or you won't how else would you say it? It was very attractive to look at, or you could say it was beautiful. And I want to speak this morning on the subject, the beauty of sin. The beauty of sin. Let's pray, ask the Lord speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we come to you this morning very grateful for your love for us and your blessings We thank you, Lord. I'm always blessed by the music and the songs, the fellowship together, all that's taken place already has been a very help, big help to me and encouragement. I'm grateful for our church and for your presence here. And Lord, we bow before you with our Bibles open this morning, and Lord, we're looking at a pretty sobering subject. Lord, I wish I was more capable to preach on this. Lord, I know my own heart. Lord, we've all sinned and come short of your glory. So Lord, with that in mind, we need your Holy Spirit to speak to us. And we need you to speak through me to each of us and challenge us in this very serious matter of sin. And so I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. With all my heart, I pray, Lord, you'd fill me and be the preacher, Lord, I pray, in this hour. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. All the way from Genesis, we just read here, Genesis chapter 3, you go all the way through Revelation, and as you read through and study your Bible, you find that sin is a very, very major issue. For mankind. The Bible addresses the subject of sin very thoroughly, and as I said, from Genesis to Revelation, the subject of sin is dealt with in the Bible It is an issue, first of all, in man's relationship with God. Sin is a major issue in man's relationship with God. Everybody has ideas about God Everybody has thoughts. Everybody has their ideas about who God is and what he's like. Everybody has ideas about no matter who you meet, somewhere in their heart and mind, they have thoughts about God. Now, the problem is the Bible makes very, very clear, and we see it right here at the beginning of mankind, that sin became an issue in man's relationship with our Creator. Sin became a problem right from the start. So, what I'm saying is this: the Bible deals with this subject of sin And it presents as something very, very serious, something that must we must give our attention to, something we must deal with, because it affects man's relationship with God. Not only does sin affect man's relationship with God, sin affects man's relationship with man. It affects our relationship How many people agree with me? A lot of times mankind has a hard time getting along. Anyone notice that? Wars, rumors of wars, killings, murders, uh arguments. You can't hardly drive down uh through the city and not see somebody along the road arguing, fighting, something All of that finds its root, all of that finds its source, that failure to be able to interact peaceably and civilly, all of it finds its root in this matter of sin. Sin. It affects man's relationship with his Creator. It is separated from us. We'll see that in a little bit. Sin has affected man's relationship with man. In society, in the home, between siblings, husband, wife, brothers, sisters, parents, kids, sin Is a factor. And sin is also a factor. The Bible deals with it all through, very seriously, addresses it over and over and over again. But it is also a factor in man's own personal well-being. Man's own personal well-being. How many folks would agree with me? Mankind's probably, mankind, we would probably be better off if there won no sin. Boy, how different. How different our own health would be. How different things would be. So it affects us. It affects our own personal, spiritual, physical, mental, emotional well-being. And the Bible addresses all of this. You could do a series for years on sin. The Bible addresses it very, very thoroughly. Now, as a Bible believer, I don't know about you, I believe that book is God's word. We are a Bible-believing church. And as a Bible believer and as a Christian that believes the Bible is God's Word, we have our view of sin. Now, I don't know about you, but when I think of sin, or I see a sermon on the subject of sin, or somebody teaches on sin, sin is mentioned. What comes to my mind is something ugly. Anybody with me? Something ugly. Something that is death. And darkness and sorrow, judgment, dysfunction. We think of sin in very, very negative terms. We think of sin as very ugly and uh uh uh uh something that uh that uh is hurts and brings harm and pain, death, separation. That's that's our concept of sin But the Bible, in the Bible, you find over and over and over, sin presents itself as something very pleasant. Sin will present itself as something very pleasant. Here you had Adam and Eve. We'll look at this a little more detail in a minute. But here you have Adam and Eve. Satan shows up, God told him, You need any fruit of the Garden of Eden you want, it's all yours, have at it. Except for this one tree, a knowledge of good and evil. Don't eat the fruit off of that tree. Or Satan shows up. He's very subtle in the form of a serpent. He gets Eve gone, and you know what he doesn't say to Eve? What she doesn't, when she looks at that fruit, you know what she doesn't see She doesn't see the death that would be produced from eating that fruit. She doesn't see the heartache. She doesn't see her son killing her other son just not too far b after this, not too long after this, she doesn't see any of the consequences of it. All she sees is the beauty Of that sin, the attractiveness of it. All she sees there is that uh the fa uh uh uh sin presents itself as something very pleasant, something positive. This is good You engage in this, you indulge in this. And this will be something that's fascinating and very enjoyable. Sin always presents itself, whether it's Satan in manipulating or how it appears to the eyes and the senses of the flesh, it always presents itself as something very pleasurable. It never ever, sin never presents itself with its true colors. It never displays up front what the consequences are. It always presents itself as something attractive something pleasurable, something fascinating, something uh uh beautiful, something that would be wonderful There's an interesting statement in the book of Hebrews, Hebrews chapter 11, verse 25. We won't take time to turn there. You might want to jot it down. It's a fascinating event, New Testament record, in the event of the life of Moses. And it says in Hebrews 11, 25 that Moses chose to suffer affliction with the people of God Rather than enjoying, listen to this statement, the pleasures of sin For a season. For a season. In other words, this book of Hebrews is presenting to us, it's telling us there that Moses had a choice to make. He, of course, we understand, was raised by Pharaoh's daughter. He was a Jew. They were in slavery to Egypt. God was raising up Moses to lead Israel out of slavery in Egypt to the promised land. We know the story. But according to that passage there, verse 25, the Bible says that Moses had a choice to make. He could stay in Egypt and he could live it up. He could indulge in sin and he could indulge in in uh disobedience to God's call in his life and the wickedness of that society and the wickedness and sin of that lifestyle that he was leading as a child of Pharaoh, raised as a child of Pharaoh, he could choose to enjoy those pleasures of sin, or he could suffer affliction with the people of God and be used of God and lead them out. Now, of course, Moses chose to trust God and follow God's leadership and be used of God. But it's interesting, it phrases it, the pleasures of sin, and then cacks on that last Few words, for a season. So sin always presents itself as something attractive. Something that is pleasurable, something that will benefit me. It always presents itself that way. The beauty of sin. The beauty of sin I'm way ahead of myself, but I say this now. The beauty of sin is always one superficial. It's just appearance. It's just a facade. And the beauty of sin is always temporal. Temporal. It doesn't last. Now, here's my first thought this morning. We're going to jump right into it. Number one, I want us to consider the definition of sin. What do we mean when we say the beauty of sin? What exactly is sin? Well, sin is a very small word. S-I-N, three letters. Very small word, but it is very profound in its meaning. It's very profound in its significance. Now what the world the world's definition of sin, what society would define sin to be And what God and the Bible says sin are would not always be the same thing. How many people are aware of that? What God says is sin and what the world says is sin sometimes are exact opposites. What God says is wrong, and what God says is right, and what the world says is wrong and right are often exact opposites. In fact, I say this often the world has perfected the ability. To make that which is wrong seem so right, and that which is right to seem so wrong. The world can make the world has perfected through media and various ways, has perfected the ability to make sin seem good. And goodness to be sinful, to be sinful. In in many circles uh it's uh in society and and it's got into our government in uh in many circles, uh the Bible-believing Christian is considered to be the enemy of the state in some people's minds Someone that believes God's word and tries to live by God's standards and follow God's instructions in many people's minds are bad. They're a threat, they're a danger. So the world's definition of sin And God's definition of sin are often not the same, and in many cases, are the exact opposites. Now, we need to understand what God says sin is. God's the creator. He he is the standard of morality. God's holiness is the is the Standard of what is right and what is wrong, what is sin and what is righteous. God is the author of that. God is the standard, He is the authority, His holiness Determines what is right and wrong, what is standard. The eternal, all-powerful Creator God, He is the one that sets that standard of right and wrong. Sin and righteousness. Not a fickled society, not the changing whims and ideas and theories of mankind, but rather the eternal God. Determines what is right and wrong, what is sin and what is not sin. And if we have a if we have a misconception of what sin is If we have a distorted understanding of what sin actually is, it will have a profound effect upon my relationship with my Creator. My standing before God, because He is holy. He is without sin. He defines what righteousness in sin is And if I have a skewed view and understanding of what that is, my relationship with God is going to be incorrect. In fact, if I do not understand what sin is and deal with it as God instructs, I cannot have a personal relationship with my Creator. As a holy God, and not understanding sin and how it's to be dealt with, I cannot have a personal relationship with God. And uh if I don't do know the Lord as Savior, and I'm still not uh uh addressing sin correctly as a Christian, uh I become dysfunctional as a Christian. I can't function spiritually as I should. If I don't have a clear understanding of what sin is, what's right and wrong And so I hope you understand, I hope I believe I'm surely we understand the importance of knowing and understanding and addressing What the Bible says is sin. What the Bible says is sin. It affects my relationship with the Lord. It affects my spiritual well-being. I've been in the ministry many years now and work with a lot of people over the years. In fact since 1985, I considered my um beginning in full-time ministry, if you want to put it that way. And I've seen a lot of people. I've come across, and we have many in our church I believe, come across a lot of people, very strong, mature Christians. How many people know what I'm talking about when I say that. Very strong faith, strong in their walk with God, very close, living by the Word of God, the blessings of God upon them, the joy of the Lord's in their life. Strong, mature Christians. I've come across many of them over the years, many. Then, on the other hand, I've dealt with over the years as what we might define and describe as very weak Christians or a very immature Christian. Book of Corinthians, we're studying in Sunday school right now, address Paul is addressing the 1st and 2nd Corinthians are letters that Paul wrote to the church at Corinth. And he says that he could not address them as mature Christians. He had to deal with them and talk to them as babes, immature in their faith. And if you look at the church and you read it and you study the particularly 1 Corinthians very closely, the church was eat up with sin. The church had a completely misunderstanding of the sin and its significance, how to deal with it. And they were very immature. They were very weak in their faith. very uh uh very um anemic in their influence for the gospel. And I believe it comes down to a misunderstanding exactly what sin is. So what is it The Bible presents two concepts of sin. Two concepts. Now, if you would, keep your place here. I think we're going to end up back here in Genesis. But come with me, if you would, to the New Testament, all the way to the back of the New Testament, 1 John chapter 3. Of course, the last book of the Bible is Revelation. Then you work your way a few books towards the front from Revelation. You come to 1 John. I always point out for some of our folks, 1 John is right before 2 John. And so if that helps you, um We'll give you that. 1 John chapter number 3. And notice if you would verse number 4. What exactly is sin? The Bible gives two concepts of sin. 1 John chapter 3. And verse number four, notice what the Bible says. Whosoever committeth sin, look at this next statement, transgresseth also the law. Here he defines it, for sin is the transgression of the law Sin is the transgression of the law. Now the question is, what does he mean by the term transgression? Sin, what is sin? Preacher, I don't understand. What is sin? Sin is the transgression of God's law, God's instructions, God's standards. Sin is the transgression of it. Well, what do you mean by transgression? The word transgression is a very simple word in its meaning. It simply means to cross over a boundary. It means to step outside of a particular perimeter that has been set up. For instance, we got some of our young fellows, Austin, some of the fellas, play basketball. Play basketball. Any basketball fans here? Uh few. West Virginia Mountaineers, yeah. Did they win last night? No? Oh well. Never mind. Playing basketball, there are, as most games, there are boundaries. They're out of bounds. You got that ball, you're going running down the line, and you step outside the um, what do you call it? Boundary, right? Step outside the boundary. You can tell I'm a big sports guy here. And you step outside that boundary. Foo That's not foul, is that's time out. Alright, you get the idea. Listen, I'm working overtime this morning. Song leading everything. Everything stops. Why? He transgressed. He stepped outside the perimeter of what the play is to take place in. So God says this. God says sin is the transgression of the law. God is a holy God. He is without sin. He is perfectly righteous and good and pure in every sense of its word, thoroughly and completely. And when he created man, he created man in his image. And God created us and designed us. To live within certain perimeters, moral perimeters, for us to function, for us to be able to function as He designed us to. And when we step out the perimeters of that design and that purpose for our existence and what how we're designed to function mentally, emotionally. spiritually if we step outside that boundary, that perimeter of what we were designed, how we were designed to function. It's said. It's sin. And it causes problems. How many people agree? You've got a ballgame going on, football game, whatever, and they're constantly stepping out of bounds. That causes problems for the team. Become dysfunctional. They can't operate. They can't win. They can't accomplish what they're designed to be accomplishing. And that's what sin is for you and I. God has created us to live good and holy and pure and righteous. But mankind stepped outside the boundaries. We transgressed God's law. And when we sin against God, and then things begin to break down. Because we weren't, can I put it this way? We weren't designed to operate in dishonesty. We were designed and created by God mentally, emotionally, spiritually to operate as honest beings And we step outside that perimeter of honesty, and we have problems. How many people agree with me? Lying is a problem in most in relationships, in functioning in society, dishonesty. It causes problems. Um God designed us to uh in fact what what's one of the Ten Commandments? Thou shalt not bear false witness Our God is a holy God. Our God is true. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. And we were created and designed by him in every aspect of our being to operate honestly. And then we step outside that. And there's problems. So sin is any time you or I step outside the perimeters of God's design, God's law, how we were created to be. We step outside of that. And then we have issues. And then we have problems. So one concept in this matter of sin, one of the concepts is that of transgressing, crossing over a line, stepping outside the boundaries. Stepping outside the perimeters. Take your Bible, if you would. Go to Romans chapter number 3. There's a second concept. The Bible gives us sin. One is to transgress. Sin is the transgression of the law, stepping outside of God's standards of right and wrong, God's perimeters of righteousness Romans chapter 3, a lot of us will be familiar with this verse. Romans chapter 3 and verse 23. How many people say I knew you were going there, preacher? How many people anticipate that shore? This is an important verse Understanding what sin is in our relationship with God. Romans chapter 3, look at verse 23. For all have what? Sin. Now look at the next statement. And come short of the glory of God. All of us, every single one of us. There's not one exception in this room. There's not one exception in this county There's not one exception in this state, this country, this continent, this world. There's not one exception. We have all sinned. We've all come short of God's glory. The word Sin there in that verse means this. It's simple, again, a very simple definition. To miss the mark. To miss the mark, to come up short. Come up short. Um uh I enjoy archery. I don't shoot as much as I used to. I I I loved I love to hunt with the bow. I love to shoot archery enjoy. I used to a lot more when the boys were home shot a whole lot more. I like archery Um it is a it's almost a term it's almost an archery term to miss the mark. Uh if you have a target down there shooting competition maybe, you have a target, you have several rings. What's the middle called? The bullseye. That's the bullseye. That's the mark that you're shooting for. That's the mark that you're aiming for. Um when I shot a little bit in the league up there, Mount Storm, we shot a little bit, and there's a few times, and I just want you to realize what a phenomenal archer I am Anybody here know what uh Robin hooding a arrow is? Anybody know what that is? A few people. When you Robinhood an arrow, it's when you shoot one arrow, it's right there in the dead center of the bullseye And you shoot your second arrow and it hits and splits that first arrow. How many people, that's pretty impressive. I've done that. You're hitting the mark. Boom, you can't get you can't do you can't get much better than that. You say, alright preacher, I want to see you do it now. I'm too busy now. I don't have time to do that stuff now But to sin, when it says, for all have sinned, the the word sin there means to miss that mark. Not hit what the object is, what the target is. I'm missing it. I'm outside there. I miss that target. God has designed us. God has a plan and purpose for mankind when He created us. And as I said on the first concept, God has created us to live and operate. Within the holiness and the righteousness and the standard that God's holiness requires, He designed us in His image to live that way. But we've missed that mark We've come up short of meeting that standard that he created us to live by Um, I heard it illustrated years ago to understand what it means to come up short. Um let's say, let's say uh the California coast is where we're at. Let's just say that. illustrating here. And Hawaii is the mark, the standard, the the righteousness, the the purity, the holiness that God requires of us, that He designed us to live by And so we're going to swim out there. That's the mark. That's the target. We're going to be a and we start swimming. And some people go fifty yards and they can't do it and they wash back up. Others go a hundred yards. Some people, I've heard of people swimming for miles, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40 miles, swim out into the ocean. But I venture to say there's not one person to be able to swim from California to Hawaii. Unaided in some way or another. Would you give me that? Would you agree with that? They come up short. Some make it farther than others. Some are a little closer to the target than others. But Romans 3. 23 says that all have sin, all come short, all have done that. So there's two concepts of sin in the Bible One is to step outside the boundaries that are established by God. The other is, the concept, is to come up short, to miss that target. So sin really is this. It's any thought or deed that is outside the holiness, the will of God. Sin is any thought or deed that falls short of the holiness and will of God for my life. Falling short outside. So that's the definition of sin. It's not living up to what God designed us to live up to that He expects His Holiness demands of us. Operating outside the perimeters of how we are designed to live and what God's holiness demands to operate outside of that. So my first thought this morning is the definition of sin. My second thought is this, what about the attraction of sin? Why is it that it is so easy? Why is it that it's so prevalent that we step across that line so much? Why is it that none of us live up to that standard? Well, there's a number of reasons we could give for you and I, but I want to suggest this: sin is very attractive. Satan is the enemy of God. How many people know that? And by the way, the Bible very, very clearly teaches that Satan is a very real being. Just as real and literal as God Himself, Jesus recognized Satan as a real literal being. The prophets, all through Scripture, recognize and teach Satan as a real literal being I like what uh Lester Roloff said. He's on our radio station in the mornings. He said this if there ain't no devil, who's doing all this devilry? It's a good question. The devil is very subtle. The devil is the enemy of God, and he's the enemy of man. And the Bible tells us, the Bible reveals to us, that the devil's objective is to keep unsaved people unsaved. In other words, his object is to keep a person that has not found forgiveness of sins, has not been saved from their sin and judgment through faith in Jesus Christ. to keep that person lost, to keep them unsaved, to keep them in their sins. And if he can't do that, if someone does get saved, then his objective is to keep that saved person to disobey God and do wrong so that they are out of fellowship with God. They don't have God's blessing. They don't have God's leadership and direction in their life. God's protection in their life. And it breaks that fellowship So his goal is to keep man out of heaven, and if he can't do that, then to keep the saved man from God's blessings and directions. And sin is how he accomplishes that He gets us to sin. Satan, over and over and over, as we said at the introduction, he presents sin as something very enjoyable. He presents sin as something very pleasurable, something beautiful, beneficial. Here is the standard, the perimeter that God has designed and created us to live by and operate in. And Satan puts this beautiful, attractive, pleasurable appearing sin out there to entice us to step across. James says, every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. And drawn outside that perimeter, drawn up short of what God expects of us. He presents sin as something very enjoyable. Elvis Presley said, It feels so right. It can't be wrong. And that is exactly how Satan presents sin. Oh, look how enjoyable it is. Look how pleasurable. Boy, that would be so good for me. I know God's I know God requires this. I know God has commanded this. I know God has uh expects this of me Man, that would help me so much. That would be so good for me. That would be so enjoyable. And he presents sin as something very, very attractive, something very, very enticing. The attraction of sin. Now, if you would, come back to our text from this morning, back to Genesis. And let's see exactly how he did that. Genesis chapter 3 again, if you would. Now there's three key words, and I I don't have time to I really wish I could. I don't have time to focus on each of these But there's three key steps to sin. And here this matter with Eve. Notice verse 6. And the woman and when the woman what? Saul. I circled that word Saul in my Bible. She saw it. When she saw that the tree was good for food, now Satan got her focused on it. He's got her questioning God. And when the woman saw that the tree was good for fruit, look at this, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, a tree to be, what's the next word? I circled that word, desired. A tree to be desired to make one wise, she what's the next word, took, of the truth thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her, and he did eat. By the way, Adam was right there in the mix with her, right there with it. Saul desired, took. You're going to see here in a minute, those are the three steps that the devil uses to entice people into sin. Now when she looked at that fruit, she didn't see. She didn't see Satan didn't didn't uh tell her What the consequences would be. It was very attractive fruit. It was ple uh how does it say? It was pleasant to the eyes. It wasn't some shriveled up, moldy prune. It wa it wasn't some ugly, nasty looking fruit. Very pleasant. Oh boy, that looks good. That looks It's wonderful. In fact, Satan had convinced her that God was being unfair, that God was withholding blessings and enjoyment from them. And if she would just indulge in this, if she would just partake of this truth that God had forbidden, oh, how wonderful things would be, and you'd know right from wrong, and you'd be like God And he was lying. And it was this enticement, this attraction to the fruit that produced tragic results. So again, there's this beauty of sin, this attraction of sin. I want you, if you would, come to Joshua. Just a few working into your Bible. There, Genesis, X, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, Joshua. Sixth book of the Old Testament. Israel is out of the Egypt They've been led out. Moses has passed away. Joshua is now leading the nation of Israel. They crossed the Jordan. They're entering the promised land. And God is giving them miraculous victories. The Jericho and the walls came tumbling down. How many people are familiar with the event at Jericho? The Jericho event. And the walls came down. And before they went in, before they invaded the city and conquered the city of Jericho, God had given some very specific instructions. And there were to keep none of the spoils, none of the gold, none of the silver, none of the garments, nothing in there was to be kept. It was all to be given to the Lord. Later on they'd get plenty of stuff But this first city was to be to honor the Lord, it was all to be given to the Lord. So they go in and seven times round, they blow the trumpets, the walls came a tumblin' down. And they're in there and they're conquering the city. And there's a fellow by the name of Aiken We don't know much about them other than as they were um um what do you call after the army comes in then you do is it cleanup or Uh they're coming through afterward and just uh taking over the city and getting everything taken care of. And as he's coming through, they're going house to house The Bible says that he came across in one of the homes there of the defeated city, comes in one of the homes, and he found a few things. Found a significant amount of gold. Found a significant amount of silver. And look with me if you would, chapter 7, and look with me if we would at verse number 21. Verse twenty says, Aegan answered, Now this is after he's found out, this is afterward, but he explains what happened Achan answered Joshua and said, Indeed, I have sinned against the Lord God of Israel, and thus and thus have I done. He sinned When I, verse twenty-one, when I what? I circled that word. There it is again. Saw it. What did he see? I saw among the spoils a goodly Babylonish garment. That word goodly means pleasant, very attractive And two hundred shekels of silver and a wedge of gold of fifty shekels of weight. Then I, what's the next word? Coveted. I circled that. I desired it. I wanted it. I saw it. It appealed to my eyes. It was attractive. I wanted it. I coveted them, and then what? Took them. Saul? Desired, coveted, took. Same steps. Same steps. The appeal, the attraction of sin. It wasn't some old dirty, stained, ripped-up dress that he saw. No, it was a goodly Babylonian garment, probably very elegant, very, very expensive. Boy, it caught his attention. Caught his attention. And it led him to sin. It led him to sin. Listen, this is what I'm trying to say. Sin always appears attractive. It always appears pleasant. It's going to benefit me someday. It's going to, this will be good for me. This is, I'm better. off doing this and and and engaging in this. I know what God says. I know he said, but this is better for me. The attraction of sin. Um, we don't have time, but in 2 Samuel chapter 11, you can read the first several verses there. David, the king of Israel. A man after God's own heart, one of the best men of God in all scripture, humanly speaking. And he was up, the the the ar the armies of Israel were all fighting a war. He was supposed to be leading it, but he stayed back. And he's up on top of his palace and he looks out, and the Bible says that across the way there was another house. He was apparently above, looking down on the roof of that other house, and on that other house there was a woman bathing herself. And she caught David's attention. The Bible says she was beautiful to look upon. Tracted. And it caught his eye. And you have those same steps there. David saw her. He desired her And he took her. Same three steps, same three steps. And all through Scripture you find that same pattern. Sin presents itself as something very attractive. Sin presents itself as something very pleasurable. Something that will uh benefit me, that it will be good for me. And I know it's wrong. God has forbidden this is outside the perimeters of what is right and what is holy and what is good. It's outside of that, but The enticement, the attraction is there. Sin is always presented as something attractive. It is the beauty of sin that makes it so deceptive. It is the beauty of sin that makes it so dangerous. Matthew Henry is a great commentator on the Bible, and he said this: he says, sin is deceitful because it appears fair. But it's actually filthy. It appears pleasant, but it's actually pernicious. It promises much, but it performs nothing. Another preacher said, sin tricks us into wanting that which we know will destroy us Another preacher said this, there are very few things that are more deceitful, more deceiving than sin in the life of a Christian. So what is sin? Sin is a transgression of the law. It's operating outside of God's instructions, how God designed us to operate. It's falling short of what God has designed us to How God has designed us to live. Sin is very attractive. It always comes across as something pleasant, something desirable, something that is beneficial to me. But last of all, I am with this: the consequences of sin Consequences of sin. Though sin is presented as very pleasurable, and though sin is presented as very desirable, sin's end is always tragic. Sin's end is always tragic. Oh, it's pleasurable for a season, but nothing good ever comes out of sin. Now, this would be a whole nother message. Sin separates us from God. Isaiah 59:2. Your sins have separated you from me. If we die in our sins, we are separated from God for all eternity. If we die with our sins undealt with, unforgiven by God. We're separated from God for all eternity. Jesus described that separation as hell. A very real, literal place. Jesus says, ye shall die in your sins. He said the worst possible thing that can happen to a person is for them to die in their sins unforgiven, separated from God. Sin separates us from God. Sin costs us dearly. The wages of sin is death. I wish we had time to look at the experience of Lot, Abraham's nephew. And sin cost them everything, his family, his kids, his possessions, everything. To disobey God and disregard what God has said Sin sin uh uh separates from God. It costs us theory. Sin hurts others. We don't have time to study the Achins experience with the Babylonish garment, but you know a number of other people died because of his sin David ended up killing Bathsheba's husband, and then in the process of doing that, there was a number of other men who died innocently, unnecessarily, because of David's sin. Achan, family, soldiers, uh, David. In sin, sin hurts the innocent I wonder how many children are hurt deeply because of the sins of mom or dad I wonder how many people have an empty seat at home at the kitchen table or the living room or when they get together because the sin of alcohol. Some drunk plowed through a stop sign and killed an innocent family. Sin. It's tragic in its results and how it affects not just us, but others. It separates us from God. We can't have his blessing, his leadership, and direction. Sin is separating us. It must be dealt with. It must be, we indulge in sin that hurts others I could go on and name specifically sins and the devastating effects that they have. But sin hurts others. Sin always hurts others. And sin always produces worse sin. Say, well, it's just this. It's not that big a deal. We'll never go beyond that. But yet sin is always progressive, always progressive, always progressive. I could tell you my own experience and sixteen years old, I think, fifteen or sixteen, went to a first rock and roll concert, the Spectrum in Philly. Introduced the pot. Smoke pot that whole night, never been drinking and s smoking cigarettes before, but now it's smoked pot 1975 Came out of there and the guy that introduced it to me says, listen, we'll smoke pot, but we're never doing any kind of drugs or anything. We're not doing any kind of chemicals or nothing like that. It was just the next, the next, the next. Life was totally devastated. We had when I was young, we had a raccoon Remember that, Dan? Susie Q is her name. That's so cute. My grandfather had a chicken farm. He had 5,000 laying hens. And of course raccoons were attracted to that. And one day he killed this raccoon. He shot it, and it had a bunch of little cute little baby raccoons. What do you call a baby raccoon? Baby raccoon. Had a whole bunch of them. And he called us up and he says, hey, you guys want a little baby raccoon? Oh, they're so yes. So we went and there was a whole slew of them. We got one of them. And it was a little girl, and we named it Suzy Q. Oh, Suzy Q was so cute. You know, we feed her a little bit, a little thing, and she got a little bigger and grew and and uh she lived in the house there and and she would go under the sofa upside down With her claws on the bottom and just race back and forth and stick her head out. And she'd climb up on the sofa and and sit on her shoulders and she'd dig in her ears and pull around and so uh the Uh and just carry on, chew on the end. Oh, we love Susie Q. She was so cute and cuddly, she'd curl up and and and we showed her off to everybody come by, oh look at Susie Q, she's so cute with her little raccoon eyes and tail. Oh, we love Susie Q. So she turned about 24 months, about two years old. And I didn't know this at the time, but we found out later, at 24 months, raccoons go through a glanular change in their body. And Susie Q got mean. I mean like that. What was so cute and what was so cuddly and we were so showed off and just so wonderful and pleasurable. now became literally a monster and was a danger to us. I mean seriously we had a we could not get near her. She would shred you Huh? And we had to get somebody to come by and get Suzy Q and take her away. I want to suggest to you that's the way sin is. Oh, and so, oh, I'm enjoying this. This is wonderful. This isn't nothing like what the preacher says the Bible sinned hurts. This is everything's going fine For now. For season. But I'm telling you, sin, like that little Susie Q, there comes a point where it turns on us. I was reading about a fella had a um zoo and a little a lady came and they had a little pet raccoon, a little baby raccoon, she I'd like to have it, and he told her what I just told you that, you know, at twenty-four months it turns mean She was told about it, she goes, oh no, I raccoon would never do that. IRacoon would never do that. And he said within a year she had plastic surgery. It had absolutely scarred her face. Oh, my sin would never hurt Oh, it won't bother me. Yeah, I'm different. It won't hurt me. I'm telling you, the consequences of sin are inescapable. Must be dealt with, it must be addressed. One more illustration, I end. When I was down in Chattanooga at the Highland Park Baptist Church, every Thanksgiving day they had a service on Thanksgiving Day in the morning, one morning. and they had a preacher by the name of Bob Kelly, one of my favorite preachers in the world. And one year Bob Kelly told this story. He said he had been preaching down in Texas. This was years ago. He said he was preaching down in Texas and he was staying in the home of a church members of the church. He was staying in their home for that meeting. He said the first morning that he was there, he got there that evening, they had service, they went to bed. That morning he got up there having breakfast, and he said it was just him and the the father, the husband in the home, just him, the two of them eating breakfast. And he said they were talking and having fellowship. And he said that after a bit, they brought out a child. And he said the child had severe physical handicaps. And that it could hardly function. He said its face had deformities, its physical body, mentally it was uh handicapped. And he says it was just, there was just Very, very serious problems with the child. Mother came out and they were caring for it. And he said, as soon as the child came and sat down, he said the daddy's countenance dropped. He said the whole spirit in the room changed. After they took care of the child, the mother took it away. He said, Dr. Kelly, goes, let me tell you my story. Said when I was a young man, teenage boy, I ran around, slept around with whoever would let me sleep with them, drinking. Carrying on, he said, I didn't pay no attention to God. I didn't pay no attention to the Bible. I didn't care what was right and what was wrong. He says, I wanted to do what I wanted to do. And he said I was having a big time Said what I didn't know, that I had picked up a disease. Later, I got saved Married a sweet Christian lady in the church. Had a child. He said, because of the lifestyle, because of my sin, before My child was born this way. And he said, Brother Kelly says every day I get up and I look at my child and I see the consequences of my sin. I'm here to tell you, sin is very beautiful, very attractive, it's very appealing on the surface. But it is a lie of the devil. The very best thing to do is to trust God and follow his instructions. Repent of a say. Maybe I'm talking to someone this morning. I don't know. The Holy Spirit of God is dealing with your heart. There's something you know is not right, you know is not in line with the Lord. And that's between you and God. But what I am saying is this: don't ignore it. Don't just brush it off. Deal with it. The Bible says if we call upon the name of the Lord, he will forgive us and save us from our sins and from hell. And as a believer, if we'll confess our sins, he'll forgive us and cleanse us from all unrighteousness But it must be dealt with. Proverbs twenty-eight, thirteen, I think, is the reference. Says this he that covereth his sin shall not prosper Whoso confesseth and forsaketh shall have mercy. Shall have mercy. We've got to take it seriously. We live in a world where it's so skewed. But God's word is true, and right is still right, and wrong is still wrong. And sin is still sad. It must be dealt with. Father in heaven, I pray. That somehow you would use these thoughts this morning to challenge us to examine ourselves and consider our deeds, our actions And I'm so glad for the Lord Jesus we can come and find cleansing and forgiveness and renew our walk with you, renew our spiritual well-being. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, and I know this could be pretty personal, I understand that. But I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, pray for me. I want my heart and life and mind to be right with God in every way. And maybe God spoke to your heart this morning. Say, preacher, pray with me that I'll make right decisions and I'll do right. Is there any like that by the uplifted hands between you and God? Maybe God dealt specifically with your heart about something Again, that's you and God, but I'm urging you to deal with that. Don't ignore it. Don't brush it off. God bless you, hands all around. Maybe there's some here this morning say, Preacher, I have someone, maybe a family member, a dear friend or someone, and and we can't be judgmental. I mean we all have our issues, but you say, Preacher, I see what sin's doing in their life, and it breaks my heart. I want them to come to Christ. I want them to find new life in Christ. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'd be a good witness and I'd be able to help them. Find the Lord and find victory in this. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I know some. I care deeply about them. Again, we're not judgmental. We just care about them. We want what's God's best. God bless you, hands all around. Would there be some here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure that my sins are forgiven I don't know for certain that when I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. And I don't want to die in my sins. I want to know that God has forgiven me. And the Bible tells us we can know that. You'd say, Preacher, pray for me that I get that settled in my heart and life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need to know that I'm saved. My sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. Any at all And you're all Father in heaven, bless our invitation now, I ask. Have your way in our lives in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's