Twelve Exodus chapter twelve Let me see. I uh how many verses we want to read here tonight. I'm gonna allow you to remain seated because it's gonna be a few verses. Um let's uh let's just go ahead and start in verse one. How about that? That's a good one. Exodus chapter 12, verse 1, the Word of God says And the Lord spake unto Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying, This month shall be unto you the beginning of months. It shall be the first month of the year to you. Speak ye unto all the congregation of Israel, saying, In the tenth day of this month you shall take to them every man a lamb according to the house of their fathers, a lamb for a house. And if the household be too little for the lamb, let him and his neighbor next to his house take it according to the number of the souls Every man, according to his eating, shall make your account for the lamb. Your lamb shall be without blemish. Mail of the first year, and ye shall take it uh out from the sheep or from the goats, and ye shall keep it up until the fourteenth day of the same month, and the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it in the evening. And they shall take of the blood and strike it on the two side posts of the upper door and the upper I'm sorry and on the upper uh doorpost of the houses wherein they shall eat it. And they shall eat the flesh in that night, roast with fire, and unleavened bread, and with bitter herbs they shall eat it. Eat not of it raw, nor sodden at all with water, but roast with fire, his head with his legs. And with the pituance thereof. That's the entrals. And you shall let nothing of it remain until the morning. And that shall uh that which remaineth of it until the morning ye shall burn with fire. And thus shall ye eat it, with your loins girded, shoes on your feet. Your staff in your hand, and you shall eat it in haste. It's the Lord's Passover. For I will pass through the land of Egypt this night And will smite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both men and beast, and against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgment. I am the Lord. And the blood shall be to you for a token upon the houses where on Yar. And when I see the blood, I will pass over you. And the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you when I smite the land of Egypt. Let's pray. Our Father, we come to you tonight to ask you one more time to put up with us. Ask you, Lord, to speak to our hearts. Pray that you'd fill me and use me tonight to preach your word. Help to be clear that even the youngest might understand and be saved. And I pray, Lord, that uh this might mean something to each one of us. As we think about that which was shed on Calvary 2,000 years ago plus, that precious blood. Redeemed not with silver and gold, but with the precious blood of the Lamb. So, dear God, I pray that you'll bless this service. Thank you for the chalk drawing and pray that you'd bless it as we show it in a little bit and get honor to yourself. We thank you for each one that's here. God bless each one of them in Jesus' name. Amen. And amen. I think uh probably all all of us uh understand or know pretty much what the story is up to this point in uh the book of Exodus. We know that uh Uh Israel had been uh with in Egypt for now over four hundred years and uh during that period of time they had gone from a privileged people uh when Joseph was running things uh way back, you know, in Jacob's day. And uh And then uh all at once, why uh it seemed like that the nation of Israel had grown to such proportions that uh the those in Egypt were starting to get a little bit worried And uh finally of course we were talking four hundred years now, and in four hundred and some years why they have grown from just those few of uh uh you know, Joseph's brothers and family and so forth to over uh you know, probably uh uh uh several million people, to two or three million anyhow And so uh the uh Egyptian pharaoh he he begins to worry a little bit. He's thinking now, what if another nation would uh get them to help overthrow us and it would be easy because they'd already be on the inside so to speak and and they can so Uh the Egyptian pharaoh said, Well, have to do something about that. And so what they did was they put him in bondage. And uh making uh bricks and mortar and stuff like that. And we won't go through that whole thing. But just you d you know that they were a a uh people who are uh uh like slaves uh to Egypt in these days. And there came a time when God said, Well, I've listened to the cry of the people as they've cried out to me that they need they need deliverance from Egypt, and so I'm going to send you a man. And so God had prepared a man uh named Moses. And Moses comes in and he uh confronts uh uh Pharaoh and he says, uh, I want you to let my people go. And Pharaoh says, No, and so God uh you know he sends the plagues. We uh we know the story pretty well, so I'm just kind of you know rushing over it Which I don't really like to do, but but uh we're doing it anyway. So e uh so the nation of Israel then Over a period of time, there was all the plagues that God put upon Egypt. Finally, Pharaoh and Moses have it out. And when they when they fuss at each other, why uh finally Moses uh uh ph Pharaoh tells Moses, says he said, that I don't want to see your face again. If I see it again, I'm gonna kill you. And so Moses said, Well, you've rightly said I'm you're not going to see me again. And so uh that's when this took place here. This is the way God is going to deliver his people from Egyptian bondage. You'll notice in in uh uh verse uh uh let's see it's in verse the verse thirteen, yeah. In verse thirteen it says, And the blood shall be to you for a token upon the houses where ye are. And when I see the blood, I will pass over you. And the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you when I smite the land of Egypt. So God says, All right, here's what I want you to do. He's talking to Moses now. He said, now listen, I want uh I need to deal with this this thing of of uh Egypt. They need to be punished. Pharaoh needs to know that I'm the boss, that I'm God And here's what I want you to do. I want you to to pick out a lamb and set it aside for a few days and then I want you to slay it on a specif a specific day. And uh I want you to take the blood in a basin, and I want you to take some hyssop, which is like a Well, it's more than more than grass, but it has a sort of a minty type of uh flavor to it. And uh he says, I want you to take some hyssop, dip uh the hyssop into the the blood that that's in the pan. and s swipe it on the s uh door sides and across the top. Now if you look at the Uh at that and what that does is you have the blood here dripping down straight and you have the blood across here and it forms a cross. Now you can make something out of that or not, but uh it's uh I believe it's significant. Well, certainly the blood is a picture of Calvary, is it not? And so we see that that God is starting to deal with this thing. But he says, I want you to, this is going to be a token. This blood is going to be a token. The hyssop is like a picture of our faith. God takes our faith and applies the blood to it and uh uh uh applies it uh our faith to the blood and uh that's what saves an individual We're saved by grace through faith. Yes, faith in what? Faith in the blood of Jesus Christ that cleanses us from all sin. And so this token is what I want to talk a little bit about here tonight. There's about three or four things that I think um uh are significant about the token. This this blood that's being applied. You see, today Uh not every church, or not every building I should say, that has C H U R C H written across the top of it is not a bona fide church. And the reason is because basically because they've taken the token, the blood, out of the preaching. They've taken the token or the blood uh out of their songbooks, and they don't sing about the blood Now it's sort of uh I don't know, somebody says it's like a 7-Eleven type music that they have. They sing the the same seven words over eleven times or something like that. I don't know whether that's true or not, but 'Cause I don't go to those churches. But the point I'm getting at is that that uh that that this this token is is important because it's a picture of the blood of Jesus Christ that cleanses us from all sin So uh the first thing I want us to look at is that that this is a distinguishing token. It's distinguishing because when I say that, uh it it distinguishes the nation of Israel from from the Egyptians. It's a distinguishing token. Separates, separates And the blood of Jesus Christ separates. Separates the, you know, the sheep from the goats, the tares from the wheat. It separates. If you believe in the Lord of Jesus Christ and believe in it that the the blood of Christ takes away all of our sin, if you've trusted Christ as your Savior and are trusting in the blood, that sets you apart from this whole world out here. It sets you apart from from the churches that do not preach any longer the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. And so it's a distinguishing token. It uh uh When you see the blood, you think of one thing. You think of death. But the Bible says the life is in the blood. That's the reason why God says I don't want you. He tells the the nation of Israel you're not to eat the blood. You're not to drink the blood. You're not to have, you know, that's you know, we I don't even get a rare steak Now the preacher does. I want you to understand, he eats blood. Do you eat do you eat a rare state? Medium. Well, medium what? Oh well. You're off the hook. You're you're okay. All right. You see, sin deserves death. God d God says, hey, uh the soul that sinneth it shall die. The weight of sin is death. Death and and and blood just kind of go together because you When you take the blood out of an individual, death is what takes place. So this is a token that speaks of the sin that Jesus died for on the cross of Calvary. And when you think of the situation here where the lamb is slain, and I look and I think about the Lord Jesus, who's the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. And I think of another thing, and that is the the the substitute, the substitute, the substitute. Jesus was our substitute. We're the ones who sinned. We're the ones who deserve death. But Jesus took our place. He was our substitute. We died in Jesus. The firstborn is dead, and no cause for smiting, because smiting has been done on the cross of Calvary. In Romans 5. 28 it says, but God commendeth us, God commendeth us, commend his love towards us into while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. We are safe. After the sprinkling of the blood, uh they went to to feast and not fret. There was something about the confidence they had. They didn't have to worry about uh about death, didn't have to worry about the death angel. The you know, I've uh have you ever thought about the the situation there that night? As the father of the house, you know, he had takes everybody and he says, All right, get your clothes on like we're getting ready to leave to done in the next five minutes. He takes the lamb out, the lamb is slain, the blood's in the basin, he puts it on the doors like he's supposed to, and uh uh then uh they wait. And all at once the death angel, I believe it was in the person of the Holy Spirit or the Lord that came through, sweep swept across that landscape, and all at once the firstborn. Over in this house began to weep. And next thing it died. And all across the nation of Israel, with the exception Of the land of Goshen where the nation of Israel abode. Their homes were spared because of the Passover, where the death angel passed over them and killed the firstborn and all of the nation of Israel, including the animals. It was a time of death over there. Wages of sin is death It's not only a distinguishing token, but it's also an assuring token. That God would preserve safely and surely. They were convinced because God said it that that was enough I'm glad that we have a a book here that tells us what God says, aren't you? I don't have to rely upon somebody saying, Well uh God, you know, says this or God says that. Uh we can just turn to the Word of God here and we can read the pages and see what He wants us to know. And the good thing about that is that uh whenever we read the Word of God, we know it's God's Word, we can trust that there's an assurance in that. When I when I think about this the matter of of life and death, you know, uh when you get uh up to my age, uh, you know, there's things to think about. When you get eighty-five years old, you you think about the next five years, five months. Five days, you know, maybe five minutes. We don't really know, do we? And I realize that anyone of any age can, you know, go on to meet the Lord. I understand that. But uh the percentages are a lot higher for me than they are for you. Because I'm uh I'm older I think than just about everybody in here. But I'm glad I have the assurance. I know there was a time in my life when I saw myself uh in pretty bad shape. And I said, Lord, do you know I I don't want to die and go to hell. And I didn't. And hell was very real to me. And m in my mind I could see the flames flickering up around my feet. I felt that that's how God was gonna I mean he could he could zap me out any time he wanted to. When I trusted him as my savior that night at a revival meeting like this one right here, uh it changed my life. Change my life from that moment on. It's an assuring token. And the the wonderful thing is I never feared death after that I remember the days before I trusted Christ as my Savior. I remember the the fear that would cover me at night. Afraid the house might burn down and I'd find myself in a room full of flames and then die and go to a uh room full of flames. And that's that's kind of a terrifying thing. But I was assured. And where I got my assurance was uh out of this book. And I found verses in here that told me I I was no longer under condemnation. And I've I I I read verses in there that's uh like the the one that's my favorite There in uh in John chapter five, verily, verily I say unto thee, you know, He that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life. And I I took those words from me personally, they were my words God spoken to me because I got them right here. And they was I was reading them and they was talking to me. These people, that day, they had this this token. And it was a token between God and them. God said, if you'll do it, I'll pass over you. You don't have to worry about death. You can have the total assurance. That I'll pass over you as a death angel, you'll never know death. And so that's exactly what happened. They had that perfect assurance. But remember You rest on the excellence of the person himself, the Lord Jesus Christ. The excellence of the person The third thing uh is this. It's a most significant token. Most significant token. It has a has a special meaning. Because we're bought and paid for. We're redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. Here's where I need to get some of my thoughts straight, so you'll excuse me as I I I look down at my notes a little bit more on this one here. A token of our redemption. Because we're now free. I look over in the book of Exodus in chapter chapter 12 and verse 31. Let me slip over there. Exodus chapter twelve and verse thirty-one. The word of God says this. And he called Moses, talking about Pharaoh now. This is after after the death angel had passed over and his his firstborn was taken and the the weeping and wailing all over the nation of Israel because of the of the uh the death angel passing over and taking the the lives of the firstborn. Of all the families and all the animals, the firstborn was was dead. And he says in in uh uh verse thirty one He says, and he called for Moses and Aaron by night, and he said, Rise up and get you forth from among my people, both ye and the children of Israel, and go serve the Lord as ye have said. And also take your flocks and your herds, and as you have said, and be gone and bless me also. That's Pharaoh talking. He got a a dose of of uh God's judgment and he understood who he who he was dealing with. And he says it's time to go. What's that speak of? It speaks of freedom. Freedom. And that's the reason this token is so significant, because it bought the freedom of the nation of Israel, the people. You belong to God. Those who who lived I wish I could write better. Those who live beneath that token were the Lord's. And you are not your own. You're bought with a price, the Bible says. And when you think of Christ crucified Think of yourself also as crucified to the world, no more belonging to self, sin and Of Satan, no longer bound by worldly costumes and fashions and fads, but the Lord's free man Your his uh his acceptance. There was a uh A story about during uh one of the wars, could have been any war, I suppose, but a wounded soldier came uh came home and He goes to the home of a comrade who is still on the front and knocks on the door and Uh the husband and wife come to the door and he says, uh, does so-and-so live here, his friend's name. He says, I have a letter from him, and and he was my dear comrade in arms, my friend. And he began to search through his pockets and he couldn't find the letter and the par the parents just thought he was pulling one trying to get a free meal. I know back in World War Two that did happen some. Some who came back from the war would go to some of their, you know, uh they to get get some free handouts and so forth. But all at once he found the letter in one of his pockets and he pulled it out and handed it to the father. And the father read the letter. It says, uh, it's this letter, Dad. I want you to Treat this man just like he was me, because he's my best friend here in the Army. The letter was a token. To show uh who the man was. And that token brought his uh freedom there with that father. What I'm saying is that the blood of Christ that you and I are trusting for salvation is what God's looking for. And if you've been born again by the Spirit of God, then the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses you from all sin. And that token will guarantee you a place in heaven one day. Perfect safety Walking through the woods, I find a tree that's marked with a red streak of of paint across it. All the other trees around uh have none. And I see the the axman coming through the woods and as he as he s cuts these trees down, I notice that the tree that I'm standing beside that has the red mark, he walks past that one and he cuts the next one down and the next one. But every tree with the red mark he passes it by. That's exactly what Jesus' blood does for you and I. If you've been cleansed by the blood, God looks down to your uh in your life. And he does not see the sin, but he sees the blood. The blood cleanses us from all sin. So God the Father accepts us on the basis of the Son. And what Jesus did on the cross of Calvary 2,000 years ago. The blood was a token, picture. Of what God did for us 2,000 years ago. We can have these lights out, we'll show the sharp. If you can't can't see the lamb in the Lord's arms there. I want you to, you know, we have a tendency to look at sin different the way God looks at it. God looks at sin If you offended one point of the law, you're guilty of all of them. Waging sin is death. And that's the end of the story. That's how God looks at sin. Man looks at sin and he says, Well, you know, a little white lie is not as bad as a big lie. You know, you can steal a little thing, it's all right, but a big thing you can't do that. You can cheat on your taxes, but you know, you you know what I'm talking about. We look at things different. Things we can get by with we think are all right, but that's that's not what God looks at. I want you to think for just a moment with me about that day that they took the lamb. They set the lamb aside for a few days, make sure it had no spot or blemish. And then they Then they took that lamb that uh the kids have been feeding every day now for the past few days. Took that lamb and they slit his throat. They killed it. Now maybe maybe that doesn't mean anything to you, but you know, I I don't know. It just seemed like If that lamb was known in the family, I'd understand they had big herds of them and so they you know, big flocks. So I know that uh uh that does the type doesn't really fit exactly. But the point I'm making is this. That the killing of that little lamb, you look he picked that lamb up and you look it look at him right in the eye and take a knife and cut his throat. Uh, that'd be hard to do for me. You want to know how bad sin is? Well think about it. The Lord Jesus was just that had the He had the uh how can you say uh the mannerisms of a sheep he was genuine, kind. All he could think of was You know, how he can do good and and help people and save people. I mean that was he came to seek him to save that which is lost. That's what he that's why he was there. And uh, could you just take a knife and cut his throat? That's how bad sin is. We don't we just don't realize how bad it is. But uh We need to go back and look one more time at Abraham and Isaac. When Isaac was placed on the altar and Abraham's ready to kill him, you know. If God hadn't intervened in that thing and said, hold it, hold it, there's a there's a ram over in the bush. You know, you can trade it off. Aren't you glad that God allowed a substitute? Aren't you glad that that God said, you know Uh I all I see on this earth are people whose the very thoughts and imaginations of their heart done the evil continually. That's all I see and and he could just wipe the whole mess out and been done with it But instead he he provided a way. The ark was that way. The Lord Jesus is that way tonight. You may be here and you've, you know, uh and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior. Maybe you're, you know, like some people, religious, but lost. You've you've gone through all the motions and all the ritual and all the religiosity that you can go through, but it's not changed your life. You're just still the same old person that you've always been. There's been any change. When the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses you from all sin, that's what it means. Makes a new creature out of you. Gives you a new life and new hope and and a new home. The Lambda Night. It's that lost lamb that uh he left uh the hunter of the ninety-nine behind and went out and hunted for that lost sheep. And you may be that lost sheep tonight. And I want you to know that he wants to save you more than you want to be saved. And all it takes is for you to be willing. Many as received him, to them gave you power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Maybe you're here tonight and you're a Christian. But you realize that you don't take your Christianity serious. It's just uh uh sort of to fit in with everybody that you're pals with. Being saved is a serious thing. And it deals with a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. And if you don't if you don't have if you if you're just doing what you're doing because it's religious or because your friends are doing it or because You know, if you're if that's the only reason that you're coming to church and reading your Bible and praying and doing the things that you're doing, then you don't really have it. But you had a chance tonight to make it right. You can say, I want my sins under the blood because I know he cleanses me from all sin. I know that he can change my life and and give me a hope and give me a uh you know something to look forward to in his life Heavenly Father, I pray now as we go into the invitation time that you'll speak to hearts I pray that you would just help us here tonight to focus on what's really important. And that is our relationship with God. Help that one who's here tonight that's never trusted Christ as Savior. Help them to come and let us show them from the Bible how to be born into the family of God. Speak to our hearts tonight in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Let's all stand to our feet if you would please. Heads bowed and eyes closed. I'm going to ask the pianist. She'll just start playing a a