At seventeen years old, he's so abused by his brothers they wanted to kill him. I run across young people all over this country that are living in family problems and troubles. There's no peace in their home. I've met some young people who are generally trying to serve the Lord on two ends of the spectrum. They're second and third generation Christians, and they've never seen really a Christian life lived without hypocrisy in front of them. And they get jaded on the things of the Lord. I'm thinking of one young man right now. And my wife's in contact with him back and forth on some things on Facebook. And he doesn't want to have anything to do anymore with fundamentalism. Wounded by his father and his mother. Because their ministry ended when their divorce happened. I've seen others But have they're the only ones in their families serving the Lord and every battle they fight to get to church breaks my heart. And there's no encouragement in the home to serve God. I see young people that are in between. They've got parents in a church that are halfway in, halfway out. And they go to a team meeting, they go to a youth camp, something happens and God works in their lives, and they start to get a little fire on them. And their parents are pouring it off because they don't want to wholly commit to Christ. And they sure don't want their kids to. You think of the life of Joseph. Think about that. His brothers hated him and wanted to kill him. And sold him and lied to their father and said that he was dead. And they carried that guilt with them for years. And we got to the review of it and we talked about how that he started out in his parents' house. And the most important thing about Joseph's life is that God was with him. We said that during his day and age there was not one scrap of Scripture written, and we are so blessed that we have the complete revelation of God that we can go to and depend on. He only had what his parents put in him and showed him about worship. Remember this, worship back then was always at an altar. And at an altar, it's not like what we think about today. We call this an altar. That's not what he worshipped at. He worshiped at a place where they killed the animals. In the Old Testament, the altar is a place where things died. Young people, if God would just so move. You could come and put yourself on an altar. You could die to yourself. And live what the Bible refers to as an exchanged life. Jesus said, if you'll try and gain your life, you'll lose it, but if you lose your life for my sake, you'll gain it. You don't have to live in bondage to the world. You don't have to live in bondage to your flesh. You do not have to live in bondage of your mind. Back in my day, and that was a long time ago, a man named Tim LaHaye wrote a book, The Battle is for the Mind. Satan is attacking your mind today. Think about Joseph when he was sold and he'd taken to Parphar's house. He's down there with the worldly Egyptians. And as soon as God showed favor on him because the presence of God was with him, God was with him. God blessed everything he touched. He works his way up where he's now head of Potiphar's house. Potiphar's wife, seeing him being successful, she tries to get him to commit sin with him. He didn't say, I can't sin against my master Potiphar. He said, I can't do this thing as a sin against God. And we've got in our brain the thinking that's been driven into your minds is that you can do whatever you want to make you happy. That is your generation's cry today Whatever it is, and whatever you think in the imagination of your mind And this is the first generation has fallen prey to a battle of the mind that has never been seen before in humanity. And that's the business of gender dysphoria, is what the professionals call it. And you don't know if you're a boy or a girl I'm looking at young years. I gotta be very careful I heard of a youth camp, a good fundamental Baptist youth camp, who's your heels. They gave an invitation one night specially said that if there's any of you kids here that are dealing with that problem, if you come forward, we're going to have pastors and youth counselors to pray with you. And over a dozen kids from independent fundamental Baptist churches came forward on this business of sexual identity. But yet we live in a country now where I saw where a senator from the state of Louisiana was interviewing somebody for the Supreme Court of the United States. And she could not say what a woman was. And she's going to decide the laws of the land for us. I'm gonna get pretty personal. I can't name names. But there's a child that I know of that has grown up and I've known her. I love her to death. And she's transitioning. And she's gone through the hormone therapy. And she's already had the top surgery My soul is vexed because she's not the only one. And you go into the malls and you see kids anymore. Dressed in black, morbid looking, they call it goth, and they feast on things like What's that Twilight series? Books about vampires? That is satanic. It is a battle for the mind. Don't you think when Joseph was going through his troubles and everybody was against him and he gets lied on after the pit experience He gets lied on and thrown into prison and then forgotten in prison. Don't you think that the battle was for his mind? Don't you know that there was a warfare going on and it was Satan against God and he was in the middle of it? But what that young man could not see at 17 was what God was going to do with him when he stood before Pharaoh. And the end of the story is he's going to live to be a hundred and ten years old and see his children and his grandchildren. But he knew that his home was never going to be permanently in Egypt because God's promises of the dream was the promised land. God's presence in your life should be your main goal. If you could latch on to that, the one master. The presence of God should be above everything in your life. We talked about how that because the presence of God was in his life, God spoke to him and gave him a dream. Young people, Satan wants to give you a counterfeit dream called an illusion. And the illusion will fade. The illusion is false. And the illusion is not for a fixed amount of time. It quickly goes. But a dream that is given to you by God is something that is going to last. It has duration. That dream gives you direction in your life. Young people, you need to latch on to something now that is a beacon that you can hold on to out there because you don't know what the steps are in between. Joseph was able to get through this stuff because he believed God. And you can tell that his brothers did not believe God. And the question for you is you're going to have to make up your mind whether or not you're going to believe God. The first thing is, are you going to believe God that He died for your sins and wants to be your Savior? Do you believe that He has the power to save you? Do you believe He's the only Savior? Do you believe he's the Son of God? Do you believe he lived vicariously a perfect life and death for you on the cross? And do you believe God, when he said he rose, he rose from the dead? Yes, I believe that. Now, do you believe he's got the power for you to live a different life? I believe that. The question is, do you believe God? Do you believe God? Do you want God to give you a dream? Do you feel like sometimes you're just wandering aimlessly through life? God wants to give you a dream. God's got a plan for your life. He deals with all of us as individuals. And he deals with you differently than he deals with me. And God's got good things planned for you. But to get there, your journey is going to take you in places you cannot anticipate now. And you're going to have to go through things like the pit. And you're going to have to go through things like Potiphar's house. And you're going to have to go through a prison. Before you get to the palace. Most Christians, even in our ranks, drop out on the way to the palace, and they never get there. It's a sad story. Take your Bibles and took back to the birth. Get my tongue straight down. To the book of Genesis. Genesis chapter 40, verse 23. Now I'm gonna have to skip over a lot of stuff for sake of time. Chapter 23 Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgot him. And you may feel like that you are forgotten of God. But I'm going to tell you this: God never forgot Joseph. And God has not forgotten you. Ma'am, this is an improper question to ask from the pulpit. You're eighty-nine years old today? Forgive me, are you married? Are you looking? I have a friend of mine, Jack Gwynn, is going to be 89 next month. And he needs help. He started the church, Bible Baptist Church, there in in Stone Stonewood. He's from West Virginia. He's a little rough around the edges, but he needs help. And uh he he's got a lot of problems. But I think you would be the woman that could really help him a lot. Now he's a strong personality. He pastored all these years. You know how pastors are So you better talk to your pastor's wife before you jump out and marry a pastor. Even though he's not pastoring a church now except for for the interim. If you get interested, give me a card. Have you got you got my card? I just thought I'm gonna get you a birthday present right now. I'll get you Jack Gwen. Dr. Jack Gwynn from Meadowbridge, West Virginia. Amen. Nobody has here been to Meadowbridge, West Virginia I got the twenty-five cent tour and I'm still looking for my change. This lady, from all I know of her, has just been great. Uh she's faithful. You don't know how encouraging that is to me. I wish I had hours to sit down and spend talking with her. And she would probably tell me things, Brother Mock, if you'd have told me when I was these girls' age, I would have never believed that my life went this direction Girls, you don't know what's between here at eighty-nine years old And life's journey is a bumpy road. And if you were to follow Christ, I cannot prove to promise you that it's all going to be sunshine and roses, and it's not going to be a straight, easy path. But I'm going to tell you the destination of the palace is worth it. Remember, Joseph lost his coat twice. But he never left his care lost his character one time. We used to sing a song when I was y'all's age and going to youth rallies and stuff, the best thing in my life I ever did do was take off the old robe and put on the new. And they pull him up out of the prison. Look at this in chapter 41. And it came to pass at the end of two full years, Pharaoh dreams a dream. And then you find that the butler said, I've seen my sin. Boy, there's a man I know that can tran interpret this So verse 14, then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him hastily out of the dungeon. And he shaved himself and changed his raiment and came unto Pharaoh. And he said, I hear that you can interpret dreams and look at the end of verse 16. And he said to Pharaoh, It is not unme. God shall give Pharaoh. An answer of peace. And the ruler of all Egypt, who saw himself as the sun god being worshipped, was the first time he was ever told that there was a God that could tell him anything. Verse 25, God hath showed Pharaoh what he is about to do. The dream was doubled. Look in verse 28 at the end. What God is about to do, he showeth unto Pharaoh. Look at the end of verse 32, and God will shortly bring it to pass. And when it was all done, and he trained and he gave him the dream, God gave the interpretation to Joseph, who gave it to Pharaoh. Pharaoh says in verse 38, and Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find such a one as this? A man in whom the Spirit of God is, young people, if you get the presence of God in your life It cannot be hid. People will know it. And the world is hungry to see that. Verse 40, thou shalt be over my house, and according to thy word shall all my people be ruled, only in the throne will I be greater than thou. And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, see, I have set thee over all the land of Egypt. And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand and put it upon Joseph, verse 42. his hand, and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen, and put a gold chain about his neck So the man that loses his coat twice gets royal robes at the end Verse 44, and Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without thee shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all of the land of Egypt. And as a side note, Potifer, who was the captain of the guards, was probably there that day. Can you imagine him going home and telling his wife, hey, you remember that Hebrew boy that you said Committed sin with you and I threw him into prison? Yeah. Well I report to him tomorrow. He's second in command in all of Egypt Now what do you think she's thinking? Bible doesn't say. Verse 45. And Pharaoh called Joseph's name, Zapbath Paneh. And if any of you girls ever nail name one of your boys, Zap Bath Panea, he is gonna grow up tough fighting in school. And he gave him to wife, Ashnath, the daughter of Potiphirah, priest of Om. And Joseph went out over all the land of Egypt. And Joseph was 30 years old when he stood before Pharaoh, king of Egypt. And he has two sons born in verse 50. Verse 51, Manasseh was the name of the firstborn, because he made me to forget all my toil. Verse 52, and the name of the second was Ephraim. God hath caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction. Verse 56, and the famine was over all the face of the earth. And all the countries came into Egypt to Joseph for to buy corn. We're running through some stuff real quick. Look at this. God has called me to forget, names that first boy, Manasseh. And God has made me fruitful. You older folks, if you've ever gone through anything in your life that is hard like Joseph went through, you're going to have to learn how to put those things behind you if you're going to be fruitful grabbing those things that are ahead. What did Paul say? Forgetting those things which are behind, I press toward the mark of the high calling of Jesus Christ. I have hammered this week. About a higher calling. A higher calling where God specifically speaks to you and gives you a job to do that is a higher calling That higher calling demands a holy standard of living. All Christians should be holy. All Christians should live godly lives. All Christians should be righteous in their dealings with mankind and God. But I'm telling you, if you want that higher calling on your life, it's going to have to be some holy living that sets you apart. And you don't get prideful because you're the one at the top of the food chain. It's humbling to think that the God of the universe would give you just a small part in the gospel ministry to rescue souls from hell. And that's God's doing. That's not man's doing. And it ought to humble us. And it ought to be something that we prize and something that we seek. Some of you parents should be saying, oh God, can you use my child? Some of you parents wouldn't hurt, oh God, could you use me? Some of you here might even be resisting that call. God's been calling and putting it on you, but you've been telling him no, giving him reasons why you can't do it. Maybe you're young and you don't want that because you've got other plans for your life. Throw your plans away. Ask God for His plans for your life. That's the only way you're going to get to the palace. First time God spoke to me Was at Medalake Baptist Church and it was in the matter of salvation and he wanted to give me a gift, and brother, he did. And it was wonderful. The second time that God spoke to me. Was at Rolling Hills Youth Camp. And the camp speaker was a missionary. And after that junior week of camp, and I stayed over for the senior week and stayed with my daddy's teenagers. He was the head of the teen department. They watched me. My daddy couldn't stay. He had to go to work I missed all the cool stuff the kids were doing at night. I missed the pillow fight. I missed everybody getting drugged by the tractor on an upside down car hood to the, you know All the bone-breaking stuff. But I didn't miss the preaching. God spoke to my heart for the second time in youth camp. If you'll quiet your life down, kids, that if you get closer to God, He'd speak to you. He's not going to holler and scream and yell at you. But when he gets your attention, he'll speak to you. And he spoke to me, and I knew that he one day would want me to be a missionary. I even went to Bible college as a mission major. And Joe and I have served the Lord faithfully for 48 years, but I'm telling you, we even helped start a church But Pastor, I was not serving with my gifts functioning in my calling. And the Bible says in Romans chapter 11 that the gifts and the calling of God are without repentance. And I might have changed my mind. God had never changed his. And around eighteen months before my fiftieth birthday God was working heavily on me. And when my 50th birthday rolled around, I gave up And said yes to God. I was afraid to tell my wife that we were going to leave our life and start another one. I told my mother-in-law before I told my wife. Men don't ever share a secret with your mother-in-law that you don't tell your wife. She's going to find out. My wife found out she was not upset. I'd already found a buyer for the store. Hadn't found a buyer for the house yet. We sold everything we had, stepped out by faith, moved to Powell, Tennessee, not knowing what the Lord would lead us to do. And when I was forty-eight years old, say, if an angel would have sat down then and told me what these would be like from now to then, I wouldn't have believed it. I have never been more satisfied doing what I'm doing than anything else I've ever done. And if you would give your life to Christ. You would find that same thing. When I run across people that have worked in the grocery store business I used to own one. God can deliver. And there's something a whole lot more important than selling green beans. And when you see some kid come get saved. You see some daddy and some mama get right. And get married. If one day, if I live old enough, I don't know that I will. If one day, I don't know how you feel about this, but if one of these kids came up to me and I'm preaching in a meeting, I'm brother Mark, I'm on my cane, get over Do you remember me? No, I don't remember you. You don't remember me? I'm joking, of course. I hear you came to my church and you preached. And I want you to know that I gave my life to the Lord. Oh, that's good. I want you to meet my husband. You've not met him yet, but he's the pastor that called you. You better step back. I'm gonna get a little Pentecostal. I'm sorry. That's what I'm after. I'm not looking at these things that are temporal. I'm trying to look at what is unseen. Young people get a dream and look beyond your ability to see. Get the eyes of Christ in you Don't look at things and see them as other people do. Joseph now understands because the plenty years have come and now the famine has come. And the famine has come, and things are changing. And he's going to be the instrument of that change, and he sees it now that I have been sent here to save much people alive. You read Hebrews, I believe it's in chapter 2. Jesus bringing many sons to glory. And the suffering that he went through in this earth. pales to the glory that he's winning because of the victory. And whatever you go through as a child of God, as a member of this church, and you think it is suffering, I'm telling you right now Get your eye off of the temporal now and look to the forward, the future, where it is all going to be good. And that's the glory that goes to God. Go on up, I'm gonna pick on you up again. Don't let stuff knock you out of the saddle. Young people are easy to get offended. Did I offend you the other night? Yep Work with me, kids. Yes, yes, you really did, sir. Yes. You did? You're very offended by what I said from the sermon. Extremely, yes. Okay. Okay, play like I'm the pastor Uh tell tell me you're about to quit church because because of what I did I offended you right by what I preached on the other night. Yeah. And also and he offended you also. Right. Right. And you're offended with him and you're crossroads with him. Okay, let me see your hand. Okay. You're a believer, right? Yeah. I don't see no nail prints in your hand. I don't see where no thorn were thrust into your your brow. You've been offended? Where's the veil prints? Where's the scars? Folks, we need to get something to try There ain't nothing you suffered like what Christ suffered. The Bible says that Joseph's feet were hurt by the iron fetters. Get out of here, kid, you bother me. You're gonna let some petty offense Because the evangelist said something that you think was a word that should not have been said from the pulpit? Did I say anything bad? Sometimes I do. My wife says, Ted, you need to filter. I am filtering, honey. If you knew what I was thinking about, say folks Is the cause of Christ not greater than our feelings? God was not concerned with Joseph's feelings in the pit, the feelings at Potiphar's house He was not concerned with how Joseph felt in the prison. What God was concerned with was what he was trying to make Joseph to become. In the Bible, you need to look for hidden meanings. Joseph said, It is not in me. He said, God, Jehovah, shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace. Pharaoh thought of himself as the sun god. And he had never heard that there was a higher God until Joseph told him of the only God. Young people, you may be the only one that ever tells somebody else about the higher God. Joseph is now out of prison and all of his experiences have taught him something else. He's got different vision. I said quit looking at the temporal and start looking in the future. Look with the eyes of God. But his vision is different. Because now he sees himself not as sold, but sent And God's wanting to try and change your vision. He saw a different vision of God. He saw a vision of a God who could do anything. And now that he's made the palace, he understands everything that went before was to bring him to the place where he is now. It's an impossible success story. Without the hand of an Almighty God, he could have never gotten there. And young people, if you give your life to God, he can do stuff with it that you could never imagine could be done with your life. He also saw a different view of others. Instead of looking at his brothers as the culprits that threw him into the pit and then sold him off into slavery. He saw now the reason and the purpose, and he saw them with compassion. And when you read on in the chapter, what happens is we can't contain himself anymore on the second journey. And he goes away weeping and he says, I'm your brother. And I love you. And the power is in with my hands right now to kill every one of you. But I don't want to. I want to save your lives and your family's lives. And God will change your view of others. And for some of y'all, that's going to be changing your view of people that has caused you hurt and harm. But they're lost. Or either they're out of the will of God and they need the Lord. Or they need to get right with the Lord. And they're not doing that to you, they're doing it to the child of God. Because you are the child of God. Pastor said earlier that he wants to leave a good testimony. He and I talked about this extensively today. I want to finish well. The world does not need, neither does your family need, your reputation. They need your testimony. Your reputation is something you build. Your testimony is what something God built in you Young people, you need to leave your children a good testimony. You folks out there that are like me. You're narrowing down to the end. Finish well. Leave a good testimony. I've seen too many parents aren't leaving good testimonies to their children. The fruitful years in Joseph's life were in the future. Jesus said in John chapter four, look on the fields, they're white unto harvest. He said, You say three months and then comes or four months, how many months was it? Four? Four months and then the harvest? Do you realize that was a freshly planted, plowed up field? Perhaps some sprigs of green coming up, but you couldn't tell what had been planted there yet. But Jesus said, look at it. It's white, ready to harvest. We have got to get in our minds that we need to look at things through the eyes of Christ. And I'm going to tell you about these children right here, folks. Uh you don't need these. Look at these kids not as who they are now. Look at them with the mind of Christ what God could do with them. In Mark chapter 10, when Jesus blesses the children. That is a patriarchal type of blessing. Just like Jacob blessing Joseph's two sons, if you know the stories. Manasseh's the older one. Daddy's going blind. Joseph brings his boys into his daddy Jacob. Daddy's going blind. Wants to bless the kids. And Jacob crosses his hands and takes the right hand over the younger son and the left hand over, and you know what? It ain't supposed to be that way. And he said, Daddy, don't do that. He said, I know it You know why? Because he was blinded physically, but not spiritually, and he saw what God told him those boys would become. That day when Jesus blessed those children, he wasn't looking at them as the infants they were. He was looking at them at what they could be. It is imperative, church, that you feed this fire. And don't look at these kids as they are now. You know what I'm talking about. I've not been here very long. There's some of these children that I've been around. They don't have enough love and attention at home. They're trying to get it from somebody here desperately. And they're like little robins in a nest when mama comes with one word, one worm, eep, eep, they do it to you guys. Don't eat eep. They want all of you. Oh, And you're probably saying to a few of 'em, I wish that kid would leave me alone. Look at that child like Christ. Some of them are withdrawn. You don't know what's causing that. You don't know what God's gonna do with that. God can work. You don't know what God's going to do with any of these boys. Well, I sure don't either. But God can. And you want to know how I know that? Because, Pastor, he could do something with a 50-year-old man. I know he can do something with a 15-year-old teenager. Words of warning at seven fifty-nine. The world will try and replace The favor of God in your life with the favor of man. Beware of that. The world will try and replace the power of God With your own power. And why say that? Let me say that to the men, because we want to do it in our own power. Don't fall for that trap of Satan. It's the power of God or it's nothing. The world will try and replace the praise of God in your life. With the praise of men. And some young guy goes off and he starts doing well in Bible college, and they say, Boy, he's doing good, and he starts sucking the praise himself and deflecting it from God. That's a bad combination. But most important, young people especially, don't replace the eternal with that. I mean don't replace, you know, the eternal things in life with the things that are temporal that are going to pass away. The world will never understand that what we work for is that which is eternal. We work for the unseen, not for the seen. Few Christians today will ever get a hold of that fact. And they will miss the palace. Focused on the present. This church is probably On the verge of going down one or two paths, You're doing well. I'm in hundreds of churches. You are doing well. You have an extraordinary pastor. Does that help the love offer? No, no, that's just I'm serious. You got an extraordinary pastor. He has a heart for you. He's not a preacher, although he's a good one. He's your pastor. You young people are blessed with someone that loves and cares about you. Church, I have never seen a church that's seems like a family like this any better than y'all. There's a few of them out there, but it's not the norm. For your size, I know what your mission giving is. I was in a church that runs 400 that's not given much more than that a week. Everything I see is good. But when you're serving the Lord, just like Joseph, Satan is your enemy. And I fear that churches like this are going to take one or two routes. Go down, go liberal, go sideways. get focused on things that are not productive of getting the gospel out. You know how many churches I mean I just was in a church in Shreveport. They paid over a hundred thousand dollars for a van that you could load wheelchairs up in. They built twenty-four thousand dollars shed to park it in. And they wouldn't pick up a kid from the projects in it to save your neck. Because that's reserved to take all these old folks to the outlet malls. God help us. What's it gonna be? God has plans for this church. And I believe the mind of God is for this church to do great things for him. Brother Moff will never gonna run a thousand. Nope. But is the next Dio Moody sitting out here? Who knows? Get your mind off the temple church and get it on the unseen. Get to the point where you want your life to count for Jesus. Will you come play that song for me? I love that song. All want their lives to count for something. To leave their mark when life is through. Our vain pursuits will count for nothing. Time will erase all that we do. I want my life to count for Jesus. For earthly things will quickly fade. No need to add The earthly treasures. Do you want your life to count for Jesus? I'd like for us to bow our heads, do something a little bit different while you play.