1 Thessalonians chapter 5, I want to begin reading in verse number 16. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verse 16. Notice what the Bible says. Rejoice when Evermore. Look at the next one. Pray without what? Ceasing. So rejoice evermore. Pray without ceasing. Now look at verse 18. Notice this Pretty clear. It doesn't require a lot of explanation, I don't think. Verse 18, in everything give thanks. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. What is God's will, according to that verse? What? What's God's will according to that verse? Give thanks. Give thanks in what? Everything. Everything. Let's pray together. I've entitled the message, The Greatness of Gratitude. The greatness of gratitude. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless our time in your word tonight. And Lord, my desire And I believe the others share this with me. All we want to do tonight, Lord, is just tell you thank you for all you've done for us. Overwhelming goodness. that you've shown us. You crown each day with your goodness and your blessing. And so all we want to do tonight is thank you. And express our gratitude. So help us, Lord, as individuals and as a congregation, to, as a body of believers, to be able to, for the next few moments, just Express gratitude to you. Fill me with your spirit is my prayer. I know this is your will, I have no doubt about it. And so speak through me, challenge us all through your word through my lips, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. I think you can divide mankind basically. You can divide them up a lot of different ways, but our thought tonight is into two classes. Uh you one class would be those who are grateful for things that they receive. People who are grateful for things they receive. And the other class would be those who take for granted The things that they receive. Some people are very grateful. They receive something, a blessing, a answer to prayer, some sort of provision, something, and they're so grateful for it. Then you have another class of people that just take it for granted And the good things that God does for us, and the nice things, kind things other people do for us, we just tend to take them for granted. Um I put down uh these two categories. I put these down. A grateful person is a big-hearted person. An ungrateful person is a very small-hearted person. A grateful person is very strong in their character. An ungrateful person is very weak in their character, it's a very poor character. A grateful person is, I put it this way, in the spiritual major leagues Grateful person in the major leagues spiritually. An ungrateful person is in the minor leagues spiritually. A grateful person is tremendous. An ungrateful person is trivial, trifling. A grateful person has principles. An ungrateful person is pretty petty in how they live their life Being grateful is a great thing. The greatness of gratefulness. Somebody said even a dog wags its tail when you do it a favor. Throw a little biscuit to a dog, it'll wag its tail. You pat a dog on its head, it'll wag its tail. Now I know I've known some dogs that bite you, but generally speaking, a dog will express some gratitude to some extent. Bob Jones Sr. made this statement, tremendous statement. He said the loveliest flower that blooms in the garden of the heart is the flower of gratitude. And when gratitude dies on the altar of man's heart, he is well nigh gone Gratitude, the greatness of gratitude. Now, for those here in the service, uh, you have a little place for sermon notes there. Let me give you five things I put down That happen when we're gratitude. What happens when we're grateful? Five things I put down. Number one, I put this down. We are following the pattern of spiritual giants. When we are grateful, when we express our gratitude to God and to others, we are following the pattern of spiritual giants. Now we go all through scripture. We could list many, many people in scripture that expressed gratitude. I picked a few out. The first one I put down was this, Miriam. Who can tell me who is Miriam? Somebody tell me. Who is Miriam? Moses' sister. And she was um she was involved to some extent in the leadership of Israel coming out of Egypt as they went out and uh faced the Red Sea and she was right in the mix there with Moses and Aaron and uh and she expressed uh back in Exodus she expressed a tremendous uh gratitude to God when he delivered them from the Egyptians. So we're following in the pattern of Uh Moses and Miriam in particular. I put down Hannah. Somebody tell me. This is Bible quiz night tonight. Who was Hannah? Somebody tell me who was Hannah. The mother of the prophet Samuel, tremendous prayer warrior, and what an expression of gratitude she She showed back in 1 Samuel chapter 1, chapter 2. Now, my opinion is Samuel was one of, if not the, greatest prophet uh in the history of Israel. He was a phenomenal prophet of God, used mightily of God. And his mother is noted by two things, is characterized in Scripture by two things. Number one, by her prayer life, and number two, by her gratitude. And when you and I express gratitude, when you and I are grateful, we're following this pattern of some tremendous men and women of God. I put another one I put down, of course, is David. You can't read through the Psalms. You can't read through the life of David and given in the Old Testament there and not see a man who is tremendously grateful to God for his blessings on him and for and even the trials he went through, David would express gratitude for what they did for him and how he grew through them and how they helped develop his faith And so when you and I express gratitude, when you and I are grateful to God and others, we're following this pattern that King David uh established. Solomon, all through the life of Solomon you find statements he made and gratitude he expressed. And Jesus said of Solomon that there was none wiser. on earth than Solomon. And so that tells me that being grateful is following in the pattern of the wisest man, the man that had supernatural wisdom Following his pattern. And so that tells me being grateful is wise. Being ungrateful is foolish. So we're following this pattern, these spiritual giants, all through the book of Psalms, unnamed authors that were used of God. Unnamed penmen, I should say, that were used of God to record some of the Psalms down, they would express gratitude, gratitude, gratitude, praise to the Lord, praise to the Lord. So we follow a pattern of uh great uh spiritual giants. Elizabeth, the mother of uh uh John the Baptist. Expressed tremendous gratitude. Mary, the mother of Jesus, among women, among those born of women, there's none greater She was very, very grateful, expressed gratitude. The leper we preached on Sunday came back and thanked the Lord, expressed his gratitude to the Lord. The Apostle Paul, we mentioned that Sunday. Apostle Paul over and over is expressing gratitude to the Lord, to others who helped him in the work, to others who were a blessing to him. And then, of course, the Lord Jesus Christ. So when we're grateful, the greatness of gratitude, when we're grateful, we're following the pattern of spiritual giants. Number two, I put this down, jot this down When we express gratitude, we're fulfilling God's will. We're fulfilling God's will. Somebody says, Preacher, what's God's will for my life? I can tell you right now, be grateful. Give thanks in all things, always. We just read that in Thessalonians. In everything, give thanks, for this is the will of God. Over and over and over. We're told in the Bible to be grateful How many people here understand the Bible teaches us that we're supposed to pray? Anybody know that? Sure. There's clear commands. How many people here uh understand from Scripture uh that we're supposed to witness Anybody here understand? Sure. Bible clearly tells us over and over. How many people here know that the Bible understand the Bible teaches us that we're supposed to stay away from sin Yeah. Did you know we're commanded to do something more than all of those I just listed? You know what that is? Praise the Lord. Express gratitude. More than any other command in Scripture, we're given the command to praise and thank God It's the will of God. It's the will of God. I've been studying this book a long time. I'm working on my forty-first time reading through the Bible. Forty-one times. Coming up the end of the year should be forty-first if I counted correctly. I've studied this and looked at it, and for the life of me, I cannot find anywhere in Scripture where God tells us to complain. I can't find it anywhere. I've looked and read this scripture. I can't find anywhere in Scripture where God instructs us to gripe and moan. Criticize, find fault, uh, and and uh generally be ungrateful. I can't find it anywhere, but just about every book of the Bible I go through here, we're told to praise the Lord. Thank God You know what the will of God is? Will of God is for you and I to be grateful. To be thankful. And so, as far as I can tell, we're instructed to thank and praise God more than anything else in Scripture God wants his people to be thankful. What he wants from us. Number three, I put this down. When we're grateful, we're fortified against sin. We're fortified against sin. You say, preacher, are you saying that if I'm thankful I won't sin? No, I'm not saying that. But I am saying this. A grateful heart is stronger in resisting sin than an ungrateful heart. I think an ungrateful, unthankful heart is more vulnerable to sin than a grateful heart. You say, where in the world do you find that in Scripture? I'm glad you asked. Turn with me to Romans chapter number one. Romans chapter 1, and I want to begin reading in verse 21. Actually, we'll just look at verse 21. But I'm suggesting to you, and I I I believe it's true, I think the Bible's clear. That if I have an attitude of gratitude, if I establish a pattern, a mindset of gratefulness and gratitude That will be a hedge to my heart and soul against serious sin. Look at Romans chapter 1, verse 21. It says this, because that when they knew God They glorified him not as God. Now read those next three words with me, would you? Neither were thankful. But became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. And then if you read down, if you would take the time and read down through the rest of that chapter. It is a rapid progression into extreme perversion By the time you get to verse number 32 of Romans chapter 1, mankind is in extreme, wicked, unthinkable perversion And I come back to verse 21, and I find that one of the first steps into depravity is an ungrateful heart, not being thankful. I believe if you and I establish in our hearts and lives, in our minds, we just establish an attitude of gratitude, if we establish a mindset. of being grateful for things that God does for us and people around us. That is a great hedge, a great protection uh against uh uh uh spiritual uh against uh uh sin and and degradation. I believe it protects our heart from further sin. I believe an attitude of gratitude will protect our home from sin. We get griping, we get dissatisfied, we get self-centered, we start taking things for granted, we start having a attitude of entitlement And next thing you know, we are down involved in things we never would have dreamed of. I believe it protects the church. I pray and I want to as pastor. And I want a church that is grateful to God. How many people here join with me? We want a church that's thankful. Church that's grateful, that has a spirit of praise and thankfulness and gratitude to God. I tell you, that'll protect us from heresy by as much as anything. Being grateful. Being grateful. Number four, I put this down, jot this down. When we're grateful, we fill our hearts with joy. I found that grateful people are happier than ungrateful people. Anyone ever notice that? People who are grateful tend to be happier, tend to have more joy than people who are ungrateful. Gratitude brings joyfulness to the heart. Gratitude brings blessings to the heart. Anybody I was talking to a guy I got some getting some work done on one of our vehicles and uh I was talking to the guy he says I listen to your radio station all the time. Just another guy across camp across over towards West Virginia, and he says, I love your radio station, 88. 7 FM FBN. He said, I love it. I listen to it all the time. And then he said this, I got a question for you. I said, all right, here we go He goes, what do you think about the world today? I said, I'll tell you what I think about it. I think it's a mess. I said, I think we are in the days just before Jesus Christ comes back. I think everything is being set up. I think it is right there. And uh whether the Lord comes back tomorrow or not, I don't know. I don't know when he's coming back But brother, I can sure see how the events of tribulation are going to play out very, very clearly. Man, it is laid out for us And I said, I think we're in the days right before. He goes, yeah. He says, I agree with you. And then we talked about a few things. I got thinking about that this afternoon. You know what I think will help bring peace to a heart and mind in a world that is that is messed up? I think just being grateful for how good God is to us. I made the statement Sunday, and I want to reiterate it here. We must not allow the events of the world to distract us from the goodness of our God. And we'll lose our joy, and we'll lose our peace, and we'll lose our contentment, and we'll lose our fulfillment in our walk with God, in our hearts and soul, when we lose the gratitude for how good God has been to us. And so gratitude will fill our heart with joy. I put this down. One, we're following the pattern of spiritual giants when we're grateful. Number two, we're fulfilling God's will when we're grateful. Number three, we're fortified against sin when we're grateful. Number four, we fill our hearts with joy, peace, and contentment when we're grateful. And the last one, I put this down, and I like this one, I put this down. We flaunt to this world, the goodness of God. We flaunt to this world. Now I hesitate to use the word flaunt. And then I looked it up. I found the definition. I said, yeah, that's exactly what I want to do, is I want to flaunt to this world the goodness of God. Listen to the definition of the word flaunt It means this, to parade conspicuously, defiantly, and boldly before others You know what I want to do? This old world is so negative. This old world is so sinful. I want to, as a believer, I want to I want to parade conspicuously, defiantly against the negative self-centered entitlement attitude this world and just parade out there, God is good. He is a blessing. And I want to just flaunt that to this old world It means to display conspicuously, defiantly, boldly, that I'm grateful to God for his goodness to us. You know what would be a wonderful thing? I've said this before. You know what I think would be a wonderful thing? Christians get out in public and start saying this habitually. Praise the Lord. Thank God. You get to the register and they punch it in and the number, the price comes up cheaper than the share. Oh, that was mispriced. It's ten cents cheaper. Well, praise the Lord! They punch it in there and say that thing's a dollar more than what it says. Well, praise the Lord. Just get out there and font to this old world that our God's a good God. When we gripe and complain and we don't thank for things and we take things for granted and we feel entitled, you know what we're telling this world? Our God's not very good to us. When we get out, we're grateful, and we have an attitude of gratitude, and we express that out publicly Can you imagine uh anybody here ever walk through uh Walmart and you hear somebody singing a rock song along with what they have on the sound system? I don't know, I do. Walk through there and I hear people some rock songs. How about if Christians start walking around in public at sheets in different places, start singing, God is so good. When upon lice billows you are tempest, count your many blu wouldn't that be something you know what that is? That's flaunting In this old world that our God is good. Our God is good. I found more people are interested in knowing Christ when I'm grateful than when I'm not. When I'm talking about how good you uh you want to win someone to Christ? Start talking about how good God is to you. Start showing gratitude for things. Man, we gripe about politics and weather and viruses and we gripe to the unsaved world about all of this. How about let's just put the brakes on that and let's just start talking about how good our God is. You know God is just as good to the Christian in China under intense persecution as he is to the Christian in America that has tremendous freedom. And they can be just as grateful as you and I. And so five things Five things that we're doing when we're grateful. This world should continually hear us expressing gratitude to God. Our families in our home should hear us continually expressing gratitude to God for his tremendous goodness. It's a whole lot more, there's a whole lot more to being grateful than just being polite. I told the story Sunday. I've told this many times. I like the little boy came up, got a piece of cake, said, thank you, and the lady said, well you're a plate little boy. He says, give me another piece, I'll say it again You know, I say that all the time. That's polite. I'm telling you, have an attitude of gratitude as a Christian. It's more than just being polite. It is a thermometer of our spiritual health. You want to know how healthy someone is spiritually? Check the level of their gratitude If that gratitude level, if that gratitude thermometer is down low, I brought one of these thermometers up here. I was going to check Pastor Matt's temperature. And just see what his temperature is. Wouldn't it be something if we had a gratitude thermometer? You point at somebody's head. And it says 97. 7. And it would tell you how grateful they are. I wonder what our temperatures would be if we had one of those. Let's be grateful. Amen? Let's be grateful. And maybe some of us need to just come and say, Lord, I've been awfully s I've I've been awfully I've been taking things for granted an awful bunch. Lord, I've been kind of feeling entitled that I somehow I'm entitled to things better than what I have. Let's just put the brakes on that. Let's just stop that and say, nope, no more of that. Not in my heart, not in my life, no more, not in my mind. I want to establish a mentality of gratitude, the greatness of gratitude, the greatness of gratitude Let's pray together, and then we're going to go through and express some things that we're grateful for. Let's pray together. Father, I ask that you would help us, Holy Spirit of God. Please instill in us the characteristic, not just an occasion expression, but the characteristic of gratitude, that that would be part of our mindset And we ask this now in Jesus' name, amen