Brother Brian, I was thinking while you were saying that, is that the music composition is just as important and crucial to the words themselves and um You know, folks say, well, music's just neutral, it doesn't matter. Uh there is right and wrong music. There is moral and immoral music. And so there you have a classic example where God apparently put the music in place and then had the words fit into that. Definitely one of the great hymns of the faith. The tabernacle is what we're looking at. One other thing I want to say before we get into this. Mrs. Chartier joined the church this morning. We're excited about that. She lives in Terra Olda. She's unable to drive of the evening And I don't know if somebody God would touch someone's heart about uh having a ministry, but she would love to be here on Sunday nights and Wednesday nights. She had mentioned that to us yesterday. And so if uh if God would touch your heart, you would have an interest and uh maybe providing transportation for this dear lady. She is a blessing. I'll tell you what. You leave her apartment, you're revived and fired up. I I came out of there, I was wanting to start new churches around, you know, and do stuff. She had me stirred up And so just uh if you're if you're interested, that'd be something the Lord would touch your heart about. Uh that's uh possibility there. Does everyone have their tabernacle picture with you. Everybody got your. I got a handful of them down front here. Maybe a couple guys. Anyone that does not have your tabernacle diagram here. Uh slip your hand up. We want you to have this. I think it helps when I'm going through and describing this. You can take a look at you get a picture uh in your mind of uh what is taking place here. Exodus chapter 30. We're going to look at about oh five or six verses here, verse 17 down through 21, where God gives to Moses the instructions for the labor. Later on when it got uh into the tabernacle when they built the temple, Solomon built the temple, they kind of changed what they referred to it as. I think they called it The uh molten sea is what it's referred to in Kings and Chronicles. That was later in the temple. This is while it's in the tabernacle. God's term for it was the labor. Anybody else need one of these? Does everyone have one Exodus chapter thirty and verse number seventeen is where I'm going to begin reading. I'm going to read down through verse twenty-one. Keep that diagram there, Handy, and uh we'll take a look at that here in just a moment. Verse 17, the Bible says, And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Thou shalt also make a lever of brass, and his foot also of brass, to wash withal Thou shalt put it between the tabernacle of the congregation and the altar. And thou shalt put water therein For Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet thereat. When they go into the tabernacle of the congregation, they shall wash with water, that they die not For when they come near to the altar to minister to burn offering made by fire unto the Lord, so shall they wash their hands and their feet that they die not And it shall be a statute forever to them, even to him and to his seed, throughout their generations. He calls it a labor here. I've called it the brazen labor because it's made of brass, and uh that's the title of our message. Fifty chapters in the Bible are dedicated either directly and completely to the tabernacle, or they reference the tabernacle in one way or another, both the Old and New Testament. reference the tabernacle. If there are fifty chapters committed to this uh structure, then it must be important for us, for God to have to give that much of a scripture to it. So We're looking at this and see what we can learn from it. Let's pray together and then I'll try and share some things that will be of help. Father, we're grateful for the Bible. You said very clearly that every portion of Scripture is profitable for us Some of us look at this and we think, what, this has nothing to do with us, but Holy Spirit, you can apply this portion of Scripture to our lives, our Christian growth in a way that it benefits us and helps us be the people you intend for us to be. I yield myself to you. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit I present my body anew and pray that you would speak through me now and be our teacher. Be the preacher, we pray, Holy Spirit, in Jesus' name. Amen. Do you have a picture of the tabernacle there in front of you? We noted that it has uh what I'm calling a a fence or I think it's referred to in the Bible as a curtain around the main uh inner structure there, which is the tabernacle itself, that curtain around the outside uh forms uh what's referred to as the court of the tabernacle. There's a door on the east end there, you notice. And uh you enter that door. It's the only way to get through. There was only one way into the presence of God. And remember, we looked at the door and we said that that was a reference to the Lord Jesus Christ. He said, I am the door And so you have one door to get in, and the moment you entered that curtain, that courtyard around the tabernacle itself, the very first thing that struck you visibly was the brazen altar. Where they offered the sacrifice. The very first thing that struck to your senses was the smell of burning meat uh oxen and whatnot that was being uh sacrificed. And so you could not get into that door any distance at all without first being confronted with the fact that someone had to die for man's sins. There is no way I can get into the presence of God. There is no way I can get into the Holy of Holies, have access to that uh the very presence of God without first blood being shed and a sacrifice being made for our sins. And if you'll remember we pointed out that's the most important issue in life, knowing that my sins have been forgiven. And that I'm saved from God's judgment on my sin. Amen? That's the most important thing. That's one of the things I appreciate about our missions program and the emphasis on getting the gospel to people rather than the emphasis on social issues. Now listen, there's a place to help people socially with Food and clothing and all that, there's a place for that. But the most important thing in any person's life, whether they be in Mexico Kazakhstan or in Oakland, Maryland, the most important issue is that a person gets their sins forgiven. If a person dies without their sins forgiven, they are separated from God for all eternity in a horrible place called hell, ultimately the lake of fire. So that's the picture of the brazen altar. You want to have access to God in the Old Testament for the nation of Israel, the Holy of Holies, the Ark of the Covenant That represented the very immediate presence of God. You could not take five steps towards the presence of God without facing that brazen altar. Now, we come to the second item in this courtyard in this uh tabernacle structure and that is the brazen labor we come through the door you see the picture there you come through the door you push the curtains back Here's the uh brazen altar. There's uh oxen being offered up, sacrifice. It's a bloody mess, it's uh stinky, uh and all that. Uh the judgment Hey, God's judgment on sin is not a pretty thing. There's nothing pleasant about it. God's judgment on sin. Jesus dying on the cross, nothing nothing pleasant about that. Today, and I'm not being critical, but today we wear uh crosses as items of jewelry, as ornaments. We put them up for decoration in our churches. You know the cross was a picture of shame And violence and bloodshed. There was nothing ornamental about the cross in any way, shape, or form. And neither was the brazen altar. It wasn't there to be attractive, it wasn't decoration. It represented the judgment of God on man's sin. Then once that's taken care of, once the sacrifice has been offered up and my sins have been covered, Hebrews tells us in this economy that Old Testament economy, my sins have been covered. Now I have access farther into the presence of God. The very next thing is the brazen labor That, if you'll notice on there, it is directly between the brazen altar and the tabernacle. You cannot get into the holy place without going by the brazen labor. Now the altar, see it there, you go in the door, there's that cattle standing there, that that uh oxen or whatever it is standing there. You had the brazen altar. And uh then you have the labor, the brazen labor made of brass. Um though the only similarity between the two Is the fact that they consisted of brass. The altar was made of wood, uh that uh shittim wood, covered with brass The brazen labor was made completely of brass, solid brass, but that's the only similarities. They are completely different in their appearance and in their function. They had two different purposes. The altar was uh the altar. What was inside the altar? Fire. In fact, they had remember we talked about the fire pans? They had to keep that fire going when they moved. Inside that altar, there was a constant, continual fire burning. Inside the brazen labor, there is not fire, there's what? We just read it. There's water. Oh, two very different substances, two very different purposes, functions. The altar had to do, and we're going to typify it here a little bit, but the altar basically had to do with the Israelites' relationship with Jehovah. The sacrifice for that uh those sins, the sacrifice of that oxen or that lamb, whatever they were putting on there, that sacrifice Establish a relationship in the Old Testament economy, New Testament's much more clear, between the individual and God the Father. They had a relationship. The judgment of sin was dealt with, and now I have a relationship with the Father. That's what the altar did When you come to the labor filled with water, it doesn't have so much to do with my relationship with the Father as it does with my fellowship with the Father. We'll develop this as we go through the message. There is a difference between a relationship with someone and fellowship with someone. Uh how many folks here have a relationship with your father, your earthly father, you have a relationship. Sure, what's your relationship to your father? They're you're you're their kid. How many folks are glad you came to church found that out? Well, I didn't know it was my father's child. Um you are. So your relationship with your father, when was that relationship established? At birth. So, you know, uh for just to be general statement, at birth, that relationship was God. Alright, how many folks here have a relationship with your father? Sure, you're their child. Um how many folks here are in fellowship with your father? Some of your fathers passed away But let me ask you this way. How many folks here ever in your lifetime, your your relationshi in your relationship with your father, you have ever been out of fellowship with your father? Can I get a witness? What does that mean? You got in trouble. Right? Uh anybody here ever do something wrong and you did not want to be around dead? Can I get a witness? Yeah. For Jacob it's fifty percent of the time. Um no I'm kidding Um not really. But um uh so the difference between a relationship with someone and a fellowship with someone uh is very clear. My relationship with God, I became God's child the moment I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. How many folks here? You saved you know it. Say amen The moment you trust in Christ, you establish a relationship. He became your heavenly father, you became a child of God, you were born in the family of God. That relationship can never change No matter what you do, you will always be your heavenly father's child. You cannot be unborn. Amen? Some of you say, boy, I wish I wasn't my dad's kid. Too bad you'll always be your dad's kid. There's nothing you can do about it So I cannot break my relationship with God the Father. Nothing I can do is ever going to break that. I'm his child, he is my father, nothing's ever going to change that. But my fellowship with God Can change. In fact, it can change from day to day. In fact, it can change from hour to hour It's possible somebody was here this morning in church, was in fellowship with God. You're back tonight and you're not in fellowship with God. You did something that displeased them, broke that fellowship. That's where the labor comes in. It had to do with washing. with the my fellowship with the Father. The altar had to do with my standing before God. The labor had to do with my service for God. And we'll point that out here in a little bit The altar dealt with my conversion. The labor deals with my consecration. So there's a difference between the two. Very two very different functions. Let me give the outline real quick. Number one, if you're writing this down, put this down. Notice the particulars about this labor. In other words, what exactly is this thing? The word labor itself means pot or basin. That's what it came to mean. Initially, the term labor had the idea of washing Interesting thing, it comes from the same word, the same word as we have the English word lavatory. Labor comes from the same word. A place to go to wash, clean up. And so the labor. Just its very name tells us somewhat of its function, the purpose with water in it and all that. It's a basin for the purpose of washing. It's interesting. I studied this and studied this, looked at this, looked at this, looked at this. You know what I found out? God gives no dimensions for the labor. It is not described in any way. Every other piece of furniture in the tabernacle is given very specific dimensions and measurements. The labor, nothing said about it. In fact, the fact of the matter is, we don't even know what the thing looked like exactly We aren't told. God just said, make this labor, make this basin, this washing thing. Every other item in the in uh in the tabernacle, every other piece of furniture, very specific, not the labor. It's made of brass. In fact, look at your little picture there. Everything in the courtyard was made of brass. Either it was solid brass or it had brass covering. And so the labor was made of solid brass. Where in the world now this thing we're imagining it's a pretty good size when we look at what its purpose is in a little bit, we're going to come to the conclusion it's probably significant size to it. Where in the world are they getting all this brass from? They're out in the middle of the wilderness. How are they coming up with this? Turn with me, if you would, to Exodus chapter 38. Lo and behold, the Bible tells us. Where they got all this brass. Exodus thirty-eight and um verse number eight. Moses now at this point is following through with God's instructions. And uh verse number 8, Exodus 38 He made the labor of brass. Alright, very good. That's what God told him to do. And the foot of it of brass. That's exactly what God told him to do. Now look at this He made the brass of the looking glasses of the women assembling, which assembled at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. They got the brass from the women's looking glasses. What in the world is a looking glass? Ah, mirrors. The problem is, mirrors are made out of what? Glass. There is no glass invented at this point in time. What were their mirrors made up of? Of brass, polished brass. And they would shine that thing up, and shine that thing up and got that so polished that it would reflect their image back, and they would use it as a mirror. Now I did a little studying on that, you know what I found out. I thought this was interesting. Where did the Jewish women come up with the idea of bringing mirrors, so to speak These brass-looking glasses, these mirrors, where'd they come up with the idea of bringing them to the door of the tabernacle? Door of the tabernacle is a place of worship. Well, uh uh I was looking at here, I don't see ladies carrying I see ladies carrying fans sometimes, but I don't see ladies carrying mirrors around at church and looking in the mirror. Uh where'd they come up with that idea? You know what I found out It was a custom in Egypt. In one of the worship, in one of the temples where they worship one of the Egyptian gods, one of the uh uh um rituals was the women would bring their looking glasses with them and I don't know what the exact uh ritual was, but it was part of a ritual them appearing and using that looking glass and looking at their image and worshiping This false God in the temple in Egypt. You know what these uh Jewish women were doing? They had picked up A ritual, a worship ritual from pagan easing image, uh from Bacon Egypt, and we're bringing it out with them And at the door of the tabernacle, they knew this was being s this structure was being built for the worship of God, for the glory of God. And so they took what they had learned in Egypt and they were introducing it into the worship of Jehovah God. They were taking the world's methods of worship and introducing it to the true worship of God. That sounds strangely familiar. Do we not live in a day when we have Christians by the hundreds of thousands, millions, who are looking to the world? And bringing in the world's methods, the world's principles, the world's ideas of worship, and uh trying to apply that to worship To the true and living God. Listen, we don't worship God the way we think He should be worshipped. We worship God the way He tells us to worship Him. And so they were bringing us in. So I don't know whose idea this was, perhaps Moses, but he says, hey, and I I'm reading into this here a little bit, so bear with me. But I can see it ha qual I can see it taking place this way. Hey listen, we need a lot of brass. You ladies are bringing those brass looking glasses in. You know there's really has no place. God didn't give us any instructions for this. In fact though he couldn't make the case it's kind of vain. Uh let's uh uh what do you ladies think about bringing those brass looking glasses and donating them and contributing them and uh so we can put this furniture together and that's exactly what happened. Um the brass were the mirrors. Uh well now think about that. Now I've got a tread very Carefully here. If we were talking to men, I could just plow right ahead like a bulldozer, but there's ladies here. By the way, uh I thank God for ladies. My mom was one and uh is one and I married a woman, so I'm all for women, okay? Brother, don't we gotta be careful with that too. But um Help me, Charlie. Um would you agree with me? It would be a pretty significant sacrifice for a woman to give up her mirrors. Man, you're not supposed to get that quiet on me now. I mean guys, we can care less. This is this is what happens when I look in the mirror. Looks good. Amen. I'm impressed, you know, I look in the mirror, I'm impressed. Um so uh would come on now, help me. Be be nice to me. Uh would you agree with me? That's a little bit of a sacrifice for them to give these up. Right? It's a little bit of sacrifice. And it is. And the fact of the matter was, uh to have a brass looking glass was a very valuable thing in that day. And so these women gave them up. That tells me a little bit of something about the spiritual character of these women. I think they were sincerely this is again speculation on my part, this is the way I read it. I think they were sincerely wanting to worship the true and living God. They were at the door of the tabernacle, they're assembling there. They were attracted to the idea that they would have some means of worshiping God. Now whether ignorantly or whatever they had their this item apparently was a type of worship come out of Egypt, but they said, you know. To do what God says is more important to me than have what I want. And they willingly gave up these items that were, no doubt, of great value and no doubt very important to them. That tells me something. That tells me that to these women, their spiritual well-being was more important than their physical appearance. Now don't don't get me wrong. I think we ought to look as nice as we can. Amen? I think we ought to look nice, be clean, and and all that. I'm all for it. I like what Dr. Lee Robertson said. The old barn needs some paint, put it on. You know. And uh so we're all for looking nice and doing all that. But uh but there's something wrong when we spend more time on our outward appearance than we do on the s on the state of our soul. It's more problem when we spend more time on our hair. And nowadays the guys do it as much as the girls spend as more time on our hair than we do in the Word of God. And so they made this sacrifice, these brazen looking glasses. Their service to God was more important than their appearance to the world um giving as much attention to our soul's condition as we do to our body's appearance. And so you have the particulars here of this labor, it's uh brass. We don't know the measurements, we don't know what it looks like, uh, we don't know how high it is, we don't know how wide it is, we don't know how many gallons of water are in it We know it's made of solid brass, and we know they got the brass from these women who would meet outside the tabernacle as it's being uh constructed with their looking glasses, and they gave it and they built the labor out of that. Now, number two, what about the participants? At the labor. Who was involved in doing whatever it was they did at the labor? Well, the first thing we notice, you come back to Exodus 30, is it wasn't open to the general public. Not just your just some Israelite walk by and go in the altar, the offer as a sacrifice, well, you know, I think I'll go over here and wash up at the slaver. It wasn't open to anybody, just anybody. There was only a certain category of people Who are allowed of God to come to the labor and do that. Now look at Exodus chapter 30, look at verse 19 with me. It tells us who it is. For Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet thereat. Now, what's the significance of Aaron and his sons? They were the beginning of the priesthood, the royal priesthood. The priests were the only ones that were allowed to come to that labor. And wash there. Now, we're going to learn this as we study through the tabernacle. The priests were the only ones that were allowed into the tabernacle itself. And this was part of the process of being able to step into the presence of God and serve God acceptably. In fact, if they did not go to the labor and wash, they would have died had they entered into the tabernacle Now that's significant. Not just any Joe Blow Israelite. Walk in there and wash up. He's out working the field. Oh, I'm all sweaty. I'm going to clean up before I go home. I'll swing by the tabernacle and go in and wash at the labor. Doesn't happen Aaron his sons, their offspring, the priests, only ones. Now what does that mean? What's the significance of that? Well, um As I said, the priests were the only ones allowed into the very presence of God. Now here we are in 2012. We live in a different dispensation. We live in a different economy. Take your Bibles with me real quickly, if you would. I want you to see this yourself. And come to me to 1 Peter 2. Now keep your place in Exodus. We're coming back here, but come to 1 Peter 2. There's an interesting statement made about New Testament believers. 1 Peter chapter 2, and look with me at verse number 9. Give you a chance to find it there. How many folks here? You're saved and you know what? Say amen. Alright? Now pay attention, if that's true, pay attention to this verse. 1 Peter chapter 2, look at verse number 9. But yeah, writing to church, to believers But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood. a holy nation, a peculiar people, boy, that fits our church, that ye should show forth the praises of him as called. You notice what believers are called here in this passage of scripture. God tells us we are priests. How about that? Did you know you're a priest? What was the privilege of the priests? Well, go back to our text in the tabernacle, the Old Testament economy, the privilege of the priests was they had access to God that no one else did. They had access to the very presence of God. They were the ones that could stand before God and pray for the nation, uh, make intercession for the nation. Just average Joe Blow guy couldn't do that. You and I are priests. As priests, we have access to God that unsaved people don't have. We have access into the very presence of God. Listen, just because a person prays doesn't mean God hears them. I've got to be a priest. To be able to come before God. How do you become a priest? New Testament economy, trust Jesus, your personal Savior. I told you a story about Nina McRoby, her husband, Jim, got saved just not long before he died. He developed cirrhosis of the liver And he was up in Pittsburgh and they were trying to do a liver transplant and uh I'd been going by every single day, praying with him, reading scripture, and he was just growing, growing, growing And he got up there. It was the first time he was away since he got saved. It was the first time where I hadn't come by on a regular basis. He was all the way up in Pittsburgh. I couldn't go up every day, obviously. The middle of the night, two o'clock in the morning, he calls a nurse. I found out about this later. He said, Nurse, I need Pastor really bad. She goes, well, it's the middle of the night, but we'll find you a pastor. He knows, no, I need Pastor Leatherman right now. She goes, who's Pastor Latherman? He's my pastor down in Oakland. She goes, Jim, you're three hours away. I need him right now. She goes, I'm sorry we could we'd get him in the morning. And uh she goes, what do you need? I just need him to pray for me. She goes, well, we'll get word to him. And Jim told me later, he said, I got laying there and said, all of a sudden it dawned on me. I can pray to God just by myself. He says, I can just go and God will listen to me. And you know, in the life of Jim McGroby, the little bit he had left, that was a profound moment in his spiritual life. When he realized I can pray directly to God, just as much access as Pastor Leatherman or anyone else has. Isn't that exciting? So it was the priests who were to uh take part in washing at this labor. Hebrews chapter 4, verse 16. I wish we had a little more time. You go over there. It says, we have boldness to enter into the throne of grace as priests. Now here's the thing. Would you agree with me? It's a great privilege to have access to God. Would you agree with that? Suppose you and I had access, we had the ear of the richest man in the world. And he'd say anytime he come by, yeah, come on in, how's it going? What do you need? Would you agree that would be a great privilege? I bet you you would get lots of friends if you had access to the richest man in the world. Uh sure you would. Uh there's a great privilege to have access to God as a as a priest, but with privilege comes what? Responsibility. You know what those priests did not do? They didn't just go barging into the presence of God. There was a labor they had to stop at first. So the participants were the priests. Number three, the positioning of the labor. Now, we're not going to belabor the labor It's positioning. But um you'll notice there in your chart, the Bible tells us it was directly between the altar and the tabernacle Uh it was the first thing you passed by after you passed the altar, and it was the last thing you went by when you entered into the tabernacle. Very strategic positioning It's not the first issue in approaching God. The first issue in approaching God is getting the judgments of my sins removed. That's the brazen altar. Uh I that's uh I I can't do anything until I get saved. I I can't I can't have any interaction with God until my sins are completely cleansed and forgiven. The judgment of my sin has been dealt with. Then I can have access to God. So the cleansing, the altar, getting into the presence of uh the entering into the uh service in the tabernacle was not the first thing that had to be dealt with. Uh it was secondary. So you have the uh particulars, grass. We don't know what it looks like. Don't know how big, how s how wide, how tall, how Much water it holds. We don't know any of that. Participants, priests only. Positioning inside the door, between the altar and the tabernacle, the labor. Now, what's the purpose? Why in the world was this thing put there? Look with me back in Exodus chapter 30 again. Now bear with me. How many folks are just excited about this? Isn't this exciting? The brazen labor I'm excited. I'm purposefully ordered. Look at verse 19, Exodus chapter 30. For Aaron and his sons shall do what? Wash their hands and their feet thereat. Like its name suggests, the labor was for washing. Washing and particularly their hands and their feet. Now, why is that so important? I think there's several reasons. One, I mean, just practically speaking, There was no flooring in the court of the tabernacle. There's no flooring in the tabernacle at all. It was just on dirt I would imagine they swept it, you know, and kept it pretty clean. But they're walking around there and um their feet are walking in this dust, the dirt, Middle East. Um, they're picking up things and carrying them and whatnot, and that dust gets on things. The wind kicks up a little bit, there would be dust. Um and so they're getting dirty. Uh Um I was trying to figure out. I can't find anywhere where if it was raining where they shut down the tabernacle because of rain. As far as I can tell, whether it was raining or not, they were offering the sacrifices. They were going through the process. So it could get muddy. And so that labor became very important just in a practical sense of keeping things clean, keeping themselves clean. They're sacrificing uh oxen and whatnot on the altar. And uh did I ever tell you I worked in a meatpacking plant for a few years? Did I ever tell you the first year or so I worked on the kill floor Anybody want to hear about it? Um I can tell you this working on a kill floor, when you're done, you're not the cleanest kid on the block. You're covered in stuff that comes out of dead animals. Blood and everything. So I would imagine they're working on this. There needs to be a place, just practically speaking, there needs to be a place to clean from the dust and whatnot and the and the the uh consequences of dealing with these animals and everything and all of that. And so there's a practical reason behind it, but there's a s spiritual significance also Just as that oxen that is being sacrificed on the brazen altar covered their sins before God, it was a symbolic thing. So the cleansing was very symbolic for the Israelite, for the priest. It represented a cleansing of the daily Sins, so to speak, that need to be dealt with before I can come into the presence of God. You follow what I'm saying? Remember in John chapter 13, they were getting ready. Jesus says, I'm going to wash your feet. He took his gird himself. And he went down and started to watch the disciples' feet. Anybody remember that incidence there in John chapter 13? What did Peter say to Jesus? Anyone remember? He says, You're not washing my feet. There's no way. You're not washing my feet. She said, if I don't wash my wash your feet. He makes this statement. Listen, he says, if I don't wash your feet, then you have no part of me Now, on first reading of that, it sounds almost like he's saying you're not saved. That's not what Jesus was saying. He was talking to his apostles. He's about to introduce the Lord's Supper. And he's saying, Listen, Peter, if we don't deal with this dust on your feet, You cannot be involved in my ministry. You cannot be involved in the service of the Lord. Peter said, what did Peter say? He said, good grief. If that's the case, good grief is in the Greek. But he said, if that's the case, wash my whole body. What did Jesus say? No, no, no. You don't need to wash your whole body. You know what he was saying? Can I put it in the context of our subject? He was saying you don't have to go to the altar. You've already been saved. Your sins have been dealt with. It's those daily things, the fellowship that makes you acceptable. To enter into the Holy of Holies, to serve, to do the service of the tabernacle, you've got to clean before you can do that. You follow what I'm saying? Um The altar dealt with the punishment of sin, the labor dealt with the presence of sin in my life. He got saved at the altar, so to speak, but I cleaned my life up at the labor. If I want to serve God, if I want to be an effective servant of God, I've got to deal with these Daily sins, these petty sins that are constantly dealing with and struggling with, I've got to keep myself clean. I've got to keep short accounts. Not to maintain my salvation. That's once for all But to make me acceptable to serve God. People get that backwards Some churches today, for sake of our context here, they have the labor before the altar. Follow what I'm saying? You know what they say? You've got to clean your act up before you ever get saved. If you want to get saved, you have got to clean your act up. You've got to quit doing this and get doing that. And you need to straighten up, then God will save you. The problem is they've got the labor before the altar. What I need to do is get saved. Then once I'm saved, then God enables me to clean my act up. If somebody would have came to me in in uh April of 1979 and said to me, Dennis Lutherman, you've got to quit the drinking, you've got to quit the drugs, you've got to quit the carrying around, the rocking and rolling. You've got to stop all of that, or you can't be saved. I would have been the most depressed person in the world. Because I couldn't stop it, I wanted to. I was trying to get out of that lifestyle. I was trying to be delivered from the. I was trying to wash myself. And I couldn't. What I needed was to trust Christ. I needed to come to the altar and get my sins forgiven. Then God can begin to wash me and cleanse me and change my life. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. It isn't become a new creature, and then you can begin in Christ. And so it's very significant the positioning and the purpose of this labor. It was not for unsaved Outside the court, people to get saved. It was for those who were within the family of God to keep themselves clean. So that They could serve God in the tabernacle. Timothy addresses this. Come with me, and I'm gonna I'm shutting it down here. But notice in Timothy, come back there, would you, real quickly with me? 2 Timothy chapter 2. Somebody says, I want to serve God. I want to serve God. A person gets saved. I want to serve God. I want to serve God. Hey, thank God God can use any of us. Amen. A person gets saved regardless of their education level, their IQ level, whatever it is, God can use a person, any of us, if we're clean. If we're clean. If a person, if a Christian is not living a clean life, if they're not at the labor, being cleansed of their sin, God cannot use that one. Let me give you some scripture to support that. Look at 2 Timothy chapter 2. And look with me at verse 20. But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and of earth Some to honor and some to dishonor. Now let me ask you a question. What do you do with a vessel? What do you picture when you read that there vessel? What do you picture in your mind? Like a vase type of thing or a pitcher for water, something used to serve people with. Oh, so he says there's there's uh in a great house there's Many vessels. Some are gold, some are very valuable, others are very common and very uh everyday, just wood, just everyday folks, some are uh are very fancy and dignified and boy elegant and then others are just kind of everyday folks and a little bit redneck maybe and uh backward a little bit. They're just wood, hey uh wood and uh what An earthen, uh some to honor and some to necessarily. Look at this. If a man therefore purge himself from these He shall be a vessel unto honor. Sanctified. Look at this. And meet for the master's what? Use. And prepared unto every good work. You know what he's saying? This is the way I see it. It doesn't matter whether you're a vessel of gold, you may be the fanciest thing to live in Oakland. Or you may just be a vessel of wood. If you don't if you're not clean, spiritually clean. You're not fit for the master's use. Doesn't matter whether you're gold or wood, that's not the point. The point is: are you purged? Are you clean? Have you been washed? Somebody says, preacher, I want to serve God. I want to serve God. Praise God. You know what the bet the first thing you should do is clean your life up. Deal with the sins. Get that stuff out. Now, I'm not saying we have to be perfect. God knows that. How often do you think those priests had to go by that labor and wash? Constantly. Throughout the day, they're continually coming back. And you know what? Every one of us as Christians, we have got to continually come to 1 John 1. 9 Confess our sins. Ask God to cleanse us from all our rights. Get that garbage off. Teach short accounts. And God can use us. But you know where the problem comes in? If we get dirty, we don't go to the labor. We got this sin, and we don't deal with it. We let it go, and we let it go, and it starts caking up. Then we start smelling. Next thing you know, you've got Christians that reek of the world. Christians that reek of disobedience and sin. And God says, I can't do much with you. You're not much different, you're not any cleaner than the world is Purge yourself of these and your meat for the master's use. First Peter says, add to your faith virtue, and to virtue knowledge. The faith there is talking about my salvation, my faith in Christ. The first thing he says I should add to that isn't knowledge. First thing I should add to my faith is virtue. What's virtue? It's moral excellence. Start living right. Now we're all for discipleship, and I believe we should try and disciple things. But I think sometimes we get a new believer and we think if we dump all this Bible, all this Christian information in our head, they're going to be a great Christian. That's not necessarily the case. I think what we need to do is get them into church under the preaching and help them start making right decisions and see their life cleaned up. Get that sin out of their life, and then they can start understanding. Then they can add to their virtue knowledge. Follow what I'm saying? Um I'll take that as a no. Spiritual development, if I'm going to grow in my service, this is what I'm trying to say. The preacher ought to be clean. I'm not talking about physically. Well, you ought to be clean physically. I think I'm okay there. But uh, are you listening? The preacher ought to be clean spiritually. And a lot of brother brother Koblenz, we've heard about preachers lately that have blown it. But the problem was they didn't keep themselves clean. Deacons ought to be clean. Huh? Sunday school teachers should be clean. Choir members should be clean. How can I get up there and say, holy, holy, holy? I'm all filthy with sin. Huh? Christian moms and dads ought to be spiritually clean. You're the head of the household, Dad. I am So you have the altar, you get saved. What's the n what's the very first thing you ought to do after you get saved? Start cleaning up. Get that garbage out. I got s and God helps us. God leads us and directs us in this. When I got saved, I had many of you are the same way, so I'm not don't misunderstand. Lord knows I'm not bragging about this. This is shame on my part. And I got saved. I had stacks and stacks of eight-track tapes. Some got eight-track tapes everybody thinks are funny. But I had tons of them. I say to I was listening, you know, Leonard Skinner and all that stuff. Cool man. Uh do you ever see this guy's driving down the road? Look Looks like they have some kind of mental disease. They're listening to rock music. Anyway, uh I had all that stuff. You know what? God began dealing with my heart Finally, one day I thought, you know, this ain't right. This is dirty. God saved me. I want to do something for God. I want my life to count something for God. You know what? God led me over to the lever and started washing. I took all those eight track tapes. I stacked them up in the garage. I still see it in my mind. Had a big old mallet. Kaboom! Smashing them. Kaboom. Now my mom wasn't saved at the time. She was there by the house. And she said, What in the world's going on out here? And uh I said what I told my mom always what I said when she asked, What am I doing? I said, Nothing. Boom. She goes, what are you doing to them? Smashing them. Why? They're of the devil. And uh she goes, why don't you sell them at a yard sale and at least get something out of them? I said, they'll still be dirty in someone else's house. And just smashed them all You know what God was doing? He was cleaning me up. He was bringing me to the labor. And then other things had to be dealt with, and other things had to be dealt with. And here I am, 30. Three years later, you know what I had to do this morning? I had to go to the labor. This afternoon, I had it before I came down in prayer meeting. I'd go over by that lever. Say, God, you know, I had a few thoughts there and attitude is this, and God I need to clean that up. I thank God for first John one nine. Thank God for that verse. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray, dear Lord, you'd help us to be clean. Help us to be sensitive to sin, disobedience. Lord, none of us are perfect. I'm glad that labor's there all the time when I can constantly be coming and getting things cleaned up, getting things cleaned up, washing up. We want to go in the holies. We want to serve you like the priest did. So help us clean up. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed, I'm not gonna ask you to raise your hand as tonight