For 2 Samuel chapter 12, we're studying the life of David. We've just spent a good bit of time. We kind of parked it here. And we studied David's fall, his failure, his sin of adultery with Bathsheba, and then the murder of her husband. I tell you, this uh Hollywood doesn't have anything on drama as far as the Bible's concerned. But this is real-life stuff. And David, the man of God, man after God's own heart, did something that none of us would have ever expected. And he fell hard. The only battle David ever lost was the battle with his lust And uh it got him good. So we stopped and we studied how he fell into that. What were the steps? What were the circumstances that that made this possible And then we looked at how God responded. And God sent Nathan and confronted David about it when he lied and he was trying to cover it up for over a year. And God sends Nathan, and Nathan confronts them in a very tactful yet very clear way that David had sinned and it needed to be dealt with. And so David responded in faith, and he acknowledged his sin. He said, I have sinned. And God forgave him. We're going to touch on that tonight a little bit. God forgave him. But even in the forgiveness of sins, there are still consequences. There are still consequences. Forgiveness does not erase all consequences of our actions. And so we noticed the consequences are beginning. Our last study we saw where David's son that was conceived in adultery between David and Bathsheba died. God took that child. We're going to see as we continue the study of David's life that there are ongoing consequences that he has to deal with the rest of his life As a result of his decision here and his actions. But the tide is turning. And we're turning a page here a little bit in the life of David. We're coming to a new chapter of sorts. And in verse number 24 of 2 Samuel chapter 12, we pick it up. And it says this: And David comforted Bathsheba his wife. This was right after that baby died. David comforted Bathsheba, his wife, and went in unto her and lay with her, and she bare a son. This is their second. The first one was out of matrimony. This one is within the bonds of marriage. And she bare a son and called his name Solomon. And the Lord loved him. And he sent by the hand of Nathan the prophet, and he called his name Jedediah, because of the Lord. And so we're going to look tonight on the birth of Solomon and see if there's some lessons here for us. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now as we study the life of David What a man of God. And how many lessons from his life that we can learn. And I pray that tonight In these few little statements given here, this little bit of information you gave us here about the birth of Solomon, I pray that your Holy Spirit would teach us some lessons from this, that we can be stronger in our faith. And Lord, maybe you would be able to help us to be able to deal with the aftermath of wrong decisions we make sometimes and sin. And so I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray that you would speak through me. I present my body anew, yield my will, and pray that it would be you speaking and teaching tonight through me, your word to our hearts and lives. So please again fill me with your spirit, I pray, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Romans chapter 5, verse 20 makes this statement. It says, where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. Would you agree with me? This period of David's life, sin abounded. Adultery, murder, lying, covering up, things you would never dream Would be true in the life of David. Nevertheless, sin abounded. And we're seeing here now that grace did much more about. Now I want to look at a couple of verses here before we jump into this. So if you have your Bibles handy, and I want you to turn to them because I'd like for you to see them in your Bible, and maybe you would even want to underscore some of these. Go with me if you would It's a little bit of an obscure book in the Bible, Lamentations. So if you go to Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Psalms, then you hit Isaiah, and then you hit Jeremiah. At the end of Jeremiah, there's a very small book there, about three, four chapters, I think. Find Lamentations, and go, if you would, to chapter three. Lamentations is Jeremiah grieving over the sins of Israel. They had blasphemed God, they had worshiped false gods, they had messed up totally. And God is confronting Israel, and in his confronting, in his rebuke of Israel, he says this, Lamentations chapter 3. Did you find it? I'll try to give a few minutes here. You got it? Look at Chapter 3, and come down to verse 21. Now keep David's situation in mind, if you would. Verse 21 says this: This I recall to my mind, therefore I have hope. Now he'd just been going through telling Israel how terrible they sinned and these awful consequences. And Jeremiah says, This I recall to my mind, therefore I have hope. Look at this. It is of the Lord's mercies. That we are not consumed. Because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. I don't know about you. That verse blesses my heart. That verse encourages me. And what Jeremiah is saying, and I think you're going to see how this applies to David's situation, what Jeremiah is saying is Israel made a mess of things. Israel got themselves into a real spiritual hole. And God's dealing with them very severely. But in the midst of that, God reminds them And in spite of his holiness, in spite of his judgment on their sin, God is still a God of mercy. And God still loves his people. And with David in mind, it's important to understand that David had sinned and made a mess of things. But God still loved David. And God's mercies were new every morning. And God was not done with David. David could have fallen apart. You think of somebody as sensitive to the Lord as David was, a man after God's own heart. And how sensitive he was to the Lord. And then he's confronted with how horrendous this sin was that he just committed. And the reality of that is just washing over him And he could have very easily fallen to pieces and just given up and walked away. I put it this way, his colossal failure and devastating consequences. But David understood the grace of God. And David understood the mercy of God. I think one of the most difficult things about falling, one of the most difficult things about falling is getting back up again. Anyone know what I'm talking about? I think, but on the other hand, one of the most important things about falling. Now I'm talking spiritually. Somebody falls spiritually, a good man, a good woman, loves the Lord. And for whatever reason they they sin, they make some foolish decisions and they spiritually fall, not from grace, but fall from the blessings and fall out of the will of God, and they make and they make a mess of things. And one of the hardest things about that is to get back up and get back in the saddle and to go on for God. But I'm telling you, it is vitally important when you and I fall, and we will, we do, to varying degrees We do fall and we do make mistakes and we do make foolish decisions. And regardless of how hard it may be to get back up and go on for God, it is vitally important that we get back up And go on. We cannot stay laying down, wallowing in self-pity and self-guilt and self-condemnation. You have to get up and go on And that's what David is doing. To his credit, he understood that God's mercy, he messed up. There's terrible consequences. But God's mercies are new every morning. He can get up and go on. If you would, we're looking at verses here, come to me to Proverbs if you would. Proverbs chapter number 24. This is one of the most encouraging verses to me in all of Scripture. Proverbs chapter 24 and verse number 16, I memorized this years and years ago, and I tell you, I have to run to this uh more often than I'd like to admit. Proverbs 24, look at verse 16. And notice very carefully the wording here. For a just man falleth seven times. And what? Rises up again. But the wicked shall fall into mischief. Did you catch that? What kind of man falls seven times? A just man, that's a good man. That's a man in right standing with God. We would to use New Testament terminology, we would say this is a saved man. Born again, child of God, a just man. And the Bible doesn't say there's a good chance he might fall sometime in his life. Notice the wording very carefully: a just man, what? It's not a possibility. He's saying, listen, it's going to happen. Adjustment followeth how many times? Seven times. Now is he saying here, well, you mess up seven times and after that, off with his hand. No. Yeah, the verse uh the number seven implies an ongoing thing. Remember when Peter came to Jesus and said, How often should I forgive my brother? Seven times He may have been referencing this. I don't know. What was Jesus' response? He said, I say not unto you seven times, but what? Seventy times seven. Now the Lord wasn't saying, keep count, when you get to 499, then it's done. We'd understand what the Lord was saying. And the truth of this verse here is so vitally important for you and I in our Christian life. Is that we do everything we can, we want to do everything we can to avo avoid messing up. And we have studies like this on David's actions and how he ended up in this situation So we can learn from that and maybe avoid going down that same path. But nevertheless, we're sinful beings in a sinful world with a very powerful devil. And we mess up sometimes, and that's not an excuse, and that's not justifying sin. There's no justification for it, but it happens. And it's vitally important we understand if we know the Lord is our Savior, we've been born again, we can and we must get back up again and go on. And David understood that. I believed that. I think you'll see what I'm getting at here with this. One of the most difficult things about failing and falling is getting back up and going on. My sons were both trained with uh horses and uh worked in camps out in Utah and um Sam particularly, but both of the boys are pretty good with horses. I'm I'm not um uh I can walk a uh beagle around her a little bit, but I'm not with much with horses. But they say if you get on a horse you learn to ride a horse or you're breaking that horse And you get thrown well Derek would know, you get thrown off of that thing. We all what's the f what what do you need to do? Get back in the saddle. Get back on that thing And that's true. That's true in the Christian life. Just ignore this peanut gallery over here, all right. That's true in the Christian life. We got to get back up. And that's what David does. I put this down. Getting back up, getting back up is a very is a test of my faith. Do I have faith enough to believe that God forgave me? Do I have faith enough to believe that God can still use me in spite? Of how badly I messed up. It's an act of faith. It's a matter of faith. Because God tells us if we confess our sin, He's faithful and just To forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And so David is going to display here a tremendous act of faith, a confidence, In who God is and what God tells him. And he gets up and he goes on. David understood God's grace. David understood God's mercy. And he was able to get back up again and still be useful to his family and to his Lord Now, are there consequences he's going to face? Yes, heart-wrenching consequences are still down the road. We're going to see them. But David's eyes are back on the Lord, and his feet are back on the ground. And he has faith to believe that God can still use him. God still has a plan for his life. God still has a purpose for David, even after failure. He can get up and still be used of God. Now maybe not the same as he was before. Maybe his his uh his uh uh ability what what God can do with him may have been diminished a bit, but God's not done. God can and will still use them. I said this in a previous message. I want to repeat it. God specializes in fixing broken lives. It's God's specialty. Read the Gospels as Jesus dealt with publicans and sinners and tax collectors and prostitutes and thieves. And they came to him and he changed their lives and he raised them back up and he made them productive members of the body of Christ. And that's what God does. You could do all kinds of case studies through Scripture. John Mark failed terribly, came back home such such a degree. Paul said, we're not taking him on any missionary trips with us And yet God restored Mark, and later on Paul said, hey, he's profitable to me. And God used him to record one of the books of the Bible. And so God specializes in using broken people and fixing broken people. Now, let's come to our text here. And I found this fascinating, this study. 2 Samuel chapter 12 here. Let's start in verse, just two verses, but I want us to look at this. I've got three thoughts from these two verses tonight. Number one I want us to notice what I'm calling the longing of David. He sinned, he's been confronted about it, he's been humiliated, he's guilty, he's shamed. But there's down in his heart and soul, his his his uh his concern turns to Bathsheba. And he's concerned for her recovery. He's concerned for Bathsheba's well-being. And look with me, if you would, at verse 24. And David, what? Comforted Bathsheba his wife. I see the first thing David does, and down in his heart he's concerned for her, and this longing in his heart that she be okay. And the Bible says he comforted her. And I got studying that term comforted and how it's used in scripture, and uh I found it means this: to share, get this definition, to share in another person's sorrow. It has this idea to join in with another person's grief To join in and help carry another person's burden. He has the idea of coming alongside of putting your arm around and crying Along with the one that's crying, and weeping and sorrowing and grieving, along with the one that's grieving. When I first got into ministry way back in the 80s, middle eighties, and I began doing funerals when I was assistant pastor in different places, and I always thought, I uh initially I thought this. When someone had a death in the family, a spouse or a parent or a sibling or a child even, early on I thought that I had to have an answer for their grief. And I had to be able to say something and do something, and they would stop grieving because of the promise I gave them, or the verse I read them, or the poem I quoted to them, and I would take all their grief away. You know what I found out? It's like beating your head against a brick wall. I couldn't. There's no magic formula. There's no poem. There's not even a Bible verse that erases grief from the heart. And through the process of failure and observation, I came to the conclusion usually what people need the most when they're grieving is someone to come along beside them and cry with them. And grieve with them. And I tried something early on, and I do it to this day, whenever I have a funeral for someone Whatever the relationship is, I try to put myself in those shoes. What if that was my father that I'm doing the that's lying there? What if that was my spouse or my child or My brother, my sister. How would I be feeling? And then I try and join in with that person feeling. And then of course it doesn't mean you don't share truths and help with them. You follow what I'm saying? That's what David is doing here. His wife is grieving. I think there's two factors behind her grief. One is obvious as what? What would she be grieving over? The death of her son. This was her son also. When David was fasting and praying, Bathsheba was fearful also for the life of the sons, and they find out the child dies, her heart is shattered. Not just as much as David's, can I suggest perhaps even more than David's? It's a mother's heart. As far as I know, this was her first child As far as we know, we have no record of other children she had before this. And her heart is shattered. And she is broken. You know, one of the hardest things, I understand, I'm told, and I and I believe it's true, one of the hardest things is to lose a child. In death, and the grief of a mother. And David sees that, and his heart is broken for his wife. And I don't know how it played up. We're not told anything other than David comforted his wife Bathsheba. And so I don't know how exactly he did that, but I picture him crawling in the bed beside her and put his arm around her and they both just sob their eyeballs out. They just cry and cry and cry and cry together So David's comforting her. One reason is the loss of her child, one of the most emotionally difficult things for a parent to deal with. But I think there's another aspect to her grief. I think there's not only the death of a child, but on top of that, does anybody else think of something she might be upset about that might be bothering her? What? The death of her husband, that also. But I think there's something, and and that's a factor, but I think there's something else. The public shame. of what they just went through. I mean a whole nation knows what her and David did. Can you imagine can anybody hear? Anybody here ever do something you knew wasn't wrong and you felt guilty about it? Anybody here? Two people have done ever felt guilt Uh I would venture to say all of us have felt guilt at some time. Uh there's a couple folks pretty cold-blooded, but um won't mention any names. But can you imagine the guilt that she might be dealing with? And the shame Over a public exposure of a very shameful sin. And so here she is. She's grieving, she's in sorrow, the loss of her child, the shame and guilt of her sin, her personal failure. It can be emotionally devastating. So how did David comfort her? We're not told, as I said I think he shared he wept with her and he talked to her. But I think there's two ways that David helped Gree helped his wife. He comforted his wife. And we're not told, so I'm speculating here a little bit But I think one thing David did was he assured her that they would see their child again. Because that's what God encouraged David with. Come back to verse 23. Remember he was fasting and praying, the child died, he got up and ate, cleaned himself up, and they said, What in the world are you doing? Look at verse 23. Now he is dead, wherefore should I fast? Can I bring him back again? Now here's that classic statement. I shall go to him, but he shall not return to me. You know what David was saying? I'll see him again someday. I'll see him again And I think that comfort that God gave to David in the assurance that he would one day see his child again I think he came with the comfort God gave him, and he took that and did all he could to assure Bathsheba, listen, we'll see him again. We'll go to where he is. He's not going to come back to us, but one day we'll go to where he is. I tell you, when somebody's grieving on the death of a loved one, or in this case an infant, an innocent infant, one of the greatest comforts we can give them is the assurance that they're okay in heaven. And if we know the Lord, we'll see them again someday. I don't I don't know if this is scriptural, I'm pretty sure it isn't. But sometimes when I'm praying I get thinking about my dad And this is just me, so you can condemn me if you want, but sometimes I'll tell God, I'm praying and say, God, hey, would you tell Dad I said hey I can't pray to Dad, that's unscriptural, I know that. But I thought, God, just tell Dad, I said, hey. I don't know if that's very effective or not. But it helps me. Brings comfort to me. And so David, I think, is a helping comfort Bathsheba by the comfort God gave him. He's passing on to her, hey, we'll go see him again. And I think the other way he's comforting her is back in look at verse 13 of chapter 12 here. This is where Nathan had confronted him. David in the middle of the verse, or David in the beginning of the verse, says, I have sinned against the Lord. Nathan said, Look at Nathan responds in the middle of verse 13. The Lord also hath put away thy sin. And thou shalt not die. What was Nathan telling David when he says, the Lord's put away your sin? What's he assuring David of? God forgave him. And God and David took that by faith, that God forgave me. And I just see him taking that comfort. Of assurance of forgiveness that God gave David. And I see him coming to his wife and saying, listen, Bathsheba, God's forgiven us. He's put away our sin. We're forgiven. Our sin is forgiven. I think that's what he did. Take your Bible, if you would, keep your place here, and go with me real quickly to 2 Corinthians, if you would. 2 Corinthians. Chapter one. And there's a principle given here that is so tremendously helpful. And I'm and I and I want to believe that this is what David is doing. 2 Corinthians chapter 1, look at verse 3. 2 Corinthians chapter 1 verse 3. Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies. Now look at this. And the God of all what? Comfort. Oh, that's what David's doing to Bathsheba. The God of all mercy, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort. Now look at verse 4. Who comforteth us in all our tribulation. Then he goes on, that we may be able to comfort them Which are in any trouble by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. Do you see the formula here? We get ourselves in trouble, whatever that trouble may be. It may be failure, it may be just adversity, I don't know But God steps in and He shares in that with us and He helps us and He strengthens us and He sees us through that trouble out the other side. And God helps us and He comforts us And then we see somebody else that is going through trouble, and we take that comfort that God gave us And how he helped us through it, and we share with them what God did for us, how he helped us, and we share with them so they can find comfort to go through their trouble. You see the process And so what we need to do when you and I are going through a conflict, when you and I are going through adversity, when you and I are dealing with our own personal failures. And we get back up, we deal with it scripturally, we acknowledge it, we get back up and we go on, and we come across somebody else that's going through exactly what we went through We can do a whole lot more than just say to them, Oh, I know how you feel. Anybody ever say that? Anybody ever have somebody say that to you? Man, you're just devastated, come on, I know how you feel. Ah, thanks, man. Praise the Lord But we can do more than that, and we can say, listen, I do know how you feel. And let me tell you, if you will, let me share with you How God helped me through this exact same thing. Let me show you how God helped me through this and be able to help them experience the comfort. You see what's happening? And I think that's exactly what's going on with David He received assurance of forgiveness of the sin he committed. He received assurance that he'll see his child again someday. And he takes those assurances, that comfort for him, and he passes it on to Bathsheba. Now I know something about every one of us. I don't there's a lot I don't know about all of us, but there's something I know about every one of us. Every one of us have gone through some hard times. Some some maybe right now Dealing with issues, dealing with struggles, dealing with adversity, dealing with setbacks, whatever it may be. And I know this, we go through them. God, if we let God, He will use us If we deal with it scripturally and trust him and let him lead us and follow his instructions through it, then when we come across somebody, we can take that and we can be a help to them. We can be a help to them. And so I guess what I'm saying is this, we must not waste our adversities. When God helps us and sees us and sees us through and enables us, comforts us. Don't waste that. Take it and share it with someone else that needs it. And that's what David is doing here. He comforts Bathsheba with the comfort God gave him. Now, come back here real quick. There's a couple other things real quick I want us to notice here. Uh I don't know if I'll get through all this tonight or not. Uh 2 Samuel, let me get there. I lost my spot. Let's see. Samuel's in the Old Testament, right? Second Samuel twelve. Notice there in verse number 24. There's a little statement. This is the first time this statement is made. Alright, here I am. David comforted, David comforted Bathsheba. What's the next two words? His wife. That's the first time the Bible refers to Bathsheba as David's wife. Every time before it always referred to Bathsheba, the wife of Uriah. Every time. Bathsheba, the wife of Uriah, even after David took her to be his wife She was still referred to as Bathsheba, who had been the wife of Uriah. But now it's changed. And God recognizes now for the first time that Bathsheba is David's wife. David's wife. I thought that was interesting, and I can't honestly say I can draw out all the applications and the implications of that But uh this is the conclusion I come to that though that marriage was ill-conceived, would you agree with me? Ill-conceived marriage, committed adultery with her, killed her husband, and took her away, that's not the way to start a marriage. And as ill-conceived as it was, nevertheless, they dealt with it, they've acknowledged it. They've done exactly what God says, and now God confirms this marriage, as horrendous as it was in its beginning. Nevertheless, God now recognizes it and confirms it. So, number one, David comforted his wife. Second of all, Bathsheba conceives another child. Now I think this is part of God's comfort to Bathsheba. She held that baby for a little while and it died. Maybe she nursed it for a little while and it died. And now her arms are empty and the crib is empty. But God gives her another one. And I think it's interesting. God did not make her barren. Did you know that sometimes, it's not always, don't read more into this than what it is, but sometimes God would judge a woman by making her barren. And God didn't do that to Bathsheba. You know why? Because he forgave her. She's forgiven and she conceives again. And now she has another baby to hold. And now she has another child to nurse in the place of the one that sin took away. She's God still had a purpose. For Bathsheba. And we're going to find out that purpose was way bigger than she ever dreamed. Here's what I'm trying to say: God can take broken people and use them in wonderful, wonderful ways. God can take people who make horrendous mistakes, and yet if we'll just trust him and let him work in our life and follow his instructions, God can use them great ways. Can you be imagine being the mother of Solomon? The wisest man apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. What an honor And so God uh so Bathsheba conceives another child. One, David comforted Bathsheba. Number two, Bathsheba conceives another child. And number three, they called him Solomon. Now there's a little significance to this name. The word Solomon means peace. David has had anything but peace for the last two years. You read Psalm, I think it's 32, where he describes the conflicts and the vexation of his heart and soul while he's trying to cover his sin. And he's under conviction and he's feeling guilt. And he said his bones ached and his uh his uh his bones were rotting in him is what it felt like. He was miserable And now he's back with his wife, they have a child, and he names the child Solomon. Peace It's what David longed for. That's what he wanted. Now something interesting about Solomon's name, if you would, turn with me over to 1 Chronicles. I know we're jumping around here a bunch, but I want you to notice something in 1 Chronicles. This is long before Bathsheba is anything in David's life. This is before there's any failure and murder, before there's any adultery, before there's any uh cover-ups or rebukes or deaths of children, all before that. 1 Chronicles chapter 22. And look with me at verse number 8. David is preparing for the temple to build for his son. Verse uh da da da verse six. Then he called uh First Chronicles, this event is after all that, but the word of the Lord, verse 8 is what I want. But the word of the Lord came to me saying, Thou hast shed blood abundantly. Thou hast made great wars. Thou shalt not build a house in unto my name, because thou hast shed much blood upon the earth in my sight. Now this is previously, God had said this to David, behold, a son shall be born to thee, who shall be a man of rest. And I will give him rest from all his enemies roundabout, for his name shall be what? Solomon And I will give peace and quietness unto Israel in his days. God had already told David he's going to have a son, Solomon. Now, someone suggested, I was reading some commentaries on this, and some had suggested that David had to commit adultery with Bathsheba, or he would have never had Solomon. I'm here to tell you, we never have to sin. Nobody has to sin for God to accomplish His will. God hates sin. It is an affront to His holiness. So then they say the question is, well, if David didn't commit adultery with Bathsheba, how would Solomon have ever come about? Listen, God can give a son, could have given him Solomon in any number of ways In fact, now this is my thinking. My thinking is Solomon probably perhaps would have been better off without having come the adultery way into this world. He said, well, he's a pretty good guy. Do you know Solomon had a besetting sin? Did you know Solomon had a weakness that took him down at the end of his life? Anybody know what that weakness besetting sin was? Women. Women. I wonder if maybe Solomon's weakness for women might have been a result of David's. Actions with women. I don't know. But I know God can accomplish His will without you and I sinning David didn't have to commit adultery for Solomon to come into the world. So they conceived this child and they named him Solomon Peace. And perhaps David in his heart and mind is thinking, two years of conviction and inner turmoil. And I've got things right with God. And I have a wife now, and we have a child. We're going to name him Solomon. Peace. Peace Now, let me give you the last two, and there'll just be a second. I notice the love of Jehovah, if you would come back here. Says, and he called his name Solomon, 2 Samuel 12, 24, and the Lord loved him And then verse 25, it adds this on, and this gets kind of interesting. And he sent by the hand of Nathan the prophet, and he called his name Jedediah. How do you like that, Jed? Yeah, good. That's his life verse right there. And he called his name Jededite. By the way, it's the only time it's in the Bible He called his name Jedediah because of the Lord. And so here is Solomon born and they name him Solomon and Nathan, God sends Nathan, and Nathan says, all right, his Solomon is his name, but we're also going to give him another name. We're giving him the name Jedediah. Remember the statement before that was because the Lord loved him, and they name him Jedediah. I got looking up Jedediah, and Jed probably knows this, but the name Jedediah means beloved of Jehovah. Beloved of Jehovah. God loved Solomon. And he gave him, God gave him the name. In addition to Solomon, he gave him the name Jedediah, beloved of Jehovah. And every time David looked at his son, he was reminded that though he was a sinner, God still loved him. Every time he held his little son He was reminded that God can give, bring peace out of the most horrendous storms. In the midst of the most horrendous sin, we'll trust the Lord and do what he says. We can still experience His love. Out of ashes, God brings forth beauty. Out of the rock, God brings forth water. In wrath, God remembers his mercy. And God does correct us, but he does it in measure. He does it in love. And then the notice last thing I want us to notice, and we won't take time to turn there, but it's the lineage of Solomon. And I think this is fascinating In Matthew chapter 1 and verse 6, it gives the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ. Anybody want to guess who's named in the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ? Solomon. A child born to parents who committed horrendous sin. I hear people say sometimes those kids have no chance Because of the circumstances they're in, because of the home or whatever, those kids have no chance. I'm here to tell you, as long as there's a God in heaven, those kids have a chance. You say, oh, this world, I just can't imagine the kids that grow up in this world, they don't have a chance. I'm here to tell you, as long as there's a God in heaven, every one of those kids has a chance. And don't give up on the kids and don't assign them to failure and to a life of sin and worldliness. Trust God. Because God is a master at taking a mess and working into something beautiful. I like the old statement. You've probably heard it. God can draw a straight line with a crooked stick. And thank God for it, because I'm a pretty crooked stick. Amen? Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. Help us to have faith to get back up again. Lord, help us to believe that you can take our shortcomings and our weaknesses and our failures And you can still use us and you can bring good out of that. And I pray you'd help us to trust you, but Lord, help us to do what we need to do. Not ignore What's taken place, the decisions, face them, confess them, and then get up and go on. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I'm glad God loves old sinners like me. Anybody like that? Sure. Amen. Now, this is between you and God, and this may be awfully personal, but maybe there's something going on in your life, and God's touching your heart, say, hey, you just trust me, I'm not done with you. You just do what I say. Let's deal with it scripturally. Let's deal with it. I can still use you. You'll just trust me. I can still bless you. I still got a plan. I still got a purpose. I wonder how many tonight would say, preacher, I'm sure glad God still has a purpose for my life. Anybody like that? Anybody like that? Let's come to the Lord tonight. Old altar. I just say, here I am, Lord, take me. Do what you need to do. Get me back up and go on. Maybe some of us have been through it, and we know someone that maybe God touched our heart that we could, maybe brought them to mind, that we could go and help them Say, hey, let me share with you what God did for me, how God saw me through this. God can use us in a great ministry, He can give us in that way. Father, bless your invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.