Look at verse 13 with me, if you would. Romans chapter 15, verse 13. I'd like for us to read this together in unison as uh we're coming in, uh starting a new year, a few days into it, first Sunday And uh I thought this was a good verse. This has been on my heart. Uh verse 13, let's all read it together. Ready? You got it there all together. Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that ye may abound in hope through the power of the Holy Ghost. I like that first phrase there, the God of hope. The God of hope. Of course it being the year 2020, we were thinking the theme. you know, vision, we're memorizing verses on vision. But I tell you one word that's been coming to my mind since the beginning of the year, since New Year's Day, really, is this word hope. Hope, hope. Um this world's a mess. Anybody notice that? This world's a mess. If all you see is what you see on the news, and if all you read is what you read in social media and all that type of stuff You could say that our situation is hopeless. This old world, it's hopeless. But I'm here to tell you, we have a God of hope. A God of hope. That's what I want to try and talk about this morning. The God of hope. Let's pray together. Father, I thank you for the word of God. The tremendous promises that are in here and Lord uh and uh the displays and testimonies and record of your power in apparent hopeless situations and God how you step in And you can turn things around. You can make that which is wrong, you can make it right. And God, that which is weak, you can make it strong And so we look to you this morning as we start a new year. And I pray for myself and I pray on behalf of our church. That you would help us to look to you this coming year. Help us to have hope in you. And regardless of circumstances or needs or situation I yield my will to you. I present my body this hour with all my heart, Lord. I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. And God, you just You be the preacher, Lord, you be the speaker, and uh open our hearts and minds and help us, I pray. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I think we all understand we start a new year, you think looking forward, kind of a little nostalgic looking back. But as we look forward, I think all of us would agree we have no idea what this year holds. You agree with me? How many people had some things happen this past year you never expected? Never expect anybody? Sure, sure. And uh as we look forward, uh we don't know what we don't know what 2020 is going to hold. We have no idea Next year this time, and I don't mean to be morbid or anything, it's just reality, next year this time, some of us may be in glory, may be out in eternity. You don't know. This past year we had some dear folks that were with us last year, first Sunday, this year, they're with the Lord. Thinking of uh Helen Friend And uh just a week or so ago. And so we don't know what the year holds. We don't know if uh this is going to be a year of great blessings Maybe God's going to do maybe that prayer we've been praying for for years and years and years, maybe this is the year God will answer that prayer. We don't know. Maybe that loved one we've been witnessing to. Maybe this year they'll get saved. We don't know what the year holds. It may be great blessings. It may be a year of trials. We may have to go through some valleys this year. We may We may face some real storms of life, and it's a real possibility. Some folks this past year went through some real storms And so we don't know. We don't know if it's blessing. We don't know if it's going to be trials. Maybe 2020 will be a year of prosperity. Maybe God will bless you and prosper you in ways you didn't think of or before. How many people vote for that one? Yeah, we like that. We want blessings. We want prosperity. We want joy and And uh but we don't know. 2020 may be a year of loss for some of us. This may be a year of setback financially or whatever. Uh we don't know. We don't know. But we can decide, though we don't know what's going to happen, though we don't know what the tomorrow and this coming year holds for us as individuals, as a church We don't know what it is, but we can know this. How I'm going to face this coming year What my attitude would be, what my mindset will be as I go into this coming year. We have two options We can go into this new year looking with despair. Oh do we have any Eeyores here? Anybody know? Got any Eeyores here? How many people know who Eeyore is? Yeah. Oh, it'll probably be terrible. And oh, I'm gonna lose my job, I know it. And uh You know, we can go into the new year with this despair and, oh, it's going to be terrible and all of that. Or we can go face this new year with, here's my word, hope Hope. I have hope for this coming year. I think one of the worst conditions of the human heart, and one of the worst conditions of the human soul, is that of despair. That of despair. Some of us know what I'm talking about when we talk about getting in a situation, a mindset that is absolute despair. Uh that's one of the worst conditions of a human heart and mind of despair or of hopelessness. Oh, it's just hopeless. There's no hope. There's no way. This can That's one of the worst conditions. I was doing a little search on the computer and and uh researching on um uh celebrity suicides You know, I I didn't really give it a lot of thought before. There's a whole heap of them for folks that are incredibly popular. incredibly popular, uh uh fabulously wealthy. Uh they had everything they could possibly want, adored by millions and millions of people around the world and all of that. But down in their heart and soul there was despair and hopelessness. I was reading from different ones And I could name some of them that they taught. And one common theme in in that described them leading up to that horrific decision was this hopelessness. Hopelessness. Hopelessness Oh, what a terrible thing. What a terrible thing to be hopeless. Ephesians says that unbelievers, unsaved people are without God and without hope in this world. Thou God and without hope in this world. Terrible condition of the human heart. One of the greatest conditions of the human heart, I believe, is described in our text here. That of peace in my heart, that of joy, that of hopefulness. It is absolutely possible. Let me ask this question. How many folks here this morning? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. If that's the case, if you know the Lord is Savior, then verse 13 in Romans chapter 15 is for you and me. We can have this. We can experience it. A heart and soul filled with peace Peace in my heart and soul, joy, and filled with hope, hopefulness. It is possible to live in the year 2020 with a life of peace. And joy and hopefulness. By the way, you're here this morning, and you couldn't say amen if you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven. I'm telling you, there is hope for you. Jesus Christ loves you. He died for you. He can give you eternal life. He can give you assurance of a home in heaven, escaping hell. And not only that, a new life here and now filled with peace. And joy and hopefulness. That's what God wants. Listen, I'm not God, obviously, but I'm telling you, based on the authority of the Word of God, God wants this for you and I. He wants us to have peace in our heart. I'm talking, I have no doubt in my mind, I'm talking to somebody, whether here or through the internet or whatever, I'm talking to somebody that down inside your heart you think, boy, I'd sure like to have some peace I'd like to have some peace in my home. Tired of the fighting and the uh I'm tired of the conflict in my heart and soul, struggling, unsettled, restlessness I'm telling you, God wants you to have peace in your heart and soul. He wants you to have the joy of the Lord. That's our strength as Christians. The joy of the Lord. He wants us to have hope. The God of hope. Would you look at our text with me again here? Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing That ye may abound in the hope, that ye may abound in hope through the power of the Holy Ghost. Abound in hope. I like the book of Romans. Um probably uh what my favorite book is whatever I happen to be studying at that time, favorite book of the Bible. But the book of Romans is a is a is a profound book It is probably, the book of Romans probably has the most complete teachings on the doctrines of Christianity than any other book of the Bible Now, all scripture is given by inspiration of God. It's all profitable. It's all important. It's all God's Word. But the book of Romans has perhaps the most complete teaching on what Christianity is all about. Someone called the book of Romans the Christian's Constitution. I like that. This is what Christianity is all about. Another commentator called the book of Romans the Christian's Manifesto. In other words, it explains and lays out what Christianity is about. The book of Romans, the theme of the book of Romans, is the core of the Christian faith. All right, so what's the theme? It's this, basically. Let me summarize 16 chapters in just a statement. Here's the theme. Sinful man. Can be reconciled to a holy God through faith in the sacrifice God has provided in His Son, Jesus Christ. Did you get that? Sinful man, I can be reconciled in my relationship with a holy God Through putting my faith in the sacrifice that God has provided in His Son, Jesus Christ. That's what Christianity is. Somebody says, What do Christians believe? Christians believe that God loved the world so much he gave his only begotten Son that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life That's what Romans says. It just explains that, expounds on that one truth. And then he goes on in the book of Romans, he points out that when we are reconciled with God, when I am made right with God when my sin that separates me from God has been dealt with, has been forgiven, and I'm united. I'm now a child of God through faith in Christ, that changes my life. Brings about profound changes in my life. Turn with me, if you would, to Romans chapter 6. And we could just go a number of places in the book. But look with me, Romans chapter 6 One thing, trusting Jesus Christ as my Savior and gaining eternal life, one thing it will do, it will have a profound impact upon my lifestyle How many folks here, before you got saved, you lived a different lifestyle than you do now? Anybody here testify to that? Sure. It's true for me. God changed our lives. Look at chapter six and notice verse number one with me. What shall we say then Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? He's talking to people who got saved. Should we just keep on living in sin? Should we just go on and keep living the way we did? Live in sin Look at his next statement. What's those next two words say? Help me out. God forbid. Oh, God's God saves somebody. God gives them a new life. He uh changes them. He he takes them out of sin. He saves us from not just sin's judgment, but he wants to save us from sin's presence in our life. Notice God forbid, how shall we that are dead to sin, talking about saved people, how shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein? Know ye not that so many of us as were baptized unto Jesus Christ were baptized unto his death? Therefore we are baptized with him by baptism unto death. That like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, look at this. Even so, we also should walk in what? Newwness of life. Newness of life. When we have a baptism. By the way, baptism doesn't save a soul. Baptism does not take away sins. It's a testimony. It's an evidence. It's giving testimony of the fact that I've trusted Christ. And we baptize that person. I bow baptize you in the name of the Father, Son, Holy Ghost, buried with him in baptism, raised to walk in newness of life. That's what he's telling us When a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, there's a new life. That old drunkard gets sober. Amen? That old uh that liar becomes honest. That uh covetous person becomes content. God brings a change. What shall we continue in sin? God forbid. How should we that are dead to sin live any longer therein? Look over at verse 16 with me. Know ye not that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom ye obey, whether to sin unto death or of obedience unto righteousness. But God be thanked. Look at this. That ye were the servants of sin, but ye have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine, that gospel, which was delivered unto you, being then made free from sin You become the servants of righteousness. God's what's he saying? He's saying, God will change your life. God will change your life. I remember before I got saved, I was uh such a mess I was reading my Bible. I was praying, God help me. Here was my thought, my prayer. It was went through my mind so much. I do not want to be the person I'm becoming I saw what I was becoming. I saw what my life the way it was going. I don't want to be this kind of person. I want a new life. I want to be right. And I found out the only way. Hey, get this The only way to get a new life is through putting your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. It's the only way. I bow beside my bed, May 7, 1979, 1030 at night. I call on the Lord, Lord come in my life, and I'm telling you, change my life. Change my mind. I look back now, my life before I got saved, it's getting back there farther and farther all the time. And uh but I look back on that life before and it's oh some of y'all know what I'm talking about. It's like that was a different person I don't even know who that guy was that lived like that. That was the old name. And when God saves us, he gives us a new life. He changes us And a new creature. And so Paul says, hey, listen, Christianity is putting your faith and trust in God's sacrifice, Jesus Christ. And have his sins forgiven and made reconciled to God, made right with God, made a child of God, and that changes your lifestyle. But he also says it changes your frame of mind It changes the way we think, the way we perceive things, the way we value things, the way we assess things. Go to chapter 12 with me, if you would, real quick. I'm just giving a little survey through the book here Chapter 12, verse number 1. Seems like I end up with this passage so often in my messages, but it is profound. Romans chapter 12, look at verse number one. Paul, writing to saved people, he says, I beseech you, therefore, brethren. What's he saying? I'm begging you, I'm pleading with you, brethren, saved folks, you trust in Christ. By the mercies of God that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice. Live for the Lord is what he's saying. Holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Be not conform to this world. Don't take on the values of this world. Don't take on the priorities of this old temporary sinful world. Don't be con be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the what? Renewing of your mind, changing the way you think, changing your frame of mind, changing your perspective. By the renewing of your mind that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Hey, good dose of salvation change the way a person thinks. Okay, I was thinking, I think it was last night or this morning. I I have a hard time remembering what happened a half hour ago, but um uh I think it was last night or this morning I was thinking You know, before I got saved, I never thought about going to church on Sunday morning. Never entered my mind. What did go to church? What are you? But you know, when I got saved, I had a whole different mindset about that Now I look forward to it. Man, I'm excited about church getting there. And so it changes our frame of mind. Also, when a person gets saved It changes our treatment of others. Now we don't have time, but if we'd read on in chapter 12, chapter 13, 14, into the first half of chapter 15, he talks about how we treat others once we get saved. And our attitude towards others and our interaction with others. I'll summarize it this way. Hey, if God loved you enough when you were a sinner to die for you, you ought to love other people even though they're sinners. We ought to love people. We ought to care about them. We ought to be patient. Says somebody's weak in the faith, you which are strong, you encourage them. You help them in their faith. Somebody struck somebody's unkind to you, somebody says something unkind to you. You be kind back to them. You're a Christian. God's been good. How many people here, God's ever forgiven you for anything Yeah, sure. Did we deserve it? No, we didn't deserve it. Then it behooves us to forgive others that have done us wrong. Amen or not? Yeah. And what I'm trying to say is this: God changes us. He changes our life. When we get saved, he changes our lifestyle. He changes our behavior. He changes the way we think. He changes how we interact with other people. Boy, uh uh this old world, what is this world? Uh uh you hurt me, I'll hurt you. Uh you cuss me out, I'll cuss you even more. You cut me off, and I'll I'll get mad at you. But uh the Christian lives by a different set of values. And we're patient and we love others and we're kind. And so that brings us all back here to Romans chapter 15. Everybody with me? Everybody doing all right? New year, and uh look what he says. That brings us to verse 15. Now, all these things being true, Now, the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace and believing That ye may abound in hope through the power of the Holy Ghost. That word joy there means this: to have great delight, satisfaction, happiness. He goes, listen, it's possible for you and I, through the power of the Holy Spirit, it's not something we work up, it's something God does for us, it's something God does in our heart and life, and we can live a life full of joy With great delight, a heart and life that is filled with satisfaction and happiness. Oh, wouldn't it be a wonderful thing? Go this coming year, live through this coming year, just satisfied Just satisfied. Oh, I'm just satisfied. God's good to me. I mean, just material-wise, the poorest person in this room is richer than most of the rest of the world. You know that. We can be satisfied and just content and uh and just filled with joy. God says, I can do that for you through the power of the Holy Spirit, supernaturally. I can give you joy. Then he says peace. Ah, the word peace there means what you think it would mean, tranquility, uh absence of conflict. I have no doubt in my mind. I'm talking to some folks this morning. In your heart and soul, there is a conflict going on. I mean it's unsettled. It's struggling in your heart with something. Maybe God's dealing with your heart about something Maybe the devil's drawing you, the flesh, the world's drawing you some way. You know it's not right. You know it's not God's will, but there's a part of you that wants to go that way. Then the Spirit of God's in there, and he's saying, no, go this way, and conflict, conflict. How many people know what I'm talking about? And he says, listen, I can give you peace. Through the power of the Holy Spirit, that can all be settled. If you'll just trust me, if you'll just believe, I can give you peace. And then he says, uh hope. And uh may the God and now the God of hope fill you with all in joy and peace and believing that ye may abound in hope. Now, what does hope mean? I think I preached on this just recently. I was trying to remember But uh hope, in our day and age, in our lingo, I guess, we think of hope as something Oh, I uh we say I said this yesterday, literally. This came off the lips of my mouth. I said, I hope it don't snow tomorrow morning. Well, that was meaningless Oh, I hope I hope the sun comes out this afternoon. It's 60 degrees. I hope I get a raise this year. Um I hope I uh Uh let's see, what's something else we hope for? Uh I hope uh I hope the Steelers win for a change. Um I don't know, I'm just coming up with stuff. But you see what I'm saying? Our in our lingo, when we say we hope something What we mean by that is this. It is a, here's my definition, it is a uncertain desire for a pleasant and positive outcome. Now I hope, I want it to be that way. I'm wishing, I w I desire for this outcome and and uh I hope, but there's no As we use the word, there's no certainty in it. Right? You follow me? There's no certainty. I hope so. I hope. Now, having said all of that, when the Bible refers to hope, it's almost the opposite of that It is not a desire or a wish or an uncertain desire for something. When the Bible uses the term hope, it means this: a certain Expectation, a confident anticipation that something will be so It's not a wishful thinking, it's not a uncertain desire. It is the word is just chalkful of confidence, certainty, and absolute Our hope in God is certain. It's not wishful thinking. It has the idea, this is my definition, a confident an expectant anticipation of future good and future blessing. It is full of confidence Now I said all that to get to my first point. Here's my thought. This is basically the message. Our God possesses hope. I don't know if you ever thought of it that way, but our God is a God of hope. A God of hope Notice in verse number five of the same chapter, it says this, now the God of patience and consolation. Here he says that our God, the true and living God, is a God that is patient. I don't know about you. I'm sure glad God's patient with me. Amen. Anybody here glad to God anybody here God been patient with you? Yeah. I gotta be patient with you when you don't raise your hand when I tell you to. But uh yeah, God's uh sh I'm glad God's patient with me. Good heavens, the God of patience. And then he says he's the God of consolation. It means to come alongside. and help and encourage and lift us up. Uh uh I tell you, I've been knowing the Lord now for 40 years, and there's been many, many times I was down the valley, down the storm. Some of y'all know you know you're gonna know what I'm talking about. You get down there, and man, you get discouraged, you get uh depressed And then God comes along, you hear a sermon, or you read a Bible verse, or a song comes to mind, and God just stirs you and lifts you up and he helps you. Anybody, can I get a witness? Anybody know I'm talking about it? Yeah Man, our God is a God of consolation. He doesn't leave us in that valley. He doesn't leave us alone in that storm, in that dark dungeon. He comes down, lifts us up, and helps us. Our God loves us. I'm telling you, God loves you. God loves me He's patient with us when we do stupid things. We make dumb decisions and we think, ah, and God's so patient with us. And he comes and he helps us. Come over to chapter number 16 there and notice with me. I'm sorry, chapter 15, look down at verse 33. Last verse of the chapter, Romans chapter 33. Look what it says. Now the God of what? Peace be with you all. Over in chapter 16, verse 20. The God of peace be with you all. Oh, our God is the God of peace. But I zero in on our text, verse 13, the God of hope. The God of hope. That is a name of God. He is a God of hope. That's one of his names. The God of hope. Which God do you serve? The God of hope. The God of hope. By the way, there is only one God. And that God, our God, is the God of hope. The God of hope. It's a description of Hom. God is has hope. He is certain of a and and he he is confidently anticipates a positive outcome. He knows the end from the beginning. 1960s, there was a philosopher, I think, out of California. A lot of strange things come out of California There's a philosopher out of California. He started this idea, sending it around. God is dead. Anyone ever hear that statement? Oh, God's dead. God's dead. I'm here to tell you today, God ain't dead. God is not dead. God is very very much alive and well. He is active on our planet. You look all around. I tell you what, if God was dead, every one of us would be dead. Because he's the sustainer of life. God is not dead, and I want to go and add to that, God is not even discouraged. You say, oh, God looks down on creation and sees all this. Surely he's discouraged. I'm telling you, God God is not the God of discouragement. Our God is the God of hope. The God of hope. He's not discouraged. He's not depressed. He's not in despair. God is the God of hope. He's alive He's well, he's active, he's in control, he knows the end from the beginning, and he is the God of hope. Now, I got thinking about that. Come with me if you would back to Genesis real quick, and we're going to wind this down here. Come back to Genesis and chapter number three. And in Genesis chapter 2, God created Adam and Eve and uh set all the thing up, the home there and the marriage, and got everything set up, gave them their responsibilities. at the beginning of creation. He said to them, he said, that tree of the knowledge of good and evil, don't you eat of it. The day you eat of it, you shall surely what? Die. You eat that tree, you're going to die. You can eat any one of these others, hundreds and hundreds, no doubt, maybe thousands. You have all that. There's one you can't eat. Get to chapter three. What's the first thing they do? You ever tell your kids, don't you touch those cookies? As soon as you leave, what's the first thing they do? Zing! They didn't even know the cookies were there until you told them that. Very first thing they do is disobey God. I mean flat out, straight up, rebellion, disoblay. Eat it. Now the Eve was tricked by the devil, but Adam walked right into that thing, eyes wide open. He knew exactly what he was doing. He knew he was disobeying God. He's held responsible for it. Now I don't know about you. But if I if I was God, if I was God, we'd all be in a mess. But I don't know about you, but it looks to me, it would be like, man, this forget this. Very first thing I have them do, and they then they flat out disobey me, forget it. I'm just gonna wipe them off the map. I'm gonna destroy the whole thing, start all over. How many people would think that way? Anybody that's the way I am forget this. But God's not that way. He's a God of hope. In other words, this is what I'm trying to say. When man messed up, God didn't despair And look in verse chapter uh verse number uh six. And the woman saw that the tree was good for food, it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired, to make one wise, and she took of the fruit thereof and did what? Eat it. And look at this. And gave also under husband with her. Adam was right there, right in the mix, and he did eat. I don't know about you. God could have been justified in saying, forget this, I'm going to wipe mankind out, I'm done. But he didn't. Why? Because he's a God of hope. And he knew the very first thing he did, he came down and he did what needed to be done to make that release and to restore that relationship with fallen man. Killed a little lamb, paid the price, bloodshed. They trusted them, accepted those skins, clothes made of skin, and their relationship with God was restored. That's what hope does God of hope. Listen, I'm talking to someone this morning, maybe. You've sinned against God. You know you're a sinner. You've broken his law and you're under God's judgment. You say, preacher, is there any hope for me to be forgiven? Is there any hope for me to be saved from sin in hell? I say, yeah, there's hope for you, the God of hope. Can forgive your sin and save you if you'll just trust Him. Just put your faith in Christ. Maybe I'm talking to a Christian this morning Say, preacher, I got saved, but man, I messed up and I did some things, I said some things, and oh, I'm saved, and uh again, God Can God restore me? Can I be back in fellowship with God? I'm here to tell you God can take the Christian that is so backslidden and so cold, and God can take that and turn that around and make your life right And make it good and pure and right. You'll just trust him. Why? Because he's the God of hope. You follow anybody follow what I'm saying? You get over to chapter 6. Look in Genesis 6. Boy, it gets pretty pretty ugly here. Mankind just goes downhill. Adam and Eve got restored, and they started having kids, and they're having kids, and population is explosion, and uh you get to chapter 6 And notice in verse number five. And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth. I mean that one entrance of sin just spread and deteriorated And by the time you get to chapter 6, mankind is so wicked, the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of the heart was only evil continually. Look at this next statement. And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth. Whoa! Look at, and it grieved him at his heart. You know what that verse is saying? It got so bad. Sin was so wicked and so perverse. God's laws and God's holiness and right and wrong were completely disregarded. Even to the point where God said, it repents me I even made them. I don't know about you. That's pretty dark. When God says, I wish I hadn't even made them, that's pretty bad. Do you agree with me on that? But look at the next verse. Look what it says there. Verse 7. And the Lord, oh look at verse 70 says, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth, both man and beast, and the creeping thing and the fowls of the air. For it repenteth me that I have made them. Boy, that's pretty bad. God says, I'm done with this. Look at verse 8. But Noah found what? Grace in the eyes of the Lord. And God says, oh no, not all hope isn't gone Here's a man that trusts in me, that has faith in me, that will trust me and obey me. Here's a man and there's still hope alive. God is a God of hope And what I'm trying to say is this, it doesn't m it doesn't matter how dire the circumstances are, it doesn't matter how bad things may get. We have a God in heaven that is the God of hope, and as long as He is alive and ex Existing, as long as God exists, you and I can have hope. You and I can have hope. Um uh uh all through scripture, when things seem humanly helpless God didn't give up. God is a God of hope. God doesn't give up. God never gives up. One man, trusted God completely, turns things around. In God's eyes, your situation will never be hopeless. In God's eyes. I've had people say to me, preacher, this marriage is hopeless. There's no way in the world this marriage can ever be saved. And my first answer to that is always this. With man, this may be impossible, but with God, all things are possible. It's not hopeless as long as we have a God of hope. Oh, preacher, my finances, it's such a disaster. It's hopeless. I'll never be. Listen, it might be impossible humanly speaking. It might look hopeless humanly speaking. But we've got a God in heaven that's a God of hope. And God can turn things around. And God can do the impossible. God of hope. God of hope. Um uh In God's eyes, your situation may be hopeless. In God's eyes, your lost loved one may be hopeless. You'll say, oh, my daddy will never get saved. My husband never gets saved. Oh, it's hopeless. He'll never come to Christ. Don't say that, don't say that. There's a God in heaven, it's the God of hope. And it's never hopeless. Say I could never be saved. My finances, my marriage. No, there's a God of hope. So number one, God possesses hope. He's a God of how many people would be discouraged if our God was the God of despair Wouldn't that be awful? Oh, God's hopeless. God's whole frame of mind, his attitude, his thinking, it's hopeless. It's despair. God's depressed. I've read that Bible through. I'm working on my 41st time reading my Bible through. And I'm not trying to brag on myself. What I'm trying to say is this. I haven't found anywhere in the Bible where God gets depressed. I haven't found anywhere in the Bible where God gets despair. He's the God of hope. So he possesses hope. My last thought is this, real quickly. He provides hope. And he can give you and I hope in any situation. In any situation. The God of all hope, the God that provides hope, the God that produces hope. I was sitting when Brother Mark was singing Uh I don't know what sparked my thinking, but uh I got thinking about uh anybody here remember the story of the prodigal son Remember that? That boy run off, took all his daddy's living, and uh went off to a far country. What did he do with all that money in that far country? Loot, riotous living, spend it all. When all was spent. Then he started looking for something. He ended up where? Ended up in that hog pen, feeding the hogs with the husk, and he was such bad off, he was so bad off that he would eat, he fain would eat the hus, is what the Bible says. He was going to eat the pig food. He was so hungry. I don't know about you, that's pretty hungry. I'm gonna eat that pig slop. I'm gonna eat the husks that are thrown out to the the pigs, the swine And then the Bible says he came to himself. He thought, my daddy's servants have more than I do. I've sinned against God in heaven. I've sinned against God in heaven. I sinned against my daddy. I'm going to go back. Just ask him, let me be a servant. You don't have to restore my role as son, but just let me be a servant. And he heads back. And we don't have time to turn there, but it's a neat statement. It says the Father saw the Son coming. A far off. Now how did he see that boy coming from a long distance off? What was he doing? He was watching for him. Is watching for. Now, I may be reading into the Bible a little bit, but I'm telling you, I'm convinced that daddy had hope, confident God's going to bring that boy home. God's going to bring that boy home. And he never gave up. Oh, there's no doubt he got word back. You know your boy's living in the hog pen. I can't imagine. I would imagine he must have wept and wept, my son living like that. But he trusted God. He trusted God. You watch now far off. He came home. What I'm trying to say is this: God is a God of hope, and he puts in us, if we'll trust him, he'll put hope in our hearts. In our lives for our situation. I got a letter from our missionary Jason Richie over in Mongolia. It just came yesterday. Uh I was reading the mail last evening, actually the last couple days. I don't know what day it came, but it came this week. And he said this, Brother Rich, he says, Little did I know what God was going to do when I met And he names this lady, I can't pronounce it. It's a Mongolian name. I'm just going to call her Dora. I don't think she explored a whole lot, but um I met with Dora. Listen to this. She was in the twilight of her life, battling liver cancer. Now listen to his next statement. With no hope of the future. future. She was a Buddhist. She was in the Buddhist religion. She was wanting to go to the temple. Relative was taking her. But she told Richie, She says, I have no hope for my future. She's going to die. She knows it I have no hope. No hope. Buddhism offered her no hope for her future. Buddha is not the God of hope. The God of despair. Allah? He's not the God of hope. He's the God of death. Anger. Confucius? Not a God of hope. A God of confusion. He was without hope. He said, we sat there drinking tea. I gave her a simple presentation of the gospel. Her relative also gave testimony of her salvation. We pray she might be healed of her sickness, but more importantly, she might come to the knowledge of the truth. A few days later, I got the report that Dora and four of her daughters had communicated the desire to know Jesus Christ as Savior We sent a team of Bible school students. She lived eight hours away. They traveled eight hours across the desert to share the gospel and minister them. And uh we sent him off. After two days the men preached and prayed, taught hymns, shared the gospel from the tent, and soon the preaching of the word and the testimony of this precious lady, nine people made professions of faith, and Dora trusted Jesus. Jesus as her Savior. She went from no hope to hope. Why? Because the God of hope Got if it one last thing real quick. I read a study this week. Now this is sounds kind of cruel. But they did a study on wharf rats. You know, get on ships. Years ago they'd be on the ships and different things. Wharf rats. They wanted to see, they were studying to see, that was a psychological thing, about how long it would take a wharf rat to drown. So they took a bunch of them, they put in a big aquarium type thing and see how long it would take they could live till they drown. They said it they studied it they watched seventeen days that wharf rat could swim around there till eventually they drown. They got another batch in. They changed the experiment. Put the same number in, put them in. Right at 17 days, when they were about to drown, they pulled them all out. Cleaned them up, dried 'em off, fed them real good, put 'em in their little homes, little wharf rat homes, uh for a few days. They organized. And then and then they threw 'em back in. And they're starting and swimming around, see how long till they drown. This time, they lasted 35 days. Went from 17 days to 35 days. And their conclusion was this: the reason they were able to survive that much longer is because they had hope that they would be rescued. That they would be rescued. And the point they were making is: you and I, our lives, our lives can be so much better, so much more joy and peace. When we have that hope that only God can give us. And regardless of what 2020 holds, sickness or health, prosperity or poverty Darkness or sunshine. I don't know what we're going to go through this year, but I know this. We have a God of hope. If we'll keep our eyes on him and trust him, whatever we go through, we can go through it with peace and contentment and joy. If we know Jesus. Does that make sense? The God of hope. That stirred my heart. Hope. Hope. Father in heaven, I pray that you'd help us go into this new year, young and old. With our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ, just trusting you and letting you lead us, following your instructions, obeying what you tell us to do, and just trusting you. And Lord, we look to you for hope and for peace in this coming year. In our hearts, we're looking to you to do save souls, Lord, and turn situations around. Help us to trust you. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many say, preacher, you know I've got some situations I'm facing. I've got myself in some circumstances I really need the Lord to help me because from my perspective, I don't know the solution. I don't know the way out. I know God does, and I'm going to look to Him and trust Him. It's coming here. Is there any like that, preacher? I've got some circumstances. I've got some situations like that. I just have to look to the Lord. Any others? God bless your hands all around. Amen. God is the God of hope. I wonder if there's some who say, preacher, I have a dear friend or a family member. They're unsaved. And from my perspective, it just looks hopeless. I don't see them coming to Christ. But I'm going to trust God. I'm not going to give up hope. I'm going to keep praying and keep witnessing and being a testimony that that loved one will come to Christ. Is there any like that, preacher? Pray with me. I don't want to give up hope on them I want to trust God. I know from our end it might not look very promising, but from God's perspective, the God of hope, He can do it. God bless you. And we could just go down a list of circumstance situations. God stirs your heart and God moves you. I challenge you, put your faith in Christ, trust him, and see what God will do. There's some this morning say, Preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I can't honestly say that I know for sure my sins are forgiven and that uh I'm on my way to heaven. You're concerned about it. You say, Preacher, pray for me. I can get that settled And I could have that assurance in my heart. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Any at all. Preacher, pray for me. Now Father, bless your invitation. I ask you to stir us and help us to trust you in all circumstances that we face. In Jesus' name.