Teams you still have to listen. Um, but uh but what makes Cain and Abel so special? You see, even people who know nothing about the Bible Usually know the name c names Cain and Abel. Um Cain and Abel is uh is uh it's just it's what is a it is actually a foundational story in uh in our culture, period. Um what makes King and Abel so special biblically? Well they're the first brothers ever. I mean I didn't have brothers, and I wish I did. I mean I really, really wish I did. Sisters are awful. And uh everyone knows that. Um, I guess. Um, but th they're just, you know, sisters are terrible people. Obviously, according to this story, brothers aren't so great either. But um But what makes Cam Nabel so special? Well they they were the first brothers. And like I you know, like I said, I've never had any uh a brothers didn't grow up with brothers. Um, so I don't know what it's like to fight with your brother. Um and and any time I would start fighting with my brother, uh I'd get taken to therapy. So um but uh This uh verse is also uh found in verse eight we have the first death in the Bible, the first human death. Um that's actually a big deal. You see everyone you know, everyone knows about Adam and Eve and God saying, Hey, you know what? You eat eat of the fruit of the tr you eat you know, you eat the fruit, you're gonna die. Well you know what? They didn't die first, their son did. Um not not I I I don't know. You can make some connections there saying, well you know what, that's part of death is not only dying, but losing others. Um that was part of the punishment. But uh first murder. Not only the first death, but the actual first taking of life. You see, the first death didn't come from natural causes. It didn't come from a storm. It didn't come from a famine. It came from someone el someone taking someone else's life. That's pretty impressive. The first showing of human wrath. You know, before this, uh in the Bible anyways, it doesn't show anyone really getting angry. Now you know you're four chapters in, so that's you know to be except expected, but it's the first showing of human wrath, of someone getting angry. We have uh the first mention of sacrifice actually, um with uh with uh Abel sacrificing his uh his flock. First mention of sacrifice. And not only that, but the first mention of religion at all. The first real I mean, listen, Adam and Eve had their uh had communication with God, obviously. But this is the first time that we are we see someone actually sacrificing unto God. Someone taking time out of their day, out of their week. And giving unto God the best way they can. That's impressive. And finally, we see the first human villain. The first human that we really actually don't like. You know, Adam made some mistakes. Eve, you know, made made some mistakes. But the next human in line, the next human born, was a bad guy. I don't like bad guys. I like generally nice people. I I I usually know you I don't I don't think anyone really likes bad guys. You know, we watch movies and the people are uh what they call anti-heroes where you know they do the right thing but they do it like this. They're like, I don't care if I have to punch a baby. And you know that kind of thing, you know? Like like that's an anti-hero. Someone who doesn't care but still does the right thing. That's not what Cain was. Cain was a villain. He killed an innocent man for seemingly no reason. What makes can this is what makes Cain Abel such a special story. They were the first people born. They were the first people who got to be kids. We got to be babies. Even Eve didn't even get that. They're like, whoa, what is that? Ugly little lizard looking thing, man. That's like what is that? You know they have no idea. It's really it's really a fun fun idea. By the way, I'm about to have one of those little lizard things. I'm very excited. Um But it I don't know, it's a it's a cool story to me because it has there's so much there. And that's why everybody knows about it. And and yet I hear like one message on it every six years. Just no and you know, everyone knows about it, but but I don't hear a lot of sermons about it. There's nothing wrong with that. There's a lot of Bible You know, I mean, honestly, I could preach every day and probably not make it through the whole Bible at every angle, and certainly not do it multiple times. I think I've heard a sermon on Canaan Abel. I'm sure of it. But I'm telling you, maybe once or twice. But we all know the story. You see, David and Goliath, we all know that story, but I've heard, I don't know. Seventy sermons on David and Goliath? We all know the story of Christ, and again, the gospel, the crucifixion and resurrection of Christ is the most important story in the Bible. Um in my eyes. But you know, we've I've heard that. I've heard about uh I've heard about a Noah a number of times. I've heard about Adam and Eve a lot of times. I've heard about a lot of times King and Abel, it's not that we skip over it because we all know the story. It's just I've I you know you read the story, you're like, yeah, Jude killed his brother. Whoops Yeah, he said, you know, it sounds like there's not much there. But I really want to look into this. Um the title of this message is uh The Emotions of Murder. Now here's the thing. I'm kinda hoping that none of you have any emotions that would cause you to murder someone here this morning. If if you are about to murder someone, please don't. That'd be very helpful. Um But just because you're not going to murder someone does not mean you don't have the same emotions. Well we're going to talk about those emotions. Let's talk about the underlying emotions. We're going to examine the examination of the sacrifice. So the underlying emotions. What happened before the murder? And not just before the murder, not just like ten minutes before the murder, not right before, but just just underline what's been happening perhaps for Weeks, months, years. Let's examine those emotions. You see, here's the thing about uh about Cain and Abel. Their God was the same God. You know, I mean there was four people on earth. I mean, you know, I don't think, you know, three were Baptists and one was a Mormon. I don't quite think that's how it worked. Um but th they did worship or you know, Buddhist I suppose is a better example there, but They both worship the same God. It's not like one was off and he was like, you know what? I I don't believe in this God guy that our parents knew very well and created all this, and we're the only four people on earth. He didn't think that. He knew who God was. You see, Abel and Cain, you know, they were, you know, they were like, when it came to worshiping God, they knew the same God. There was no devil build no devil worship. There was no building false idols. They worship the same God. Jehovah God was their God. But yet One of their sacrifices was accepted and the other was not. They are both to the same God, but one was accepted and one was not. Why is that? You know, I actually uh when I was a kid, I actually uh and now maybe I was a teenager, I don't really remember, but I do remember struggling with this idea. Why didn't God accept Cain's offering? Let's talk about that sacrifice. Because listen, there's a bunch of different reasons that people think that maybe Cain slew Abel. Um I know that uh In in different theologies. I mean the most common today is that jealousy is the most common today. But uh, you know, there was this whole thing um a while back About uh a while, you know, hundreds of years. But um a while back, and still come to say that they think it was over a woman, over one of their sisters. Some people still think that that was it. Maybe, I d I don't know. You know, maybe may some s some think it was demon possession. I d I you know, I don't I don't think so. I don't know. But l if you would allow me to, let's examine the text to see why someone killed someone else. Why the first murder happened. Let's examine the text. And the only thing we have to go on right now is that Cain's Offering was not accepted, and Abel's was. That's the only thing we have to go on. And that made Cain very angry, and people are usually angry before they commit murder. But they both worship the same God. Weird. I mean you think god do you think that'd be good enough? And a lot of people say, well isn't that good enough? And I did I was like, well man, they were both giving to God. It's not like Cain wasn't giving to God, they were both giving to God, like the God, like Jehovah God. They were both worshiping the same God. Can I say this though? There are a lot of other religions out there, and even religions that worship the same exact God that we claim to. They claim they worship the exact same God. Alright? You know, they know the name of Jesus. They they and and they don't and and they and they they're they they think you know it's Jesus, you know, you know, they're they're Christian just like you and I. They they you know they they they believe in Jehovah God and on and on and on that doesn't mean that their faith is acceptable in the God Now that's a heavy statement. But just because you claim the name of Jesus does not make your faith acceptable Now now again I can get into dangerous waters by just leaving it there, so luckily I have a whole rest of the sermon to preach. But the fact is, just because someone claims to be a Christian, whether it be Lutheran, to Catholic, to Mormon, to anything else, just because they worship the same God as you do, Doesn't make them doesn't make their their religion acceptable unto God. Didn't pertain to Abel But let's look at another aspect. You see they both worship the same subjects. But the other similarity is it seems that they both worship with the same sincerity. And I'm taking this at face value. Because doesn't say that Cain was like, Yeah, I don't care. I'm just gonna give him some cruddy little fruit. Doesn't say that You know, one one was a tiller of the ground, one was a shepherd. You know, they both gave their fruit. But what in in in in the in let me say what's you know They it they both seem pretty sincere. To me at least, may maybe it doesn't to you, but to me it looks like they're both very sincere. Um You know, there's a lot of other religions and denominations out there that are more or as faithful as we are. You know, there's a lot of sincerity. You know, I've seen you know you you people spend thousands and millions of dollars to buy their way into heaven by giving the churches. You know, people there are a lot of people out there that are very sincere. They you know, listen, there's a there's a lot of there's a lot of Catholics in this world, and I'm not hating on Catholics, but there's a lot of Catholics in this world That are very sincere about being Catholic. You know, they do go they go like eighteen times a week, you know. They go to the morning to mass and the evening mass and the midday mass and uh all the other masses. And they're very sincere and they and they light the candles and they and they pray their seventy-two different Hail Marys or whatever, and they do everything they're told to, and they worship the same God as we do. And they're very sincere about it, and yet they're still not going to heaven. Why? Cain and Abel, same God. Cain and Abel, same sincerity. Why was one accepted and one was not? There's one key difference that I found in this. You see, Cain sacrificed his crops, and Abel sacrificed a lamb. You see, one, Cain sacrificed something that he put a lot of work into. Listen, I am not a farmer. I don't plan to be a farmer at any point in time. I once had a rock garden, killed it. Alright, like it like it just that's just truth, alright? Not a uh I'm not a farmer, but I know it's a lot of work. And Cain put a lot of work into it, and you know he sacrificed his best. And then Abel sacrificed the life. And while both of them came from their livelihoods, they both came from different principles A difference that actually started with their parents. Um, let me take you back in Genesis chapter 3 when they sin in the garden. What do they do? Well they hide themselves and what do they make? They make aprons out of fig leaves. Alright, everyone remembers this? They make aprons out of fig leaves. I mean pretty impressive because I don't even know where you'd start with fig leaves and aprons. I I don't know. But um they make fig leaves thick leaf aprons and then God said and what's God do? People sometimes forget that God then goes and kills an animal and puts skin on them instead. He put skin on them. He doesn't he does you do not clothe with with leaves. You will be clothed with skin I believe, and again, this is his personal opinion, that was the first sacrifice, that God actually sacrificed the first animal for someone's sin. Right there. See the difference between Cain and Abel's offerings isn't just that one was one was a farmer and one was a shepherd. It was that one gave a life and one gave his works. This is the age-old argument. What gets you into heaven? It's not believing, listen, believing on the right God, super, super, super important. Alright? Believing on Jehovah God, believing on Jesus Christ as his son. Super important. But just because you claim the name of Jesus Christ and Jehovah God, that's not what gets you to heaven. You know, being very sincere, believing, putting your heart into it. Sincerity is very important. But what Sanctifies you. You can have the same subject, you can have the same sincerity, but what is your sanctifier? Is it your works? Or is it something else? Many people say works. Many people are like, all right, if I do this, this, this, and this. Last week pastor actually preached a sermon and uh He prepped me for this one. He was, you know, he I told him I was preaching and he said he'd preach a sermon just to back me up. Um true. Uh but what he said was a lot of people believe in a scale when they get to heaven. Oh uh scale of good works and bad works, whichever one comes out on top is the uh is the better one. You know, is that that's you're either going to hell or you're going to heaven. If you have good works, you're going to heaven. First of all, let me say this. That's a stupid rule. Because if I can't commit a hundred murders and then save a hundred lives, I should still, you know, get the death penalty. Like, you know, I I just you know if I if I commit one murder and and save one life, I should be punished. Even if I saved two lives, if I blatantly murder someone, I still probably, you know, I no. That's not how that works. Why would God use a scale? That's the stupidest thing ever. I don't go into the um store and be like, alright, I want a bag of apples. I like apples. Like, alright, we have four worm infested ones. And we have five nice ones. I'm like, there's more nice ones than worm-infested ones. Here's money for all of them. That's not how it works. But you know, we talk about a scale. Some people think that to get to heaven you just need to do good works. You need to do good things. Listen, praying to God, awesome. Excellent. You need to do it. Prayer is important. If you want a relationship with God, and when you get up to heaven, you don't want to be complete strangers with Him, a prayer life is important. But saying certain prayers doesn't take away your sin. Listen, and here's the thing, I I just did a whole study on uh Mormonism probably three or four months ago. Um I and this is one of my favorite things because they say, no, we're saved by grace, which is good. You know, you want to be saved by grace. It's like, but you have to do all these works with the grace. Well, that's just a discount. You're still paying for something. You know, a lot of religions A lot of religions say, listen, you have to do stuff. You have to give your works. But the Bible says At salvation, it's the gift of God. It's the gift of God. You see, and and this is, you know, this is something For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son. He gave His only begotten Son, He gave His only begotten Son, He gave His only begotten Son not as anything other Been a sacrifice of life You see, this thing that we fight about today, whether it should be works or whether it should be just all grace, it should be all grace. And the funny thing is, is it's been going on for six or seven thousand years. The first argument that we find in the Bible is between one person saying, I can get to heaven on my own, and another person saying, I can't, I I there there has to be blood. For the wages of sin is death. For the wages of sin is death. A life must be paid. And luckily that life was through Jesus Christ. And anyone, anyone who tells you any differently, anyone who says, you know what, yeah, well I be you know, I mean we we worship the same God and we we we we we we we we we we worship the same god and we uh and and you know we're very sincere and And uh and you have to uh but but after you get saved you have to uh do the right things. That's not a life, that's not a sacrifice, that's not grace. That's just stupid. You see, because I can walk in any store in any store. Depends on how my credit is really. And I want to buy a fridge actually I'd buy a t um I want to buy a TV. And you know what they'll say? Zero down. Just make payments. Am I still paying for it? Yes. So wait. So if I get saved for free and then have to keep it by not sinning, is that free? No, that's zero down with payments. But if what God gave me a gift, I don't have to do anything to keep it. Now here's the thing. I should do stuff just because, you know, that's what God would want me to and He's saved my soul from hell. But works versus grace, this is the first argument, the first murder that happened. was over this. These are the underlying emotions behind the first murder. But these emotions are not the end of the story. You know it's funny, and I'll give you guys a secret to my preaching. Um it's not very good, that's a secret. Um but uh in all reality, I I always write a whole bunch down. And I never look at it. And then I come back, I'm like, man, that was really good, I should have said that. And um Usually Bible verses, I'm like, yeah, that's a good verse, I should have used that. But and I color code them, and I'm still not looking at it, so I apologize. Um But that's not the end of the story, guys. Sorry, I just realized that that I wasn't really on working and I thought I'd tell you guys. Um that's not the end of the story though. Those emotions are not the end of the story. In fact, emotions are rarely the end of the story. In fact, you can say, I'm gonna keep all my emotions, all my anger and hatred and bitterness and and all that stuff down Good luck, but it usually comes out in some way or another. Not even necessarily towards the person you're mad at. You see, Cain wasn't mad at Abel As much as he was mad at God. But it's going to come out to our table. Let's go to the preceding emotions. First, we're going to the underlying emotions. Let's go to the preceding emotions. What I mean by that is the emotions right up to the event. Here's a verse that no one thinks about, and I say no one thinks about because maybe I just didn't think about it and all you guys obviously did. Um Verse 8, if you go in Genesis 4, read verse 8 with me. It says, And Cain talked with Abel his brother. And it came to pass when they were in the field. That Cain rose up against Abel, his brother, and slew him. Most of us read this verse and think the most important thing in this verse. Is that Cain killed Abel? And you're probably right, because that's pretty important. But they skip over the fact that they talked together first. You see, after God and Cain had this uh conversation, and they said and God said, Listen, if you do the right things, you'll be accepted. Actually, you'll be ruler over your brother if you do the right things. After Cain was angry with God, he went and talked with Abel. And they had a conversation. If there's one place in the Bible I could be, that probably wouldn't be it, because things are about to get messy. But You know what? It would be kind of interesting to listen to the conversation between the two brothers right before the first murder takes place. What did they talk about? Now, I'm gonna give you guys a hint. It doesn't tell us. But when you're looking at it, I assume it was about the sacrifices. I assume it was between what God told Cain and I think he went to his brother looking for some sympathy. Looking for someone to be on his side. I honestly believe that. Because that's what we usually do when we're we're told we're wrong, is we either say, Oh, we are wrong, and then, you know, apologize, or we go and we talk to someone about it. Can you believe he said that? I can imagine Kane going up there or King going to Abel be like and Abel be like, hey buddy, what's up? And he'd be like, listen, I just talked with God and he told me what he told me? He said that your sacrifice was fine, but mine wasn't acceptable. Doesn't God realize that we do the same, that they that we have different jobs? Doesn't God realize it that I'm doing my best, that I'm worshiping Him, that I didn't you know that He never told me I had to sacrifice? Doesn't He realize all the stuff I'm doing? And Abel could have said one or two things to him. Abel could have done one or two things. He could have either agreed with him, he could have agreed with him and be like, yeah, I can't believe that. But he didn't. In fact, I'm sure he didn't. Because you don't kill someone for agreeing with you. Actually what I think would happen was he's like, well Again, this is speculation. I don't know. They could have talked about Peach Cobler for all I know. Actually that's not possible. No one kills anyone after talking about Peach Cobbler. Um But what I think Abel actually said is Abel was like, you know, you know, I Kane it's it's because Because sin requires death. And you're not killing anything. You're just giving what's convenient for you. What what you what you enjoy. I mean, you know, the sacrifice is for God. Shouldn't you be giving what God wants? I don't think Abel was a jerk about it, but I think it listen, it if God wants something, listen, I have a flock of sheep, I'm your brother, we're the only two pe other oh sorry, we're one of the only four people on earth right now. I can trade you as sheep for some crops. And they can, oh Abel, you don't understand. That's not the principle of saying. The principle is that I should be able to do what I want. Guys. When you worship God, well, you should do it his way Let me give you guys an example. My wife has giant feet right now. Um, she's pregnant. She has giant feet. So if you walk in front of here, you might crib over them to come to the altar. Just letting you guys know. So I'm gonna pay for that later, but it was pretty funny. So um now but but in all reality uh I one of the things that I do for Krista is I rub her feet. Is that true? Alright. So in trouble. Wait a minute. Let's just say that there's a theory that I once rubbed Chris's feet, which I do sometimes. But here's the honest truth about it. If I'm rubbing it in a s in like if I'm rubbing it and she's and I'm like and she's like that is not the way you rub feet. She's like, that is the wrong way. In fact that hurts or it tickles or it's annoying. And I in in my mind I'm like, well I'm gonna you know I'm rubbing this for uh your feet for you, I'm gonna do it the way I want. Wait a second. Am I doing it for me or for her? Because honestly If I'm doing something for Krista sorry, if I'm doing something for Krista, shouldn't I do it her way because it's for her? Don't you hate those people who it's just f people are so stupid. You know they'll they'll And I'll tell you this, um beauticians, not all of them obviously, but some of them are the worst about it. It's like you're like, this is how I want my hair cut. And then they cut it their own way. They're like, Why like it this way? And they'll actually tell you, Why like it this way? It's like, well then why did I come to you? It's not your hair. Cut your own stinking hair that way And don't you think God feels the same way when we try to worship him in our own way that he actually doesn't like? Is it for you or is it for him? Do you go to church for you? Or do you go to church for him? Do you do you live your life for you or do you live your life for him? It's the age-old question. Yes, it was easier for Cain to give crops. I understand that. And yes, it was easier for Abel to give a lamb. I understand that, but honestly, it was both for God, so Cain should have just sucked up and said, you know what? God wants it a different way. I'm just going to do it. But he didn't. There is a correct way of worshiping God, and there is an incorrect way of worshiping God. There's a correct way of getting to heaven, and there is an incorrect way of getting to heaven. There is a correct way of making God happy, and there's an incorrect way of making God happy, and guess what? It's not up to you. People don't like to be told that what they're doing is wrong. Especially when it comes to religion. People hate that. Listen, I can I can get in a conversation with someone and tell them something and tell them, I don't know I don't I I think drinking is a sin. I can I can talk to someone like that and sometimes, you know what, they'll flip out on me. Usually they'll just be like, hey, what's your own way. But if I touch that I don't like contemporary music in a church And I tell someone who likes it, they blow up. Very, very rarely do they not blow up. Because Is it you you you you're just stupid, you don't understand. And they get angry and they get wrathful and they get and they just And listen, I'm not saying you can't have your own beliefs. I'm not saying that at all. But when someone comes and they take the Bible and they take God's word, which is by the way what Abel was doing, taking God's word When they take God's word and tell you this is what the Bible says, and the Bible says you shouldn't worship this way, you shouldn't do something with your religion this way, they say, well, who cares about the Bible? That's really their attitude Have you why why is it? Listen, and I I've said this a million times, I'm gonna say it till the day I die. I am not a Baptist because I was born a Baptist. I'm not a Baptist because I like the way our churches look I am not a Baptist for any other reason than I think Baptists have it right. You know, when I look at the Bible, I'm like, you know what? Baptists are closer than anybody else. I'll tell you that right now. And here's, and honest to God, I'm telling you guys the exact truth. If some if I find a place in the Bible where it says that we're completely wrong, and there's a place that has a more right than we do, I'm changing. Because I don't care about the name, and I don't care about what denomination I'm supposed to be a part of or what I was born into. I care what God's Word says, period. You want to know the reason that we don't have more salvations in this country? You want to know the reason? It's because not because people don't know the truth. It's because when people hear the truth, they go, uh When you go to a Mormon and says, dude, you say you believe the Bible, right? They're like, yes. And you're like, do you believe the King James Bible? And they're like, yes. And you're like, good Mormon. Good. Glad. They're like, well let me show you where this says and they're like I don't want to hear, I don't want to hear, I don't want to hear. You try you know Jehovah's Witnesses will knock on your door, but as soon as you try to show them something, they're like, Oh, we get it, we're we get better, get going, we better get going. Why? You know, I I again I picked on Catholics a little bit, and I don't mean to, because I know some very nice Catholic people. And I believe there's some Cat uh quite a few Catholic people who are headed or who are on their way to heaven. But the fact is, it just to be easy, because you know there's so many different things you can point out. They say, listen, priests shouldn't get married. Sure. Okay, whatever, even though all the priests in the Bible were married. And Peter was the first Pope. Alright, but Peter was slightly married, considering he had a mother-in-law. And when you tell them that they're like, well, you get back, and then walk away. Listen, you want to know why we have that uh hundred verses in a year uh Bible challenge to memorize? And you and and we and we have remember because we care about the Bible at this church. We do. I'm telling you. If someone proves me wrong, okay. I accept that. If it's in God's Word and it's studied out and it's not and it's not contradicting anything in the Bible, listen, I I'm going to give you guys a a glimpse into Bible college. They teach you those three different things. Um doctrine, which is the Bible, dogma, which is what the church teaches, and creed. I'm going to be honest, I don't believe in dogma. Now and and again that that that would get me in trouble and I think it did get me in trouble when I said that. I just don't Listen, there's what I believe, and then there's the Bible. And honestly, I should just pretty much take out creed because it's what's in the Bible. Telling people they're wrong makes people mad. It made Cain mad enough to kill his brother. They might say, you know what? I don't like making people mad. Okay, to be honest, I don't like making people mad, but I totally like making people annoyed Like I don't want to make someone want to punch me in the face or get hurt or anything, but if I can make them go that that's great. I I enjoy that. Um you'll see that because in uh in my wonderful family down here. One of you know, I grew up with women. Women, it l you know, you grew up with you know, five women. One of them is going to be in a bad mood at one point in the day. Alright, it's just fact. It's like it's like a law. It's like gravity. But um and then you find that one that's in a bad mood and you're just and you start to annoy them And then like this little fire starts. There's so magic, and I think that's kind of fun. But I also but I what I really don't like is actually going to someone and being like, listen, you're wrong here That's tough to do. You know, all of us have friends who have different religions. And I I commend you if you've talked to them and said, this is where you're wrong. This is why you need to um this is what's wrong with your faith. I commend you because honestly if you do that in the right spirit, that's that's brave. And you and you know you might be like me, you're like, I don't I I don't like I don't like offending people or anything. You know what? Jesus really didn't avoid the argument. Go to Matthew twenty three. If you could turn to Matthew twenty three for me, that'd be great. You see, some people say, listen, listen, I am I am a liberty person I believe in liberty above in uh as far as politics goes, I believe in liberty above all else. I believe that you can worship a jello god if you want to, right? I don't care. As far as liberty goes, you have as much right to do whatever you want. And so as far as I go, fine. But guess what? My religion and my politics are different things. Because while I believe you have the freedom to do whatever you want, as long as it doesn't hurt someone else, I really want you to go to heaven. Wow and and we're starting in verse twenty three, so twenty three twenty-three. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For ye pay tithe of mint and an east of cone. And have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith. These ought ye have done, and not to leave the other undone You do the little things, but you forget about the big things. Listen, here's the thing No one likes to argue with people. No one likes to make people hate them. But we are talking about people's souls here. I can't tell you the number of times I've been walking and someone just like you know lights you know their backs on fire and I just uh And just let them go. That'd be kinda weird, right? Someone's just on fire and you're like, that dude's on fire. Yeah, that'll be a glaze donut. Yeah, that's like you don't just don't do that. Be like, hey dude, you're on fire, what is going on? And yet we we have our friend who we're walking with, and they're going to hell, and you know they're going to hell. And and yeah, you've mentioned church, you've tried and listen, I didn't I understand me I understand like like not being like being scared and and not being bold. I get that. But you know you're walking with them and they're going to hell And you're walking side by side and you know that it could start an argument. But is it an argument worth having? Listen, there I d I know there are people and I have people in the church who don't you know really don't like uh Western medicine. They're like you know, they You know, they don't want their kids having any type of shots or such. And yeah, I don't I don't care, it's your kids. Like I said, do what you want, I don't care. But here's the thing. If someone, you know, is like super sick and it only is gonna take a pill To like save their life? I will have that argument. But at what point am I willing to argue for someone's soul? We talked about the uh Should have said the preliminary and then the preceding motions. Preliminary emotions and the preceding emotions. What about the post emotions? What happened afterwards? Actually, before we go there, let's talk about wrath. Because I talk about you correcting someone. Because people seem sometimes seem to be corrected. And listen, if it's not a big deal if it's like, you know, a lot of people so there's a l there's a belief out there you shouldn't wear pink shirts on the pulpit. And I went to those one of those churches wearing a pink shirt on the pulpit and it was wonderful And uh it really was. They they were I I don't think you were there. It was before we were married, but they looked at me like, Oh, you dare wear the color pink in our church And I w the problem was I wasn't even supposed to be preaching. I was just bringing a friend up there to preach and I was wearing a suit. And they're like, Well that didn't take you know, we were in Bible college, so it didn't take too long. So he was like, Well that didn't take too long, how about you come up and preach? And I was like Yeah, okay. And then I took on my coat and there was a pink shirt and they were like Right now I'm wearing a stripey shirt though. Um anyway, so but the fact is, it's something like that, listen, you don't need to be hound everybody by every little thing, but when you have a Bible proof and someone is actually sinning and someone is is actually breaking God's law You need to talk to them. But here's the part that man we hate. Because I don't mind talking to people near as much as I don't like being talked to. I don't mind correcting people half as much as I don't. I I really really hate being corrected When someone comes to you, this is what this is where I can actually give you a little bit more application in this sermon. When someone comes to you and tells you you're doing something wrong. You can react one of two ways, with wrath or with humility With wrath or with humility? Let me read James uh one James one nineteen through twenty. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to wrath. For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. Let me read that one more time. For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. When someone comes in and says, hey, you're doing something, and you're like, oh, Jimmy, shut up in your face. And and uh and or or you run and you talk to someone else about it, like Cain did. Are you like Cain? When you're corrected Do you just get, ooh, dunno no? Is that what you do? And listen, I make a joke of it, but the fact is, that's what a lot of people do. People hate being corrected. People hate being uh being being being being just molded in any way that don't tell me I'm wrong. That's what people do. We need to be humble Proverbs 13, 16 says, Poverty and shame shall be in him that refuseth instruction, but he that regardeth reproof shall be honored. And who's not honored? Just to give you guys a little a little taste, is Cain. I was joking I think with Robbie and Molly the other day and I was like, so what's it like having a brother named Kane? 'Cause that's why I'd be I'd be like looking over my shoulder all the time. Wouldn't get in argument any arguments. It'd be nice to be named Kane because then you'd be like, clean my room or I'll kill you. And people will take you seriously. I mean that's just that's just fact. I would. Um but uh But no one no one respects Cain in this story. No one's like, you know who's a good guy in the Bible? Cain. He's a nice guy. I like him. I don't I just don't see that. Need to react with humility. Do you know how different the Bible could have been? Had K had Cain been like, God, I just you're right. You're right, God. You're right We would literally read over Cain and Abel like this. And Cain begat such and such and such and such and such and such, and Abel begat such and such and such and such and on and on. That would be nice. Wouldn't it be great Well we don't. When you are corrected, please react. We by the way you have be slow to wrath. Slow. That means, uh well it wasn't that bad. I know I know I should be angry, but yeah, I'm just gonna and I just fell down. Now the post emotions. We see in verse number nine In verse number 9, he's unrepentant. Unrepentant. And the Lord said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he said, I know not. Am I my brother's keeper? Listen, if Cain was repentant, don't you think he would have been like, God, I killed him, and I'm sorry. And you know, like But say, I don't know. Is it my job? Is it my job to follow him around? I don't see any repentance there. You know what's weird though? His sons, because of that unrepentant attitude, and I'm almost done, and I apologize if I'm going over, but his sons struggled with the same anger that he did. Let's uh go down to verse uh twenty-three. Uh it's still uh Genesis chapter four and verse twenty-three. And Lamech said unto his wives, Adah and Zillahah, or Zillah, Hear my voice, ye wives of Lamech, Lamech, hearken unto my speech, for I have slain a man to my wounding and a young man to my hurt. If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech shall be uh Lamech seventy times sevenfold. Wow Not only did Cain uh Cain's aunt uh Cain's uh sorry his uh his great grandchild murder two people But he learned the wrong lesson. The lesson wasn't, God didn't say, well, see God here's the problem with mercy. And I'm so glad God has mercy. I I can't tell you how glad I am God has mercy. But people sometimes get the wrong ideas because people are stupid. No problem with mercy, total problem with people being stupid. You see, Cain After he committed murder, he said, God surely someone's gonna kill me in this earth when they find out what I've done. And God puts a mark on him and says, Listen. If they kill you, they're going to avenge sevenfold. You're good they're going to be avenged sevenfold. Alright, interesting. Except Later down the line, instead of teaching his son, God was so merciful to me in that aspect. God was so good to me. Listen, I did something wrong. He didn't repent. Because his son down the line said, Oh I killed two people, so that means if someone kills me, then I'm going to be avenged seventy times seven. That's the wrong, that's not true. That's the wrong lesson to teach. When you react in wrath, you teach your children the wrong lessons. When you're unrepentant, you teach your children the wrong lessons. Listen, I will tell you this from just just experience If someone, if an authority in my life, parents, pastor, whoever, if an authority or a friend in my life is wronged by someone I guarantee you, I will probably hold the grudge longer than the person that was wronged. It's true. That's how it works. Someone you care about gets hurt, then you're gonna hold the grudge even longer than they are. Unless that person comes to me, the person who was wrong comes to me and says, listen, you need to forgive this person. But we never do. When you're teaching your kids, when you're talking in front of your kids, be careful to drop names in a negative fashion. Because they will oftentimes dislike that person more than you do. And they'll have no forgiveness for that person because they won't have a reason to. Because they'll be raised to think it was right. Lamech learned the wrong lesson. He was unrepentant to his wrath. And next he was alone. When you start reacting in wrath to things, when someone tells you you're wrong and you bite their head off You will end up alone. Especially the Christian. You see, because the people who love you enough to correct you will then start leaving you alone. And then you'll kinda you know kinda hunger down and be like, well no one cares about me and then the next thing you know you're out of church. Then you're at a church and you're like, fine, well I'm in the world, I'm a Christian, but I'm in the world, I don't need to be a church, and then you realize that, man, you just don't fit in that great with non-Christians. And then you look and no one is there because you reacted improperly. I say alone. You guys want to hear one sad fact? I'll close with this. And usually and I do apologize. Usually I end my uh my sermons on a pretty bright note. I'm gonna try to But this is not a happy story. This is not a happy story. One man gets totally wrong and kills another man. You guys wanna hear a fun fact? So say the f say that um I was gonna say say the flood didn't happen with Noah, but that's but it obviously did, but I'm saying You realize that up until the flood, there could have been double the amount of people on Earth. Or it or more like a third more, but still Double the amount of people. Cain didn't kill Abel. Cain killed Abel's line. He was the first. He was the second human being born. He cut off that entire line. Your actions are so much bigger than you think they are. How you react to this thing is so much bigger. There are so many little things that you just don't even know about. But here's the thing about Abel or Cain. Because I had this thought real quick. I was like, man, I wonder how many people are Cain's descendants. You know how many? Zero. You don't know how many people are descended from Cain now today? Zero. Do you want to know how many people are descended from Abel? Zero. You want to know why? Because God killed all of them in the flood. It's like four chapters later. God killed the whole line. God killed all of Cain's seed. Just like Cain killed all of Adam's or of Abel's seed. But what what interests me most is Had Cain. Listen, even if he did kill his brother. But had he not killed his brother? Let's say he didn't kill his brother. And they just and he switched ways of worshiping, and he decided to react the right way and worship God the way that God wanted to be worshipped. Say he does that. What's this world look like today? Was there ever a flood? Did people even go evil? Would they have? I don't know. There'd be more people to keep each other in check? I don't know, maybe they wouldn't have. Say Cain kills him and then repents and then teaches his children, you have to worship God the right way. You have to, and he teaches them, and he just ingrains that into them instead of teaching them the wrong lessons. Would there have been a flood? Would Cain's uh would Cain's uh ancestor or uh sorry, line have survived? I think so. I don't know. One last thing and then I'm done. I said that like three things ago. But uh you guys realized and this is just cool. And not cool, but it's it's a somber in thought. You know, how the people were born out of an unrepentant murderer's home? After this? Like percentage wise of the earth. It was a pretty big percentage. That's terrifying. No wonder God destroyed the earth, like I said, like four or five chapters later. Your sins don't come out necessarily just in you. They could come out in your kids, especially wrath. Wrath is one of those sins when you're angry. You're prideful. That's a sin that doesn't last in your generation. It lasts in your kids' generation, in their kids' generation, and so on. Until someone decides to just stop. React the right way. If you're told you're wrong Be humble about it. Even the person who's telling you wrong is completely wrong. Be humble about it. Correct others who are wrong God is good. I'm going to read the last verse. I'm going to give you guys a little bit of hope. And it's not hoping this story, because like I said, the story doesn't have a good ending. And the Lord said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? And why is thou countenance fallen? If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted The happy norm to end this on is not what actually happened, but what could have happened. What you all have the choice to still make Jen could come if everyone could stand and uh bow your head and close your eyes.