Chapter three, verse three, and uh but first we'll read Galatians chapter number six verse number fourteen. The title of the message is The Glory of the Cross of the Christian. Glory of the Cross of the Christian. Of course, there is the glory of the cross of Christ, and we're going to look at that as well this morning. But the glory of the cross of the Christian, not for our glory, but for the glory of God. Notice verse 14 of Galatians chapter 6. The Apostle Paul says this: that God forbid that I should glory Save in the cross of Christ Jesus, of our Lord Jesus Christ, excuse me, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world. He said, I'm not going to glory in anything except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. And then in Colossians chapter 3, verse 3, at the end of that verse, he says By whom the world is crucified into me, and I unto the world, and then with that same thought in Colossians chapter 3, verse 3 He told the Colossians, he said, For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank you for the cross of Christ, and Lord, without that cross. Without the work that was finished there on the cross of salvation, we would have no hope. Lord, thank you that we do have hope, that we have a Savior that was crucified for our sins. buried, but rose again, and now sits at the right hand of the Father, interceding for those that have trusted Him as their Savior. Lord, I pray that you'd encourage our hearts this morning, instruct us from thy word Lord, we pray for that one that may be here without Christ or may be listening on the live stream without Christ. Lord, would you work in their heart and help them to see their great need? of receiving a Savior that can take their sin and forgive them and can cleanse them and make them a child of God. Lord, I pray that you would encourage us this morning. Help us to be faithful in our walk with thee And help us to realize our position before you as sinners, saved by grace, yet those that you want to use for your glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The cross of Christ, it has a wonderful, wonderful work in each of our lives that have trusted Him as Savior In verse 14, we find that twofold work of the cross. There's the crucifixion of the Christian to the world. And there's also the crucifixion of the world to the Christian. One has to do with our salvation, and the other has to do with our sanctification. And so uh in both the glory is in the cross of the Savior and not in the Christian. As the Apostle Paul said, God forbid that I should glory. I'm not going to talk about what I've done But I'm only going to talk about what the cross of Christ has done in my life and what the Lord has done through me as I've preached the cross. And so we Yeah, the Apostle Paul gloried in the cross of Christ because of its saving power, first of all, by whom he says, the world is crucified unto me. It's only through the cross of Christ that we have etern the hope of eternal life. As Jesus went to the cross, what did he do? He paid the penalty For our sins. What is the penalty for sin? Well, Romans 323 says, for the wages of sin is death In the Old Testament, it said, The soul that sinneth it shall die. The Lord told Adam and Eve in the garden, if they ate of the tr uh the the tree of the knowledge of the fruit of the knowledge of good and evil there, uh they would what? Surely die. The penalty for sin has always been death. And you can pay for your sins by dying. Physically and dying eternally of the second death and spending eternity in the lake of fire. That's the only way you can pay for your sins But Jesus Chr you don't have to though. Praise the Lord for that. Jesus Christ paid the penalty for your sins and for my sins on that cross of Calvary. The Bible says that our sins were nailed to the cross. That handwriting of ordinances was against us. The bill of that handwriting of ordinances was against us. It was contrary to us. He took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross. And because of that, we can have eternal life, and we are crucified, and the world is crucified unto us. And I want to look at the sanctifying power of the cross of Christ As it says there in that verse as well, he said, The world is crucified unto me, but also he said, and I unto the world. I'm crucified unto the world. We're crucified with Christ, Paul said in another place. But it's important to understand the order of the cross. It's always salvation first then sanctification. You can't be set apart under the Lord and serve him unless you've been saved. We talked about that in Sunday school this morning. You can't be involved in what we call missions until you know the Lord, until you're a child of God, until you've been born into His family. Uh then you can be involved and should be involved uh if you had been saved. Sanctification always follows salvation, and we are to become, uh or as we become, new creatures in the Lord Jesus Christ. It's a work of God in us to make us a new creature. Uh but we must submit to his working. And allow him to mold us and make us into the image of Christ. Praise the Lord. As soon as I got saved, I was given the robes of righteousness of Christ And in in God in the Father's eyes, when he looks at me, he doesn't see my sin. He sees the righteousness of Christ. And so praise the Lord that we are we are uh complete in him, but uh we we also have this this uh Christian growth that we need to be involved in and serving for the Lord uh serving him day by day. What are what are the s what are the steps of sanctification that the cross brings to us? I believe there are three separate and distinct steps to sanctification, dealing with our position, our life, and our blessed hope. And so First of all, I've already mentioned it, our positional sanctification speaks of our position in Christ and does away with the penalty of sin. There is no penalty for sin. There is that therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus, the scripture says. When God the Father looks at me, I am no longer condemned. Jesus Christ was condemned in my place. And if I if you received him as your Savior, there is no condemnation upon your life. You're not going to be judged for your sin. You will be judged for your works at the judgment seat of Christ and either receive reward or suffer loss of reward. But praise the Lord, if you've received what Jesus did on the cross, that finished work, your sins are forgiven. uh they will not be judged that because they were judged in Jesus Christ. Um the penalty of sin uh was placed upon the Lord Jesus. Romans chapter six Verses three to four. Romans six, verses three to four says, Know ye not that as many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ, were baptized into his death. Now that's talk not talking about water baptism up here That's talking about the baptism of the Holy Spirit. When you got saved, you were baptized, you were put into Jesus Christ. Water baptism shows what already happened when you trust in Christ the Savior. Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death, that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection, knowing this that our old man is crucified with him. That the body of sin might be destroyed. That henceforth we should not serve sin, for he that is dead is freed from sin. The Apostle Paul talked about in Romans chapter 7 at the end of the end of that ver chapter, he said, you know, he's talking about that conflict between the old man and the new man in Christ that all of us have until we see the Lord. But he said he says that the end, he cries out, he said, Who shall deliver me from the body of this death? This old man that I'm dragging around? And then the answer is, thanks be unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. We have uh positionally we are already there. First Corinthians chapter twelve, verse thirteen says, For by one Spirit, that is the Holy Spirit of God We are all baptized into one body, that's the body of Christ, whether we be Jews or Gentile, whether we be blonde or free, and have been all made to drink of one Spirit, that Holy Spirit of God. So we have that position in Christ. As soon as you trust Christ as Savior, you are put into Him, you are secure in Him, you are kept by the power of God, you're saved by grace, and you're kept by grace You're kept by God's power. I I can't do anything, uh I can't do enough good works to get saved, and you can't do enough good works to stay saved because that's not the way uh salvation works. Salvation is eternal Everlasting life. John 3. 15 and John 3. 16. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, and other places, 1 John 5. 13. This is the record that God has given unto us, eternal life. If you've been saved You have eternal life. You have everlasting life. Now, if you could lose it next week Just by the definition of the words, was it eternal? Was it everlasting? No, it was temporary. Praise the Lord. It doesn't say if you know whosoever believeth on him shall have temporary life. No, you have eternal life. You're kept by the power of God. Progressive sanctification has to do with our growth in Christ. It's our daily walk with Him. We're to be growing in grace and knowledge of Him, as we're commanded in in uh P Peter's epistle. But um 2 Corinthians chapter 3 verse 18, 2 Corinthians 3. 18 says, But we all, with open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord Um and uh in the book of James it says if if you look in the the the the uh law of liberty in the in the word of God, uh it talks about a glass there. That's a that's a looking glass, a mirror Uh most of you, or probably all of you, looked in a mirror this morning. If you didn't, you may have hair standing up this way. But uh uh you know sometimes we look in the mirror in the morning and we think, uh uh something needs to be done here. And you know, we try to if we're going out in public, we usually try to try to get things fixed up so that we we're somewhat presentable, do we not? Uh what's the mirror for? Well ha maybe some of you went back to the mirror this morning. How many of you went back more than once? Yeah, yeah. You keep checking his uh I went in the restroom hall ago and I looked in the mirror, you know? Um why? Because I I forgot what manner of man I was. You know. Uh the word we look in the mirror so that we can get our hair fixed, so we can get, you know, make sure everything looks good We look into the Word of God, and what do we do? We should, it it reveals what we look like spiritually. It shows us what needs to be changed. It shows us what needs to be straightened up. And as we look into the Word of God, we will grow. We are sanctified. in the progressively as far as being more and more set apart unto the Lord Jesus Christ. 2 Corinthians chapter 5 verse 17. And we glorify him in each aspect of that. 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says, Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature Old things are passed away, behold, all things have become new, and by the power of Christ uh things are changed. Everything is changed. Romans chapter twelve, verses one and two though, says that we have to submit We have to submit to him. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies, a living sacrifice, wholly, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. This is not unreasonable for God to ask us to do this Because of what he has done for us. We present our bodies as a living sacrifice, uh wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And then it says, And be not con b conform to this world. We're not to be pressed into the mould of the world. Don't be a jello Christian, pressed in the mold of the world, no, but but be transformed. How? By the renewing of your mind. How do you do that? By putting God's word into your mind. Let me the Holy Spirit show you the will of God. Renew of your mind that you may prove Put into practice that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. God has a good and acceptable and perfect will for you and you and you and you and for me And we need to submit to that and say, Lord, here's my body. I want you to be I want to be used for your glory every day. Uh I want to serve you every day. I want you to use me. But uh as I present my body as a living sacrifice, it takes a death. to self. And so we have that progressive sanctification. We're to grow in grace and the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. But then someday there is permanent sanctification What is that? Well, that speaks of our blessed hope that delivers us not only from the the uh the the penalty of sin And as we grow in the Lord, we have, by God's power, we are delivered from the power of sin on a daily basis. But someday we're going to be delivered from the presence of sin when we see the Lord, and this whole body is going to be changed. 1 John chapter 3, verse 2 says, Beloved, now are we the sons of God? If you've trusted Christ You are a child of God. Beloved, now are we the sons of God. That's a present reality. Praise the Lord for that. But then it says, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be. Praise the Lord, I'm not going to be like this forever. Then it goes on. It says, that when he shall appear, he is Jesus Christ, we shall be like him. We're going to be transformed, the Bible says in Corinthians. In the twinkling of an eye, we're going to have a new body, and then this mortal will put on immortality and this this uh you know we're going to be changed into his likeness completely will all be changed. For we shall see him as he is, it says there in 1 John chapter 3, verse 2. So the cross of the Christian, Romans chapter 6, verse 6 Um says, knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed God doesn't want sin to rule and reign in our lives like it did before we were saved. He doesn't want it to rule and reign at all. He doesn't want it to have control. Uh says that why why why is are we crucified with him? Uh the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth, from this point on We should not serve sin. We were the servants of sin, but now we're to be the servants of righteousness. Giving our bodies to the Lord Jesus Christ. Galatians 2. 20, uh, the Apostle Paul said about himself. He said, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, what what do you what happens when a person is crucified? They die. I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I. It's not me living anymore, yet not I. But Christ liveth in me, and the life that I now live in the flesh, the life I'm living in this fleshly body. The life that I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. I'm living by another life. My life should be Christ living through me Because uh I have died to self. And and how often does that have to happen? Well the Apostle Paul said, I die daily. Jesus said, you know, if any man will come up after me, let him let him deny himself and take up his cross daily. And follow me. I have to die to self every self every day because there's that old nature that wants to take control. Galatians chapter 5, verse 24. Galatians 5. 24 says this And they that are Christ have crucified the flesh and the affection with the affections and lusts. We are to reckon ourselves, it says in the book of Romans, dead indeed unto sin He that is dead is freed from sin. And uh you know if if you if if if I went out of here today and and one of those buses out there or one of you uh ran over me in the parking lot And masked me flat, I'd be dead. And I hope you'd come to my funeral. And I w I would be there in the casket. And you'd come by and you'd say, Oh poor brother Talbot, he got run over in the parking lot. Um But uh you know, y if you came by my my casket and I was laying there, my body was there. I'm I'd be in heaven, praise the Lord. But uh my body was lying there uh and you looked at me and you said you looked at my body and said, Boy, you sure are ugly Would I get mad? No. If you I I hope none of you would do this, but if you came by and and you had a flask of whiskey in your back pocket and you pulled it out and you said, Here Brother T brother Talbot, uh would you like a like a drink? Would I take it? No, why not? I'm dead. Okay? If I reckon myself, I re realize reckon means to, it's an accounting word, means to count this as true. If I reckon myself dead indeed unto sin, what can I do when I'm tempted to sin? I can't do that. Why? I'm dead. But we're supposed to reckon ourselves to be alive under righteousness. When the Lord says, here's what I want you to do, yes, I can do that. I'm alive. I'm alive by the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the cross of the Christian, it is a cross of duty. Number one, it's a cross of duty. Matthew chapter 10, verse 38, and he that taketh not his cross and followeth after me is not worthy of me. The Lord wants us to take our cross. Now what is the cross? Do we die physically on the cross like Jesus did? No. But the cross represents a death to self. So we take that cross and follow him. First Corinthians 6. 20, for you are bought with a price, therefore Glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. We belong to Him. We've been purchased on the cross of Calvary. It's a cross also of denial Mark chapter 8, verse 34, and when he called the people unto him and his disciples also, he said unto them, Whosoever will come after me, uh I mentioned this verse earlier, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. It's a cross of discipleship. Thirdly, Luke chapter 14, verse 27, and whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. Jesus had to bear that cross up to Calvary. We bear the cross that the Lord has given us. Now that burden, he says, is easy. That burden is light. Why? Because he's in the yoke with us. And he gives us the power and the strength to bear whatever it is that comes upon us that he allows to come upon us. But it's the cross of discipleship, um, Luke 14, verse 33, so likewise whoever whoever uh he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath He cannot be, excuse me, he cannot be my disciple. Jesus said to to the to Peter and John Peter and uh John To Andrew and Peter and James and John, I should say, come and follow me. And the Bible says, what did they do? They left all and followed him. The Lord wants us, Paul said, I count all things but loss. I've got this house, or I've got these things I've got to take care of. Well, yes, praise the Lord, He's given us some things in trust. But we need to say, Lord, all this belongs to you. And I just want to serve you. A cross of discipleship, a cross of distinction. Hebrews chapter 13, verse 12. Says Wherefore Jesus also that he might sanctify the people with his own blood suffered without the gate, let us go forth Therefore, unto him without the camp bearing his reproach. We need to be willing to suffer persecution, and we're seeing that more and more in Canada. Pastors arrested during COVID. Pastor Coates spent two and a half months in jail. His church was fenced off, double fenced, the property was fenced off. Congregation kept meeting. They just text out we're going to be at this mile marker on this forest road tomorrow morning for the for the service. And that evening we're going to be at this mile market on this other forest ro road um for the service. Um praise the Lord they kept meeting. Um other pastors there in in uh pastor uh uh Tim Stevens arrested. They're in Calgary, uh pastor of uh Baptist Church there. Um Pastors have been arrested just recently for passing out Bibles or witnessing or preaching at a drag green festival in in uh in Calgary. Just over not too far from us. But when it comes to you, if if you're threatened with arrest, what are you going to do? Are you going to stand for Christ or are you going to knuckle under? It's also a cross of daily determination. And it takes daily determination to live for Christ. Luke chapter 9, verse 33. I mentioned this earlier, also similar verse to In Mark, but he said and he said unto them all, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily And follow me. Are you bearing that cross? The cross of Christ in our life has sanctifying power. The Lord used the Apostle Paul in his example. As an example, if any man had something to glory in, we might say just looking at his life, it would be him. What a great man of God he was. But uh and and we as as you read through the through the uh uh through the book of Acts and through the epistles, we see very few negative things said in Scripture concerning The Apostle Paul's life and his service for the Lord. He was certainly greatly used of God in starting many churches, in winning many souls to Christ, and in pinning much of our New Testament. But um the cross of Christ not only saved Paul but it also changed him forever, and that's what it needs to do for each of us. Uh Paul got saved and immediately saw the need of sanctification for service um to do the will of God for his life. We mentioned this in Sunday school, uh there on the Da Damascus Road, when he heard uh the words, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest, the next thing out of Paul's mouth, Saul's mouth, was, Lord, what would you have me? to do. Have you said that to the Lord, Lord, what would you have me to do? What is my task? What is your will for my life? in this church. Is it your will maybe for me to go somewhere else with the gospel as a missionary? Um Jesus did the same In John chapter 5, verse 30, Jesus said, I can of mine own self do nothing. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just. Because I seek not mine own will, but the will of the Father which has sent me. Jesus. Jesus was God. But as he operated here on this earth, he didn't operate, he said, by his own will. Now I don't understand that juxtaposition because he was God, okay? And he was one with the Father, yet he said I'm not operating in my own will. I'm operating in the will of the Father. The things I say, he's saying them. And he said one place, the Father doeth the works. Now think about that. Jesus operated as he served on this earth and ministered on this earth. He operated by the power and the will of the Father And that's how we have to live the Christian life. We have to operate in the power and the will of our Lord It has to be him. It has to be his cross, his glory that shines forth through our lives. Paul is a man committed to letting Christ live through him. Galatians 2. 20, we mentioned that earlier. I'm crucified with Christ, yet it's Christ living in me. Philippians chapter one verse twenty. Paul said this according to my earnest expectation and my hope that in nothing I shall be ashamed, that with all boldness always So now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death. His desire was that Christ would shine out of his life And when people saw him, they saw Christ. And that ought to be our desire. When people see us, they see Christ. Paul followed the example of Jesus in this. Jesus said in John 8. 29, And he that has sent me is with me. The Father hath not left me alone, for I do always those things that please him. Can you say that? I do always those things that please him We ought to be able to say that. John chapter 14, verse 10, believest thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me, the words that I speak unto you I speak not of myself. I mentioned this earlier, but the Father that dwelleth in me, he doeth the works. Paul also was uh a man who counted his earthly possessions and accomplishments as w as what he referred to as done. Now if i if you don't know what that is, uh I grew up on a farm a dairy farm. And we dealt with lots of dung. Um what do you do with dung? You take it in your house and put it in the in in the in a treasured place No. Uh the only thing it's good for is is spreading on the fields, you know, but it's uh um it's not worth much except for fertilizer. But uh Paul said, I count ever all these things, everything I've had in my life, all my accomplishments that I've done, I count them as worthless. Why? For the privilege of serving Christ. For letting Him shine to me. Paul was a man who was not afraid to die for the cause of Christ. He said in Philippians 1. 21, For me to live is Christ, to die is gain. He was a man who knew who he was, and we must know who we are. He said in 1 Timothy 1. 15, this is the faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation. That Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, praise the Lord for that, but then he said, Of whom I am chief. He didn't say of whom I was chief. No. He said, I am the chief of sinners. He knew who he was. He was a sinner saved by grace He was a sinner who'd received the mercy of God. He was a sinner who God had chosen to use for his glory. And that's true of every every believer sitting in this room this morning. And if you're not saved, the Lord wants to use you for his glory, and he wants you to submit to that uh receiving him as receiving a gift. By returning in repentance and faith and trusting him. Paul is not ashamed of the Lord. We know he's said that many times. Paul was a man of determination. He said, I'm going to keep going. Acts 20, 24, but none of these things move me. We read that verse earlier. But he said, so that I might finish my course with joy. And the ministry which I have received, the Lord, to testify the gospel of the grace of God. In Philippians chapter 3, we mentioned that in Sunday school. I pressed toward the mark For the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus, he had the the will of God as his goal to do that, to fulfill that. And he suffered in in achieving that goal along the way. Galatians 6. 17, From henceforth let no one trouble me, for I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus And sometimes we have to suffer for Christ. Are we willing to do that? And praise the Lord that Paul was a man convinced, convinced of what the Lord wanted him to do. And and um He said in 2 Corinthians 4. 17, he talked about all the things that had happened to him, but then he said, for our light affliction Now, in when we're in the midst of affliction, it doesn't seem right, does it? But if we look back on it and the grace of God in our lives and His bringing us through that We can say with the Apostle Paul, for our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding weight of glory. It brings glory to Christ. It shines forth the cross of Christ, which is what the Lord wants us to do. And Paul was possessed of a hope. We have the blessed hope of seeing our Savior. Philippians chapter 1, verse 23, Paul said this: For I am in a straight between two, having a desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far better. Um, I've heard some old saints of God say, I just want to go home. I'm ready to go. Psalm 17, verse 15. The psalmist said this: As for me, I will behold thy face, speaking to the Lord, in righteousness. I shall be satisfied when I awake. In thy likeness. You see, this is an Old Testament concept as well. Someday I'm going to be with the Lord and I'm going to be transformed to be like Him. At the end of Paul's life, he said, in 2 Timothy 4, 7-8, I have fought a good fight, I have kept the faith, I I I have finished my course, I have kept the faith, henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord's the righteous judge shall give. uh me at that day, and not to me only, but to all those that love his appearing. What is the appearing? That's the rapture of Jesus uh uh the rapture of the church when he appears. And we're caught up to be with Him. You love that day? Are you looking forward to that day? Are you working for that day so that others can Be caught up as well. The Lord is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. But how faith cometh by hearing, hearing by the Word of God Um, how shall they hear without a preacher? It's not just talking about somebody that's standing up here. It's talking about every every one of us that's a witness for Christ. Um and how shall they preach except they be sent? Well we have been sent. Maybe the Lord this morning would speak to your heart about being sent somewhere else. Praise the Lord for eternal life. Praise the Lord we're saved forever. We're changed forever. And praise the Lord for a new life in Christ, the glory of the cross of Christ, the glory of the cross. We point people to Christ, and that cross needs to be lived out in our lives as we take up our cross daily and follow. The Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father, we thank you so much for the cross. Lord, a horrible instrument of death. used by the Romans, yet a beautiful thing to us, only because of what Jesus did on that cross. And Lord, we realize that we must also Die to ourselves, die to the world, and realize the world is crucified unto us so that we can shine forth the light of the gospel and hold forth the cross Of the Lord Jesus Christ, so that you can be glorified. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen