I'd like you to take them and turn to the book of Luke, chapter number twenty-four. And uh I I want to bring uh a message from this portion of Scripture I'll read the scriptures and uh then we'll pray and bring the message the Lord has laid upon my heart. In the book of Luke, chapter 24, if you could stand in reverence to God's word, I'd appreciate it. If you can't, I understand that completely. Luke chapter 24, I call your attention to verse number 46. And said unto them, that is Jesus, said unto them. Thus it is written, and thus it behooved Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day, and that repentance and remission of sins Should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. And ye are witnesses of these things. I want to use this passage of Scripture this evening and bring a message that I've entitled The Manner of the Great Commission, the manner of the Great Commission. Let's pray. Father, we thank you this evening for thy word and the blessing that it is and the help that it is. And Lord, we're certainly thankful that we have Bibles that we can study thy word and learn more about thee and walk in obedience to you. And I pray as we look at this passage of Scripture this evening, That you speak to our hearts. Lord, you know each one that is here tonight. You know the need of their heart, their life. And I pray, Lord, that thy word would speak to us, challenge us, and help us to fulfill this great commission that you have given to us. Save the lost, I pray. Encourage and bless your children, and we'll thank you for what you do, because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, may be seated. I would have to say that there are moments in life when a single sentence, just a few words, are able to change everything. For instance, if you were sitting in a doctor's office and waiting for the doctor to arrive and sit down behind his desk and tell you what they have discovered about the examinations that they have made or the x-rays that they have taken or the MRIs that they have done And he comes in and he sits down and looks across his desk and looks into your eye and he says the cancer is all gone. That changes everything. I think of a soldier on the battlefield, uh in the heat of the battle And and the the general, the leader, the captain of the host says to them, recruits are on the way. Or even better yet, you get to go home. That that sentence, those few words Changes that person's life. I think about being in a courtroom, standing before a judge. And he looks at you and he puts down his gavel and he says, case dismissed Those words, just a few words, just a short sentence, can change everything in a person's life. And these words that we read here this evening, the words that Jesus spoke to his disciples after the resurrection, it took their fear and turned it into faith. Those few words that he just spoke to them and said to them and appeared to him. Not only did it take their fear and turn it in into faith, but it took their sorrow and it turned it into singing. I believe those words that Jesus spoke to them, it took their defeat and turned it into a destiny. Just a few words. Just a sentence or two. And it changed the course of everything in those disciples' lives. Luke chapter 24, this passage of scripture that we looked at this evening, was a moment that the disciples heard those words that Jesus spoke. And it changed their entire outlook. They've watched the Savior die. I can't imagine what that must have been like. To stand by the cross And see the cruel treatment that he received. To stand there at the cross and hear the cries of the mob that was assembled there, crucify him, crucify him! I can't imagine what that must have been like for the disciples. I can't imagine what it must have been like as they saw the crushing blows that those soldiers placed upon our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. They buried that Savior. And with that burier, their dreams laid concealed in a tomb without any hope of anything changing. I'd have to say to you this evening that those disciples were discouraged. Those disciples were defeated Those disciples at that very moment of time were were disillusioned. But then there was a resurrection, and I feel a shout coming on right now. Someone asked me last night, have you ever shouted in the pulpit? Uh it depends on where I'm at. When I go to a Pentecostal church I can preach and I can I I don't go there But one of these days it's going to wind up and it's going to come out. But I I feel it brewing in my soul. Can you imagine those defeated, discouraged filled with sorrow disciples that saw their dreams and hopes and expectations placed in a tomb. And then all of a sudden He resurrects. He appears in their presence. And if you look at this passage of scripture, that's exactly what Jesus did. The first thing that he did, Jesus appeared to them and he said, I give you peace. He stood in the midst of them And you know the story. They were so dismayed and and uh they looked at him and couldn't believe that it was really him and thought that they had seen a a spirit, a ghost And he showed them their hands and and and he showed them his feet and and all of a sudden uh something began to resonate in the heart of those disciples and they were getting excited and Jesus speaks these words to them. After appearing in their presence, after showing him his resurrected body, he shares the great commission with them. And he said, I've done all of this so that you can go do all of this. Now, don't miss that. Are you thankful for your salvation tonight? He did all of that, that we might be saved by the grace of God. And he expects you and he expects me to do all of this. in reaching this world with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Our blessed Savior took their confusion and their disappointment and their sorrow and and replaces it with clarity. Words that they could not mistake, words that they could understand, an assignment that was given to them And he expected them to fulfill it. He took their discouragement. And certainly, if we stood there that day and watched what they did to our Savior, we'd be discouraged as well. We'd be disheartened as well. But he took their discouragement and turned it into a destiny that they were to go to all of the world and preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. So here in these words that Jesus spoke to them, we find the command to evangelize. We find the fact that you and I are to reach all nations with the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's clear, unmistakable. An assignment that has been given to us to evangelize and reach the nations and to be a witness For our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And to be endued with power. Aren't you thankful for that? He doesn't expect you to go out. He doesn't expect me to go out He doesn't expect this couple to go down to the Dominican and this couple to go down to Guatemala without the endowment of power and his presence working in and through our lives to reach people for Christ. So there's several things that I want you to notice about this Great Commission. The first thing is that it is a scriptural revelation. Do you notice the words in verse number 46? And he said unto them, thus it Is written. That is a scriptural revelation that He is revealing to us. He roots our mission Our calling to go to all of the world in the eternal, unchanging Word of God. When you search the scriptures, you're going to find that there was the prediction of his sufferings. You go to the book of Isaiah, chapter 53, and verse 5, a passage of scripture that we're well familiar with. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was placed upon him. By his stripes ye are healed. We're well familiar with that. That was revealed to us in this scriptural revelation And our assignment is grounded in the scriptural revelation that was given to us. You turn to Psalm 22, and we don't have time to do that this evening. He describes the crucifixion exactly the way it was going to be. Chapter 1 or chapter 21, beginning at verse number 1, through those verses that follow, he talks about some things that are going to take place. The cry of the Savior is found there. The mocking of the crowd is found there. All being revealed as to what's going to transpire. You'll not only find that, but you'll find that they were surrounded by violent men that wanted to do great harm to our Savior, the Lord Jesus. And his bones were not broken, but out of joint. All predicted, all revealed, all clearly given to us in scriptural revelation concerning what Jesus was going to go through. It's the heart of the gospel. It's the strength of the gospel. It's the written revelation that is given to us. But you also find the promise of the resurrection. Not only the promise of his suffering and the prediction of that, but you also find the promise of that resurrection. Jesus himself stood in the temple and said, Tear down this temple, and in three days I'll raise it up again. He wasn't talking about the physical body of the physical building. He was talking about His body and what he was going to do. The scriptures foretold his sufferings and his resurrection. And you and I Are called upon to foretell what has transpired. It's the manner of the Great Commission. The second thing that I see in this passage of Scripture is the saving proclamation. It talks about repentance. In verse number 47, and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. The gospel is simple. Repentance is commanded. Remission is available. Regeneration will be accomplished. I feel the shout brewing right there. It's simple, isn't it? Jesus shed his blood for the remission of our sins, and he calls us to repent and turn to him and receive him as Lord and Savior of our lives. The Bible tells us in Acts 17 and verse 30, and the times of this ignorance God winked at, but now commandeth all men everywhere to repent. In Acts chapter 20 and verse number 21, the Bible says, testifying, this is Paul, testifying both to the Jews and also to the Greeks. repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. It's commanded in Scripture. It's given to us as a clear command, men must repent to be saved. So we ask ourselves the question, what's repentance? What does it mean to repent? Well, I I think first of all, it means I'm admitting I'm a sinner. Can you say amen to that? I mean that uh I'm talking about the way you got saved, the way I got saved. We have to admit that we were sinners. We had to come to that point and recognize, realize I couldn't save myself. Repentance is recognizing the fact that I'm a sinner. I surrender to God's will and what he wants to do in my life, and I receive him as the Lord of my life. I think sometimes we miss sight of that Lord Jesus Christ. He purchased us. He can call this couple and say, I want you to go to the Dominican. You don't have a choice You can rebel against that. You can resist that. You can say no to that. But you'll be the loser. God had the right to tell you to go to Guatemala. He had that right to do that. He hasn't told me to go there, hasn't told you to go there, but he told them to go to the Dominican, told them to go to Guatemala. You can resist that, you can say no to that, and I'm convinced there's people sitting in our fundamental churches, here, there, and everywhere, that are resisting that call. How many of you believe Jesus is coming soon? How many of you believe that he wants the gospel to be preached to the whole world? Why isn't it being done? Somebody's saying no. Somebody's saying no. There are multiple somebody that are saying no. I'm thankful that he is the Lord, and repentance has to do with recognizing that I'm a sinner. I can't save myself. And I turn to Christ in faith and trust of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And it changes my life. The outcome of repentance is it changed life. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature, old things pass away. Behold, all things become new. And if that change is not there, that evidence is not there, there's every good reason to question whether that person is really saved or not. In our saving proclamation, we see the call to repentance. We also see in that call the comfort of remission. Now, Brother Schofield, here it is. Are you listening to me tonight? Alright. Now sit up and take note of this. You know what's so wonderful about the gospel? He forgives you. He forgives you. I want to shout right now. If I thought those chandeliers would hold me, I think I would just swing from the front to the back and shout glory, hallelujah. I'm forgiven. I am forgiven. I've been cleansed in the blood of Jesus. The Bible tells us in the book of Ephesians, chapter 1. And in verse number seven, in whom we have redemption through his blood. There was a day in past that Jesus took his blood and laid it uh on the altar in front of God Almighty, and the Father accepted the blood so that he could forgive you and forgive me. He's a holy God A spotless God, a God that never changes, and that blood is cleansing you and cleansing me And it's been accepted I mean every dirty, rotten, filthy, lying sin that we've ever committed is covered covered by the blood. How thankful we ought to be. Never to be brought to our charge again. There's never going to be a day when we stand in the presence of God that He pulls this one up and says, You did this. There'll never be a day when we stand in the presence of God that He reminds us what we used to be and how we failed Him. Now we come short of His glory. I mean, he's so convinced and so willing to separate us from our sin. He buries them in the depths of the deepest sea. And then you read in Revelation that he does away with the sea. So our sins will never be found, ever be resurrected, ever be brought to our charge. And do you know why? The blood of Jesus Christ. That's our proclamation. That's our proclamation. That's what we preach and proclaim. And we have the comfort of that remission because of the blood of Jesus Christ. And the person Of that redemption? In whom we have? Who's that whom there? Oh, that's our Savior, the Lord Jesus. There's salvation in no other apart from Christ. He said, I'm the way, the truth, the life. No man comes to the Father but by me. No other way. No other way. And that's the message he's going to tell the people of the Dominican. That's the message that he's going. To preach to the people of Guatemala. Do you want them to go on your behalf? Do you want this couple to represent you? Do you want to send them forth? Then you're gonna have to make a faith promise on Sunday. If we really believe the Lord Jesus is coming again, it's going to have a profound effect upon our life if we believe He's coming soon. We don't have time to tarry and delay. God's method and manner of the Great Commission has commanded us to preach that message Of the death and the burial and the resurrection of our Savior and the cleansing blood of Calvary. That's the message that we are to proclaim. So we see the scriptural revelation We see the saving proclamation. The third thing here I see is the strategic responsibility. Notice what he says. In verse number 47, that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name. among all nations. That's the strategic responsibility that we have. And do you notice where it's to start? Jerusalem. Our calling is not is local Well, we're called locally to resent represent Jesus wherever we are We're called locally to witness wherever we are. But it doesn't stop there. He said, I want it to be preached among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. So our mission is not only locally, but it is globally. The whole world. None are to be excluded. Did I say to you this evening, you've got to go If you can't go, you've got to send someone on your behalf. And if you're not willing to send somebody on your behalf, you're living in disobedience. Go or send or be disobedient If you're saved tonight, you either go or you sinned or you're a disobedient Christian If I understand my Bible correctly, God can't abundantly bless our disobedience. So you go or you stand That's what this is all about. Lord, I recognize that I can't go But I know that you've called me not only locally to represent you, but you've called me to globally represent you. And so I get involved in faith promise sending somebody on my behalf. I want to fulfill the Great Commission, not only locally. But globally. And the next thing that I see in this passage of Scripture is the supernatural role. Very simple. Ye are witnesses. What are we to witness about? The death, the burial, and the resurrection of Jesus. You look at the early church, and that's exactly the message that they preach. That's the message that we preach. We ought to tell people about our risen Savior. We ought to tell people about the fact that He died for the sins of all of the world We are supernaturally bound by the eternal power of God to be an effective witness for Him wherever we are, telling the good news that He died, He was buried He arose again and is willing to save whoever will come to him by faith and repentance. But Lord, I can I can't go to the Dominican. Lord, I can't go to Guatemala. Get it out. Fill it out. Um we're filling it out Sunday morning. I hope you're praying over your piece of paper. I I hope you're asking God what He wants you to do But you just don't you just don't understand, preacher, boy, the financial debt that I'm in and the burden, you know why you're in that debt? Because you use your friends, your mummies, for the pleasures of the flesh rather than for the call and commission that God has given to us. So I I I don't like that. Well we didn't ask you what you want to hear. We're telling you what you need to hear. You either go Or send someone in your part because you have been called just as clear as I have been called, just as clear as that couple's been called. Just as clear as that couple's been called, just as clear as your preacher's been called, just as clear as every one of us has been called, we have a clear calling from God to be a witness Where? Locally and globally. So how are we going to do that? If you're not willing to go, fill it out. Start getting your finances where they need to be. Investing in the work of God, getting this message clearly out I like what the Bible says in Acts chapter 4 and verse 33. And with great power gave the apostles witness Witness of what? Of the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, and great grace was upon it. I don't know about you, but I want to stand at the spout where the glory comes out I want everything that God has for me to be dumped on me. And I know in order to have the grace of God, in order to experience the grace of God, In order to enjoy the grace of God, I've got to be an obedient servant to him. And the more obedient we become, the more blessing he can bestow. You can't outgive God I've seen his hand over and over and over again. We're not philosophers. We're not debaters. We certainly are not entertainers. We're witnesses. Just simple witnesses. That's what the Great Commission is all about. Witness. Witness. What what what do you want them to do when they go to the Dominican? What what do you want them to do when they go to Guatemala? to just climb those mountains and see the beautiful landscape and to enjoy the pleasures of that country and certainly to run from that Motley mob that you had on there with all that fire and everything. Just hide from them. What do you want them to do when they go there? Witness. Witness God's called us to witness locally, globally I can go to the Dominican, I can't go to Gualamont, so we'll get involved in sending them there. How? It's so simple, isn't it? So clear. We have a scriptural revelation. We have a saving proclamation. We have a strategic responsibility. And we have a supernatural role. Witness. Locally And globally. You either go, give. Or we're disobedient. That's our choice. What will it be for you? Let's stand with our heads bowed and our eyes closed tonight. I wonder this evening, have you ever bowed at an altar? Have you ever surrendered your all to Him? Lord, I'm willing to do whatever you want. Young people, you ought to listen to me tonight. God can use you. God can use you. And young folks, you ought to bow at the altar and say, Lord, could you use me somewhere? Locally or globally? I just want to be used of you, Lord. And and and you're never too old to say, Lord, use me. I probably can't go to the field, but I sure can get involved here. I can get involved in faith promise giving, that others can go on my behalf. I challenge you to make good decisions tonight and follow what God has clearly called us to be. A witness. Father, I pray that you would take the message and the precious word of God, drive home the truth to our hearts. Call some young person, Lord, to be a missionary, to be a preacher, to be an evangelist. And no, Lord, you want every one of us to be a servant. Please help us to faithfully, fearlessly serve you till you call us home to be with you. While our heads are bound and her eyes are closed and the pianist is playing.