Mark chapter eight and verse thirteen And he left them and entering into the ship again departed to the other side Now the disciples had forgotten to take bread, neither had they in the ship with them more than one loaf And he charged them, saying, Take heed, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, and of the leaven of Herod. And they reasoned among themselves, saying, Is it because we have no bread? And Jesus, when he knew it, saith unto them, Why reason ye? Because ye have no bread? Perceive ye not Neither understand, have ye your heart yet hardened, having eyes See ye not, and having ears, hear ye not, and do ye not remember? Now look at verse twenty-one. And he said unto them, How is it that ye do not understand? Let's pray. Father, I pray that you would help me to make this manifest as I ought to speak. And Lord, I pray that you would help all of the young people that are here But Lord, if you just help one with these truths, God, would you just make it a transforming event in their life about these biblical principles In Jesus' name I pray, amen. Have you ever met people and sometimes they uh they react away and you think, what in the world is wrong with them? Anybody um your brother, your sister? And you wonder why would they do that? Have you knowing right and knowing how to do right and knowing what is right, have you ever seen people do things that are wrong? And you're thinking, why would you do that? Well, one of the concerns that I have about young people is that at a very early age, you have to be careful that you do not allow your heart to become hard. In verse 17, the last question that he asked him, have ye your heart yet hardened? So today, very briefly, those of you who who wants to pay attention? Now I like honesty. Who who okay. And who doesn't want to pay attention? Okay. Maybe one person. He's pointing over to him. So today what I want to talk to you about is the result of a hardened heart. The results of a hardened heart. There are several things that the Lord Jesus points out when he asks them these questions. It's in verse 17, verse 18, verse 21. But notice what he says. The first thing that he addresses them in verse 17 is their reasoning. The next thing, you could circle this if you mark in your Bible, reasoning, their perception. Perceive ye not? That neither understand. Then he goes to verse eighteen. Eyes see ye not, ears hear ye not. And then at verse eighteen, at the very last, what's the last word in verse eighteen So it messes up your memory. The the problem with a hardened heart is is there's a couple things we need to understand. This word hardened Have ye yet hardened your heart? So the word hardened means to render stupid. Now stupid can be a very offensive word. You could call me ignorant and okay. All ignorant basically means is I don't know. And I don't have any problem telling pr plenty of people that I'm ignorant about this or I'm ignorant about I don't have any problem with that But you call me stupid. Now that's something different because the definition of stupid would be this, that I know what is right, I know the truth, and yet I still do otherwise When your heart gets hard, it means to render stupid. It also means to be calloused. Now, I'm former military, former law enforcement, and been pastoring, I've been in ministry for a long, long time now. I thought I'd never say that a long time, but I'm old enough to say I've been I've I've been in the ministry a long time. And and something I learned is everybody's not nice And everybody isn't kind to you. Even people that call themselves Christians can be uh they there there's a difference between listen, there's a major difference between Christians and church people. Church people can be very nasty. They call themselves Christian, but there's no manifestation of the evidence that they are saved. So this word calloused means cynical. So when i if you're a cynical person, you look at someone and you you're thinking in your mind, yeah, you're probably a dirtball Right? You're you're you probably have other motives. We have to be very careful that we don't let that happen in our life. So what what is the thing that the Lord is illustrating to us about our life as a whole? There's not one person in this room that has a desire to be not the greatest that you could be as a Christian. And certainly there's not one person in this room Desire to be a loafer or to be I I need to be careful what kind of words we use, you know, a slacker, a loafer, uh a bum on the street. Sometimes people don't that that Things happen. But a lot of the problems that you find with people is the choices they make, you will be a result of the choices that you have made. And you are becoming what you will be. And you need to understand that as a young person your decisions are really major. And the the the the thing that you really need to get in your mind is this You need to guard your heart with all diligence. And there's many reasons why. I know about the issues of life, but I'm going to tell you this. If you don't guard your heart with all diligence, you can become very, very hard and a very callous person and do a lot of stupid things as a very young person and you develop that as a pattern of behavior through your life and you get in trouble. You say, well what's the big deal? That's just how I am. The big deal is in verse 17, 18, and verse 21. Let me show you these things. First well let me look let's look at it. So verse seventeen. We've already gone over it once. Your reasoning, your perception, your understanding, verse eighteen And then verse 21, it re-emphasizes your understanding again. Hold your place here because we're going to come right back and we're just going to go over it and over and over and over. So look with me in Hebrews chapter 3. Hebrews chapter 3 And don't think that these things can't happen to you as a young person. So Hebrews chapter 3 and verse 13, what what are what is something that could could cause me a problem uh with uh getting my heart hard. Okay? So if I could have a fella or a preacher either one, uh Hebrews chapter 3, verse 13. Brother Matt, you look like the man. Hebrews chapter three verse thirteen. Hope it didn't call you on the carpet. But exhort one another daily while it is call today, let any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. Okay, so what can harden you? Come on, what what's the verse say? Sin. Oh, it's okay. It's no big problem. I can do what I want to. I I almost preached a message today on the three toxic views of sin. There are some toxic views that that you think, well, it only affects me. Oh no, it does not. It a it affects everybody. I mean it affects everybody you associate with when you decide I'm gonna I'm gonna I am going to um I'm gonna get involved in sin. You're not sinning in a vacuum. You your life impacts other people. What you need to realize is there may be in in my opinion, there's probably one or two people in here that are really going to get it. And I mean you're really gonna get it for God. You're gonna do something great for God. But you know what? That's because of choices. Why would it only be one or two people? Because that's what I've seen. But watch this, but if you all make the right choices, which you all have a desire to do right and be successful If you make the right choices at a young age, you get in the pattern of behaving in a certain way. And then when you're older, look at all the success that we have in here as Christians Now what is the problem with me getting a hard heart? Well go to James chapter 1. I want to show you this. James chapter 1. This so so in Hebrews 313, what what does that hardness, the the deceitfulness of sin Do you know what they promote and you guys are in a different generation than any other people that have ever lived? You're exposed to you have the potential to be exposed to more garbage than than a man in nineteen forty would in three lifetimes. I mean just what's on our phone can co so corrupt your mind. I mean and I'm not talking about wicked stuff. I'm talking about guys Trying to teach you the Bible and they don't even know what they believe. They they're not teaching the truth and then they bring things some of them are, and then some of them are that they're good here and they're off over here. It's crazy You cannot get your theology from YouTube and you can't get your theology from uh TikTok. You got to get it from the house of God and the Word of God. Alright, so where are we Okay, so James chapter one, I'm just checking on you. James chapter one and look with me in uh verse 21. Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. Verse 22, someone read that for me, please. Okay, listen. I've seen young person after young person after young person and you look at them and you think man they they they they could be really successful but they they wind up they start getting hard Do you know the Bible said the a wicked man does what to his face? Anyone know? Anybody know? A wicked man hardeneth his face. You're not impressing anybody walking around with a stupid hard look on your face. All you're doing is saying, I'm stupid and I'm wicked. I'm just telling you, man. As soon as people look at your face, they can tell what is going on on the inside. I mean, right okay, you immediately identify you you're not you're you're not you're not you're not doing yourself good. I'm not gonna go in that rabbit trail. Go back to w with me to uh m Mark chapter 17. I mean Mark chapter 8 verse 17. And let's dissect this some. So in Hebrews 3. 13, you have to be careful that your heart's not hardened. But there are again these things that we've gone over. If you okay, so let's let's go over it again. I told you we're gonna go over and over and over it. Okay, so how how did I uh how did how did this message develop it developed from me having a habit of writing the Bible. I want to tell you right now, I highly suggest you get a pencil and a nice journal and start writing the Bible book by book. Start in the book of Philemon, something small. Start in the book of Proverbs. It will help you immensely. Write the Bible. It is addicted because the writing of the Bible just it makes the Bible just boom it comes alive Okay? So what is the r if I just read this and I had not written it out and what I do is I write the Bible and then I go back over and over and over and over and over and over and then I'm saturated in it What I realize is when my heart is hard, all these things are messed up. My reasoning is messed up. My perception is messed up. My understanding is messed up, my vision, my hearing, my memory in recall of what is most important. We had a woman in our church that was just locked stock and barrel, okay, I'm gonna I'm gonna be faithful and I'm gonna do right, and then eventually uh she she chooses to go the other way and she gets out of church And uh one of our members goes by and uh and she's sitting outside and she said, uh, well, I go down to the Methodist church now, and I don't I don't even know if I'm saved. And it all started from not having a relationship with the Word of God. When you are not being saved, I don't know what her problem is, but I know this, that there's people that I've worked with in ministry Their reasoning is certainly messed up. Their perception of how things work out is messed up. Look at look at me real quick so I don't I don't lose you. If someone's reasoning, perception, understanding, seeing, hearing, their vision, their memory, and their understanding is off, do you think that they can function normal in the life in life There's gonna come times in your life where there are people that you you walk side by side, you think they're good Christians And they're going to make choices that are contrary to the Bible. You know why that is? It's because they hear, but they don't receive. The Bible said that you were to receive the Word of God. There's one thing about hearing it. It's a totally different thing to receive what you've heard Some of you are raised in really good homes. Some of you might be raised in homes that don't they don't nurture and love and promote Christianity. I don't know what your situation is, but I'm telling you right now, God has given victory to you. Now especially when you're saved and God does not want your life to be messed up. Listen, do do you realize as a young person that you can get hard toward the things of God You can get callous toward people. I mean you don't want I've heard that before. That's what scares me to death about old people. They say, well all that preacher does is preach John 3. 16. Well if John 3. 16 is all I had to preach, that's good enough for me. Praise the Lord. I love the fact that Jesus uh died for me on the cross. And you better be very careful, it doesn't matter whether it's young or old, that you don't get a hard heart, because when you do, everything of your life is messed up Everything. I'm asking you a question. If you took those six areas of your life are and they're not what they should be, what potential does that have to really mess up somebody's life? Think about it. Come on, somebody talk to me. What what do what and there's no wrong answer uh unless you give a wrong answer What if if if all those six answers, all those six areas of your life was messed up, how successful do you think you would be? No, no, no. But see the problem with sin is we underestimate its damage. With problems in your perception, understanding, vision, hearing, memory. Well, really, the things that are most important. Let me ask you these questions. As an individual, don't go to sleep because I'm almost done in about 45 minutes. Do you on a daily basis love God as you ought? Let's evaluate if we have a hard heart. You want to check it? Do you really shine for him for the Lord Jesus among lost people, people that you know that are not saved? Do you condone and promote things which the Lord hates? Do you take pleasure in having a clean heart, or do you regard iniquity in your heart? You know what what we do in Christian circles? We learn how to obey on the outside, but inside we're not obeying. Because our attitude is rotten. If your heart's rotten, it's it right? God knows your heart. That's right. And so if my attitude is wrong, but I'm obedient on the outside, I'm I'm not right. And what happens when you're young if you're not careful, I was raised as as an only child. I was not spoiled. I was nurtured in the things of the Lord and I was taught by two very, very intelligent people. One of the one of the things about my parents is they they taught me how not to be bitter about give being given instruction and then they tell me what to do and I don't get mad and bitter about it You know why you get mad and bitter when your parents tell you to do something and you don't want to do it or you do it next week or you say I'll do it later or I'm too busy right now What that what what the reason why that is is because we don't understand that it's a it is a good thing to have a right heart attitude and obey my parents because my parents aren't telling me anything that is that that is gonna hurt me if they're normal Right? So here's another more questions. Okay. I don't know how many of you are Christians, but has God told any of you Christians? That something needs to change. So since the time he told you something needed to change in your life, have you changed it? Many years ago I had a young couple come in my office and they said, We need to talk to you about our marriage. Well they didn't listen to me before they got married, and they certainly wasn't listening necessarily listening to me Uh this time, but here's what I asked the young man. I said, So you want to talk to me about your marriage, right? He said, Yes. I said, okay. When's uh what is the last thing that God told you to change that you have not changed? He said, my music. I said, Oh, okay, okay. So the music you listen to, God's convicted about that. He said, Yes. I said, and so you want to talk to me about Marriage, when you won't even listen to God about your music, I said, when you get that right, then you come talk to me and I'll help you with the word of God about your marriage. But until you get that right, I'm wasting my time because if you're not gonna listen to God about the simple things, how in the world am I am I a fool to stand here and talk to you about your marriage? No. No Do you find yourself in a continual state of just status quo, stagnant Christianity? That's for all of us in here. That's more for the adults, really. And even in any growth in the simple things of the Christian life, do you battle things like going to church or missing church for things that really don't matter? Uh it's not godly to miss church to go hunting. Or anything in uh uh not being in the Word of God. That that's where we fall. The easy thing to do is to write the Bible. I'm telling you, it's exciting. On on our YouTube channel, and I'm not promoting the YouTube channel, I'm prom promoting the truth. On the YouTube channel CBC Mannington I have on the on the playlist, I have how to write the Bible. So you can take a look at that. There are only two-minute videos, I believe, in being short. Okay, so if I look at all these areas in my life, I have to realize let's go back to verse 18. So somebody read verse 18 for us. Stop right there. So what? Read again. Read the read that phrase again, that question. Have you not seen nothing? Listen to what the book of Isaiah says. I'm losing some of you because I know I know you're tired and weary. But listen to this. And he said, Go and tell this people and hear ye indeed, but understand not And see indeed, but perceive not. In Jeremiah 5. 21 it says, Hear now this, O foolish people, and without understanding, which have eyes and see not, and which have ears and hear not. Ezekiel 12, uh, two says, Son of man, thou dwellest in the midst of a rebellious house Which have eyes to see and see not, they have ears to hear and hear not, for they are a rebellious house. Hey, let me give you two examples. David David knew the Word of God. David knew God intimately, but David got his eyes in the wrong place, and it cost him It cost him dearly. And we think, oh well the those kings they did this and they did No, it cost him dearly. His family from the point of him committing adultery and homicide was absolutely a total disaster. Hey, but back when he was a teenager, he was he was walking with God and he had the power of God and all but he started looking at the wrong things And then you look at Samson. Do you really think that David and let's talk about reasoning and understanding? Do you think that David and Sam Samson was a judge? Do you think David and Samson fully understood what God told them not to do? I mean, he told them in the Ten Commandments, thou shalt not commit adultery. So in the seventh commandment, God tells them, don't do that. Do you think they knew those? Do you think they knew the commandments of God? Okay, but they were serving God, but they did wickedly. And do you know that Samson could not see where the sin was gonna take him? And eventually he actually could not see because they put his eyes out. And then you think about Achan. Who knows the story of Achan in here? Okay. There's a man in the Bible. God told them very clearly, don't touch this, don't touch that. You bring that all to me Well Achan goes and they're in a war and he steals some garments and he steals some some money. And so he he takes the silver, the gold, and he takes the garments But everybody had been told don't do that by God. If you if if we were in here and so and and we flat out told you Do not do this or it's going to have severe consequences. And one knucklehead in here decides that they're gonna they're they're gonna take it and hide it Well, what in the world are they going to do if they bring it out to you and say, look what I got? When you've done been told, don't do that. Does that even make any sense? It's not reasonable. Achan didn't understand the damage that that was going to cause him. When God said, don't touch something, that's exactly what God means. Do you know the Bible said you taught you think about the deceitfulness of sin? When I get involved in sin, does anybody in here know what God's Word says about the end of sin? And sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth what? Okay, you with me? When sin is finished, it brings forth what? Death What part of death do I not understand? The reason why I don't understand is because my heart's hard. My reasoning is here's what we think. Look, we think we can do this and we get involved in this and we get involved in that, but the end of sin is always what? That's what God means. And so Achan takes this stuff, he hides it. Why does he hide it? Well he's got a hard heart. Why's he hide it? Because he's lusting and coveting after something. That's exactly what he said. But what are you going to do with it? What are you going to do with it? It does nobody any good And Achan Aiken died, all his family died, everybody died as a result of it. Okay, now let's let's do this. Let's go to Mark chapter eight, verse nineteen. Mark eight nineteen. I I I w uh brother James can't could you reverse nineteen to verse twenty? Okay, so where what what are we talking about? I told you I'd stutter, I just did. So verse eighteen. Okay, Mark 8. Mark chapter 8, verse 18. Having eyes see you not, and having ears hear you not, and do you not what? What's the next word? Okay, verse 19 and 20, Brother James. When I break the five loaves among five thousand. Stop! Among how many? Okay, no what what's their answer? He's asking a question. How many baskets full of fragments took you up, Brother James? They say unto him, twelve. Hmm. Okay, verse 20. And with the seventh amongst four thousand, how many baptists full of fragments took ye up? And they said seven. So are those things accurate? Well, we know from the Bible they're accurate. Watch this. They are able to give accurate recall, but look at what the Lord says to them in verse 21. Read verse 21, Brother James. That you do not understand. Okay. When a preacher tells you something that's from the Word of God, you need not to sit there and say, well that's what he thinks It may be what he thinks, but that's what God said. One time I went when I was a young Christian, I got mad about something the preacher said. Understand, I'm raised in a Christian home I got mad and then I started to study the Bible and then I got real humble real quick to realize that's not his opinion, that's what the Bible says And so because of that the Bible convicted me that that's the right thing to do and I need to honor God's word and I need to honor the preaching of God's word and not let my heart get hard, because when you let your heart get hard There's it's gonna impact everything in your life. Your reasoning, your perception, your understanding, your seeing, your hearing, and and your understanding. Listen, listen. There are things gonna happen to somebody in this room that is extremely tragic. Some of you, as young people, are going to suffer beyond anything that any adult in this room has ever suffered. And if you let your heart get hard, you're going to point your bony finger up to God and say, God, why would you let that happen to me Hey, doesn't say don't don't well well I don't say that if I was uh you know an alcoholic. No, you may say that if you're a pastor's wife. You may say that if you're a pastor, why would you let this happen in my life? Instead of understanding that God, all things work together for what? Good. To those that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Why does all okay let me run this by you real quick and I'm finishing God will let something happen in your life. Let's say a child dies, and I hope if anybody in this room that's happened, I'm I'm very sorry. But I think this is very helpful, especially the young ladies. If your child dies and even to the men, is that a good thing? Okay, is it ever gonna uh turn out good that he's he or she is dead? They're dead Well so is God lying? Let's look there real quick because I I'm gonna stop. And I'm going to tell you something today as a young person that if you'll write it down or you'll get it in your head, it will help you when you're 90. Romans chapter 8, verse 28 and 29 Okay, so I need a young man to read verse 28. Now, what did I say earlier that what was going to happen to somebody in this room? Tragedy. Well, why would God let that happen in my life? I mean, I'm a Christian, I'm a child. If you're not careful when things come in your life, you start accusing God of being unjust Why? Hard heart? Why? Because you're offended that something would happen to you that's tragic? Look at what all I've done for God. To serve God is a blessing, it's an opportunity, it is a privilege God allows me to serve him. I deserve to die and go to hell is what I deserve. I don't deserve to name the name of Jesus, to preach the Bible, to serve God to tell a sinner about the Lord. And you know what, preachers, if you disqualify yourself from everything in the ministry, God still leaves you with the most important thing, which is soul winning. I hear God okay anyway, so somebody read verse 28. We know we know that all things work together for good to them that love God. To them, we are the call according to his purpose. Verse 29 gives you the exclamation. For whom he did foreknow he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of the Son that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. When things happen in your life, you know what? It's to make you more like Jesus Christ. The tragedy may be tragic, but if you will submit and obey the Lord Jesus Christ, you can then be molded and made into the image of Christ so that you become more Christ-like And how you deal with problems, how you deal with that situation. It's absolutely amazing how many people you can lead to Christ because crisis comes in your life. Something happened to me years ago, I won't go into it, I don't have time, and you don't either. Something happened to me with my youngest child, and I was absolutely devastated. I did not even know what to do And I was at a meeting at Capitol Baptist Church in Delaware, and the old preacher standing there, y'all may know him in here. He he I told him, I said, Pastor, I understand Romans 8. 28, I understand Romans 8. 29 And I about said, but you you know I I'm I'm I'm real really struggling with this area of my child's health. And that old preacher bowed his head down like this, and he looked up at me and he said, Brother Bowman. He said God might not be trying to teach you anything. God may be just trying to teach other people through your suffering But a lot of times we don't we face suffering and f face hardship and we get accusatory toward God's goodness and his love and his mercy and his grace instead of saying, God, I'm I'm I've sinned against you in a lot of ways. I just ask for your mercy and help me to submit to you. One response is from a hard heart, the other one is submissive and open to whatever God has for your life. Praise God that there are men in the Bible that did hark and hear and remember. Noah heard God and built an ark. Abraham heard God and believed God and went out not knowing whether he went. Jacob heard God and went back to Bethel. Joseph heard God and believed and was faithful to the end. Samuel heard God as a little lad. And you know what? The power of God was so powerful in his life when he came into town, a a certain town, they actually trembled because he was there. That's how much of the power of God was on his life. And it was not there because of the result of a hardened heart. I'm done on this. Look at me. I'm done Do not underestimate the damage that sin is going to cause you and others around you. And do not ever underestimate the total human effect of having a hard heart. People do stuff that as a pastor you look and think, What are you doing? You have no discernment. Do you not know what the Bible says? No, they know. They just become to a situation, they let their heart get hard, and then their reasoning and perception and seeing and hearing and understanding is off. Every head down, every eye closed. Is there anybody in this room that says, Pastor Bowman? I do not know for sure if I died, I'd go to heaven. I'm very concerned about my salvation. And I want to raise my hand and ask that you pray for me because I know I I do not have a Bible answer why And I do not know for sure if I died I'd go to heaven. I I need to know that. I need to get that settled. Is there anybody here at all? Preacher, please pray for me. I am not saved. Anybody, would you raise your hand that I could pray for you? I don't see any hands. So that means you may be all professing Christians. God has great things for you. God has a great a very big future for you in the future. This is just an area that you really need to be careful. Because if preachers battle that, cynicism, hard heart. And everything gets off in your life and you cannot live that way. Here's my challenge to you for this invitation. As a Christian Do not underestimate the results of a hard uh the the do not underestimate the damage that can be caused of the results that can be caused from having a hard heart And it doesn't give the degree of what hardness it has to be. But you know, and the Holy Ghost tells you, hey, this needs to change in your life. Now here's what we're going to do. I'm going to ask the piano player to play an invitation in just one minute. But when I get through praying, I'm going to ask you to stand to your feet. And I'm going to ask you if God touched your heart in any way, and God helped you to realize that maybe today you have a hard heart, that you come and you confess it today and start a new, brand new day with Jesus Christ based on your confession. You may have it all down, man. You may look the look and walk the walk, but you know that heart is not where it needs to be Father, I pray you bless this invitation. In Jesus' name I pray. Heads are about, eyes are closed, lest all stand to our feet. Our dear people