Second Kings chapter five and uh verse number what I want us to look at here is verse number two. Second Kings chapter five, verse number two The Bible says, and the Syrians had gone out by companies and had brought away captive out of the land of Israel, a little maid. Just a young girl and uh taken captive and she waited on Naaman's wife She somehow ended back in the home of this fellow named Naaman, we'll look at here in a bit, and uh became his wife's maid, little servant maid is what she is, little servant. She's been taken Against her will from an enemy country. She's brought back here by herself. Naaman's wife ends up with her. She's The little she's a servant there of Naaman's wife. And verse 3, and she said unto her mistress, that would be Naaman's wife Would God, my Lord, were with the prophet that is in Samaria, for he would recover him of his leprosy. I want to look here at the faith of a little maid. The faith of a little maid. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our time as we look into the Word of God I ask, dear Lord, that your presence would be here and that you would use the truths and principles that we'll try to glean from this. I pray your Holy Spirit would apply it to each of our hearts and lives as you know we have need. Lord, there's a lot of situations, circumstances I know nothing about, but Lord, you know all things. You know our thoughts, you know our circumstances, you know our fears, our concerns. And so, Lord, I yield my mind, my will to you and pray that you would Take my thinking, guide my thinking as I speak, and use it to speak to hearts. I present my body anew for this time. Ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit and again speak through me your word and help us to trust you and follow your leadership. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. This event recorded here in 2 Kings chapter 5 has always captivated me, this fella Naaman. And the captain of the Syrian army, Syrian host, and he's a great man. We're going to look at him for a little bit, but he has leprosy. And this little maid's interaction, just speaking up, changed this man's life. dramatically changed his eternal destiny because this little maid was willing to speak up a little bit. Now, before we get into it, I want to remind you that this event here, as Nathan read it a little bit ago, he read the entire event here, and there's so much we could park and just so many lessons in this this event. But I want to I want to remind you, this is an actual real literal event This is not some myth, it's not some legend. Naaman was an actual literal person that lived and experienced as it's recorded here. What I'm trying to say is this the Bible is the Word of God, and what the Bible says is so. The Bible says there was a man named Naaman, and if he says there was a little maid taken captive, and this little maid spoke up about her God and the prophet of her God and what her God could do and Naaman responds and Naaman is healed and saved, then it happened exactly as the Bible says. And so we believe the Bible is God's Word, and we believe this is a historical account of an actual event The Bible says in the New Testament that these Old Testament accounts that are recorded for us are written for our, and this is the term the Bible uses, our admonition. And what that means means is for our building up, our understanding, our help. The idea is this, these Old Testament accounts were recorded, so your faith and my faith can be stronger, our faith in God can be stronger. As we see accounts of what God did and how people responded And how God interacts with mankind. And we have these personal, direct, historical accounts of God's interaction with man It says the Bible also says these are examples for us. In other words, there are examples recorded for us in the Old Testament that we, some of these examples, are examples we should follow We should follow what they did, exercise their faith. I want to be quick to add, there are some examples in the Old Testament that are given to us so we don't follow those examples. And so this is an actual event. We're reading here a historical, accurate historical account of a man named Naaman, a prophet, and a little maid. I want to look first of all at this fellow Naaman. In verse number one, we're introduced to him. It says, now Naaman was captain of the host of the king of Syria. It goes on and describes them here. He's the captain of the Assyrian military. In other words, his responsibility as captain of the host of the Assyrians, he was to oversee the training of the soldiers He was responsible that the so Syrian army, the soldiers that made up the Syrian army, that they were well trained in hand-to-hand combat was much of what their fighting was No doubt he oversaw the training as they used the various weapons they had available to them. And so he had a very key role. And the military, uh the Syrian military, as he was responsible for the training of their soldiers. A well-trained army is uh is a stronger army than an untrained army, right or wrong Sure. So he has a he has a significant position as the captain of the s hosts of the Syria and the Syrian military. Not only was he responsible for the training of the soldiers, but he was also responsible for the military strategy. In other words, when they faced an enemy, which was often Israel When they faced that enemy, Naaman would be the one, along with no doubt, he had advisors, and the king, Ben Hadad, no doubt had a say in it. But they would devise a strategy, how we're going to face the enemy, how we're going to take this city, or whatever their objective was Naaman would be very key person in planning out the strategy. So he's training their soldiers and and prepping them. involved in the strategy of their uh uh crusades and campaigns they would do as militarily wise. And then he would be the one that would lead them into combat. He wasn't sitting back in some office in Damascus or wherever and just dictating what they should do. He would have been right out there with the soldiers, shoulder to shoulder, in the midst of combat, facing the enemy with them. So Naaman is captain of the Syrian army. He holds a very significant position, a very influential, powerful, important position. In the country of Syria. And then it goes on. It says he was captain of the host of the king of Syria. And it says he was a great man with his master. That word great there has the idea of very influential. Sometimes that word great will be used in reference to wealth, financial possessions. And so we believe, and we're implies here, that he was a very influential man, of course, as we just said, but he was no doubt also a very, very wealthy man He had uh uh great wealth. Uh the king thought very highly of this man, Naaman. Notice it says it says he was a great man with his master. With his master. And then it goes on, and it says he is honorable. Now I find it interesting. This first verse goes to some length In describing what this man was like, what his position was, a little bit what his character was, what his responsibilities might have been And it says he's an honorable man. The idea behind that word honorable there means to be highly respected, no doubt, for his escapades as the captain of the army. Uh no doubt victories they had won, and the Syrians had some significant uh battles and significant victories, not just fighting Israel, but Assyria They had been attacked by Assyria, and Naaman, no doubt, was a key in defending off that attack and gaining their independence eventually from Assyria. And so he was highly respected in the nation of Syria. He was a highly respected man. He was what we might call a national hero. in the country of Syria. And so this man uh is highly respected in national hearing. Now here's a question I have, and this is a little bit For you Old Testament folks, you like reading Old Testament, you're familiar a little bit with the Old Testament. Notice it says here That because by him, the middle of verse 1, because by him, Naaman, that we've been describing, the Lord had given deliverance unto Syria. The Lord used Naaman to give Syria deliverance. Now the question comes up: when did the Lord use Naaman, a pagan Uncircumcised Gentile, a leader in the Syrian army, military, and nation, a national here. When did God use him To give deliverance to Syria. Well, we don't know exactly. We're not told. When was the deliverance given, and who were they delivered from? We're not told. It could very well be in their war of independence against Assyria as they broke out away from Assyria and became their own independent nation. That's possible. History buffs could look at that. But I I I noticed something. Syria was Israel's neighbor to the north. How many people like history? Anybody here like history? How many people hate history How many people aren't going to raise your hand no matter what I say? Yeah. This is I I find this fascinating. A Syria was Israel's neighbor to the north. They had repeated skirmishes, some open out open warfare with each other on numerous times. If you would come back, now keep your place here, come back to 1 Kings chapter 23. Here we have King Ahab. How many folks are familiar with that name, King Ahab? Let me ask you a question. King Ahab, King of Israel, the northern kingdom. Israel's divided of Judah and Israel and you have the northern kingdom which went by Israel, 11 tribes. And Ahab is the king of the northern tribe. Their border, they share the border with Syria King Ahab, let me ask you this question, good or bad? He's terrible. He is one of perhaps the worst, most wicked, ungodly, self-centered, effeminate. citified king in the history of kings. And I say this often every time I'm reading through my Old Testament and I come across Ahab, I get mad at him every time I don't like him. You're supposed to love everybody. I know it. I love him, but I don't like him. I don't e I don't think I love him. He was bad. He was bad. God pronounces judgment on King Ahab. He says, You're going to die, you're going to be killed. And listen to this: the dogs are going to lick your blood. That's how low down dirty this king was. God says, I've had it with you, I'm done. You're going to be killed. You're going to be judged. The dogs are going to lick your blood. Now that's where we're at in 1 Kings chapter 22. Now look at verse 34. Says, now the now uh King A King Ahab is out in battle, the king of Judah is there with him, and um Let me back up a little bit. Oh, here's another thing about King Ahab. This oh I just can't stand this guy He gets the king of Judah, uh Jehoshaphat, am I right? Is that his name? Uh Jehoshaphat Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, the southern kingdom, he gets him to join up in this war with Syria. And Jehoshaphat's pretty naive. King Ahab says, tell you what, you dress up like the king, I'm just going to dress like a normal soldier, and we'll go into battle together. Why would he want Why would he do that? So they would target him Jehoshaphat and not Ah. And Jehoshaphat says, uh, okay. And I'm reading this, I'm thinking, you knucklehead, don't do that. But he does. So Ahab's there with the soldiers, he's out there and he's dressed just like a private and uh doesn't not not identified as a king. And in verse 33, it came to pass when one of the captains of the chariots perceived that it was not the king of Israel, talking about Jehoshaphat, they turned back from pursuing him. Now look at verse 34. And a certain man drew a bow adventure. Now this is the Syrian, a certain Syrian soldier. Drew a bow at venture, just drew it back and just shot into the crowd. Just Not aiming at anybody in particular, just drilling at adventure. And look what happens. And smoked the king of Israel between the joints of the harness. Wherefore he said unto the driver's chariot, Turn thy hand and carry me out of the host, for I am wounded. The Syrian soldier just Adam venture shoots this arrow, and lo and behold, it goes through King Ahab's chest and comes out. I'm wounded. And the battle increased that day, and the king was stayed up in his chariot against the Syrians, and died at even. And the blood ran out of the wound into the midst of the chariot. And one out a proclamation throughout the hosts about the going down of the sun, saying, Every man to his city, every man to his own country, they're fleeing. Syria won So the king died and was brought into Samaria, Syria one, and was brought into Samaria, and they buried the king in Samaria. Look at this. And one washed the chariot in the pool of Samaria, and the dogs licked up his blood. They washed his armor according unto the word of the Lord which he spake. It happened to Ahab exactly as God said it would. God had prophesied that Ahab would be killed and that his blood, the dogs, would lick up his blood. Now here's the thing. 2 Kings 5 says that God used Naaman for a great deliverance. I'm wondering. And by the way, there are Jewish historians and commentators that agree, that believe what I'm about to say. And anytime somebody agrees with me, I tend to think they're right. Usually. And I'm wondering this. That Syrian soldier, unnamed, we're not told anything about him, he just drew a bow adventure And shot it into the Israeli army crowd, and it loan the hole goes through the chest, the back and and comes out the chest of Ahab. You know who I think that Syrian soldier was? I think it was Naaman. And I'm wondering if when God says in 2 Kings chapter 5 here, that God used him I'm wondering if it isn't referring to him doing that and God using him to carry out the judgment On King Ahab. On King Ahab. Did God use Naaman to bring judgment on Ahab and all of the northern kingdom Israel? Uh I I tend to think so. I tend to think so. God governs the whole world The Bible tells us that nations are a drop in the bucket when compared to the power and might and sovereignty of God. Our God is above the nations of the world. He rules in our world. Our God is King of kings and Lord of lords. God can and often does intervene in international affairs. God can step in. I'll tell you another fascinating, fascinating study sometime, and I don't have time for all this, but another fascinating study is the role that weather plays In conflicts between nations. I don't know if you ever paid some of our military historians would recognize that. The role that weather plays. Who controls the weather? The Bible's clear, God is the one that controls weather. And so God often does, he's capable, we know he can, and he often does, will intervene in the affairs of nations. And I believe what we have here is God is using a very wicked, ungodly nation like Syria to bring judgment. On the nation of Israel, his people. He had warned them and warned them and warned them and warned them to repent from their apostasy, to repent from their idolatry. That was their big sin, idolatry. And that produced all kinds of perverse sins throughout the nation. And he warned them and sent prophet prophet after prophet after prophet and finally says enough And I believe he uses the Syrian fella to bring judgment on Israel. Our God is a great and mighty God. And he can use some of the most unlikely people to accomplish his will. And he does over and over again. I'm concerned about the United States of America, as we all are. Concerned about our moral condition. I'm concerned about our political condition. I'm concerned about especially our spiritual condition. I'm here to tell you this morning, God is still God. And whether America stands or falls is not a factor on whether God's kingdom is going to go forward or not. My loyalties as a child of God, my loyalties as a born-again child of God is to the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, first and foremost. I'm praying for our country and we're working hard trying to see this thing turn around. But whichever way America goes, God is still God. He is not dependent upon our nation or any other nation to accomplish his will. Amen or not. And we need to remember that. And God used a wicked, ungodly nation to correct his people and to chase and correct them and judge them. So never forget how great our God is. So here we come back to 2 Kings chapter 5, if you would. So here we have this fellow Naaman. And he's being described, we're being introduced to him here, and he's described as the captain of the Syrian armies, a great man, we're told, he's an honorable man Now notice again in verse one it says he was a mighty man of valor. Means he was strong, number one He's a very strong, physically strong man. And that would make sense considering the position he has, the responsibility has, he would no doubt have to be a strong man. He's a brave man. That's what the idea of mighty man of valor, strength, and bravery The idea here in this phrase is he's a very skilled, a very fearless warrior. He is what I would describe a man's man. He was respected. He's a national hero in the Syrian nation. He's strong. He's courageous. He's skilled in battle. He's an amazing man. He's a man's man. We have reason to believe that he was perhaps a very handsome, attractive man. The word his name, Naaman, means pleasant, attractive Oh no, he reminds me a little bit of Dr. Don Williams, to be alone. That was Doc, not Nan, said that. Anybody at 91 years old shoots a deer with a compound bow at eight point is uh is a mighty man of valor in my So I'm trying to paint a biblical picture of this fellow Naaman, a hero, courageous, smart, handsome. Uh uh tremendo a a man's man in every way. Look at the end of verse one But he was a what? Leper Naaman, all this, considering all this, Naaman was a very sick man. Leprosy, very, very serious disease, particularly In in ancient days. Leprosy was humanly incurable There's no solution. There's no cure for Damon's condition. It's very, very sick. It is a deadly disease. Humanly, his future is a slow, horrible death from leprosy His disease, for all his accomplishments and for all the tremendous things that are said about him, his disease casts a dark shadow. Over his position, his power, his popularity, he was a leper. Everywhere he went, his leprosy went with him. Strategy meetings, military strategy meetings, no doubt he would have to stand off by himself. Political rallies, perhaps, whatever they may have had, went with them. He was perhaps a very isolated most of the time, maintaining a distance, anticipating a short lifespan. It's difficult for me as I was trying to reconcile what he's described and then being a leper, how he could function. In these positions he had and these responsibilities he had. But somehow he made it happen. And at the end of the day, when he had the praise of the nation, at the end of the day, come home from a battle with victory. And have the respect and honor of his king and the people. At the end of the day, when he came home, he still had leprosy. He still had leprosy. No matter how great our position may be, no matter how highly people may think of us or we think of ourselves. The fact of the matter is, many ways, our health and our life is in the hands of God We can do all we want, and I'm all for uh you know maintaining exercise and help. You can look at me and see, obviously. Um And I'm all for healthy stuff, but at the end of the day, God's the one that holds our life in his hands. And Naaman's a strong man, he's a popular man, he's an honorable man, he's a man's man, but he's a leper. And he cannot shake that. And he cannot get away from that. And he cannot erase it. He cannot cure it. He's a leper. He's a leper. Now, verse 2, we're introduced to this little maid. It says, and the Syrians had gone out by companies and had brought Away captive out of the land of Israel, a little maid. A little maid. It's no name given. We don't know what this little maid's name is is. We can't glean anything about her from her name. A lot of times the Old Testament, a name is is very key in the character or maybe the appearance, the description of the person. The name carries a lot there. We're not given any name She's a little maid. I tell you, this little maid captivates me. I'm fascinated by her. Again, we're told so little bit about her. We don't know if she was tall or short. We don't know if she was highly intelligent, or we don't know anything about her. But we are told a few things. It says she was a little maid. I got, as I always do, got looking up words and where they came from and how they're used throughout scripture. And I found that that word little means exactly what you think it would mean, small. So we take from that, and we can implication here is this maid was a very small girl. She was small in stature. She wasn't big. She wasn't built strong. She wasn't tall. She was a small girl. The word little also has this idea of being insignificant. Or unimportant. So the Bible says she was a little maid, perhaps referring to her statue and Probably most likely referring to her position in society. In other words, the Syrians didn't give this girl a second thought She was just a maid. She was just a little insignificant, unimportant, prisoner of war, taken, and now is, well, we might say, a slave to this great man's wife. She's her servant. It says she is a little maid. Well, that tells us a few things. One, that she is a female servant. A maid would have been a female servant, a young girl. Would be referred to as a maid. So whoever this girl is, whatever her name is, we come to this conclusion. She's a very small, young, perhaps young teenage girl. 13, 12, 13, 14 years old. She's been taken captive by a Syrian raiding party. Notice there at the first part of verse 2. They had gone out by companies and brought away captive. What the Syrians were doing is they would send out a small party, a raiding party, we might call it. They would cross over the border into Israel. And they would find communities where maybe there wasn't a lot of defense, maybe there was a little military presence, and they would just go through and raid that community They would kill the people, adults, and people that weren't useful to them. They'd just kill 'em off. They'd pilfer whatever spoils they could get, and if there was young people there maybe that could be used as slaves, they would bring them back with them. And that's what this little girl was. Her town, her community, her home had been raided By the Syrian companies of soldiers and uh and ruffians, whatever they were made up of, and they had come down, raided her town, her community Now we're not don't know, we're not told. We would assume her parents are killed. If she had any siblings, they no doubt would have been taken as slaves also back. This is a brutal This is a brutal environment. We don't know how she ended up as Naaman's wife's servant girl, perhaps and most likely some sort of auction block Or she would have been put up and perhaps naman or one of his assistants, or some servants, employees he would have had go down Uh my wife needs a maid. My wife needs a little sermon. Go go see what they've got in that last race. See if they got any decent uh young girls that could be a maid to my wife, and if it's a good price, get her Apparently that's what took place. She was purchased, she was bought like a piece of equipment, a lawnmower. Some sort of tool, just a little insignificant, unimportant girl. Parents are being killed, no doubt. She's in a strange pagan society. She's trying to learn their language. She's living in a home of someone that is an enemy of her people. The Syrians, here's what I'm getting at. The Syrians took away her freedom She cannot come and go as she wants. They took away her family, probably killed, and they took away her friends. As far as we know, she never saw any friends, less maybe in the streets, at a market somewhere. She's here, a a little boy, a young boy that's a servant now, and he lived down the road or across town, and I recognized him. I knew him back. in Israel. All that's been taken. All that's been taken. But one thing they could not take away from her They could take her freedom, they could take her family, and they could take her friends, but they could not take her faith in God And as insignificant and as unimportant as this girl may have seemed in the eyes of the Syrians She was a young girl of great, great faith in God. And that is what captures my attention. A little maid. With great faith in the true and living God. I want to notice a few things about her faith very quickly. Number one, I notice the challenge to her faith. Life is filled with challenges, both the great and small. And it's no different for God's people. Sometimes God's people face more challenges than what people of the world face. This little girl faced a challenge that you and I would be difficult to comprehend, difficult to relate to Nevertheless, she learned, perhaps from her parents, no doubt, probably from her parents, she learned to trust in God no matter what. She learned to have faith in God no matter what her circumstances were, no matter what her challenges were, she could have faith in God. Her faith was unmoved by the challenges of life. Her faith was unmoved by the injustices that were thrust upon her by man. Her faith was unmoved by the difficulties of her situation. She had faith in God. God had a plan for all this little girl's life. And what we're given here, recorded here, part of that plan, and in fact maybe the major part of God's plan for her wife. was the salvation of this Naaman captain of the Syrian host. Listen, I don't know I listen, it doesn't matter how insignificant you may view yourself or how insignificant this world may think you and I are. And we may we may not have a lot of possessions and we may not have the best of circumstances. But I'm here to tell you this morning, God has a plan for each and every life, regardless of the circumstances. And God had this girl, as difficult as it was, in the very place he needed her to be, and her faith in God was not moved by the difficulties that she faced. So number one, I noticed the challenge of her faith. Number two, I noticed the compassion of her faith. Says uh there in uh uh chapter five, it says It says, and she said unto her mistress, Wood to God, would God my Lord were with the prophet as in Samaria, for he would recover him of his leprosy. Are you kidding me? This guy bought you like a piece of equipment and has enslaved you. You've lost everything to this man and everything he represents. Has taken away from you everything you have, and you care whether he has leprosy or not? I tell you, that's compassion. To be concerned about the well-being of a person that treated her so badly Oh, I wish my master could go back to Israel. He could be cured of his leprosy. That's compassionate faith. That's compassionate faith. She saw a foreigner who worshipped a pagan god, an imaginary god that had treated her so unjustly, and she refused to get bitter She refused to be self-righteous. She could have, would you agree with me? It would have been very easy to get bitter. I hope he dies a horrible death. I hope this leprosy kills him tomorrow. Right? She could have. She could have had that attitude. And very few people would have blamed her. What had been taken from her, what had happened to her. But she did not let bitterness have a place in her heart. She did not let bitterness take root in her heart. And she had compassion. For a man that had showed her no compassion. She had concern for a person who had shown her no concern. She loved those that hated her. She did good to those who mistreated her. She blessed those who cursed her. Does that sound familiar? That's what Jesus said is true of a disciple in Matthew, the Sermon on the Mount Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that despitefully use you. This girl had great faith in God. She But she did not get bitter. She could have gotten self-righteous. Sorry, I didn't mean to spend on you there. She could have thought within herself, these pagans Their worship is so perverse, it's so wicked. They bow down to a statue, an imaginary God. I know the true God. We the Jews, we worship the true and living God. And you, a pagan. You agree with me? She could have got very self-righteous about this. But she didn't. She had what? Compassion. Do you care? Say that man why why would you care about whether he gets healed or not? He's a pagan. I don't know. Yeah, but God loves him. Or God created him. God cares about him, and I care about him. Listen, how many folks here you're saved? You know it. Say amen. How many people are glad that you heard the gospel and you trusted Christ? How many people are glad God saved you? Listen, we need to be we need to remember, we need to be very, very careful. We may have something as a child of God that no one else in this world has, the unsaved world. We have something this world does not have. But I say it so often I want to remind us We are not better than this world. Just because I'm saved, God saved me and forgave me and gave me a new life. He gave that to me by his grace and his mercy. I deserve to be in hell just as much as the worst person out there in the world. And it is the mercy and grace of God that saved me. It is the mercy and grace of God that kept me from hell. It is the mercy and grace of God that gave me a new life, an eternal life. Nothing I have nothing to be self-righteous about. And this little maid understood that. But the God, oh would God, my master was back in Israel. He could be cured. Why in the world would you want him to be cured? Because she had what? Compassion. I think this old world could use a good dose of compassion. Let me bring it home. I think our churches Could use a good dose and a revival of genuine godly compassion For one another and for the world, the unsaved world. Amen or not? Compassion. We got plenty of pride. The world knows about pride. The world knows all about self-righteousness. The world knows all about bitterness. But we need to be as a light in this world of compassion. So I see the challenge to her faith. Everything's taken away, but her faith in God is undaunted. The compassion of her faith, no hatred, no prejudice, no proud self-righteousness, no bitterness, just faith in God. Faith in God I don't think there's any room for any of that in the life of a people of God, regardless of how we're treated. Number three, quickly, I notice the courage of her faith. Look at verse 3, the first part. And she said unto her mistress, now you need to understand, this girl had no, was in no position to speak up and tell her mistress anything. This was incredible courage to speak up and give advice or make a suggestion. It was out of place for her to say anything, but she was fearless. She spoke up. King David knew a little bit what it was like to be afraid. He fled from Saul for years. He was in various situations where he says in the Psalms, he repeatedly says, I was afraid. Fear. Fear. Fear But in Psalm chapter 56, verse 3, he makes this great statement. A lot of us are familiar with it. He said, This: What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. And I'm going to remind you, courage is not the absence of fear. Do you think this little maid was fearful? Good night. It would be extremely extraordinary for her not to be. Of course there was fear was a factor. No, of course fear was an issue for her, far from home, a young girl small in stature, in this strange, ungodly environment, no freedom, no doubt there was fear there. But like David, she says, what time I'm afraid, I will trust in thee. Courage is not the absence of fear. Courage is the presence of faith. Yes, I'm afraid, but I'm going to speak up for my Lord. Yes, I'm afraid, but I'm going to be a witness. to the power and compassion of my God. And God can heal my master. God can change his life. They may lock me in a closet for speaking up, but I'm going to speak up. Courage! I tell you what, the Church of Jesus Christ could use a good dose of biblical courage again. Willing to speak up for our Lord, willing to speak up of His power and His compassion, His ability to save souls and change lives. The courage of this little maid Somebody said, don't fear, but if you do fear, have faith in God anyway. Have faith in God anyway. I I try to be a witness for the Lord. I try to, I don't get it uh all the time, but I try to get out every week and just try and take a neighborhood, go knock on doors, try to talk to people about the Lord. Been doing it long enough that there's still an element of anxiousness there when you get out the first couple you're not know you don't know it But I tell you, in those early days, I was knocking on the door, I'd be scared to death. And here was one little trick we had. You just knocked real quietly Oh, nobody's home. But you know if we're going to make a difference in this old world, if we're going to see souls saved, if we're going to reach nations like Kazakhstan and other nations of the world We're going to have to have some Christians who, regardless of fear, are willing to step up and step out in faith and let God use them to be a testimony to this whole world of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Here in our community, here in our neighborhood, and around the world. And I see the courage of this girl's faith, willing to speak up for her Lord and what he's able to do. And then quickly, the confidence of her faith. Notice what she says there. Would God, my word, my Lord, were with the prophet that is in Samaria. Look at this. For he might recover him of his leprosy. Huh? No. For he could recover him of his leprosy. No. For he what? Would. Recover him his leprosy. There was no doubt in this girl's mind, if she could just get this man, as awful as he may be To meet her God through the prophet, God would change his life. If he had just, she was absolutely confident. This man's a powerful pagan Syrian warrior. And he trusted this little girl. Did you get that? She was confident he would recover. There was no doubt in her mind. No question of God's ability. God is able to heal this man, and God is willing to heal this man. If I can just get him. To meet my God. I'm here to tell you the gospel of Jesus Christ is the most powerful message this world has ever heard. And there's no doubt in my mind, if we can just get an old sinner, somebody's living in sin, as disobedient to God, guilty, vile as can be. If we can just get them to meet our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ is willing and Jesus Christ is able to save their soul and change their life and give them eternal life. If we just get them to them, if they'll believe and receive. Now Naaman had the responsibility once he got there to submit to what this prophet said. But this little girl had no doubt in her mind what God was capable of doing. And I'm here to tell you, I don't know who you're dealing with, I don't know what person maybe you're burdened for or you're trying to witness. I'm telling you it doesn't matter how bad they are. Doesn't matter how hard their heart may be. It doesn't matter how wicked their lifestyle may be. I'm here to tell you God can save the worst sinner and change their life and make them into something that brings glory to the Lord Jesus Christ. God is able! And this little girl was confident. There's no doubt in her mind what God could do. This man had an incurable disease. She says Here I did it again. Uh that ain't nothing for my God. He can heal leprosy. Say, oh my uh my My son or my neighbor, my friend, is just so wicked. And uh I'm here to tell you that ain't nothing for God. Uh there's not one sin the devil can come up with that the blood of Jesus Christ can't cleanse and wash away She's confident. I think we need a good dose of confidence in the power of the gospel in our churches again. In fact, we need some churches just to start preaching it again. Preaching the gospel, preaching the gospel, confidence in what it can do. And I gotta end with this. The consequence of her faith. The consequence. I started to say a minute ago, this was a powerful pagan warrior. But there was something about that little maid. She said, Oh, if only my master could get back to Israel and meet the prophet, he'd tell him about the God that could heal him, make him well. Now why in the world would this Syrian man of valor, national hero, soldier, why would he pay any attention? What this little Jewish girl says. I'll tell you why. Because she had such a testimony. That he was willing to trust what this little girl was said was so. In fact, we don't have time, but did you notice this was a potential of producing outright war. When they sent to the king of Israel, say, hey, uh you got to make this guy well, he said, what is he trying to pick a fight with us? And the Syrian believed this girl to the extent he was willing to risk starting another war. Because he believed that what she said was true. Anyone find that fascinating? Now, what was it about this girl that made him even listen to her, let alone take her advice? I'll tell you what it was. I believe she had the presence of God on her life. I believe she was a little girl of integrity. She did right. She told the truth. And he has seen her testimony long enough to know that this gal is for real. This gal knows what she's talking about. I can trust her. I want to suggest to you we could use a good dose of integrity in our Christianity again. A testimony that what we say is evident in how we live. Huh? Not just our lips, but our life. And the consequence of this little girl's faith. Was this old guy? His leprosy was cleansed. And not only that, and if we had time, we could look at it in more detail, his soul was saved. He was soul was saved. Most powerful force in the world, I believe, is faith in God. Whether you're a little maid or a mighty prophet, faith in God is a powerful, powerful source. There was a lot of lepers in that day, but Naaman was the only one that met the true God of Israel. Believed and was healed and saved. Listen, God doesn't promise to heal everybody Don't you buy that line. Some certain elements in Christendom claim, oh, God will heal everybody. God will heal. If you have enough faith, God will heal you. Don't buy that line. There's nowhere that's taught in Scripture. But I will say this: God doesn't promise to heal all our diseases, but I tell you what he does promise: that every single person that comes to him in repentance and faith and believes in the Lord Jesus Christ, he will save them. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Faith in God. Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ will save a soul, it'll change a life. Faith on the part of the believer that's already saved, faith in God and the power of the gospel can impact a community, and I want to suggest a nation. What's going to turn our nation around? I'll tell you what it'll turn around when the church gets serious about trusting God and doing what he says. Faith in God. This little maid's faith stirs my heart. Do not allow unpleasant circumstances to diminish your faith. Do not allow the condition of our society to diminish your faith in God's power. Do not allow circumstances to silence your witness. This little girl is a testimony of what one person, as insignificant as they may seem Can accomplish if they just have faith in God. Faith in God. Father, bless now our invitation. I ask you would help us. To have faith in you, to trust you, and have compassion and courage and confidence that who you are and what you're able to do and what you've promised I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's any this morning would say, preacher, pray for me. I'm in a situation, a circumstance, I don't know the answer to it. But I want to trust God. I'm afraid, but I want to trust God. Have faith in Him. Is there any like that, preacher? I need God to help me have faith in Him. Trust Him. God bless you. Hands all around. Hands all around I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I know someone that has a need. Maybe they did you wrong. Maybe their name, their face came to your mind. So I'm speaking, you're thinking of them, and you say, Preacher, I want to be a witness to them. I want to be what God wants me to be to them. I'm not going to allow bitterness. I'm not going to allow self-righteousness. I want to die to all that, and I want to be a witness to them with compassion and be able to be a uh point them to Christ. Is there any like that? Preacher, I'm thinking of someone. I need to be a witness to them. God bless you. Hands all around. And maybe there's some here who say, preacher, I just need to dedicate my life to the Lord Jesus Christ. I just want to live for Him, regardless of what my standing in life is. I just want to live for the Lord. I just want to Anything like that, preacher. Oh, I want my life dedicated to Christ. God bless you. Maybe you've gotten away from the Lord. Maybe uh you would describe yourself backslid. I say, why don't you come on? God will take you back. God will take you back. Father, bless her imitation now I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed Isaac