This is thirty-seven. And I'm going to read verses one through three. We're we're in the early stages of our study of the life of Joseph. And uh we were introduced to him here a couple weeks ago. If you remember, our our our first message was why should we study the life of Joseph? And uh we gave some reasons there. Then last week we introduced We were introduced to Joseph a little bit, at least his home and where he's coming out of. And tonight I want to look at his this coat of many colors. And so verse number one of Genesis chapter 37. And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, in the land of Canaan. These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brethren, and the lad was with the sons of Bilha, and with the sons of Zilpah And that's was his father's, I guess you'd call them concubines, uh the children of his the these two women. Uh his father's wives, they're referred to as wives here. He didn't officially marry them though And Joseph brought unto his father their evil report. Would you agree with me? It starts off kind of on a negative note here. We start off with Joseph. Now Israel loved Joseph, verse 3, more than all his children because he was the son of his old age. And he made him a coat of many colors. And so tonight we're going to consider this coat of many colors. Let's pray together. Father, I ask now you'd bless the time we have. Study your word, particularly this one item of this one garment, and uh this one item that Jacob gave to his son. I pray that we can learn from it Lord, you placed it in your word and preserved it for us, so obviously there are lessons to be learned here and principles So I pray your Holy Spirit would fill me and that you would speak through me, Lord, and teach us those principles and the lessons that can be learned. From this coat of many colors. So meet with us is my prayer. Again, fill me. Give myself to you, Lord. Just to be an instrument in your hands. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We study the life of Joseph. We talked about this a little bit in our first message, but when we're studying the life of Joseph, and we're going to go, we've already started, but from the first mention of Joseph all the way to uh when he dies. And I just want to look at his whole life. And I want to see how many I want to see what we can learn out of every little detail of his life. He's an amazing man And when we study the life of Joseph, I think what we're getting is a heavenly snapshot of what a man of integrity looks like. And by looks like, I don't mean, you know, how tall and all that, but how he behaves. What does integrity look like? And we're going to see that in the life of Joseph, we're going to see integrity displayed in his home. We're going to see the integrity displayed among his brethren. We're going to see integrity displayed in a prison. We're going to see it in a rich man's house. We're going to see it all the way through from a from a a seventeen year old boy to a number two on the throne of the most powerful nation in the world at that time, Egypt. Integrity If you want to write one word down about the life of Joseph, you can put down integrity. Because that's what he is and that's what he was. We're going to see how integrity reacts. to injustice and to difficulties and and mistreatment, uh how integrity behaves And I'm reviewing a little bit, I'm kind of saying a few things we said last week, but it's ironic to me that Joseph, this man of impeccable integrity, Grew up in a home that had little or no integrity. He did not inherit this from his father. His integrity was not taught to him from his father. It certainly didn't rub off from his brothers. His father was a dishonest, self-centered man. His mother, Rachel, was a self-centered, unhappy woman. His brothers were ungodly and hateful. And nevertheless, Joseph comes out of that environment with a tremendous character and integrity, is the word. I put this down, just a few observations, just thinking back of what we're noticing about Joseph. I put this down. It's possible to rise above your circumstances It's possible to rise above them. Too often we excuse our lack of integrity. We excuse our our our lack of faith. We blame it on our circumstances. We blame it on our situation. Well, if you knew what I was living in, you'd know why I act the way I do. Listen, we can rise above our circumstances. A fella views I mentioned this before, but uh in one of John R. And uh afterward, as often as a often happens, and especially in big meetings, they'd he'd be down front after the service and people would line up and I've seen this with uh preachers of the past, people be lined up for an hour wanting to get his signature in their Bible and talk to him a little bit. And he's citing Bibles and people coming by greeting them and Finally, a fellow walks up and he recognized him as old friend he hadn't seen for a long time. He says, Hey, how's it going? John O'Rice said to this man. He said, How's it going? And he said, well, considering uh he said, well, under the circumstances, I guess it's okay. And John Arce didn't without missing a beat, he says, uh, well, what are you doing under the circumstances? And it's possible to rise above our circumstances. I put this down. Our origin does not determine our destination. He started out in a very dysfunctional home. They were wealthy, but there was they weren't happy in that home. And can I be honest with you, I'd rather be poor and happy than rich and miserable. They were rich and miserable. But yet he rose out. He came out of that. Our origin does not determine our destination. And then a third thought I put down by way of introduction, our past does not have to define us. Too many times people are looking back, and perhaps I'm guilty of this sometimes, we look back at our past And we think, well, that's what I am. That's that's the way I was raised. That's this, that's that. Now if you're you know if a person's raised in a godly Christian home with discipline and convictions and standards and faith and compassion, Thank God for that. But um if we weren't raised in that, that doesn't have to define us Um, you know, uh we talk about uh the home today and we talk about sometimes bringing these bus kids in and and not just bus kids but kids come in here and they come from horrendous home situations and all four and we love on them. And we got a we got about two hours with them once a week where we can love on them and teach them about the Lord and try and get some truth in their hearts and minds And I'm telling you, it is possible, I'm absolutely convinced, it is possible for these kids that grow up in very difficult home situations, they can come out of that and be something for God. I'm convinced of that. And we see that in Joseph's life. And so Joseph's brothers aided him. They hated him for several reasons. Verse number four, there. Notice it says, and when his brothers saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him. Now Jacob loved the other boys. Nowhere does it say he didn't love his other sons. He loved them all. Notice there how it's worded. When his brethren saw that they their father loved him more than all his brethren. And so he loved all his boys, there's no doubt about it, but he Joseph was his favorite, and his brothers hated him for that. Verse 5 says, and Joseph dreamed a dream. Now we'll look at this dream maybe next Wednesday we'll get started on it. Joseph dreamed a dream and told his told it his brethren, and they hated him yet the more. And here's what his dream was. He said unto them, Hear ye, I hear, I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed. For behold, we were binding sheaves in the field. We, that's him and his brothers, they're working out in the field. That's what they did. He had this dream. Lo, my sheaf arose and also stood upright, and behold Your sheaves stood around about and made obedience to my sheep. In other words, they bowed down in submission to Joseph's sheep. I tell you, if my sisters would have said that to me, I'd have beat them up. They hated him. He's there having this dream and what? We're going to bow down to you. We're going to submit to you. We ain't never submitting to you. My mom used to say, never say never, you'll be doing it forever. And it's verse 8, and his brother said unto them, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? Or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? Uh yeah, he will. And they hated him yet the more for his dreams and for his words. And so his brothers hated him. He was their father's favorite. He had these dreams that put them in a submissive position to him. And by the way, dreams then had more significance than they do now. God would in back it back before the Bible was completed, God would speak on occasion, he would speak through dreams to give revelation, to give information, or make some prophetic uh give some prophetic information. Uh God speaks not through dreams today, he speaks through his word today. So it's important to understand that. Somebody said, well I had this dream last night. He says, they'll tell me all this stuff. And they'll say, what does it mean? I said, it means you ate too much pizza before you went to bed, I think. Look at verse 3. Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age, and he made him a coat of many colors. Because Joseph was Jacob's favorite son, favorite child, he got this coat, and it's described as a coat of many colors. I think this garment is perhaps the most well-known garment in all of Scripture. Now I asked my wife this, I want to ask you. Can you name some Well-known garments mentioned in Scripture. Besides the coat of many colors, what other garments mentioned in Scripture? Uh okay, yeah I didn't think of that. Alright, well John the Bapt you guys are thinking ones I didn't think of. Uh John the Baptist for camel skin. The the priests. Lydia was a maker of of Yeah. None of y'all are right yet because you didn't get the ones I thought of. What? Yeah, Jesus robe. Remember, they wouldn't cut it, it was seamless, and they they they threw lots for it, they gambled. That's the one I thought of, so you get a star. That was another story. Adam and Eve, I thought of Adam and Eve made them uh uh um aprons out of uh cloth and uh out of fig leaves and then God made the coat out of skins. Oh yeah, with Aiken. Yeah, he stole that. Yeah. So there's a whole slew of garments that are referenced in Scripture, and they all have significance. But I'd venture to say, if you ask somebody, name one piece of article of clothing mentioned in the Bible, most people would think of Joseph And so I think it's one of the most well-known, uh maybe one of the most popular stories in all the scripture. Did you know that Joseph actually had three coats There are three garments, three colts that are mentioned about Joseph in Scripture. This one here, in chapter 37, verse 3, this is the coat of many colors, and I'm referring to this one as a coat of partiality. This is where uh Jacob was partial to Joseph. Thus he gave him this beautiful garment, this beautiful coat, which we'll uh look at a little bit more about it Take your Bible, if you would, and turn to chapter 39 of Genesis. And we find Joseph wearing another coat or a robe or a garment. Chapter 39, look with me at verse number 7. Joseph is a slave in Potiphar's house. And it says, It came to pass, and Potiphar's wife has her eye on Joseph. Verse 7, it came to pass after these things that his master's wife cast her eyes upon Joseph And she said, lie with me. I circled and underlined the next three words in verse 8. But he refused. I tell you, we need to learn to say no. Learned to refuse, and he knew how. But he refused and said unto his masters, right, behold, my master wotteth not what is with me in the house. He's saying, listen, he's trusted me with everything. He don't even know what I'm what I do here. He trusts me. And he hath committed all that he hath to my hand. There is none greater in the house than I. Neither hath he kept back anything from me but thee, because thou art his wife. How then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? If you ever wondered whether adultery or unfaithfulness is wrong, just read what Joseph said right there. It says it's wickedness and it's a sin against God. It doesn't matter how accepted it may be in the world. It doesn't matter how common it may be in society, it is still wickedness and sin in the eyes of God. So Joseph makes a tremendous statement and we'll look at it. But let's read on. Verse 10. And it came to pass as she spake to Joseph day by day. I mean, she's relentless, that he hearkened not unto her to lie by her or to be with her. He just kept saying no. He tried to stay away from her. Verse 12. Or verse 11. And it came to pass about this time. That Joseph went in the house to do his business, and there was none of the men of the house therein. Uh-oh. And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me, there's the garment. Lie with me. And he left his garment in her hands and he fled and got him out. So this is the coat that he's wearing, the garment, robe he's wearing in Potifer's house. I call this one. The first one was the coat of partiality, the coat of many colors That's the code of partiality where Jacob was partial to Joseph. This one I called the code of purity. Joseph, and we'll talk about this in the future, but Joseph was more concerned about his character than he was about his coat. He wanted to be right. And if it cost him his coat, that's fine. I'm getting out of here. Now, if you would go over to chapter 41 And verse number 39. Here's another garment associated with Joseph. Verse number 39, chapter 41. Now he's been out of prison, he's up in He's told Pharaoh the dream about the seven years of plenty, seven years of famine. And uh Joseph, or Pharaoh is Is uh thrilled with what Joseph has done, and he's rewarding them. Look at verse 39. And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, For as much as God hath showed thee all this There is none so discreet and as and wise as thou art. Thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled. Only in the throne will I be greater than thou. Wow. And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, See, I have set thee over all the land of Egypt. And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand and put it upon Joseph's hand. Now look at this, and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen, and put a gold chain about his neck. Here's a Pharaoh's coat puts on him, and I called this one the coat of power. Pharaoh takes his robe and puts it on Joseph and gives him power over all the land. So we think of Joseph and the coat of many colors, but there's actually a couple other coats he wore that were very, very significant. So let's talk about, let's come back to 37. Let's talk about this coat of many colors for a minute or two, for a few minutes. We actually know very little about the coat itself. We don't know what the colors were We have no idea, we're not told. It was more than one color, it was more than two or three, it was many colors. Was it all the colors of the spectrum? We don't know But um it had many colors, and uh the word many means various, so uh uh but there's no specific number of colors mentioned, there's no specific colors mentioned So we don't know anything about that. Um I was reading about what the Hebrew coat of many colors, what that means, and what some of these Hebrew scholars and some of the Jewish folks say about it, and it got it got interesting. They suggest, these scholars suggest that this coat was a very ornate It was more than just colorful, it was very v ornate. Several suggested there was probably embroidery all over it Just about every one of them said this, that the wording used here tells us, implies, that it was more than just a sport coat or something like I'm wearing now But it actually would be like a tunic you would wear. Do you ever see people in the Middle East wear a tunic? And it would actually come down, be one piece, come down. And then be long sleeves, they all said this, that it would have been a long sleeve, would have been long flowing down to his ankles. And so it was more than just a code he put on, it was uh and what they were describing it, and I don't think this is what it is, but this is what it sounded like and to me, was like some sort of ornate, expensive elegant hoodie that was long sleeve and down to your feet and it would cover your head. Hmm? Well, a robish, it would be like a robe. They said it was long sleeve to the ankles and perhaps most likely had some sort of head covering uh that uh like a tunic type thing. So there's a lot of that we don't know about the appearance of this uh robe, uh this coat. We don't know what the colors were, we don't know how many colors Did it was it an entire body type covering? We're not sure about all that. But there's three things we know about the coat. And that's what I want to give you in the little time I have. Three things that we know about the coat. Number one It represented favoritism. It represented favoritism. Now I know we've said that repeatedly because it is a key factor on how Joseph ends up in Egypt. This one seemingly outside of the family, just an insignificant but very elegant piece of clothing, was a key factor In Joseph ending up in Egypt in a prison in Egypt. And so it it represented favoritism. Joseph, as we've been saying, was Jacob's favorite son, and here's the thing with this coat. He wanted everybody to know it. It wasn't something he tried covering up. It wasn't something he tried to do kind of subtly. Joseph was his favorite. He wanted everybody to know it, and that was the purpose. of wearing this, of him giving this coat. He wanted his family to know it. He wanted his sons to know it. He wanted his wives to know it. He wanted everybody to know. Joseph is my favorite son. It was most likely by uh Jacob giving Joseph this coat, it was most likely a public statement that Joseph was going to be the heir of Jacob's inheritance. That's what this quote said. He's my heir. He is going to receive the birthright. Now, the birthright, typically, in Scripture, the birthright goes to who? Firstborn. Who was Joe who was Jacob's firstborn son? Reuben. The jet uh Jacob is saying, no, no, no. Joseph's my birth uh is going to get the birth rate. He's the eleventh-born son. of Jacob. I think there's a little bit to this. Now, I possibly am reading into this a little bit, but I don't think so. I usually think I'm right on just about everything. I think in Jacob's mind, now think this through with me, I think in Jacob's mind, he had one legitimate wife. Who would that be? Rachel. That's who he fell in love with. That's who he chose. That's who he ended up working 14 years for. He worked seven years to marry Rachel, and in the morning after the wedding night, he wakes up and he looks, and lo and behold, it's who? Leah. He did not marry Leah. He was tricked. And I've got a sneaking suspicion that in Jacob's mind, Leah is not my wife. I'm locked in, I'm tied to her by marriage, and he honored that to his credit, but Rachel is my wife. And then these two other gals, uh Zilpah and Bilha, uh these two other gals, he never even actually married them. Now they're referred to as wives, but Leah and Rachel connived And uh got them involved in it, and again they referred to his wives, but he never married, he took no vows There was no ceremony, there was no commitment on his part or their part to be his wife, it was default, sort of And I'm convinced in Jacob's mind, Rachel is my legitimate wife. Whatever that he referred to these others, and it was obvious he wasn't real thrilled with them. Who is Rachel's firstborn son? Joseph. And so I think in Jacob's mind, Joseph is my firstborn. He's the legitimate heir. He's the legitimate uh recipient of the birthright. These other guys, I didn't want their wife their mothers. I d I didn't go after them. I'm uh uh I got stuck with them. Now he he b to his credit, Jacob, you know, honored that and he took care of them. Maybe he ended up loving them at some point, I don't know. But this coat, I know one thing about this coat, he was making a very, very public statement that Joseph is the one, he gets the inheritance, he gets the birthright. Number two, something else I believe we can know about this code of many colors. Now I don't know that Jacob Really thought this, but it was true nonetheless. This coat of many colors implied royalty, implied kingship. In fact, this is a little hint, and I doubt seriously, in fact, I know Jacob had no clue the significance of this But down the road, a number of years, Joseph is going to wear a robe of royalty, perhaps very similar to what Jacob gave him. We are told, and we'll see here in a minute, this was not just a common garment that you give. This was not a working man's garment. They'd say, the historians tell us that the working man's garment at this point generally came to the knees. They're out with the sheep, they're working out in the field. They're not going to have a long flowing robe down to their ankles and over their head and long sleeve. They were very usually, according to what I read, they were usually short-sleeved. The garments that the common folk wore, that the workers wore out in the in the uh out in the wilderness and in the fields short sleeve, and they were never colorful They were always drab and plain. They're getting dirty. They're working. Color. You understand that color in this time was something that was a little special. You know, to dye your garments was more than just, you know, just go to Walmart and buy colorful clothes. It required a process. And so this was not something that just a common person would wear. You wouldn't go to the market and see people walking around with the type of coat that Joseph had on. It was associated with nobility. It was a coat of royalty. It was a coat that was worn by kings and the sons of kings and the daughters of kings. Now keep your place here, if you would, and come to 2 Samuel chapter 13. And scripture bears this out. 2 Samuel chapter 13 And here we find the daughter of a king wearing a coat similar to what Joseph is given. 2 Kings 13, this is where anybody here familiar with Amnon and Tamar, both children of who? David. And Amnon gets in his head, he falls in love with his half-sister. And he can't hardly stand it And the implication is there, and we preached on this a long time ago, but the implication is there that he knew it was wrong, and he really struggled with this. I mean this is my sister. It's my half-sister. And he has this friend. And um oh, his name slips in my mind now. Um Jonatab, it's actually his cousin. John Adab comes and he says, Oh, what are you so sad about? He goes, Oh, I'm in love with my sister, but I know it's not right. He goes, watch, you're the king, son. You can get whatever you want. And he comes up with this evil scheme, and he ends up raping Tamar. And of course she leaves there in shame and humiliation and hurt and her life is ruined. Tamar's uh or Amnon's now made a fool out of himself And look here, if you would, at verse number 15. We're introduced to this garment. Verse 15, and Amnon hated her exceedingly, so that the hatred wherewith he hated her was greater than than the love wherewith he loved her. That's what we always tell our young ladies, listen, that guy was after you. He doesn't love you And Adnan said unto her, Arise and be gone. She said unto him, There's no cause. This evil in sending me away is greater than the other that thou didst unto me. But he would not hearken unto her. Then he called his servant that ministered unto him and said, Put now this woman out from me and bolt the door after her. Now look at this, verse 18. And she had a garment of diverse colors. That is the exact same, that comes from the exact same word of the coat of many colors. That Jacob gave to Joseph. Exact same word. Translate a little differently here, but exact come from the same word. She had a garment of diverse colors upon her. For with such robes the king's daughters that were virgin uh were virgins appareled And his servant brought her out and bolted the door. Ah, here's a quote-unquote coat of many colors. And we're told that that is the type of garment that the children of kings wore. In this case, the girls, the women that were virgins. And so when Jacob gives to Joseph this coat of many colors, he's not aware of it. But he is presenting Joseph as royalty. He's presenting Joseph as someone who is a king to an extent, or at least will be someday. And lo and behold, years later, after all that he goes through, Pharaoh takes his robe. And places it on Joseph. And so we know number one, this coat represented favoritism on the part of Jacob for his son. He wanted everybody to know he gets the birthright, he gets the inheritance. Number two He's implying royalty, whether Jacob realized it or not. He's hinting at Joseph's future nobility. And then number three, last of all, it provoked rejection. Come back here to Chapter uh come back to Genesis if you would. And we already read this, but verse number four. When and when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren they hated him and could not speak peaceably unto him. Every time his brothers got up and they went up, went, came to the breakfast table, or whenever they met in the morning And Joseph has that coat on every time they see that, it's a reminder in their face that they ain't getting no inheritance, they're not getting the birthright, and then he is daddy's favorite I mean every time they come back to lunch, every time Joseph has this thing on, it's in their face, it's in their face. And it got to the point that they hated him The word hated there means this, a deep, and it emphasized this statement or the definitions, a deep-seated personal hatred. I mean it wasn't just somebody, oh, everybody hates him. You know, it wasn't that type of thing. It was each individually, personally, despised this guy. It was deep-seated. And not only was it deep-seated, but it was a displayed hatred. Notice it says they could not speak peaceably unto him. They could not say anything kind about him. They could not say anything kind to him. Do you ever have someone that disliked you and they could not say a kind word about you? Or maybe we've gotten that condition. Well we somebody, we can't say uh we can't even think nice something anything nice about him. We absolutely despise him. That's where his brothers were This cope provoked rejection. The word hated also implies enemy. He became enemy number one in their eyes, in their mind. In fact, the word hated there is translated three times in the Bible. Three times it's translated enemy. Same word, enemy You know it's tough. It's tough when family members are enemies one of another. That's tough. I mean having enemies outside, external enemies, that's hard enough. But when they're when they're in the s when they're under the same roof. I tell you what's tough on a church when enemies of the church are inside the church. Enemies, enemies. What did Jesus say Now, how did Jesus say we're to treat our enemies? We're to pray for them, we're to love them. Love your enemies. Do good to them that despise you. Pray for them that curse you. Bless them that curse you. I mean, we're given very, very clear instructions. If we are in the position that Joseph is in We are given very, very clear instructions as a disciple of Jesus Christ how we are to respond to that. And Joseph is hated. His brothers consider him an enemy. Now let me end with a few thoughts. Number one, I put this down, thinking about this coat of many colors and ha the the reaction it provoked in his brothers. and the implication of nobility and the statement it's making about Joseph's birthright and his favoritism. I put this thought down. Godliness is often unappreciated. And in spite of all of this, Joseph was a godly boy. He brought his father the evil report of his brothers. And again, like we said last week, we won't know we don't know anything what that was, what was involved, but we do know this. Joseph did not share his brother's values. He did not share his brother's morals. And godliness is very underappreciated in the world. In fact, I put it this way: the world's values and godly values are not the same. And when the people of God adopt the values of the world, like these brothers did, these are still God's people. And when they adopt the values and the priorities and the mindset of the world, and you're going to see them react and respond to godliness the same way the world responds to godliness. I've been in the ministry fair time now, and I I know uh when I was youth pastor in Indianapolis, I mean with a large youth youth group, 45, 50 kids in that range averaging And we've seen some young people get on fire for God and they want to do right and they want to they want to do right and they want to be godly. And I'm telling you, the biggest hassle For them didn't come from the kids outside the church. It was the carnal kids in the church that gave those kids a hard time These are these Joseph's brothers are God's people. They're gonna be they're gonna have tribes of Israel gonna be named after them. And they adopted the value and the mentality and the values of the world. And along comes this little brother who's a godly man of integrity, and they don't appreciate it, and they turn on it. And that coat just ate at him. I put number two in final thoughts. Number one, godliness is often unappreciated, both in the world and certain elements of Christianity that shares the world's values. I put this down. A person that is hated by man is almost always the one that God is preparing or using in His work. You go through the Bible. I'll challenge you, do a Bible study. And look at all the people in the Bible who are hated by others, and without exception, it is the people that God's doing the work with. The Pharisees hated Jesus, the Pharisees hated Paul. Ahab hated Elisha. Elijah, the ungodly kings hated the men of God. And so it's not surprising that Joseph is hated by his brothers. It's the un it's it he's the one that God is preparing. He's the one God's going to use to save millions of lives. And and and puts Israel in a position where they become a nation and they hated them The person in the Bible being attacked by others is almost always, almost without exception. In fact, I want to say without exception, I don't know of any The one that's attacked by others in Scripture is the one that God is working in, that God is using, that God is preparing. We got to be careful about our attitudes and our actions towards others And then last of all, and this is the one that's going to come out as we go through the study, go through the life of Joseph, what God has planned for tomorrow is almost always unknown today. At this point in time, Joseph is hated by his brothers, an unhappy home, and he has no idea where his life is heading to. He has no idea what's going to happen down the road. I love Proverbs, I think it's, is it 27-1, boast not thyself of tomorrow. I love that last statement, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. And Brother Joseph is starting out rough. And I'm telling you, it's going to get rougher. And it started out dark, and it's going to get darker. And he had no clue that God was leading him to be one of the greatest men in all of Scripture. He had no idea. He had no idea. So what's the lesson? The lesson is stay faithful Say, preacher, I try to do right on the job and everybody hates me. Keep doing right. Say, preacher, I try to be a witness. I try to be a testimony. It's like I'm everybody's enemy. Keep being a witness. Keep being a testimony. Maintain your integrity because you'll know what God's working and what God's going to do. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from this coat of many colors. And help us to learn from Joseph. I wonder, with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many tonight would say, preacher, sometimes I try to live for God. seems like the whole world is against me. Anybody ever been there? I feel like the whole world's against me. Guess what? They are. Jesus said they would be. And so let's love them. Let's be kind. Let's bless those that curse us. Let's do good to them that despitefully use us. Let's love our enemies. Let's be the people God wants us to be regardless of circumstances, and we have no idea what God may do down the road. Father, bless our invitation now. Help us, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.