A rapture-ready church is what we're describing the church at Thessalonica as. Actually, I think Paul makes that pretty clear through the the rating here that uh this was a church ready to meet their God. I think I'm a little strong there, Dave. It sounds like it to me anyway. This is a church that was rapture ready. I'm going to look at the last two verses of chapter three, first Thessalonians. And uh notice what the Bible says. The Lord says, and and the Bible says, and the Lord make you to increase and abound in love toward a uh uh toward another and toward all men, even as we do toward you. To the end he may establish your hearts unblameable in holiness before God, even of even our Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints. I've entitled the message, and I'll explain the title here in a moment, the bottom line. Let's pray. And uh look at this. Father, I ask now you'd bless our time in your word, and I pray that uh uh you'd apply these truths to our hearts that we would be the Christians you intend to Challenge us and help us. Fill me, I pray, Lord, with your Holy Spirit. I yield myself to you new this evening and uh help us to grow and be with those that couldn't be here tonight. I know there's a lot of folks not well and various things, so uh uh we lift uh all the folks up to you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. What do we mean by, we're uh just us here tonight, what do we mean by the bottom line? When you hear somebody say that term and say, well, this is the bottom line, what are we talking about? Some talk to me now. This is just class time. What do we mean by that? The bottom line. Okay. The bottom if you have figures, the bottom line is the total of everything, what it all amounts to. Anyone else have idea along those lines? The bottom line. What's that? All right. Okay. Alright. You're kind of getting along here. I put this down. The bottom line, I've I've made several statements here. I put this. The bottom line would be the end result what it all boils down to. I came across this definition somewhere, the most important factor that must be accepted I think that's what Paul was kind of alluding to. You can't get there any without this. It would be what we might refer to the fundamental of an issue. It's the bottom line, it's something that has to be there. Now the reason I'm using that term is if you would notice in verse thirteen Again, this is Paul under the inspiration of God writing to this church at Thessalonica. He's been explaining for three chapters now his actions, his love for them, his concern for them, and he praises them tremendously He says he he says of this church, you guys are ready to meet the Lord. Now there's few issues that need to be addressed, but they're a rapture-ready church. And look at verse 13. In the first part of that verse 13, he has this little phrase there. To the end. He may establish your hearts. To the end. I think what he means by that phrase, and I studied this and looked at it, he's saying, all right, this is the bottom line. This is what it all amounts to. This is when you get to the bottom of the equations, you get to the end of the equations, this is what you come up with. The bottom line. And in these two verses, I believe he's telling us the bottom line of the Christian life is this. We must be prepared to meet the Lord. Everything else is secondary. If we're not prepared to meet the Lord, then nothing else really matters. The bottom line, look at verse 13 with me. To the end, he may establish your hearts unblameable in holiness before God, even our Father, and at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints. This is what it all amounts to. We're going to stand before God someday. This is what it all comes down to. You add up the whole equations of the Christian life. And the final result comes down to this. Someday you and I are going to have to stand before God as individual believers and give an account at the judgment seat of Christ. So, everything else is secondary How much money I make in my 80 or whatever years of life that God gives me is secondary to whether I'm ready to meet God or not. Would you agree with that? How popular I am in my life is secondary to whether I'm prepared to meet God or not So if I'm going to be prepared to meet God, I think we all here, everyone here understands that that begins at salvation. If a person isn't saved, they're not ready to meet God, right? They're not prepared. That is the beginning point. An unsaved person is not prepared to meet God. In fact, the worst thing that could happen to a person would be to stand before God unsaved. As the very worst thing. That means they're lost for all eternity. And so we're beginning with the assumption that all of us here know Jesus Christ, our personal Savior. The church at Thessalonica, these are made up of saved people. And so we're taking that for granted that these people know the Lord as Savior. Now He's addressing here two, I believe, I see in verse 12 and 13, two basic ingredients that make up the bottom line. Two basic things that must be in place if I'm going to have to, if I'm going to be prepared to meet God as a Christian, as a saved person. The first one is this: I must have compassion. If I'm going to be prepared as a Christian, and by the way, I think this could go without saying, but I'm going to say it anyway, Christians will stand before God also Don't think because we're saved we escape the judgment of God. We as believers will stand before the judgment seat of Christ and we'll give an account of ourselves as Christians, how we live Not to determine whether we go to heaven or hell. That's determined the moment I trust Jesus as Savior. But to be judged for my works, how I lived my life, my obedience to the Lord as a Christian, to determine my rewards in heaven and uh whatnot. So, if I as a believer am going to be prepared to stand before Christ at the judgment seat of Christ, be prepared for that moment, one of the bottom line items has to be: I must have compassion. Now look with me at verse number twelve. And the Lord make you to increase and abound in what Love one toward another and toward all men, even as we do toward you. Now, the Church of Thessalonica, as we said, was prepared to meet the Lord. This whole let me turn. My shirts, something's happening in my shirts. They're all shrinking. I don't understand what's happening. But um uh if we're gonna be prepared as a believer to stand before Jesus Christ and uh hear him say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant Uh one thing I've got to have in place in my life is compassion. Now look at this verse. And uh we're gonna take some uh we're gonna take some guessing here, alright? And the Lord make you to increase and abound in love one to another. Anybody want to guess what that word love is translated from? What Greek word that word love is translated from? Take a guess. Agape. Isn't that something? Agape love. Now if you've been around Bible preaching very long, you know that agape is the Greek word for God type love. The Bible, there's three words. The New Testament is translated into the English from the Greek, and there's three Greek words that are used for love, and each has its own little distinct meaning. And agape is the highest form. That is the God type love. As I was preparing this, you always, you know, one of the hardest things to define is love. How do you define love? How do you define agape love, unconditional love? I came up with a definition I like pretty good. I just got it as I'm preparing this message. Agape love is one-way love. It's love as expressed one way. It looks for nothing in return. It anticipates nothing in return. It is dependent upon nothing in return. Does God love us because we love him? No. He loved us while we were yet enemies. While we were sinners. His love is one way. Does God love, does God Uh, is God's love for us conditioned upon our love for Him? No. Is it conditioned upon anything on our part? No, he loves us freely. It's one-way love. How many people like that definition? I like that definition. Good. How many people don't like that definition? Raise your hand. Good. The majority has it. It's a good definition Write it down, yeah. And he says here that if I'm going to be prepared to meet Jesus Christ, if I'm going to be prepared as a Christian to stand before the Lord Jesus Christ. The bottom line is, I've got to have compassion. I have got to have God-like love in my life. Come uh agape love. A one-way love. Now here's something I wish that we could somehow I wish every school in the United States of America would teach this diligently. I wish every cartoon that kids watch would teach this clearly and distinctly. In fact, even our uh uh even folks um my age and older, us mature folks would learn this. Love, biblical love, particularly agape love, is not a feeling. The songwriters don't know that. They think it's a feely. They think it's some type of thing that comes over you and you have no control and uh I want you to say 99% of the descriptions of love that the world comes up with, they're really talking about lust. They're not talking about love. Love is not a feeling. This is so important to understand. Love is a decision. It's a decision we make. God loves us because, not because we give him warm fuzzy feelings. Goodness, half the time you read the Bible, we're making them sick. Right? Revelation. So it's not some feeling that comes over God that prompts him to love us. It is the decision made on God's part that he loves us. Love is a decision I make. Now a feeling, as a result of that decision, feelings may be produced. But love is not that feeling. It may be the consequence of me expressing love and acting in a loving way, but feeling is not love. Agape love. A decision that I am going to love one way. I'm going to express love. I'm going to give love. I'm going to act in a loving way, regardless of whatever comes back to me. Completely independent of anything that comes back to me, I'm going to love. That's what God wants us to have. Now The more I study the Bible, the more I'm convinced this agape love is impossible humanly just in and of ourselves. Agape love, I don't think in and of ourselves we can produce agape love. I think the highest form of love that we can produce just in and of ourselves is what's called uh is what we would call phileo love That is a reciprocal type love. That's when we were in junior high and we'd write in notes, I like you, do you like me? Check one You know, and if she liked me, then oh boy, I really liked her. You know, as a give and take thing. I'll scratch my back you s I'll scratch my back if you scratch yours. Something like that. But y'all understand what I'm saying. This world, apart from God, man apart from God in and of himself can come up with some pretty intense Phileo love. But I think, and I think I have scriptural support, I'm going to give it to you here in a moment, I think this agape love, this completely selfless love It's impossible in our flesh for our flesh to produce that. I think it has to be given to us by God. Now, you got your Bibles there. Let's use them a little bit tonight. Come over with me if you would to Romans chapter number Well before you go there, look with me again at verse 12. I think there's a it's suggested here in this verse. Look at the first phrase of verse 12. And the Lord make you increase and abound. Paul was saying, God Needs to enable you to increase and abound in this love. That tells me that God's the source of this love. Now, keep your place here. Go over to Romans 5 with me if you would. This is a familiar passage, perhaps, for uh many of us, but Romans chapter 5 and verse number 5. Romans 5. 5. I'm suggesting to you. that are the ability to love someone in a completely selfless way. Um uh in a completely in a c on a one-way street type love where I'm just giving love Regardless of anything's come back or not, is something God has to put in my heart. Look at Romans 5. 5. And hope maketh not ashamed. Look at this. Because the love of who? God, guess what word that word love is there? Da-da-da. There it is again. Agape love. Look what it says Now the uh because the love of God, the love that God shows, the agape love that comes from God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us. That phrase shed abroad, it has this idea to be bestowed upon us. to be poured into us. The idea here in this verse is this, we don't have agape love. We don't have the ability to love in a totally selfless way like God does. God, you and I as believers have the Holy Spirit, and God bestows that ability upon us through the power of the Holy Spirit. And so with that in mind, we come back to 1 Thessalonians. He says, to this end, that we can be prepared to stand before the Lord Jesus Christ. What is the bottom line? Bottom line is: if we're going to be prepared to meet the Lord Jesus Christ, we must have compassion. We must have this love for others. If I'm going to prepare. If I don't have a Gape love towards others, I am not prepared to stand before the judgment seat of Christ. I'm going to come up short as far as glorifying and pleasing the Lord. At the judgment seat of Christ, if I don't have this. Now, he gives us three aspects of this love, what must be true in our life. First of all, this love must is to increase. Look at verse 12 again And the Lord make you two increase. At no point are we to ever be satisfied with the level of our love for others Never satisfied. Well, I think I love everybody enough as I need all that I need to. Uh we don't ever get to that point. Our love for others ought to continually be increasing and increasing and increasing. Now I want to remind you, this love we're talking about is not some huggy-wuggy, fuzzy-wuzzy type feeling love. It is a decision. It is a genuine concern for the well-being, the good, or the success of others. Regardless of what it does for me, my concern is for the well-being, the good, the success of another, whether I get anything out of it or not, I'm completely out of the picture. It is my concern for them And it's not a touchy-feely type thing. I've had uh uh some of you have seen this the last couple weeks, in the last month, I think, uh I've had two uh ladies, I guess, uh that had been visiting here and when they left they come up. I would like to shake people's hand and thank them for coming and whatnot. And uh you can tell you can see it in their eyes. They're coming towards me like this And I'm trying to find a way out. And they come give me this big hug. And it's like at uh Brother Stubler's memorial service. uh ladies that was here went out and just hugged me and I'm kind of like and then the other Sunday uh a girl was here and went out and hugged me and uh that's not what we're talking about here Now I understand ladies they all want to hug me when they go out, I know that, but please don't do that. Um that was pretty lame That's not what we're talking about, a huggy-feely type thing. Our concern for others Others' well-being, for their good, for their um uh what did I put down here, for their success in their Christian life. That concern ought to be growing and growing and growing in our lives. Getting more and more concerned for others. As my love, I found that as my love for others increases, my concern for myself decreases I found that when my wants for others increases, my wants for myself decrease. If I have this biblical love. John the Baptist in John chapter 3 and verse 30 put it this way. He must increase, but I must what? decrease. You know what he was saying? He's saying my love for the Lord, my concern that Jesus Christ be exalted and glorified My concern that Jesus be worshipped as he ought to be is increasing, and my concern for my own attention, my own well-being, my own comfort is decreasing. And that's what he's saying here ought to be true in our concern for one another. I ought to get to ultimately the idea is get to the point where I'm totally concerned for the well-being of others and have no concern for the well-being of myself. It's an increasing thing. And so we need to ask God to increase our love. I'll be very honest with you. I was preparing this. I got convicted Although man, I don't have this love in my heart towards others where I'm more concerned for other people's well-being and their good and uh that thing increasing. And you know what I do? I had to stop and ask God, God please increase my love. Verse 12, he says, and the Lord make you increase. I said, Lord, make me increase in my concern for others' well-being, my love for others. And so Bottom line, if I'm going to be prepared to stand before Jesus Christ, I've got to have love for others. And that love should be an increasing type love. There's something else told us in verse 12 here about this love. Our love is to be is to inundate us. Now something is inundated. There's a $50 word. What does that mean? It's overwhelming. If the waters are inundating your house, what's happening to your house? It's being flooded. They're taking over. Look what he says here. And the Lord make you to increase and abound. The word abound has this is a neat definition. I like definitional words. This is a neat definition. The definition for that word abound, to go over a fixed measured point. To abound. In other words, you got a measuring cup and you say, I want one cup of milk for this recipe. And so you get your little child comes, all right, all right, you pour the milk in there, and I'll tell you when to stop. When it gets up to that fixed point, that one cup, we're going to stop. And so little Johnny takes the jug and he turns it upside down. It went over the fixed point. He dumped the whole thing in there. That's the idea of this word abound. To completely inundate something, to completely overflow. I put it this way, to be extravagant. To go over the top, to go beyond what would be normally expected There's a great illustration of extravagant love, of inundated love in the book of John. Turn back there with me. We've got a f a number of verses we're looking at tonight. John chapter number 12. Come over there, John chapter 12. And I'm going to begin reading in verse 1. I'd like for you to see this. This is an extravagant expression of love. I think it's a display of agape love for the Lord Jesus, no concern for self, advancement, or well-being, but all concern for the Lord. And uh John chapter 12, I'm going to begin reading in verse number one. Notice what the Bible says. Then Jesus, six days before the Passover, came to Bethany Where Lazarus was which had been dead, whom he raised from the dead, there they made him a supper. And Martha served, but Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him. Now I can't read this without my imagination going crazy. Lazarus was dead. How many people remember that story? He's dead. Lord said, Lazarus, come forth! And he came out. Everybody's amazed. Lots of people get saved. So this is some time later. Lazarus has been back alive again for a period of time. It says here in verse 2, Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him. What do you think was going through the mind of Lazarus? Think about it for a minute. He, by all, as far as I can tell, he was with the Lord in paradise. And the Lord calling him back. My thinking is, what a bummer. You know? It's like man living in a mansion for a few days and then having to come back and live in the shack again. You know, so I see this is the way I picture this scene. Who's it there working away? Martha is uh working, she's busy, she's always working. Every time you find Martha, she's doing stuff working. Working around, running around, all stressed out. And uh uh Mary, she's out doing something, we'll find out in a minute. And uh Lazarus, it says he's sitting there at the table. This is the way I see it He's thinking about heaven. Oh, I can't believe I had to come back. It was so great. Anyway, I like thinking of Look at verse 3. Then Mary then took Mary a pound of ointment of spike nart. That's like a perfume type thing. very costly, and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the odor of this anointment. Ointment. Wow, that's pretty amazing. I put in the margin of my Bible, no concern for her own glory. I mean, she's wiping his feet with her hair. How humiliating would that be? There's absolutely no concern for herself in this. Everything here is the comfort, the well-being, the glorification, the exaltation of Jesus Christ. In Mary's mind, he must increase, she's decreased. Now, to help us understand the extravagance of what she did here, let's read on. Then said one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, which should betray him, so we know where his mind's at. Listen to what Judas says. Why was not this winkment sold for how much? 300 pence. And given to the poor. Now, I'm not an expert in New Testament monetary values. But the best I can tell, and doing a little study in here, a pence, if I understand correctly, was about one day's wages. So you have 300 pence. That's 300 days' wages. Now, if my figuring is correct, they work six days a week. Sabbath they didn't work. So if you take 365 days divided by six, You get what? I don't know. But anyway, this is what it came out to be in my mind The best I can figure, now correct me if I'm wrong, correct me later, Paul, if I'm wrong, but um uh the best I can figure, it comes out to about 50 days worth of work. No, I'm sorry, 50 weeks worth of work. Right? Does that sound right? Comes just to about a year's income Right? What is it? Sixty point eight weeks worth. Okay, well your computer's wrong. But um no, I uh It's at best I can figure, it comes to about a year's worth of income. Can you imagine investing one year's worth? How long would it take for you to put up enough money To have one year's worth. Now, some of y'all it wouldn't be very long. But uh put up a year's worth of income. And what does she do with it? She pours it on Jesus' feet. Judas, an unsaved worldling, it blows his mind. He says, what in the world? Is she nuts? Why would she waste this on Jesus Christ? She wasn't wasting on Jesus. You know what it was? She loved Jesus abundantly. Above the mark. Wherever the world set, Judas would be an example of that. Whatever the world set would be reasonable in expressing your love to the Lord. This was way beyond it. She poured the whole, she poured the whole pitcher of milk in on top of this. And her love for the Lord abounded. It was extravagant. A year's worth of income. By human standards, this was extreme. Now, I got thinking about that. By human standards, God's love for us is extreme. Would you agree with me Who in the world for a good man some may dare to die. But God commended his love toward us in that while we were yet what? Sinners Christ died for us. That's a little extreme. That's a little over the top. That's certainly beyond the mark the world would say is reasonable. That Jesus Christ would die for the worst of sinners? Yeah. It's called agape love It's called unconditional love. It's the love that God expresses and that he wants to put in our hearts and that we have for one another. So it's increasing. Our love for others needs to be increasing. It should be inundated. I mean just totally over the top. I put this one down, and it is to be intense Look at the last part of verse 12, come back to 1 Thessalonians 3. The Lord make you to increase and abound in love one toward another and toward all men. Look what Paul tacks on here. Even as we do toward you. Would you agree with me Paul was intense? Good grief. He is like the most intense person you ever met, even before he was saved. He didn't like Christianity, so what'd he do? He went out and killed him and threw him in prison. I mean he was just intense. Whatever Paul was doing, it was 150%. It was all out f pedaled pedaled to the metal Double barrel, full bore, um hyper hy uh what do you call that on an engine Anyway, he's intense. He was all out. And he says, listen, I want you all to love each other the way I love you. Now we've been reading for three chapters here, Paul's love for them. He was eat up with it. And he wanted their love to be equally intense. Paul was passionate. His love for them was strong. Paul was intense. His love for the Thessalonicans involved his whole being, and he wanted them to love the same way. Here's the question I asked myself. How much effort goes into my concern for others? How much intensity is there? behind my concern for others' well-being. Is it just kind of, and I'm afraid this is the way we are a lot of times, most of the time, is it just like, oh yeah, boy, I hope things work out for them. Or is it intense like Paul's? It was just his life. He had to be with them, he had to help them, he had to get down there and help their faith and strengthen them in the Lord, and he had to. That's what he says. I want your love for one another to be that way. Bottom line is: if we're going to be prepared to stand before Jesus Christ, we've got to have compassion. Now, verse thirteen tells us real quickly one other thing that makes up the bottom line. First is compassion, second of all is consecration Look at verse 13 with me. To the end, the bottom line, that he, the Lord, may establish your hearts. Look at this, unblameable in holiness before God Even our Father at the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints. He's saying this, number one, you've got to have compassion one for another. If you're going to be ready to at the coming of the Lord Jesus, you want to be ready, you've got to have compassion It's got to be increasing. It's got to be intense. It's got to inundate your whole life. Second of all, you've got to be consecrated. Fully committed. Fully separated to the Lord. Now there's two aspects of this consecration I see in verse 13. May establish your hearts unblameable. That to me sounds like if my consecration to the Lord is to be unblameable, it sounds like there's some things that are not attached to me. Do you follow what I'm saying? That's kind of a separation from type thing, unblamable. In other words, it means I've got to stay away from certain places. If I want to be unblameable, there's certain places I'm not going to go. Because by going there, I could be blameable. There could be a shadow cast on me. There could be question about my integrity or my character. By certain places I might go. He says a little later on, Paul tells the church at Thessalonica, he said, abstain from all what? Appearance of evil. He didn't say just stay away from evil. He says stay away from the parents. If it doesn't look good, stay away from it. Why? Because we want to be unblameable. We don't want any reproach on the name of Christ. We don't want anything about my testimony to uh to um uh dilute the effectiveness of my testimony. I've got to be unblamable. It is a separation from some places. It means I've got to stay out of certain activities. There's some things I'm not going to get involved in. I'm not going to engage in. I'm not going to be a part of. Why? Because it it I won't be unblameable if I do that. It has the appearance, it has a the hint, the odor of ungodliness. And I don't want that on me. I want to be unblameable. It means that there's some things that there's certain I must keep out of my life certain behavior. Things I say, things I talk about, the way I do things. I've got to keep those, my behavior isn't going to be characterized by that. I've got to separate from some of these things. If I'm going to be unblameable. Unblamable. Now, it's interesting. He uses a word that we don't use very much. It's very similar to a word we do use, stablish. It's the same word as establish. It has this idea to have stability, to have something in place in a permanent position. In other words, he's saying we need to have a long-term separation from things that are not of God That put a shadow on our testimony. It must be established. We do not do those things. We do not go to those places. We do not talk that way. We do not act that way. We do not engage in that type of behavior. We haven't and we won't. It's established. That is not part of our lives. It's the whole idea here. It used to be there was strong preaching in the churches on separation from things. That has kind of been washed by the wayside, but nevertheless the doctrine of separation is still very strong in Scripture. To separate from that which, to use the term here, is blamable. And to make that a part of my life permanently. So first of all, there must be a uh I must be unblameable. If I'm going to be consecrated to the Lord, I've got to have some things out. But that's only half of it. Look what it says here in verse 13 Your heart's unblameable in, what's the next word? Holiness. That is not separation from something. That is separation to the Lord. And for years, in the 60s and 70s and 80s, boy, our our fundamental forefathers, and I appreciate it, don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But boy, they preached against this and against that and don't do this and don't do that and don't go there and don't go here and don't don't don't don't don't don't don't But they miss something. There's two sides to separation. It is separation from that which is wrong, but it is also separation to the Lord. And if all we do is separate from the world and we don't separate ourselves to the Lord, we're going to end up pretty empty. And he says we're to be unblameable in holiness. That's the missing ingredient in the doctrine of separation in many places. is that of being separated to the Lord. No, I don't listen to the world's music, but uh I better listen to God's music The doctrine of replacement we preach and James does preach to the kids, rock and roll, throw it out, get rid of that rock and roll, boredom. But you know what? You better get some good music in its place Get rid of the bad and put the good in, the holy. Get rid of the unholy and replace it with the holy. That's the idea here. Separation to the Lord, commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ and the things of God. What does it mean to be holy? I've tried to define that, explain that for years. What does it mean to be holy? Well, you dress in black, carry a big, gigantic King James Bible, and you never smile. Then you're holy. That is not being holy. Um and by the way, I I was reading a quote on holiness. And uh I don't remember who it was, but they said this. They said the world has the idea of if you're holy, you're miserable. He said the exact opposite's true. He said the closer you get to God, the more you become like the Lord, the happier you become The lighter your heart is. I put this down. This is my attempt at defining what holiness is, and it's not totally original with me, but it's this: thinking the way God thinks. Thinking about things the same way God thinks about them. That would be holy thinking. Desiring the things that God desires Loving that which God loves. Hating that which God hates. That's what holiness is. It's godliness. It's taking on the characteristics, the attitude, the mind of God. That's what holiness is. So We take it for granted that the folks at the Thessalonik Church were saved. That's a given. We take it for granted that those of us here on a snowy Wednesday night in this and last day of November or come to prayer meeting, we take it that we know the Lord is Savior. We assume that's true. If I'm going to be prepared to meet the Lord as a Christian, Bottom line is, I've got to have two things in my life. Number one, I've got to have genuine compassion for the people of God in all men, verse 12 says. And I've got to be consecrated to the Lord. I've got to get the world out and get Christ in, and I've got to be godly. I've got to be holy in my life. Not to be accepted into heaven, that happened the moment I trusted Christ, but to be approved of God. But to hear Christ say, to hear Christ say, Well done, thou good man. You were the kind of Christian I intended for you to be. You live the kind of life I intend for a Christian to live. Compassion and consecration. I think those two things are bottom line. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord. Lord, you convicted my heart as I prepared this. I do want to be more compassionate, and I ask that you would make us, as a church and as individuals, to increase and abound in our love toward one another, even as Paul did towards the church there at Thessalonica. I pray, Lord, you'd enable us to be unblameable in holiness, Lord. That when you come back, That we'd be prepared. When we stand before the judgment seat of Christ, we'd not be ashamed, but we could humbly give you the glory for what you do in our life Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would agree would join with me in saying, Preacher, I'm praying God will give me greater compassion? God would give me greater love for others. How how many like that by the uplifted hand? Goodness. That's my prayer. I wonder if there'd be some, and again, this is between you and the Lord, so you know, we understand. But I'm going to know there's some here say, preacher, you know there's some things I've got to get out of my life. If I'm going to be unblameable, there's some things that got to go. There's some separation that needs to take place. And you'd say, Preacher, I don't see how it would be very easy, but I know it's right. I need God to help me. Is there any like that? Preacher, there are some things there. God bless you, and several hands around, many hands. I've got to get some things out if I'm going to be unblamable. But what about this separation to the Lord? I won't be sold out to God. I want my mind, my heart, my soul, my body, my strength, my my uh my everything to be separated to the Lord, my whole life, be completely the Lord's. holy in every way. You'd say, preacher, pray with me. That's a longing in my heart. God bless you. Many hands hands around. Father, you know our hearts. You know where we're at. Verse 12 starts out by saying that you are the one that enables us to do this. You make us this And so we're asking you, God, to work in our lives, convict, and challenge. Don't leave us alone until things are where they need to be and we're what we ought to be. Help us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.