Exodus chapter 3. I want to begin reading in verse 1, and we're going to read down through verse 6. And um the Bible says verse 1, Exodus 3. Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian. And he led the flock to the back side of the desert, and came into the mountain of God, even to Horeb. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush, and he looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire. And the bush was not consumed. And Moses said, I will now turn aside and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt. And when the Lord saw that he, Moses, turned aside to sea, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses. And he said, Here am I. And he said, drawn, that's God speaking now, draw not nigh hither, put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. Moreover, he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God. Notice that last phrase. Verse number six. Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God. Let's pray, and um we'll pick up our message where we left off before. Father in heaven, I thank you again for the opportunity. to study your word. I pray now as we look into this passage of Scripture, I pray that your Holy Spirit would open our hearts and eyes, hearts and minds. And we could understand how this applied applies to our lives. I pray your Holy Spirit would take the truths and principles here, apply it to our lives, so that we can be a little stronger in our faith and understand and know you a little clearer. And Lord, be more effective in our witness. And so, Lord, I yield myself to you. I present my body anew. I pray with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And that you would speak through me and help us grow and use this to help us, I pray. In Jesus' name, Amen. We're looking at the call of Moses, and we're studying the life of Moses, and um We kind of got here to this section where Moses has this call from God, and I've slowed down and I've kind of parked it here on purpose. This is a pivotal event, as we've been saying. This is a pivotal event in the life of Moses. Um course, first of all, is when he was placed in the in the Nile in that little ark by his parents by faith. And the Pharaoh's daughter, that was a turning point. That could have went two completely different ways. And now he uh then then the second one uh would be where um he killed the Egyptian that was harassing a Hebrew and apparently the Hebrew's life was uh uh threatened. And so he intervened and he killed this Egyptian And we're told in Acts 7 that Moses believed that in doing so, the Hebrews would rise up under his leadership and turn against the Egyptian king and authorities, and they would come out of Egypt under his leadership And I'm reading between the lines here a little bit, but I suspect that Moses was anticipating to overthrow Egypt by violence. There was a lot of Hebrews. There was a million perhaps or more. They were uh the Egyptians were afraid of them. That's why they kept them under such bondage and and hardship because there were so many of them. The Egyptians saw them as a threat. And I think Moses saw that also, and saw that not as a threat, but as an opportunity for him to lead them out. And Acts chapter 7 kind of suggests that. He believed that God was going to use them. There was a problem in his approach to all of that. Anyone remember what we said that problem was? Moses was doing it his way. He supposed that he would do this. He was leaning on his own understanding. He was relying on his own abilities. his training as a military leader there and his leadership skills and it fell flat in his face. It backfired completely when the Hebrews turned on Moses. So that was a turning point. And now he's 40 years, he's been on the backside of the desert. He's raised Egyptian, and of all things, he's a shepherd now, whom Egyptians hate shepherds That whole occupation. And he sees this bush burning. And we've been looking at this in depth. And God reveals himself. And so we're looking at the particulars of this call. We get some details If you remember, we said God, first of all, attracts Moses' attention with this burning bush. That's the whole point. The only purpose this bush is burning is to get Moses' attention. Nothing more to it than that. Get Moses' attention. He comes over, it works, he gets his attention, he comes over. And then in verse 4 through the first part of verse 6, God announces his presence to Moses. Um he uh God wants Moses to know who he is and what he's like and God reveals some things about himself to Moses that Up to this point in Scripture it have not necessarily been revealed to him before. Do you remember in verse number five, he says, the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. That's the first time that word holy is used in Scripture So we're learning something new about God. God is revealing more of Himself directly to Moses, but through Scripture to us. And so we have these particulars here of it here. And then I notice Moses' reaction. And that's what we want to look at tonight. Moses reacts in humility. Again, verse number six, the last part. And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God. Again, we said in verse chapter 2, verse 11 and 12, Moses expected God to support his plan. And here's the thing, I want to backtrack here a little bit. I'm doing this to contrast something here. Forty years ago, Moses had this plan on how he was going to deliver the Hebrews out of Egypt. Now, I think, again, I may be reading into this a little bit, I may be reading between the lines, but I believe what was taking place here, Moses was wanting God to support his plan. Follow what I'm saying? It was Moses' plan. It was Moses' approach, and he wanted God to support that. And by the way, we do that same thing a lot of times. We get an idea of what we're going to do and I want to do this for God or I want to do that and then we come to God and we want Him to rubber stamp His approval on our plans. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? You follow what I'm saying? Well, this is 40 years later, and God is completely changing all of this. It's going from Moses trying to get God in on his plan. And now it's God coming to Moses who is broken, completely broken, and God saying, alright Moses, you had your plan, didn't work, now you are going to come and get in on my plan. And all these forty forty years in ministry, I found out God's plans without fail are always better than my plans Without fail. And so Moses going to get Moses to fit into his plan. And that's what this whole process, these first six verses here, And actually, the 40 years leading up to it is God preparing Moses, preparing his heart, preparing him emotionally, mentally, spiritually. He's preparing him. To fit into God's plan. Fit into God's plan. Would you agree with me? It's pretty bad. It doesn't usually doesn't work if you've got two chiefs running the tribe, right? Get two heads on a body. A two-headed body is a monstrosity. So it can't be Moses running the show and God running the show One of the two have got to submit to the other. And I'm telling you right now, God ain't submitting to Moses. Moses has to submit to God. And so the problem, I believe, with Moses initially, when uh he had his plan, I'm gonna kill this Egyptian, they're gonna rise up, support me, we'll Kuditah will overthrow the Egyptian government. We're going to go to the promised land. I'll be their leader. It's going to be great. I think the whole problem in Moses' mind at that point was He had an inadequate understanding of who God is and what God is like. If I have, I hope you're following my train of thought here, if I have the idea that somehow God is going to fit into my plans And my limited understanding and my inadequate wisdom, and somehow God's going to come and fit into that, I have an inadequate understanding of who God is and what he's like. I've got an awfully small God, if he's gonna conform to my limited understanding. And so Moses had an inadequate understanding. But now, verse number six, now he knows who God is and what he's like. Do you remember when Job, at the end of the book of Job, Job went through all that horrific experience, those trials, and then God reveals himself to Moses. God asked these series of questions. And basically, God is revealing Himself to Moses. God is revealing His infinite wisdom and His power and His understanding. He's basically showing to Moses that God's plans are not our plans, his thoughts are not our thoughts, his ways are not our ways, they're so much higher than ours. And Job makes this profound statement. He said, I heard of you with the hearing of the ear. I had some information about you. It was very limited, and it caused me concern, and it I was confused, and I struggled because I only had a limited amount of information about you, God. But now What did he say? But now I see you with my eyes. You know what he was saying? He says, Oh now I understand who you are. He didn't see God physically with his eyes. God cannot be seen. No man is seeing God at any time. He's a spirit. He's here right now. He's a spirit. Job was saying, oh, now I have more information about you. I understand a little bit better who you are and what you're like. And he said, I abhor myself. I repent and and ashes and uh I didn't know what I was saying. I I I didn't know. I was I was ignorant, but now I understand. And I think that's where Moses is Now he understands. Now he's learned some things about God. I believe there are certain characteristics about God that he wants us to know. There are characteristics of God that he wants us to know about himself. There are some things he wants us to know about himself. We will never, I doubt, through all eternity we will fill it, we will ever fully comprehend the magnitude of God. The majesty and the magnitude of God, I doubt throughout eternity we'll we'll ever know. But There are some things God wants you and me to know about Himself. There are some things. In fact, I'll take it a step farther. There are some things we need to understand about God. If I'm going to have a healthy relationship with him. Would you agree with me? I can have a better relationship with somebody if I know a little bit about them, right? You met your years ago, you met your spouse, or maybe you met someone and kind of uh you know just a friend and there was kind of a mutual interest there. And there was something inside. I want to get to know them a little bit better. I want to know a little bit more about them and who they are and where they're from. What are they like? And as I learned that, then I learned to appreciate them more, usually. I learned to trust them a little bit more. And if I'm going to have a healthy relationship with the God that created this universe, with the God that rules this universe, He's King of Kings, He's Lord of Lords, if I'm going to have any kind of relationship with Him. I've got to know a little bit about him. And so we must understand some things about God if we're going to have a healthy relationship with him. And if we're going to serve him effectively. I've got to know a little bit about this God, who he is, what he's like. And that's what God is doing for Moses here. I can't serve God effectively if my understanding of Him and my knowledge of Him is limited. Now, again, we'll never know him completely. He's so far above our ways we'll never fully grasp. But there are some things we can know. And there's some things God has revealed to us about himself. When you open, let's suppose, let's suppose with me now that you know nothing about God. You've never seen a Bible before in your life But just try and imagine this with me. You're completely ignorant about who God is. You know there's a God. You understand that, but you know nothing about Him, and you've never read the Bible. And so we're going to go, and you're going to go to Genesis chapter 1 and verse number 1. Alright, you start out there. The very first statement that God makes about himself. Let me put it this way. When God introduces himself to mankind in Genesis chapter 1, verse 1, the very first statement about God, what does he tell us about himself in Genesis 1. 1? He's the Creator. God wants us to understand He is the Creator. You with me? And let me just take a swipe here while we're mentioning that. Evolution is the biggest lie ever hoaxed on mankind in all of history. It is ridiculous. You just stop and think for a minute. It's ridiculous. I don't care how many scientific formulas they have and processes and all this stuff, it's ridiculous So the first thing God wants us to know about him, he is the creator. He created heaven and earth. And if you pay attention when you read through the Bible, and every Christian ought to, at some point in your Christian life, you need to start reading the Bible through. I think every Christian ought to read every book, every chapter, every verse of the Bible repeatedly. Now if you're just starting out, you know, you might want to start John or some some basic places, but at some point we need to start reading this whole book, amen or not? So if you pay attention, when you start reading through scripture, if you pay careful attention, over and over and over and over and over, God repeats the fact That He is our Creator. Our memory verse. Ah, Lord God, behold, thou hast made the heaven and the earth by thy great power and stretched out arm. You see that all through Scripture, Old and New Testament. God doesn't want us to forget that He's our Creator. He made us, we did not make ourselves. And so I look at scripture and I say, all right, what does God want me to know about him? What does he want me to understand about him? Well, the very first thing is that He made me. He made everything. He's the creator. He is the author of life. He is the originator of everything. The whole world. So that's the first thing he wants me to know. Then you don't get but a chapter or two in Adam and Eve Sin, disobey God, sin comes in the world, chapter 3. And God reveals something else to us about Himself. What does He reveal? When Adam and Eve sin, they hide themselves. What's the first thing let's get some group participation. What's the very first thing God does when man sinned against God? They're hiding from them. They're ashamed of their sin. What's the very first thing God does? He sought him out. He makes reconciliation. Right? When man disobey God, deliberately of his own free will, disobey God, the very first thing God does is goes back and restores that relationship. He does what he needs to do to make that relationship right. Ends up killing, I believe, a lamb, a sheep or some sort, picture of Christ. And he covers that bloody shed, death And the and they're clothed with the the skins. So here's something else God wants us to realize about Himself. One, He created everything. Number two, He is a redeemer. God redeems sinful men, not against our will But he makes it possible. And again, you go through scripture, Old Testament, New Testament. You find this stated over and over and over and over. In fact, later on, Moses is going to be given on the Mount, uh he's going to be given all these ceremonies and these sacrifices and all these elaborate uh feasts and everything for Israel as part of their worship of God And all of that is a picture of the God's great Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ. So God wants us to know two things about Himself right off the right in the first Couple three chapters of the Bible. One, he's our creator. Number two, he's our redeemer. And so we work our way through scripture. We see these things. And as we go through Scripture, he's revealing a little bit more of himself, a little bit more of himself, a little bit more of himself And now, as we noticed in, I think it was last week's message or the week before, God has just revealed Himself in two more ways to Moses. He meets Moses, a turning point, not just in the life of Moses, but a turning point in the history of Israel and in all of Scripture. This is a key event And he reveals two things about himself. Look at verse 5 of chapter 3. And I kind of already highlighted this. He says, draw not nigh hither This is God speaking to Moses. Draw not hot nigh hither, put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is what? So what is God revealing about himself to Moses here? He is what? He's holy God wants Moses to understand this about himself. He is a holy God. We talked about that. Then look at verse number 6, the first part. He says, Moreover, he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob. We studied that in depth last week And what he's revealing to Moses there, I believe, is that he is a faithful God. He's unchanging. He's the same as he was with his father, with Abraham, with Isaac. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. God is immutable. He's unchanging. Whatever God was to Moses, he is still for you and I. Now he may interact a little differently with us, but he's still the same. He's still the same. He hasn't changed a bit. So Moses is learning two things about God. Whatever Whatever his parents taught him in that first 10, 12 years before Pharaoh's daughter adopted him, whatever they taught him, it was limited. No doubt they taught him that Jehovah is the creator. No doubt they taught them that Jehovah is the Redeemer, but they would have been limited understanding of anything more about God than that, his power and his love. But now we're learning some more things, and God's revealing himself to Moses. Now note, and here's what I want to get to. Notice how God responds, or I let me take it back. Notice how Moses responds to this revelation of God. Now remember before, 40 years earlier, my arm, I'll deliver them by my arm. I've got this. I can get these people. Now he's broken. And all failed. 40 years he's failed. And now he learns something new about God. And look at chapter 6 and the last part. And Moses did what? What'd he do? He hid his face. He hid his face. If you would, keep your place here and come with me to Acts chapter 7. Here, um Stephen is given this Long sermon before they he's martyred before they stone and kill him. And he references this event where Moses hid his face. Stephen gives us a little information about him Acts chapter 7, look with me at verse 22, or verse 32. Acts 7, 32. Now keep your place back in Exodus. Don't lose it. Verse 33, and the Lord said unto him, Put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place wherein thou standest is holy ground. Now here's Moses' reaction. I have seen, I have seen the affliction or I'm sorry, I got ahead of myself. Come back to verse 31. When Moses saw it, he wondered at the sight, and he drew near to behold it. The voice of the Lord came and Saying, I am the Lord God of thy fathers Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. Here we go. Look at this. Then Moses what? Trembled In Exodus, it says he hid his face, and we didn't read the rest of it, for he was afraid to look upon God. Stephen, under the inspiration of God, gives us a little bit more information about Moses' reaction. Exodus 3, he hid his face because he was afraid. Now I did a study on that word afraid, like I always do. I want to see what it means, how it's used. I looked how it's translated, other places in Scripture. And that word afraid doesn't mean this morning I came in the office and Catherine was here cleaning. And she had the kids back there, they were in the act they were in the fellowship all doing their home schooling work. And they're s they're engrossed in it Such studious kids, I can't believe it. And uh they're just work and I walked in the kitchen and I went, Hey guys, what's up? You scared me. That word scared oh uh I went over in the activity center just before church, um, Heidi and R Ray Lynn were over there working on blankets for blankets for babies and I stuck my head around and I said, Hey girls! I love doing that. I love it. And they said, oh, you scared us. What they experienced is not what Moses experienced. When it says he was afraid, it wasn't like, oh, this surprised me. The word afraid there is actually, in other places, it's used in Scripture to refer to someone who is terrified Absolutely terrified. He sees this bush burning and it's not being consumed. And his mind, no doubt, is trying to process this, and all of a sudden This invisible person, being Moses, Moses. And boom, God reveals Himself to him. And it absolutely shakes Moses to his very core. He's terrified. It's scared. He's afraid. And in Acts Stephen uses the term trembled. The word tremble, again, I did a study on that. It means to shake in fear. I mean he is just shaking in fear. Would you agree with me? God's got his attention And there's no pride in the heart of Moses at this point. There's no self-confidence. There's no self-reliance. He is absolutely terrified. He's at the end of himself. And he's exactly where God can use him. He's exactly where God can use him. Moses, at this point in Exodus 3, verse 6, the last part of verse 6, where he hid his face, he was afraid to look upon God. Moses has just experienced the fear of the Lord. Do you ever remember reading that phrase in Scripture, the fear of the Lord? Anybody familiar with that term? The fear of the Lord. Man, that put the fear of God in them. We use that phrase sometimes. The phrase fear of the Lord, Moses has just not only learned the fear, he's experienced the fear of the Lord. He knows what it is to fear the Lord. This is just me talking. I doubt seriously that very many of us have really ever experienced the fear of the Lord. Not to this level. Fear of the Lord, an understanding, a grasp of the immensity and the power and the magnitude. And the glory of God's essence. And he sees himself and compared to God on nothing. Um all through Scripture we read of the fear of the Lord, the fear of the Lord, the fear of the Lord. That phrase, the fear of the Lord, is used at least 30 times throughout Scripture, and I'm tempted to do a series on that. The command to fear the Lord, where God commands us, fear ye the Lord. Over 40 times God instructs man to fear the Lord, fear the Lord, fear the Lord. I think to some extent understanding the fear of the Lord is absolutely necessary for our spiritual health. The fear of the Lord is the absence of pride. It's the absence of self. It's the absence of my own leaning on my own understanding, relying on my own ability. It's God and God alone. Now, what is the fear of the Lord? The fear of the Lord, that concept. I don't know. The way I see it, that concept, the fear of the Lord, is something we kind of know what it is, but to define it and to explain it is a little difficult. You know what I'm saying? Try and define what love is. I mean, it's difficult. We know what it is to an extent. The unconditional, perfect love of God is difficult to grasp. But we we understand a little bit, but to define it, to put it into words, is typical. What is the fear of the Lord? What do we mean by that? What does the Bible mean by that? The typical answer, and that's what Moses has experienced here. He hid his face for he was afraid to look upon God, the fear of God. The typical answer is to have reverential respect. Anybody ever hear that? My response to that is: what in the world does that mean? Reverential respect. And I think I know what it means, but to define it, well, it means you reverence God respectfully. Alright, what is that? I think here let me uh I try to simplify because my mind is simple. So I try to boil this down where I can maybe get a mental grasp on what does this mean. I think the fear of the Lord is the result of an awareness of God's holiness. God's pure, pure holiness, an awareness of God's pure holiness and my sinfulness. When I begin to grasp the holiness of God, I immediately become aware of my own sinfulness. And a sinful being like me in the presence of a perfectly pure, holy God, is a fearful thing It's a fearful thing. The Bible puts it this way. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. A holy God. Now let me try and illustrate from scripture. If you would come with me to Isaiah chapter number six. Isaiah was a friend of the king. And Uzziah died, his friend Uzziah died, and God reveals himself to Isaiah. Now this is Isaiah's call to the ministry of a prophet. And Isaiah, God reveals himself to Isaiah, and I what caught I want us to notice is how Isaiah responded To God's revelation of Himself. Look at verse 1. In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw also the Lord sitting upon a throne high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple And above it stood the seraphims. Each one had six wings. With twain he covered his face, and with twain he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly. Now, by the way, just an aside, John chapter 12, Jesus tells us that this is actually Jesus Christ in his pre-incarnate form that he's seeing here. This is Jesus. John 12 makes that clear. But look, verse 3. Now God is revealing himself to Isaiah. And one cried unto another, these seraphims. And said, look at the three words, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. Look how that statement affected the physical building they were in. And the pulse of the door at the voice of him that cried, and uh and the house was filled with smoke. Look at verse 5. Then said I, Wow, I must really be something if the Lord's doing this for me Is that what he said? No. Wow, look at this. Hey, let's get our take a picture. We see God's showing himself to no When Isaiah, would you agree with me? Isaiah's pretty good guy, humanly speaking. Yeah, he's a prophet of God. Or at least he's on on the road to becoming one. And when he becomes aware of the how holy God is, the holiness of God, the very first thing he becomes aware of himself is this. Then said I, what Woe is me, for I am undone. For I because I am a man of unclean lips. And I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. For my eyes have seen the King of the Lord of hosts. You know what's happened to Isaiah? He's just experienced the fear of the Lord. He's seen the holy, he's experienced, he's become aware of how holy God is. And immediately He becomes aware of how sinful he is. Now, he phrases it here in an interesting way. He says, I am a man of unclean lips. I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. Unclean lips indicate something about him. What do unclean lips indicate? Out of the abundance of the Heart, the mouth speaketh. If he's speaking, if his speech, his lips are unclean, it's because of what? His heart is unclean. Unclean lips indicate an unclean heart. You know what he's saying? I'm a sinner through and through. He's saying the same thing Paul said as he learned of the Lord. He says, In me, that is, of my flesh, there dwelleth no good thing. Moses, one of the most godly people in the world, that had a grasp of the holiness of God and the love of God and Jesus Christ. And yet over and over and over he says, I'm the least of the apostles, I'm the chief of sinners. Oh, wretched man that I am. The more he understood God, the more he understood about himself. And so pure whole the fear of God, I think, is When I become aware of the pure holiness of God on my own sinfulness, I experience this fear of the Lord. I think there's another aspect to it. When I become aware of God's infinite power and my powerlessness, it produces the fear of the Lord. I don't think we grasp what infinite, what omnipotence is. Over and over, God's referred to as Almighty God, all power. And here's our problem. We don't become aware of that. We don't understand that. So we compare God's all-power to a man being all-powerful. And so then we make judgment on God because w all we see in His power is nothing different than the power of man. All we see in God's wisdom is nothing different than the wisdom of man. All we see in God's love is nothing different than the love of man because we don't understand The magnitude of God, the immensity of God, the perfections of God And we pull him down to our level of understanding. We pull him down to our level of intelligence. And whenever we get a grasp of the holiness and the wisdom and the power, the omnipotence of God. It produces in us in a fear and there's a humility. Go with me to Luke chapter 5, real quickly, and I'm running out of time here. Luke chapter 5. Moses is experiencing the fear of God in a way that few people have. Several throughout Scripture, we're looking at some of them here. Luke chapter 5, you have the disciples. The Lord's been preaching to uh out of a boat. And notice um verse number four. Now uh Jesus has been standing in the boat and he's speaking. He sits down, actually, verse 3. He sat down and taught the people out of the ship. And when he left speaking, verse 4, he said to Simon, this is Simon Peter Launch out into the deep and let down your nets for a draught. Now, at this point, Simon is critiquing Jesus as the same level as him. He's basically no different than me in his ability, his power, his wisdom, his knowledge, his everything. He's basically just not different than me too much. The Simon answering said, Master, we toiled all the night and have taken nothing. So basically, what's he saying to the Lord? There's nothing out there. You tell me to do this. I know as much about this as you do. I have the same level of intelligence as you do. But I think he's trying to humor the Lord here We've taken nothing. Nevertheless, at thy word, I will let down the what? Now, do you notice anything different from what the Lord told him to do and what he did? Yeah, the Lord said nets. Peter says, all right, I'll put one out. That tells me he's just humoring the Lord. He's not expecting anything. Because in his mind, his understanding of God, who is Jesus, God in the flesh, his understanding of God, his level of intelligence is no greater than mine, really, not much different. He might know a little more But he's really not that significantly different than me. I'm here to tell you, Jesus Christ is significantly different than man. Now he's man, he became man, but he is not the same. Now look at what happens Alright, at thy word I'll put a net down. I can see I'm going to the other guy's And when they had had this done, they enclosed a great multitude of fishes and their neck broke. Whoa. And they beckoned unto their partners, which were on the other ship, that they should come and help them. And they came, and look at this. They filled both ships, so they began to sink. This wasn't just a coincidence. This wasn't just, oh wow, a couple fish happened to go by. This is this is an act of Almighty God. Look how Peter responded. When he saw it, he fell down at Jesus' feet. All pride's gone, all self-confidence and My own understanding is completely gone. This is something bigger than I ever comprehended Fell on his knees saying, Depart from me. Ryan what? Simple man. You know what Peter experienced? He experienced the fear of God. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, revealed himself to Peter in a way that Peter never comprehended. He immediately realized how simple he was, how powerful he was, how powerless he was, how ignorant he was. He says, Lord, I'm a sinful man. You know what I think he's referring to when he says I'm a sinful man? I think he's referring back to where the Lord told him to put the nets out. He's humoring the Lord and he didn't believe God. And he puts an ad out and he realizes, what a fool, how sinful was I, God Look who this is. Who am I to modify what he said to do? Who am I to evaluate what he says? I'm a sinful man. I'm a sinful man. My understanding, fear of God is my understanding. This is my understanding of the fear of God Here, God is an awareness of the great contrast between who and what God is and who and what I am. When I understand the vast gulf there is, Between my abilities and my strength and my wisdom and my intelligence and my goodness, and God's infinitely perfect in all those Then I fear God. Uh I want to go one more one more verse and I I need to quit. But come over to Luke chapter 18. I want you to look at these two guys that the Lord refers to, Luke 18, and they're going up to the temple and they're going to pray. And this is to me a profound event. There's so much truth in this, practical truth. Luke 18, look at verse 9. And he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous and despised others. In other words, these guys had all the answers They knew how it was. They they they they their understanding was perfect Verse 10. Two men went up into the temple to pray. The Lord's illustrate trying confronting these guys about that. The one a Pharisee, the other a publican. We know what publicans were, and we know what Pharisees are. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself. God I thank thee that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in a week. I give tithes of all that I possess. You know what I think he was doing? I think he, in his mind, he was basically on the same level as God I do all this stuff, God, you know, it's hey. Look how great I am. Look, would you agree with me? This guy had a very limited understanding of the holiness of God. He had a very flawed understanding of his own sinfulness and his own ignorance and his own lack of wisdom. And he's there bragging on himself before God of all things. Now look how the other guy reacts. And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes to heaven. But smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a what? Now let me ask you this question. Which of those two guys, which of these two men, had a clearer understanding of the holiness of God? The publican. Which of these two men had a clearer understanding of the contrast between themselves and God? The publican And I think that's what the fear of God is. My ability to see that I am not anything even close To the to the perfections of Almighty God, eternal God And the audacity to stand up before God and say, oh yeah, I know how it is Moses, God breaks him of all of that. He is broken of all of that. He falls before God and covers his face in fear, trembling. What God is this? A humble reverence and respect for God's infinite perfections. The fear of God is a humble acknowledgement of my sinful imperfection, my insignificance between the magnitude of God. Isaiah chap uh in Psalm chapter 8 and verse 4, and then again in Hebrews chapter 2 and verse 6, they the penmen here make this statement. What is man that thou art mindful of him In Psalms 144, verse 3, the psalmist says, What is man that thou takest knowledge of me? Before God sends Moses back down into Egypt, and that's his commission, and that's what we're going to look at next. This is the final Aspect of Moses' call. But what God is doing here, God is calling Moses to himself so that Moses has somewhat of a grasp of how holy and how faithful and how powerful and how loving and good God is. So he has some sort of that God is so far above everything I am So then when he goes down to Egypt, he's not going to be intimidated by these Egyptian gods, because he knows the true God, right? He's not going to be afraid of Pharaoh. He's not going to be afraid of his priests. He's not going to be afraid of their miracles. When we get to that part in the life of Moses, you look, there is not a hint of fear On the part of Moses when he stood before the most powerful man on the planet at the time. Why? Because he's learned to fear God. He's learned who God is a little bit about him. Amen? Let's pray. Father, I ask you'd help us in our lives, in our Christian walk. I pray you'd help us to grasp just a bit. Of who you are and what you're like. God, I pray you'd help myself and all of us to humble ourselves on a regular daily basis. And to trust you, and to let you lead us, and to take you at your word. Because God, you are so far above us we can't even begin to grasp. Wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say Preacher, I I need to learn more about God. I want to know him. Paul said that I may know him and the power of his resurrection. How many how many tonight say, Preacher, I want to know God better than I do? God bless you. Hands all around. My hands are raised. When I'm preparing this, I'm praying, God help me know you, help me know you. Help me understand, grasp, help me fear you in a reverent way. Father, I ask you to bless now the invitation in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes