Thank you, ladies. Appreciate that so very much. Well I think it's appropriate to have uh Dr. Williams speaker for our Uh Veterans Appreciation Day. He is a veteran. He's a patriot. He loves our country. And uh he's proven that for many, many years. And he's been a faithful preacher of the gospel for many, many years. Uh this is the eighteenth year straight that he's been uh coming to Mountain Lake and holding meetings, doing the chalk drawings and preaching, and God used them in a great way. Uh I don't know how anyone else feels, but uh it hasn't gotten old yet And uh we appreciate him. So he's going to bring the message this morning. And uh let's get our Bibles out and give our attention to the Word of God. Thanks, Pastor. Man. Well, it's so good to be back on the mountaintop one more time. And uh we've we've uh started a chalk drawing last night. I decided in honor of our our uh soldiers that uh I would uh do one of Uncle Sam. This goes back to World War I, this picture does. And I don't know the all the history of it, but I know that when I was a boy, uh during World War Two, and uh I was a boy in World War Two Okay. And uh uh but uh I remember the the uh uh the recruiting offices and so forth that would have this this particular picture and it would it would have it across there uh uh Uncle Sam wants you or something to that effect And uh I thought it was uh apropos this morning to do a a picture of old Uncle Sam because he still he still wants men of courage and Men of valor that will uh defend this great nation that we have. But at the same time, uh I'd like for you to think of it in terms, because it's gonna be on every night this week. It'll be on the board when you come into the service and This is just a cover picture and uh it'll be on there reminding you that that God wants you. Okay? God wants you. He wants he wants he's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Jesus came to seek and to save that which is lost. So let that be a reminder. It doesn't look anything like God, but it uh it uh it could uh symbolize at least Uh at least that's the way I'd like for you to look at it. We're going to uh uh I gotta turn down my my uh hearing. Uh I'm vi re vibrating in my own head here. That's not good, believe me. When I hear my message twice it does something to me. I We will be giving the chalk drawings away. I I I you know I I hate to take away from the the moment that we've had and uh remembrance for us our veterans and so forth, and we're gonna get right back into it as soon as I go through this. But I want to get this out just uh because we will be giving the chalk drones away. We'll have them on the wall just like we have in in years going by. And I haven't had a chance to ask the pastor about a change in our rules So I'm going to throw it out to you, and if you shake your head no, this no, and if it's okay, well we'll do it this way. But here's what the rules are, and then I'll give you the change. We give the chalk drawings to the visitors. And here's what a visitor is this week. A visitor is anyone who has not been in a previous service during the revival week. Okay, so if anybody was somebody was not here in any services uh service school hour this morning and was not here in this service, you get them here tonight, you can count 'em as a visitor, even if they're a a member of the church If they were not here in either service, you can get them here tonight by making a contact, you can count them. Now here's the here's the here's the change. Because uh what I have noticed is that people uh through the years have a tendency to have their old friends sort of stand in the sidelines there and come whenever the revival comes and then they never come back anymore until the next revival. Here's what here's uh an addition to what a visitor is If you can get somebody here that's never been in this church, never been to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church in all their life or the life of this church, okay, that was everything. If they've never been here before and you get them here, that will count as five visitors. All right? How about that? That suit 2K? All right. And so that way that way it puts uh I'll tell you it it changes the dynamics great uh greatly, believe me. So, uh visitor is anyone who's not been in here uh in the uh revival service uh during this week, uh uh And uh then since I'm changing it, uh I have I have to think what I'm saying. Uh and uh if you can get somebody that's not here and never has been in the church before, this is their absolute first time, you can count them as five. So and of course the pastor will be taking care of that. You have to inv invite off of church property. I don't mind families working together to get the the chalk drawing and the family consists of mom and dad and the children that are living under that same roof. If grandma or grandpa are living under that roof, you can of course they're part of the family, so you include them too. But if you want to work together as a family, that's fine. And Just uh make one uh get one picture. If somebody in the family says, Hey, I don't want to give my I I will get mine and you get yours, why then you can work for 'em and if you can get two pictures, great. Uh let's see. Um Once a visitor comes, then you can't count them again. I think I think most of the I mean most of you folks, you know, after 17 years Eighteen years you know them better than I do, okay? There'll come a day when you'll repeat them to me. Okay. Um I think that I think that pretty well am I missing something? It seems like I'm missing something. Uh that's their fault, not mine. Do you want me to put this up higher? Is that what I need to do? Put it on my tie. That way you'll hear my Adam's apple going up and down. Oh man All right. I think that pretty well done. Except remember that on Friday night we when we break the tie, remember how that's done? You know, we draw the circle and put them in, let them fight it out. Remember that? Okay. That was for the benefit of people who've never been here before. All right. I want you to take your Bible and go with me to the book of Nehemiah in chapter 4. Nehemiah chapter 4. I love patriotic uh days, uh days that remind us of our history Memorial Day, Independence Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving reminds us of our history. What a great heritage we have had handed down to us from our forefathers. Our nation has not survived by accident, but rather by courage and vigilance and the faith of our people. It started back in 1690, 1620, I'm sorry, when the Mayfire was blown off course from its destination in northern Virginia. It landed in a place that's known as Plymouth Rock. There were 41 men aboard that ship that day, and they they wrote out some guidelines to govern the colony It was known as the Mayflower Compact. These were the pilgrims that we'll we talk about during the Thanksgiving period. This document was written 390 years ago and tells us why we're here. Isn't that the sound sort of strange? But listen to these words. I'm not going to read the whole document, but I I want to read uh at least a portion of them. This document, uh wait a minute. Here's how it starts. It begins with these words. In the name of God. Amen. That's how it starts out. We whose names are underwritten, the loyal subjects of our dread, sovereign Lord King James, and by the way, the the word dread there is not to be feared. It's like a respect is what it's talking about. And uh it says, uh, uh the defender of the faith, etc. , having undertaken, listen, for the glory of God and the advancement of the Christian faith. In honor of our king and country, a voyage to plant the first colony in the northern part of Virginia. Yeah. These were the these were the people of faith who uh who uh uh purposed With a hazardous trip across the ocean to set up this colony. And it was for, in their own words, the glory of God and the advancement of the Christian faith. Isn't that wonderful? The United States has been and is the greatest nation on the face of the earth. I can get an amen there Amen. Uh and it's uh and it's bec i it's great because it's God is great. It's a Christian nation. And I know we're not perfect, but we were founded on on the on Christian principles. And there's many people out there that we don't know about that still hold to these truths, that these These pilgrim fathers came over and set up the colonies to propagate. It's not perfect. But with all her faults, she still is the greatest sender of missionaries of all nations And when a when a a catastrophic disaster happens on some faraway shore. It's the United States that's first on the scene with food and water and shelter and manpower and money, whatever it takes to help, and that's the United States of America. I'm proud to be an American, and she is still one nation under God. But we are we are what we are because of our strength. And that strength is seen in the men and women of our military services many times. Many times these are they who are called upon to meet these disasters head on. But more than relief workers in times of disaster, these are those who keep us safe, who defend us, who put themselves in harm's way, to give us the freedom. we have by air and sea and land. These men and women of our military services are the gallant defenders of our way of life. And I thank God for every one of them. In Nehemiah chapter 4, we have a situation here where Nehemiah has come back from the place of captivity. And he has a mission, and his mission is to rebuild the walls around the holy city of Jerusalem, Zion. These walls were necessary because of the adversaries that were there. The same reason that we have an army. We have a navy, we have a Marine Corps, we have uh we have Air Force. What am I doing? Missing and all the rest of the services. That's why we if we lived in a perfect world, there'd be no need of armies. In a perfect world, everybody would love each other as their self. And there wouldn't be any conflicts and no problems to have to work out. But because we live in an imperfect world, it's necessary for a nation like ourself. That thrives on freedom, that loves freedom, and prizes it above every other privilege that we have. We die for freedom. Our people have died through the years for freedom's sake. And it's not just our freedom. The freedom of the Iraqi people was at stake back in 91. And the and the the amazing thing about the United States, its military was not built. and become the strongest in the world, to take away the privileges of others or to steal land and set up our own occupation troops and and try to uh uh accumulate greater uh pieces of of uh real estate. Every war we've ever fought The people that we fought, as we rebuilt their land, rebuilt their infrastructure, and gave them the help that they needed, every one of them has become our friend. And our allies in this battle of freedom. America is an unusual, an unusual nation On the face of the earth. It's the very last of its kind. And so we dare not let it slip through our fingers. And our military is the key to that. And I don't mean to leave God out of the whole picture because we understand that's the basis of what we believe. In Nehemiah, in this situation here, Nehemiah, we're going to read starting in verse uh verse uh let's see. Let me let me get in Nehemiah. There we go. In verse 11. Nehemiah 4, verse 11. And our adversary said, They shall not know, neither see, till we come in the midst among them. and slay them and cause the work to cease. Nehemiah, the people of Israel there, as they begin to work, they had already come in and rebuilt the temple. And as they set up to start work, they found they had adversaries, people who did not want the walls up The walls were there for the defense of the city. That's the purpose of walls. You don't build a wall to go out and attack somebody. You build a wall to protect yourself. That's what our service meant. are. They're a defense for this great nation that we have. It says in verse 12 then. And it came to pass that when the Jews which dwelt by them came, they said unto us ten times, From all places which ye shall return unto us, they will be upon you. Therefore set I in the lower places behind the wall, and on the higher places, I even set the people after their families, with their swords, their spears, and their bows And I looked and rose up and said unto the nobles and to the rulers and to the rest of the people, be not afraid of them. Remember the Lord, which is great and terrible And fight for your brethren and your sons and your daughters, your wives, and your houses. And I could add your nation Let's pray. Father, as we take these few moments to honor our veterans, I pray that you would help us. I empty myself as best I know how and ask you to fill me and use me. And speak to our hearts. And if there be one here today that does not know you as their personal Savior, may they come walk this aisle. And let somebody show from the Word of God how they can be saved. Lord, I pray that we might search our own hearts and see what it is that would make us a better soldier for Christ. Work in this service, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. In Nehemiah 4, verse 14, we see Nehemia organizing and encouraging and calling the people to the task. So the call, first of all, there was a call to courage. You'll notice there in that verse 14. He's he uh about middleways down it says, be not afraid of them. Remember the Lord, be not afraid. The call to courage. I like what uh uh uh uh General Douglas MacArthur, General of the the commander of the uh w uh Pacific uh theater in during World War II, and he made this statement concerning what am I beeping for? There must be something I'm doing here. Turn this mic? Just turn it. Okay. It's off. I'm a little off, but that's okay. The first thing is uh is the call uh to courage. Uh as I said uh General Douglas MacArthur made this this uh quote. He said, courage is not the absence of fear, but the fulfillment of duty in the presence of fear. Isn't that good? I like that. There's a there's probably a verse of scriptures very close to that. I'm not exactly sure where it's at, but uh it's a it's a good truth. And uh the first call to a soldier is this matter of courage. There's always going to be and listen our our our our men and women of our services have have gone to foreign lands and they ended on foreign soils, but not without fear. I'm sure when they landed uh at Normandy and these different beaches and and my mind goes back to World War II because that's the way I was I was like ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, along in that area and so I remember a lot of that stuff. I can still remember the tokens and and the uh how you had to have uh uh stamps and stuff to get shoes and and to buy tires and and all that s I can s and all that stuff is still fresh in my mind. There's a lot of things I forget from from yesterday and the day before and the week before that. But I can remember back in nineteen forty something, you know, I can remember that. And I can remember the victory parades and and all that went on back there. But I'm just saying that that this call to courage is is is something that the that a person who goes into the services, that's the first thing they're going to be faced with, is is this attitude of courage. I noticed that the first thing that that God spoke to Joshua about when he crossed into the promised land And here's this this new land that they were going to have to fight many battles in order to take this new land. That God had told them, This is the promised land. I put the heathen in there to take care of it until you get there, but you're going to have to whoop them And that's what they did. But this is what God told him back in the in the book of uh uh in uh Joshua chapter one. There's four times in that first chapter Where he says almost the same identical words. But here's what he says. I'm looking in the verse 6, it says, Be strong and of good courage. For unto the people, and to this people shall thou divide for an inheritance the land which I swear unto your father unto their fathers to give to them. And then another place he says this in verse nine He says, Have not I commanded thee, be strong and of good courage, to be not afraid, be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee, whithersoever thou goest. the call to courage. A lot of times the fears that we have uh are the a test For our courage. The second call that I see is the call of confidence. The call of confidence, uh look at listen to these words. We're back in in Nehemiah. In verse 14 again. He says, be not afraid. Be not afraid of them. Don't be afraid of your adversaries. It says, remember the Lord. Well, if there's anything that gives a Christian confidence, is to remember that the Lord is in control. We're living turbulent times today. And it can make a it can make a person sweat, whether you're a Democrat or Republican. But there's one thing, I have confidence in one thing, not in in the ability of our government to pull us out of the out of the uh the problems that we're in. But I do have confidence that God has a plan and that He's working behind the scenes to bring about His perfect plan for this world, not for this world only, but for the United States of America, and not for the United States of America only, but for this church here in Loch Lane or in the Mountain Lake And not for this church only in Mountain Lake, but for you as an individual, he has a perfect plan and purpose for your life. And the things that are happening in your life are there for the purpose of bringing about the perfect will of God in your life. The call of confidence. In the middle of confidence, in the middle of conflict, remember the Lord. In the middle of the lack of strength and your weaknesses, remember the Lord In victory and in defeat. Remember the Lord. Remember that He has the final say, and He's the one that has the plan, and He is working out His will for your life Stamped on our coins is in God we trust. I know there's those who would take it out, but uh God's still running things at this point. So we'll let th we'll let him work it out. I find that every time that one of these uh atheistic organizations come out with something that they try to fight All it does is it it's almost like throwing fertilizer uh in a weed patch. I mean we just spring up all over the place Isn't that the way it is? They fussed about uh having the Ten Commandments on the inside of a courtroom or court uh court room courthouse and uh one town and uh when they made them take it down why those those signs with the ten commands were in every yard in the c in the city after that And that happens over and over. Persecution brings about a growth. It brings about a challenge, and the people of God are always equal to the challenge. I find our soldiers are equally ready for the challenge. They're equally ready to take on any any challenge that comes forward Have confidence that while you are in harm's way, my soldier friend, there are those of us who cannot guard your back physically. But we can hold you up in prayer to the one who can guard you. He's the the the source of our strength. There's a challenge now. A challenge to the cause. We've had two things. Let me get back here. We've had the call to courage and the call to confidence. And now the challenge to the cause. The Bible says, without a vision, the people perish. And I believe that if you could swap cause for vision, you'd have the same basic thought. Without a cause, the people perish. But notice the words. It says, fight for your brethren. I'm looking in verse 14 again. It says Be not afraid of them. Remember the Lord which is great and terrible, and fight for your brethren, your sons, your daughters, your wives, your house. Is that not a cause? Is there not isn't that reason enough to uh to sacrifice, reason enough to give your all, and that's exactly what we're talking about The challenge to the cause. Our military has never fought a war to conquer and occupy, but always to rebuild. I see another call. It says, fight For your brother. Fight. Fight. We don't like to fight. And I I'm I'm I used to say, I'm not a fighter, I'm a lover, you know Now I'm neither one, okay. But there's a call to combat here. There has to be that willingness, there has to be a preparedness, there has to be that uh that uh uh uh yieldedness that whatever uh comes before them, there there has to be that that willingness to go. If it means fight, we fight. Nobody likes war. And uh those who have been in war, they don't want any war And the last resort for this country, I believe, with people who know, I know that Hollywood has glorified war and so forth. But you know, there was even a reason for that back in World War II, when they had the war movies and John Wayne was flying the fighter pilot or flying the fighters, you know, and and he was a Green Beret and how I mean he was everything that you ever wanted to be. But it was all for a reason. It was to put before the people the image, the image, which is what Hollywood is good at, is putting forth an image. It's not reality, it's an image. But those who've really been in that stuff, they don't want any more any more of it. They don't want any part of that. If a if diplomacy works, let's do it that way. If it'll work, let's do it. But uh I like what uh uh Teddy Roosevelt said. He said uh uh what is it walk uh be uh speak soft but uh carry a big stick Yeah, I I think that's that's what we need to need to think about. But war is to is not to be glorified, uh, and it should be the last resort. In any situation. But we have to be ready. That's the thing. We have to be ready. In 2 Timothy 2 and verse 3, it says, Thou therefore endure hardness. as a good soldier of Jesus Christ, no man that worth and tangeth himself the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. The demands, this demands hardness through discipline. It demands a preparedness and a focus on the fight. And that's why our soldiers have to have to be going into it. They cannot be entangled with the problems back home. They have to have their focus on what's taking place at that moment where they are, in the heat of the battle or whatever. The call to combat, and every soldier has that call. And then, thank the Lord, I'll tell you, there's the Apostle Paul was the the greatest soldier of the cross, I guess, apart from Jesus himself, if you want to call him the soldier, he's the commander-in-chief. But the Apostle Paul was a great soldier of the cross And then in 2 Timothy writes to young Timothy, he talks about this getting ready to go home. And he says it this way in chapter 4, in 2 Timothy chapter 4, verse 6. For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight, and I've finished my course. I've kept the faith. I wish I knew what that was. I m maybe I'm spitting in the mic. Is that what it is? Huh? I'm serious. I don't I I really don't Sorry, you just had to put up with it, you know. J If you can well I've fought a good fight and I have finished my course. I've kept the fa I've kept kept maybe that's what it is. I think it has to do with uh with this. Back on the coat. I'll slip it up on the coat. How's that Okay. Paul said, I have fought a good fight, and I have finished my course, I have kept the faith, henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me in that day. And not to me only, but unto all them that love is appearing. Now, I know that not all soldiers are Christians. I wish they all were. I wish they all had the hope of a Home in heaven. I wish their confidence was in the Lord and that God was their refuge and their strength in time of trouble. But I know that's not always the case But I do believe this. I do believe that, and and I don't believe that all Christian soldiers are going to get a crown as the Apostle Paul's talking about, this crown of righteousness that he was talking about. But I do believe this. I believe that that uh this a soldier who has joined the the services of our of our nation in the military, that uh goes forth and does his best and does the job. And this is what God wanted him to do. And I and I believe that that there are soldiers who We were called into that particular it's a ministry. It's a ministry. And I believe one day they'll stand before the Lord and he'll put his hand on their shoulder and say, Well done. Now good and faithful servant. You are ministers of righteousness, and you're carrying out a a business that that uh uh allows uh us to enjoy a freedom where we can s continue to send missionaries out A freedom where we can walk into a church like this and never have to worry about somebody uh with guns coming in here and and shooting every Christian in here And it's all because we have a nation that was founded under God, and we have a military service that is second to none in this whole world that keeps us protected and defends us at every drop of the hat. When they're called upon, they're ready to go. They're soldiers. Soldiers doing a work. I want to close with this thought. I was in preparation for this message. I went back and and I've already quoted from General MacArthur He was a great great man. There's no question one of the great generals of our time. And he said this, and this was at the end of his uh end of his days. He said, I suppose, in a way, this uniform has become part of my soul It's a symbol of my life. And whatever I have done that really matters, I've done wearing it. And when the time comes, it will be in this. That I journey forth. What greater honor could come to an American and a soldier? Douglas MacArthur. We need to honor our our people uh in the military People who at jeopardy of their own life are serving this great nation and protecting ours. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for our soldiers. Thank you, Lord, for every branch of the service and everyone that wears a uniform. That has so faithfully taken care of us through the years. And I pray that you would bless them. And I pray, Lord, that the Christians in our in our armed services. Would find that as a mission field and win other soldiers that they might too enjoy that that day when we stand before the Lord I ask it in Jesus' name. Amen and amen. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. Let me ask a question or two.