Themen to Isaiah chapter number sixty-one. Isaiah chapter number sixty-one. And this is uh celebration time. Amen I was thinking about, you know, uh FBN Sunday, nineteen years here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, that is amazing. And uh I told you last year with tears in my eyes that this is how we found out about FBN, and now we're getting to represent them all across the country, and it it's a great treat to be able to come back up here where I first heard FBN Isaiah chapter number sixty one. And uh uh uh I'm titling the message tonight, The Joy of Celebration Uh I've looked through the Bible, I've looked through many places in the Word of God, and there is not the word celebration is not in the Bible But there's a whole lot of words that bring celebration in the Bible. Rejoice, joy. Uh all these words they uh they talk about celebration Isaiah chapter number sixty-one, verse one, the Bible says, The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me because the Lord hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to them that are bound. Those words sound real familiar. This was prophecy waved Hundreds of years before Jesus Christ walked the earth, uh, but whenever Jesus opened the Word of God in the temple, he used these words and then he shut the book and he sat down And uh the people started listening to him there. It says, to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord and the day of vengeance of our God, the comfort all that mourn So he says, the Spirit of the Lord God is upon me. He's anointed me to preach good tidings. That sounds like a celebration to me. Uh whenever I hear good tidings, whenever I hear something uh good, which is all the time at church, amen. Uh when I hear something like that, I I just uh y you know, it's hard to sit still. It's hard to sit still during charathon If y'all can see us uh behind the microphones on the ray, I'm glad you can't see us, uh, but sometimes we're standing up where we just can't sit still because God is so good. He just pours it out. He He rains down favor on the Sherathon, and it's so exciting. He rains down favor on his word and his dear son. Then down in verse number ten it says, I will greatly rejoice in the Lord My soul shall be joyful in my God. That's another celebration right there. Greatly rejoice in the Lord. That means we're going to tell somebody with a little bit of excitement in our voice how good God's been to us, how good the Lord is. It says, My soul shall be joyful in my God, for he hath clothed me with the garments of salvation. Praise the Lord for salvation. What if Jesus hadn't gone to the cross? What if he hadn't uh suffered blood and died and been the supreme sacrifice for us? What if that never took place? There'd be no hope. We wouldn't even be sitting here tonight. Uh there would be no use. Uh but he's clothed us with the garments of salvation. He hath covered me with the robe of righteousness as a bridegroom decketh himself with ornaments, and as a bride adorneth herself with her jewels. For as the earth bringeth forth her bud, and as the garden calls it the things that are sown in it to spring forth, so the Lord God will cause righteousness and praise to spring forth before all the nations. Got a very simple outline tonight. Everything, uh uh everybody loves a celebration. I love a celebration. We we celebrate all kinds of things in our Christian life. We celebrate Christmas. I can't believe it's it it's Christmas is already over and we're almost there again. Uh we celebrate Easter Uh we celebrate all kinds of the birth of a baby. Uh Lord willing, we're going to be down in South Carolina uh this coming week uh getting to witness another baby coming in the world, another grand baby for me. Amen. And Vinky too. But but we're excited about that. We're rejoicing. We're celebrating because of that. A celebration, everybody loves it, is planned for, is talked about There's preparations made, there's excitement and anticipation as the great day grows closer. This was the message of Isaiah in chapter 61. He said Uh you've been in bondage, you've been exiled, you've been in a country where uh you didn't understand the language or the culture, uh you've been dispersed all over the world, and now we're getting to go back home. It must have seemed too wonderful for them It must have seemed like they were in a dream. They were getting to go back home to Israel, and a lot of this prophecy that that Isaiah is giving us right here has not taken place yet, but it's going to Uh children the children of Israel are ha are coming home from all around the world. They became a country, a nation again. And and they're uh coming from all the corners of the earth and going back home They're excited, I guarantee you. I guarantee you it's an exciting time uh when a Hebrew, a Jewish person gets off the plane in Tel Aviv or or wherever their their airport's at and they get to be on their native land that God gave to them. Could you imagine could you imagine somebody coming into America and and taking us captive, overthrowing the government and taking us into a nation where we don't understand the The language, we don't, uh the food is strange to us and and uh like missionaries go through all the time in foreign countries Uh they don't understand the culture. Could you imagine being forced into slavery into a country like that? And then having a hope, just a little bit of a glimmer, that you're going to get to go back home And that God's going to bless again. That's what Isaiah is getting across to the children of Israel right here, to the to the Hebrews, to the Jews. He was under direct inspiration, again, under the Holy Spirit of God, the whole Word of God is. These are encouraging words about future events. There's all kinds Uh the celebrations we talked about, Homecoming Memorial Day, FBN Sunday, amen. That has been a celebration today, and and uh it's been an honor to be able to be here and and and enjoy it with you. Uh but uh When the day comes, you don't have to poke and prod people to get into the spirit of celebration They're full of joy. They talk, they laugh. We've had a good time catching up over the last year of things that's going on in our families. and hearing the stories and hearing the testimonies of you listening to FBN radio and it just does our heart good. We get replenished I know uh Jesus, whenever he was in his earthly ministry, he would give out and give out and give out uh virtue all day long, but he had to get replenished. He went off to a a place Sometimes way before daylight, sometime after dark, he'd go up into the mountains to pray, and God would replenish him. Well that's the way it is when we come up here. We get replenished. This is a bright spot in our travels and and we're thankful for that In verse number 10, he says, I will greatly rejoice in the Lord, my soul shall be joyful in my God, for he hath clothed me with the garments of salvation. He hath covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decketh himself with ornaments, and as a bride adorneth herself with her jewels Uh this evening I want to say very quickly, uh look at the joy of celebration. There's joy and calls for celebration in salvation I know we've already talked about the way of salvation this morning through Jesus Christ. There's joy and calls for celebration in salvation We all know and and are very familiar with the scripture in Luke 15, 10. The Bible says, Likewise I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth There's joy uh in heaven, in the in the midst, the in in the presence of the angels of God, over one sinner uh that repenteth. Notice it says, in the presence of the angels The angels don't understand uh the joy that we get through salvation uh because they don't get saved the way we did. They are created beings, they're messengers of God, and they bring the messages from God down to earth Uh they don't understand about salvation. You say, where do you see that at? First Peter chapter number one and verse number twelve says uh Peter's talking about salvation here. He says, unto whom it was revealed that not unto themselves, but unto us, they did minister the things, which are now reported unto you by them that have preached the gospel unto you With the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven, which things the angels desire to look into. They would just love to be able to uh to get in on the joy uh that we have Uh because of salvation. They can't understand it because we're saved. We're saved by the blood of Christ. They're created beings, messengers of God I believe the Bible tells us who those are in the presence of the angels. And I believe it's the saints of God. I believe it's those that great cloud of witnesses from Hebrews chapter number 11. uh that we read about there in Hebrews chapter number twelve and verse number one. Uh that great cloud of witnesses. I believe there is joy and I believe they're rejoicing every time somebody gets saved Well, if they're celebrating in heaven over somebody to get saved, shouldn't we be celebrating a little bit down here? I wonder how many people got saved all across our nation and around the world because somebody preached the truth this morning I wonder how many people walked the Nile somewhere and there was joy in the presence of the angels we ought to be rejoicing too and celebrating that new birth for them There was joy and celebration before Jesus was born. There was rejoicing and celebration about the coming of the Messiah. Uh before he was born. Uh I'll share that with you. Um, let's see. I've got it here Okay, Luke chapter number one, verse 44. Mary goes to see Elizabeth. Elizabeth is carrying uh Jesus' cousin John the Baptist, and says, for lo, as soon as the voice of thy salutation sounded in mine ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy. John the Baptist was celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ before Jesus, even before he was born. Amen. So we ought to have calls uh to to celebrate and and to thank the Lord for salvation tonight. Luke chapter number two, verses ten and eleven says, And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold I bring you good tidings Of great joy which shall be to all people, for unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord Another celebration. Uh they didn't come down to a a crowd that was gathered in a Coliseum somewhere to to uh view the the coming of the Messiah, they went to the s uh the shepherds out there watching their flocks, those that were downtrodden and outcast from the city, uh those smelly shepherds that were out there watching keeping watch over their flocks by night And they got to get in on the celebration. They got to see the glory of God. They got to see the angels uh coming down and saying, Glory to God in the highest and on earth, peace, good will toward men They got to get up and they went to uh to Bethlehem and saw the Christ child. I tell you what, they were celebrating because they went back and were telling everybody what they had heard and what they'd seen as it was told unto them We ought to be joyful and celebrate salvation because there's not a bunch of ways to heaven or works that have to be done You know, the Ramadan, I think that was just over uh that was like a 30-day uh celebration that the Muslims have. It's a peaceful celebration. Yeah, about five hundred or six hundred Christians lost their lives. uh because of uh their peaceful celebration. Uh but what happened uh is they will do works to try to get them into a place they call paradise They will crawl on their hands and knees to Mecca, many of them, and just bloody themselves and thinking that that's going to bring them favor. uh with Allah and and and all this. But but I'm just thankful that Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father But by me. Uh we're not worshiping some uh dead leader of a movement. We're worshiping the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. We're serving a risen Savior this mor this evening Not only should we have joy and calls for celebration in salvation, but we also should have joy and calls for celebration in a life lived for him here on earth. You know, where would we be tonight if it hadn't been for him? And we need to give our lives to him wholly and live for him. And tell people about him. Just think about it. We live in a free country tonight. Uh we ha still have religious freedom Uh, for a while. Uh we don't have to come to church with fear. Now I know there has been some shootings at some churches at different places here and there, South Carolina, Texas, Tennessee, all those places, but normally we don't have those things happening in America. Uh, but we're able to worship him in spirit and in truth. Once we get saved, we should put on the new man We become a new creature. We should have the evidence of the fruit of the Spirit in our lives. Galatians 5, 22 and 23 says, But the fruit of the Spirit is love. Look at that second one, it's joy That's celebration. That's joy in our hearts that nobody can take away. Joy is not circumstantial like happiness. Happiness is circumstantial. I might wake up tomorrow morning and I might not be too happy, but I still got joy in my heart. Amen. Uh uh the joy that it gives, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. They've never written a law in the United States Supreme Court against uh joy and peace and happiness and meekness and gentleness and goodness and and all those things. We ought to be thankful for that. We ought to be give us cause for celebration tonight Have you lost your joy? Is there someone here that says, well, I used to have joy and I sort of lost it? Ask the Lord to give it back to you. If we've lost our joy, then something has uh it's a spiritual problem that we have. Uh David had sinned against God. King David did. And he lost his joy there for a while. But he said, Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. And God restored it to him. He went on, he was a man after God's own heart, did many great things. He was a conqueror, a great leader, a great king. And a man after God's own heart. John 15, 11 tells us: these things have I spoken unto you that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full. I don't like celebrating just half-heartedly. When we have a meal at home, it's like a celebration. We're talking, we're enjoying, we're laughing, we're smiling. Uh the food's good and and uh whenever we have like a birthday or something we go all out, we decorate in the kitchen and and uh have my mom and dad and my younger brother down there and and uh we just have a time We have a time of it's called fellowship. Amen. And celebration. He told us that in the world we would have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. We don't have to worry about those things. Worrying is a sin. Amen. It's good to be concerned about some things, but worry is a sin. We shouldn't worry about things. God is in control. He also says, Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I'll build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it We can go out and we can witness to people. We can go door to door. We had that freedom in this country. The gates of hell are not going to prevail against the house of God, against the church of God. Acts 20, 24 says, But none of these things move me. Paul's speaking right here, but none of these things move me, neither tell now my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy. And the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus to testify the gospel of the grace of God. He said, none of these things move me. Well, what was Paul talking about? He was talking about all the beatings that he had taken for the cause of Christ He was talking about five times received he uh forty stripes save one. Uh that's uh thirty-nine times four. Y'all do the math. I'm I can I'm no good at math But but Paul suffered those things. He said, A night and a day I was in the deep. He said, I've had perils of nakedness, perils of hunger, perils of thirst. All these things came upon Paul, and he said, Those things don't excite me That's not anything to celebrate. That's nothing to celebrate, but that I might win Christ. That uh Christ is the reason uh for it. He said, so that I might finish my course with joy in the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus to testify the gospel, the grace of God. We can celebrate even when times are tough. We can celebrate even when things when a door gets slammed in our face, we can still celebrate that God is good and He's on the throne. They're not rejecting you, they're rejecting the Lord. When those things take place. And not one thing can happen to you except the Lord allow it to happen. He's looking after us. We're in his hand tonight. 1 Peter No, one eight says, whom having not seen ye love, in whom though now ye see him not, yet believing ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory. That's a celebration. 1 Peter 4. 13 says, But rejoice in as much as you are partakers of Christ's sufferings, that when his glory shall be revealed, you may be glad also with exceeding joy. That's a great celebration, an exceeding celebration. Amen. With that joy. Then finally, we should have joy and cause for celebration, knowing that we have a home in heaven. We're just pilgrims and strangers passing through. We're like Abraham. We're looking for a city that hath foundations who builder and maker is God. We're looking forward to that day when we'll get home. Matthew 1627 talks about rewards, for the Son of Man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and then he shall reward every man according to his works. What we've done for Christ since we got saved, we're going to get rewards or we're going to see them burn up because we didn't do them with the right heart or the right spirit. Then, Matthew chapter 25, 21, his Lord said to him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Thou hast been faithful over a few things. I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of the Lord. We're going to enter into the joy of our Lord one of these days. And it's all going to be just like a shadow. I mean, this life doesn't last long down here. Um I believe it was that the uh Capital Connection, uh brother um uh the one that was there that last night, uh Johnny John. Johnny Pope. Johnny Pope. He was talking about why life seems so short. It's because we're not made for here. In in the original sense, we were made to live forever And and now this flesh is not going to see uh that we're going to be changing and twinkling of the eye. We're going to have a glorified body one of these days. That's why uh it seems like life is like a vapor It's going by so fast and it picks up speed the farther along we go. Um we're not in our environment, he said Psalm 1611, we're going to a better place. Amen. Psalm 1611. I like that 1611 right there. Thou wilt show me the path of life. In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. We've got rewards that are going to come our way, that we're going to go, but the biggest reward is being able to see Jesus face to face the Savior, the one that went through that three hours of suffering, and then three hours of the darkness of the suffering under the hand of God. John chapter number fourteen. You could probably quote it. I I could try, but I would get the tongue-tied. Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions If it were not so, I would have told you. I go and prepare a place for you. And if I go, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there you may be also The Lord has gone to prepare a place for us. It's a wonderful place. He's been gone two thousand years. Can you imagine? He spoke everything into existence in in six days, rested the seventh, but he's been preparing us a place for two thousand years, over two thousand years now. Oh, we can't even imagine uh what it's gonna be like. Very quickly and I'll be done. Revelation chapter number four. There's gonna be a celebration when we get home to glory. A celebration in heaven. It says the four uh uh Chapter 4 of Revelation, verse number 10. The four and twenty elders, that's representative of the church, I believe. Elders fall down before him that sat on the throne and worshiped him that liveth forever and ever, and cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created I think about those casting of the crowns. You know, there's a whole lot of people in heaven. We'll see that in just a moment. Casting crowns from this side and that side. Uh you know it talks about the street of gold that's paved with pure gold. It's at like transparent glass. Can you imagine what the crowns will look like? It'll probably be about the same thing And they're they're throwing them from over this way, casting them at the Lord's feet, and then thousands of them come from this side and back here. It's gonna look like fireworks going off. It's gonna be amazing seeing that. It's gonna be as good as it It's gonna be better in Deep Creek Lakes, uh Fourth of July. You know, I thought fireworks were something I used to see 'em as a kid in North Carolina, but then we moved to Maryland, Thurmont, the fire departments, they really get into those things. things. It's amazing watching them up here. And they go on and on and on down there. They'll have soon up one. Oh, that's pretty. Comes another one. Here's a grandpa hold two at a time. Revelation chapter number five, verses eleven and twelve. And I beheld and heard the voice of many angels round about the throne and the beast and the elders and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand And thousands of thousands. I don't believe they was able to count them all. John when he saw that, he just could not count. Thousands of thousands saying with a loud voice Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. And then in chapter number seven, we see it again. uh chapter seven verses uh nine there. After this I beheld and lo a great multitude which no man could number of all nations and kindreds and people and tongues stood before the throne and before the Lamb clothed with white robes and palms in their hands, and cry with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God which sitteth upon the throne and unto the Lamb And all the angels stood round about the throne, and about the elders and the four beasts, and fell before the throne on their faces and worshiped God, saying, Amen. Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be unto our God forever and ever. Amen. 1 Corinthians 2. 9 says, But as it is written, I hath not seen nor ear heard, neither hath entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared. for them that love him. We're going to a celebration. We're celebrating here because the radio station and how many lives have been touched by the radio station just here in In uh Garrett County, right here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. We're thankful for that. We have cause for joy of celebration through our salvation, through Christ, a life lived for Christ, and then a home in heaven Feel like celebrating tonight? I do. Amen. Father, I pray, Lord, that you'll just help us to be about our Father's business. Help us, Lord, to tell somebody about Christ. Win them to you, Lord. Lord, because that's what it's all about. That's what missions is about. That's what FBN Radio is about. That's what Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is about. And Father, I pray that you'll uh be honored, glorified, and blessed by everything that's done and said for you. Lord, we love you and thank you for the opportunity we've had in Jesus' name. Amen. I know God's dealing with our hearts. I know He is all through the day. And uh some of us uh some of you like me need revival in our hearts. We want the Lord to stir us again Some of us need to get a burden, get involved in reaching the lost. Just we talk about it, we sing about it. It's time just to get out and get involved. Get out in the streets and up on the doorsteps and start talking to people about the Lord. And then Bible time coming up, getting involved there. Our nation needs revival. Um, and we need to pray for this radio station. there in Hagerstown that God will intervene. How many folks say, preacher, God's dealt with my heart today? He sure has. Any like that? Uplifted hand. God has dealt with my heart all around. I think it'd be a wonderful thing finish out this FBN Sunday, many of God's people, an old altar, and just praying, God revive us, God protect that radio station. Don't let it don't get it uh let it go by the wayside. uh do something, Lord, there. And let's pray. Let's pray. Father, bless now our invitation I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How about