Peter and uh verse five says, and besides this, and leading up to verse five, he was talking about um uh things that God has given to us. He's given us divine power. Uh He's given us um uh the presence of the Holy Spirit. He's precious. Uh uh He says they are great and precious promises And then verse 5 he says, And besides all this, what God has done for us, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue. Then he goes on and says, and to virtue knowledge. He says, add to your faith Last week we looked at the importance of faith. This all begins with faith in God. And then he says, that faith you have, add to it Virtue. Virtue. And so what I'm calling the message tonight is the first step in spiritual growth. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we come to you again on a Sunday night. Lord, it just seems like the week's just race by. And here we are in the end of the first day of a new week. And I pray, as we prayed before, that you would uh stir us tonight and help us challenge us. And encourage us as we go into this new week to live for you, to please you with our lives, then to make a difference in this whole world with the gospel. I ask, Lord, that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, and with all my heart I pray you'd speak through me. And help us, Lord, in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. 2 Peter is written, of course, by the Apostle Peter. And as we mentioned just about every time we preach from it, he's preaching to persecuted Christians that have been run out of their homes, run out of their communities. They've been run out of their region, really, and they're scattered all across this part of the world. And Peter's writing to them, he's trying to encourage them. First Peter particularly He really wrote to encourage them. He gave them some instructions. They were starting to form churches here where they were scattered to. They were reassembling together. and uh reuniting and getting their churches a different location, but getting their churches back up and running. He tried to help them there. I think in 2 Peter, as I'm studying 2 Peter He's encouraging them to grow in their faith. He's encouraging them to press forward in their Christian faith. If you would come back to chapter 3 and look with me. And the very last verse, 2 Peter chapter 3, all the way back to 18, and he kind of summarizes, I believe, what his intention is in 2 Peter when he says this, verse 18, but grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be glory both now and forever. And he's trying to urge them or provoke them or prod them to keep going forward, to keep pressing on. How many people ever notice this? After a big week, for instance, Bible time week After a big week, there tends to be a spiritual lull in your walk with God. Anyone know what I'm talking about? There tends to just be this little lull there. And if we're not careful, we get comfortable in that little lull. And that little lull becomes a long low, low, long low, and um and before we know it, we uh we're back to where we were before the great work of God. And so Peter is writing to them and he's provoking them on. They were persecuted intensely. Some of them lost their lives. Some of them were beaten physically, violently. Because of their faith in Christ. Some of them, their families, rejected them because of their faith in Christ. And now they're settling in these new communities, these new areas, and perhaps the persecution isn't what it was back home. And so now he uh he doesn't want them to get comfortable. He wants them to grow. Uh I put this down. They had proven the faith and strength they had proven the depth and the strength of their faith in the fires of persecution. He says, add to your faith. There was no doubt they had faith. They had proven that. And their faith was not just some shallow, weak faith. It was a faith that withstood intense opposition. And they had proven that. Their faith, they had a depth to their faith that this world could not shake But then he says you've got to add to that faith. You've got to build on that. Don't just sit there. And so he's provoking the spiritual growth. He's getting them, listen, you need to go forward in your walk with God. Don't just stagnate where you're at now. Build on that. Build on that. Build on that. I wonder how many Bible time workers this past week, uh and several already testified to this, but how many Bible time workers this past week? God did a work in your heart and God stirred your heart spiritually. Yeah. Listen, let's build on that. Okay? That's what he's saying. He says, add to that faith what you look what you saw God do in your life And what your faith has accomplished, how God responded to the faith you showed this week as you gave yourself and served. Build on that now. So he's provoking them to spiritual growth. Now I jotted a few things down, and I don't know if I'm going to get through the message. I really wanted to do the whole thing together. But um I don't know if we're going to have time for that. But I jotted a few things down about spiritual growth. Number one, I put this down. Spiritual growth requires time. A person does not go from a babe in Christ to a spiritually mature believer in 24 hours. It takes time to grow in my Christian life. It takes time to grow as a Christian. And so it doesn't happen overnight. In 1 Peter 3 and verse 6, Paul is writing to Timothy, and he's in that passage there, he's given to Timothy the qualifications to be a pastor. And they're fairly lengthy. It gives quite a list. And he goes down through these these qualifications for a man to be a pastor. for a man to be a pastor. He gives these qualifications for the man to be the pastor. That's what the Bible says. And uh and one of the qualifications is this, he is not to be a novice. Question, what is a novice? Somebody talk to me. A beginner, a newbie, you might call, a rookie In other words, Paul is telling Timothy, listen, don't put somebody in a position of spiritual responsibility, a position of spiritual accountability That has not spent some time in the Christian life. Not some guy. Listen, a guy don't get saved Sunday morning and you make him pastor Sunday night. Right? It takes time to grow. How many people understand that? Takes time to grow. It takes time to grow. And he gives these lists. Peter here gives a list of things that were to add We start with our faith. If we don't have faith, we can't add to anything. We have nothing to add to. So you begin to your faith. And he says, add to your faith, virtue, virtue, knowledge. And the list to do what he tells us to do here takes time. And we need to grow. Listen, maybe you're a fairly new Christian, and you say, boy, I don't understand this in the Bible, and you know I'm struggling with that, and I don't see that. Listen, you just give God time Just give God time. Boy, I'm still struggling with this. That's all right. You keep walking with God. You be patient. Wait on the Lord, and He'll direct your steps. And so the first thing I put down is this spiritual growth takes time. How many folks here have been saved for ten years or longer Anybody here? How many people here have been saved 20 years or longer? You may say, wow, man, a bunch of old people here. How many people have been saved 30 years or longer? How about that? How many people you're still growing? Yeah. Takes time. We're not arrived yet, have we? And so spiritual growth takes time. Don't get discouraged if you're not where You want to be yet spiritually, just keep walking with God. Just keep walking with God. Just keep walking with God. Number two, I put this down. Spiritual growth requires effort. Spiritual growth requires effort. If I just sit back, say, oh, I'm saved now. Praise the Lord, I'm saved. If I die, I'm going to heaven. Oh, this is wonderful. Listen, rejoice in that, but don't just sit back. And think that everything that you're automatically going to grow. There has to be some effort put into that thing. We must be willing to do what God instructs us to do Listen, if I'm not willing to do what God instructs me to do, I'm not going to grow spiritually. I've got to grow Um Jesus said, I'm gonna I'm gonna slaughter this quote. I'm not gonna quote exactly, but Jesus said in the Gospel of John He says, ye shall know of the doctrine, and I'm not quoting it correctly, but he said, ye shall know of the doctrine if you do whatever I instruct you to do. Now that's a leatherman slaughter of that quote, but the truth is there, the point is there. If I want to grow spiritually, I've got to put some effort in and do what God instructs me to do If I disregard the instructions of God in His word, I just push that aside. Don't be surprised if you're going to struggle spiritually. Don't be surprised. If you see little or no growth, we're not going to do what God instructs us to do. Spiritual growth requires effort. I must be willing to do what God requires of me. In Luke chapter 14, Jesus said, if you want to, he says the requirements for discipleship, which is what we're growing into, we ought to be, he says you need to deny yourself. Listen, if I am always going to demand my way, and if it's all about me and it's all about myself and what I want and what I like and the way I want it and how I like it. If that's what my life consists of, guess what? You're not going to grow as a disciple of Jesus Christ I've got to deny myself. That requires effort. How many people here know what I mean when I say deny yourself? Anybody understand that? How many people agree with me? That's not always easy In fact, it's one of the hardest things to do in the Christian life. Something comes up and it's like, it's like, I don't know, deny myself. Nope. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to go there. I'm not going to react that way I'm not going to demand my way. He said, if any man follow me, he needs to deny himself and take up his cross daily. Take up his cruise. Listen, having migraine headaches is not taking up our cross Oh, my cross is migraine headache, so that's the cross I have to bear. No, no, no. Now I'm not trying to make fun of that, and God bless you, that's a burden. But a cross is an instrument of death And when he says, take up your cross, what he means is this: listen, I'm going to follow Christ, even if it means a rejection by the world. It has to do with my commitment to Christ. I'm going to take up my cross. I'm willing to be rejected by this world. I'm willing to pay a price. Listen, if I'm not willing to put in the effort And I've got to have everybody like me all the time, and I have to everything I post has to go viral, and everybody has to like me, and everybody, if that's our mentality, we're never going to grow And so spiritual growth requires effort. He said: if you want to be my disciple, deny yourself, take up your cross, and follow me. I've got to be a follower of Christ. And so spiritual growth, Peter's wanting, he's trying to provoke them to grow. Add to your faith virtue. And we're not going to get to the virtue part. But uh spiritual growth is a lifelong uh uh it requires personal and passionate devotion. Lifelong spiritual growth requires personal and passionate devotion to Jesus Christ and the Word of God. That's what we try to, I know Pastor Matt preaching and praying. I'll tell you, he and I pray together. We plead with God to stir the hearts of our young people that they will devote themselves passionately. And commit themselves passionately to the Lord Jesus Christ, to live a life committed to the gospel of Jesus Christ and the person of Jesus Christ. And it that requires effort. And by the way, that's what we want from adults also. We're not preaching something to the kids that we ought not to be doing. And that requires effort. What I'm trying to say is spiritual growth does not just happen and it isn't easy. I've got to apply myself. I've got to invest effort into my spiritual life if I'm going to grow. I've got to learn to discipline myself. Scripture, meditating on scripture, prayer. Saying no to things that no needs to be is that I need to say no to. Saying yes to the things I need to say yes to, that is not easy. I put this down. Number three, spiritual growth requires obedience. I can't grow spiritually if I'm disobedient to God, right or wrong. I can't. If I'm going to be spiritually healthy, I've got to be obedient to God. And I've got to say, yes, Lord. Yes, I agree with you. Lord, I'll trust you. I'll obey you. I cannot be disobedient to God's word and grow spiritually. That's why we emphasize so much spending time every day in the Word of God. How many people ever heard me say you ought to read your Bible every day? Anybody know? How many people heard me say it 4,972 times? I mean it, it's true. I can't grow spiritually if uh spiritual growth requires obedience. And let me give you a fourth one here. Spiritual growth begins with faith Begins with faith. Spiritual growth is rooted in faith. Without faith, Hebrews tells us it's impossible to please God. I've got to get to the point where I take God at His Word, and that is good enough. You ever see that little bumper sticker? God said it. I believe it. That settles it. Anybody ever see that bumper sticker? Let me reword it a little better way. God said it, that settles it. So I'll believe it. I'll believe it. We've got to act on faith. If everything has to be explained and I got to fully understand everything and it has to match my worldview, it has to match every my my all that before I'm going to believe it and before I'm going to trust God, guess what? You're never going to grow spiritually. And sometimes, and more often than we maybe realize, we've got to be willing to say, God, I trust you, even though I don't understand. And when I can get to that point, I can get to that point where it's yes Lord, I I don't see it, but you do. I'm not walking by sight. I'm walking by faith. When I get to that point, brother, you better prepare to grow spiritually. Because that's where spiritual growth takes place. It requires faith. Spiritual growth takes time, requires effort, requires obedience. And it begins with faith. Now we come back, and I'm going to end uh with this right here so we can focus uh on this virtue. But look what he says. Verse 5. He says, uh besides this giving all diligence, and then he gives a list of principles, I'm going to call them that we need to add into our life. Notice what he says. Add to your faith virtue. All right, got that in place. And to virtue, what? Knowledge. Okay. And to knowledge, temperance, that's self-control. Able to control myself. Add to your add to knowledge temperance. And to temperance what? Patience. How many people need patience? Add it. Yeah. How many people want it right away before we leave tonight? Yeah And the patience, what? Godliness? And the godliness? Brotherly kindness and the brotherly kindness, what? Now I want you to notice something here. This list. By the way, the Bible gives a lot of lists. You ever notice that? In Galatians chapter 5, he gives the works of the flesh a list. Then he says the fruit of the Spirit gives a list. You go into I mentioned the qualifications for pastors, prrrr, he gives this bullet list. Qualifications for deacons, prrrr, gives a bullet list. Apparently God likes lists. And he gives a list here. But what notice that list. Look at that list there. What does it begin with? Faith. Add to your faith. Begins with faith. What does it end with? Charity, did you get that? Christian growth begins with faith and it ends in charity. What is charity? Unconditional love in action. It's more than just love. It's more than me just, oh, I love David. And he mops floors tremendously. It's more that it's unconditional love, whether he mops floors tremendously or not, but in action. It's the expression The behavior of unconditional love. That's what charity is. Modern Bible versions make a mistake when they change the word love for charity. Charity is a very distinct aspect of unconditional love. And it begins with faith and it ends with charity. You know what that tells me? The ultimate goal of spiritual growth is to love the way God loves. Can I put can I meet can I say this? I believe it's true. The the cheap one of the chief evidences of spiritual maturity is to love unconditionally. Charity. That is the goal. That's what we're growing to, to love people the way God loves people. Preacher said years ago, and I heard him preach hundreds of times. He said this, he said, until I can learn to love unconditionally. Sincerely and unconditionally, those who hate me, I do not know what God's love really is. Did you get that? I get to the point where I grow spiritually, the point where I can love a person that hates me, and I can love them unconditionally. Then I'm beginning to understand the love of God for me. For 19 years I lived with an attitude, I hated God. And yet, while I was yet a sinner, God commended his love towards me that while I was yet a sinner, Christ died for me. That is the ultimate goal of spiritual growth. To have charity, the expression, the action of unconditional love. Begins with faith And to faith, I've got to add virtue. So next Sunday, we'll have to look at virtue. Let's pray together. Father, we ask, Lord, you'd help us grow. Lord, don't let us just sit back and relax and take a lull. God help us to press on, press on, press on. May your Holy Spirit would provoke us to good works and spiritual growth. And I ask you to help us. With heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I sincerely and with all my heart, I want to grow? Spiritually. I want to mature. I want to advance in my Christian life. Any like that by the up, my hand is raised with all my heart. I want to grow as a Christian. I want to be more like Christ. I want to be more, I want to love the way God loves me. Not there yet, but we're pressing on. Any others say, preacher, that's me also. That's me. God bless you. Hands all around. Father, I pray you'd stir us to grow. Help us be willing to give the time. Help us to be willing to make the effort to obey you and trust you so that we can grow. And Lord, when we don't, I pray you'd you'd convict us. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.