Well, I uh you know, I I like the fact that when we uh go to God's Word we can feed well. Amen I heard of a uh a good friend. Uh he started on a diet. And uh so he started, along with his diet, a diet journal So on day one, he said, I have removed all sugar-filled, uh, unhealthy, fattening food from the house, and it was delicious. Well God does say eat the fat and drink the sweet. Amen. And whenever we go to a best buffet, I think that's scriptural too because we're supposed to buffet our bodies daily. Alright? So uh But I am so glad that when we uh go before God's word that that we can eat everything, it's all good for the soul. It's all good for the spirit. It's good for the mind. And so the weapon of this warfare is the truth of God's word. I want you to take your Bibles with me and go to the book of Joel. The book of Joel, chapter 3 and verse 9. I just want to read uh uh uh uh just one verse there and and uh three in verse nine and and uh Then we'll uh jump around a little bit more and uh give you a few minutes to get to Joel. If you can't find it, just look intelligently on whatever page you you're on when we start reading, because I'll read it for you, okay? But uh hey, just you know, this is a no-stress zone, all right? But the book of Joel, chapter three, and verse nine And uh I think everyone should be there. It says this, proclaim ye this among the Gentiles. Hey, that's us. What's the next two words? Prepare war. Wake up the mighty men. Let all the men of war draw near. Let them come up. And yes, in verse 10, we miles will read that too. Beat your plough shares into swords, and your pruning hooks into spears. And let the weak say, I am strong. Now, in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 and verse 5, it says, For our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power. And in the Holy Ghost, and in much assurance, as ye know what manner of men we were among you For your sake. I want to ask a question tonight as we look at the culture war again this evening. What manner of men and women are we? Are we the type of people that are going to sit on the sidelines? Are we the kind of people that are going to get into the fight? We've learned that this nation is a Christian nation, and from our history, Christians played a very critical and pivotal role, a major role in our nation's establishment. We must decide What manner of people we are today. And have we learned that we can make a difference? I think we have A biblical principle is this, that our moral obligation is part of that, our civic duty To cry aloud and fight against those who would attempt to bring America down to the standard of the rest of the world. Look, there are some things in life, life just sometimes isn't fair. And America has a higher standard than any nation on earth for a reason. It's not because we're better people than anyone else. It's because this is a Christian nation established upon the Bible, and God's principles work. I think someone said last night, I don't know if it was the pastor or James, but I think it was the pastor that said, isn't it amazing that people are protesting So that their rights can be taken away from them. I thought that was an excellent statement. And it's it's a madness that's going on today And so, look, we live the way that we do because America does have something called exceptionalism. And so we must once again understand that 95% of our founding fathers were Christians. And they have that sacred fire within them. And so I want to give you some points tonight so that we can be more prepared. as warriors in this culture war, which is spiritual warfare, when you get right down to it. It's cultural in you might say a particular level, but when you peel back the facade, it truly is the fact that all of these leftists, and I don't like even calling them liberals I like calling them leftists, because that's what they are. They're on the left. They're on the wrong side of truth. Okay? Simply stated, I'm going to talk real plain tonight, okay, because we need to. And those people that are on the left, you see, those folks are marching under one banner, and that banner is the banner of the Antichrist. And so as we follow Christ, we must understand some things so that we can be better prepared for the culture war that we find ourselves in, that we are going to either be victors or victims of. So let's pray. Heavenly Father, we are bowing now before you collectively in our minds and our hearts, and we're coming before you rejoicing. Each and every person here that has named you as Savior. Lord, we stand before you tonight in prayer, Father, and we rejoice in the fact that we have a home in heaven. But dear God, as you've told us in the Bible that you want us to occupy until you come, it's not just standing around. but it's working for the souls of men and women to see them saved through and by the gospel of your precious son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And it's keeping our nation free that gives us the permission to accomplish the Great Commission. Father, we ask tonight, Lord, that you would once again, in the presence of your Holy Spirit, enter into this meeting through and by thy power and that holy unction from on high, Lord, that you would give us the provision that we need. Father, that we might sense the very essence of who and what you are here tonight. We ask for a miracle this evening through and by the revelation that only you can give us, that we might be more equipped to stand and give the answer of the hope that lieth within us. and be the light and the salt before the lost, that they might come to know who you are personally. Father, we ask that you would once again at this moment Create and maintain a hedge protection around this assembly. Bind off the wicked and the evil one. Help the cares and burdens, the aches and pains of this life. just to dissipate now for a while. Help us to just settle in and to focus upon eternal the eternal truths, Lord, as I step back. Lord, we pray that she would step forward, articulate these lips, and clarify this mind. But most of all, Lord, we ask for the Holy Spirit that he might endue and power and that, Lord, everything that's said might be. energized and enlivened through and by thy grace and infused into our minds and our hearts. Help us never to be the same. After tonight, Lord, through and by thy grace and for thy glory and we'll be very careful. to give you all the thanks, all the praise and glory for what you're about to do. For we ask this in the precious name of your Son and our Savior, and by the power and the merit and the authority that is in the name of Jesus Christ, we ask it. Amen. I think the very first thing that we need to understand in the culture war is this, that we are at war. You can't win a war unless you know that you're at war. The cultural warfare that we find ourselves in The very first thing that we must continually remind ourselves is this. We're in the midst of the battle right now Now, there are maybe some who are sound asleep that don't know that not only are the barbarians at the gate, but they're actually inside of the city. They are sitting in some seats of power. They are writing the scripts for TV shows and movies. They're writing public school textbooks and they're handing down judicial decisions from the Supreme Court to district courts to inferior courts. And only in those you might say cultural bubbles of academia or the established religious education with false prophets crying peace, peace, where there is no peace Perhaps there people don't know that we're at war, but folks, we need to understand this. Although that we have peace in our hearts, although that we have peace in our homes, we have peace in our churches, we are not. At peace with the world. And we never have been. Cultural war has been around for a long time. And basically, it's trying to minimize the effectiveness of the church. Of course, whose message is the Lord Jesus Christ, Him crucified on the cross. And so they're trying to minimize us. They're trying to basically keep us from not being so offensive May I say this? The church has always been offensive to sin. Amen? And the people that Stood and listened to Christ, took great offense at him because he was very dogmatic in his views. He said this. He said, I am the way. The truth and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Hey, the world says there's a lot of different ways. The world says there's a lot of different truths. The world says there's a lot of different methods that we can get to heaven, but look, Jesus Christ is the way, he is the truth, and he is the life. Amen. I can remember when I was At the State Department, they taught us about body language because they wanted us to understand if someone was walking towards us, if they had malice on their mind. And so just by walking towards us, we were able to tell by body language if this person was going to try to do something. And so I learned, and there are books about this and studies about this. Well, this came in handy. later on when I was a principal of a Christian school. And I had students that came into my office and sat down and I said, Now I'll let you continue to tell me what happened, and I'll know the second that you start to lie. And they would start saying this and that and and as soon as they started to lie, I knew it. And I said, You're lying and they said, Oh, how do you know I'm lying but lying You know, and I broke them, which was good for them. Amen. But when, look, when you're actually thinking about something, your eyes go to the right and up. When you're lying, your eyes go down to the left. Yeah. And when you try not to look down to the left, then you're shifty-eyed. And that doesn't work either, okay? I mean it came in handy too in life as well, knowing If someone had malice on their mind. I remember that there was one time we were in a bakery and uh my wife was sitting uh standing on this side of me and I was here and the man was behind the counter And my wife was kind of, you know, looking at all the goodies in there and what she was gonna pick. And a man walked in on my right, and I knew That he was about to rob the place. Just by the way he was fidgeting. I knew he was about to pull a gun out of his pocket. And so I looked at him. He was much shorter than I was And I looked at him, and when I looked at him, he knew. He got even more nervous. I touched my wife's hand, my wife's arm, just touched it, and she went. And I just kind of slowly, carefully moved her out of the way, and I got ready to go. Now I don't I didn't really uh I I didn't really make the decision whether I was going to turn him into a soprano for the rest of his life or cut his wind off for a while. But I I did make that decision finally and And I got ready to go and I looked at him and he looked at me and it was the fight or flight decision. And I could see it And I didn't look directly at him. I glanced over at him and continued to look and talk to the man behind us. And I could see him come up to a decision. and then walk out of the bakery. My wife said, what was about? I said, well, that person almost got robbed and we were almost in harm's way. But because, you see, I understood about what was about to come, it protected me and mine. What I'm saying was the culture war, we need to understand. more about it so that we can protect our own. You understand? So we can be prepared, so we can have a purpose in this. And although we may not be called to debate these people, we can be praying. about the folks that are on the front line. Because everyone in war doesn't necessarily uh fight the enemy. There's some support staff as well. And so we all need to understand some things about the culture war. But the very first thing that we must understand is this, that we are at war. Amen. This is not the time to relax and say everything's uh all right, you know, in the world. No, it's not We're getting closer and closer to the end times, and because of that, it's perilous times in which we live, and I'm going to be speaking about some very specifics on that topic tomorrow night. But what we realize and what we must understand are some things very specific to the culture war So number one, know that you're at war. Number two, who your enemy is and what kind of war we're involved with. Ephesians chapter six and verse twelve. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rules of darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Now may I say this? The church right now It faces a set of challenges that exceeds anything that we've ever experienced in the past. The revolution that has now already transformed most of Western Europe And much of North America, it is that very thing that's more subtle and more dangerous than any revolutions outwardly, because these things that we talk about tonight are inwardly, and this is a revolution of ideas. That transforms the entire moral structure and the meaning of life of people and These things, these norms of society have been established for millennia, but now it's presenting a challenge to Christianity and a commitment to the authority of Scripture that we must have that runs diametrically opposing the conflict of this central thrust So what am I talking about? I'm talking about that these things are isolated to some issues that cause us to be perplexed and at odds with the larger culture. And the redefinition of marriage is one of those Did you ever think that you would see things that were basically accepted in society? Same gender marriage. My wife and I were at a function the other night, and and uh and it wasn't a liberal function. It was a conservative function. And someone came up next to us and and uh introduced him and he said, and this is this is my boyfriend. Now what on earth is going on here? The transformation of the way people interact with one another in the most intimate contexts of life. And we're facing nothing less than a comprehensive redefinition of life, love, and liberty and the very meaning of right and wrong. This is a revolution that's taking place across the entire Cultural landscape affecting virtually every dimension of life and demanding total acceptance of false claims An affirmation of devilish goals. And those who are crying tolerance are the most intolerant. But how should we look at that? We don't hate people. No. We don't hate the people because we do not fight against flesh. We're fighting against what is making them act the way that they're acting. You understand? And so our warfare, our fight is not with people. It's what is behind people. It's the ideology. And so when you get there, what you have is a much more clear aspect of the battle that is before you You elevate yourself, you see, and if your attitude, okay, is what it should be, your altitude is also what it should be. So when you realize, and you know, this actually comes into play in every aspect of life as well, because if someone's acting mean to you And you realize, well, there's something behind that person acting the way that they're acting right now, then you've just elevated yourself and the things that are being thrown at you don't hurt you that much You understand? Because they're going underneath you, because now you've risen to a higher state. And you realize it's not this person That is lashing out of me. It's something that this person has thought or some type of force that's behind them. And of course, it's not the Holy Spirit of God Right? And if it's not the Holy Spirit of God, what is it? It's the unholy spirit of God. Amen? And so that really helps us if we realize we're not fighting against flesh and blood But against principalities, against powers, against the rules of darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places, and that's the enemy. You don't fight against people. You try to deal with people and bring them to an understanding, you see, of the fact that they are being led astray. But that gives you a greater clarity of mind, and you're not offended. Great peace Have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. You know why? Because if you love God's law, you're dead to self. And you see through people at what is making them act, and that way you don't get offended. You know when we get offended, when we have this when we have this kind of culture where we're fighting one another? A contentious type of attitude with people? You know what that is? Pride. See, how do you know that? Because God says, only by pride cometh contention. So that's why we need to look through people and understand there's something going on. Maybe they're not having a good day. Someone acts unkind and I'll just go ahead and treat them kindly and it flips. It's amazing. How they just not always, you know, some sometimes they look at me kind of quizzically as to, but you know, those times where they where they do respond, it makes it worth it. What kind of so that's number two, number three. What kind of weapons do we need? Well, 2 Corinthians 10, 3. For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. Ephesians chapter 6, again, wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that she might be able to withstand in the evil day and Having done all the stand, we need to stand up against the culture war. And we need to have the right position with the right disposition. It's so very disarming when you look at someone and you smile and you say, well, and you're wrong. And then they start lashing out at you, and it's very uh it's very interesting how that happens because they start attacking you personally. And you say, well, I guess you've just lost the argument. Because that's what people do when they lose the argument, you see. But we need to realize when we stand before the world, having our loins girl about with truth, having on the breastplate of righteousness, our feet shot with the preparation of the gospel of Peter. Taking the shield of faith where we can, God says, able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked and taken unto us the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit Which is the word of God praying always with all prayer and supplication, and the Spirit watching and watching thereunto with all perseverance perseverance and supplication for all saints What that does is it equips us for the cultural war. It gives us something that is impervious to their attacks. I like it. And so when I go in and and uh we see people dis disarmed It's an amazing thing. Christians who are obedient to God must face the unavoidable challenge and comprehensive revolution with prayerful Preparedness. Brother Creed and I do before we walk into the Capitol Hill every day. We pray, God go before us. Walk before us. Give us those things to say. Give us those divine appointments. And he does each and every time. We Look at each other and say, once again, let us remind ourselves that we have an eternal purpose. And that is to see people come to know the Lord. You know who we are representing? Well, you're representing Wake America. No. Not really. Oh, you're representing the that mechanism called the capital connection? No. We are representing Jesus Christ. That's who we're representing. And may I say the Lord was very clear when he stood for truth, but he always stood for truth very graciously. Unless the father was attacked. He never lashed out when he was attacked personally, did he? No. Only when the father was being disrespected. Did he lash out? And so to be in the culture war, we need to be gracious people, speaking the truth to power as we do on a weekly basis. And there are times where I've spoken up and told people certain things that they just had wrong And I mean and I've and I've told him and I I think I told you about the White House briefing when I was talking about the Affordable Care Act. Did I not mention that? in Sunday school, maybe how many remember the Affordable Care Act and went oh, I guess I didn't. I was in a White House reaping and maybe I mentioned it to Pastor over over a dinner event. And so they said, what about the Affordable Care Act? And everyone was there. And I raised my hand and I said, well, it's not affordable, it's not care, it's not an act. It's a tax. We shouldn't even be looking at it. And I went on to say this. I said Einstein said something very interesting. The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again, expecting different results. Socialism, socialized medicine has never worked anywhere in the world, anytime in history, so why are we going to think that it's going to work here? It's insanity. And I said, here's the problem. The Democrats they say, well we have a good problem, we have a good idea we're gonna uh socialize health care. And then the Republicans say we have a better idea how to socialize health care. And I told this to everyone at the White House briefing I said there is no better idea to socialize health care. The better idea is to give it back to the miracle of the free market, which is biblical, which fosters that type of One company against another. Innovation and competition. And we have a much cheaper, better product And so I said, now look, when you go buy your car insurance, what do you do? This guy's going to give you this much coverage for this much price. But this guy's going to give you more coverage for less price. So who are you going to go with? Of course, you're going with this guy. Do that with your house insurance and life insurance. And by the way, and I told everyone at the White House meeting, the government doesn't pay for our house, our life or our car insurance, so why are they paying for our health insurance? It makes no sense whatsoever. This is not a socialist country. This is a republic that we basically hold the free market system as something that's real and dear to us. And I said, it's really easy to figure out what the free market is. It's the right to try, it's the right to buy, it's the right to sell, and it's the right to fail. And failure is a very real part of the free market system. So what we need to do is give health care back and privatize it over s over state lines. We'll have beautiful competition. We'll have wonderful health care. We'll have the best health care in the world which we've always had up to the point when the Democrats said they have a better idea. And everyone would say, Yeah, that's right. Well, there, I guess some people were listening because the next morning my wife and I turned on Fox News and New Gingrich said, you know, the definition of insanity, Einstein said. But you know what I was doing, I was being gracious, but I was speaking the truth. And because of that, influence against the culture war. And the Culture War is trying to suck us in to socialism, calling this a constitutional democracy. No, it's not It's to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God. It's not the Republic, and that's a whole different issue. But what I'm saying, what we need to realize is, folks, We are in the midst of war, and when we speak the truth in love, it's very effective That's what our strategy is. The eternity of the Holy Spirit's power and wisdom. Dear God, give me the words to say. That's what I ask Him for. And do you understand when we sit at the value action teams, there's they're literally asking us for ideas. I mean these are the people you see on Fox News. And they're asking us for our ideas. I mean, it was amazing to me. The first capital connection. Brother Creed and I were walking down the hall of one of the offices. In fact, we were walking into one of the offices. And a congressman said, hey, you're your pastor, Mike Creed, your Dr. Hardy, awake America, you did that cabin connection? Yes? I need to see you in my office. I thought we were in trouble. I said it wasn't me, it was Brother Creed, so I don't know what you want to see me for. And we walked in, and and uh he took his coat off, came around, sat down. And said, I need your biblical opinion on this. And that is happening more and more. You know what it is? It's astounding Number four, what's the enemy's strategy? What's their strategy? Well, we find it in Genesis chapter 3 and verse 6. And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, the tree to be desired to make one wise She took of the fruit thereof and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her, and he did eat. Hey, ladies, let me just tell this. I don't blame Eve. I blame Adam. Because it says that she gave to her husband with her. So what was he doing? Maybe he was asleep. And that's what a lot of times we see today, God's people sound asleep. That's why the Lord led me to name this ministry, Awake America. Because we need to wake up and understand that we have the greatest, most powerful governmental document in the history of mankind. But we can't know how to use it unless we understand what it is, you see. That's why I carried them. That's why I tell people all in the United States, read it and if you have any questions, you can email me. I'll answer you. And you know how many times I get emails? I can count them. And I'm talking about after 15 years, I can count them on both my hands. Less than 10. But I've had people that actually have read it and taken me up on the offer as to, what's what about this, Brother Harney? What about that, you see? The strategy of the enemy. I had a pastor, associate pastor, say, well, how many tools, how many weapons does the devil have? Because those are the same weapons that the people on the opposition of the culture war have as well. You know what they are They're all right there in Genesis 3 and verse 6. The lust of the eyes, the lust of the flesh, and the pride of life. To read. Three weapons. That's all he has. And do you understand that the human race continues to fall for them over and over for 6,000 years of recorded history? We continue to fall from three weapons that he has. The scale and scope of the challenge Of the unprecedented warfare, although the challenge of the sexual revolution and the other alternate lifestyles is nothing new or unusual. Churches have always shown their ability to plod through issues. Like this before. The only problem is now the leftists are attempting to take the higher ground And they're presenting the church with a challenge it's never had in history before. Why? Because the first factor is Either or the new morality. The new morality and its rapid rates, excuse me, rate of success is happening so fast that alternate lifestyles are considered legitimate. And they deserve legal protection. They are competing, and in some instances within our culture, they have won the high moral ground of protection. Our society, at one time, the church was viewed as the guardian, the standard of morality. And now we see some viewing the church as on the wrong side of morality. And these alternate lifestyles are now taking the form of a moral crusade. And now who strive to uphold moral attitudes according to God's Word sometimes are being accused of being outdated moralists. And accused even of moral deficiency. And this change, some areas of our country, is so complete That those who do not join in are considered morally deficient and intolerant and even harmful to society. How does God view it Isaiah 15 and verse 20. Woe unto them that call evil good and good evil and put darkness for light and light for darkness. This this is their, you might say, modus of apparendi This is what makes the leftists the leftists. An unearned sense of moral superior superiority, excuse me. excuse me, over us, calling us and others that are on the wrong side as what they think racists and sexists, bigots, homophobes, and Giving them a sense of satisfaction within their status and within their universe, even if they never help one single individual human being For the media, all arguments, get this now, hear this, all arguments in the media right now are character. I'm talking about the leftist media. It's all character. If you disagree with them, the members of the media, you are fundamentally a bad human being. Immediately. Left is no longer making arguments about policies. You know why? Because their policies are ineffective That's why. Because they have nothing to stand upon. So their only argument is character assassination. And the goal is to make the left Our goal, admit that they're at well, that they're that they're the ones at fault. What I'm saying is this. What we need to tell them is you're saying tolerance And you're most intolerant. You're saying that I'm a bigot, a racist, whatever. And the reason why is because I don't agree with you. You know what that makes you? The very thing that you're claiming that I am. And that's what we need to get a hold of, you see. And realize and then put into action. We need to stand on our convictions. No matter what comes, this president is doing that Always being called all the names. You know why? Because every policy that he's putting into effect is amazingly Helping America to become truly great again. And they can't stand it I mean you underst you you realize that he told China uh we're gonna renegotiate a little trade deal that we've got going on And we're going to make it more fair for America. And that's the very reason, in my opinion, in this man's opinion, that China put the pressure on North Korea, and I love the term rocket band To sit down with this president for the first time since the Korean War ended. The first time he basically stood up and said, okay. Rocket man, you think you're gonna threaten us? Oh. You saw his response on that. It'll be fury like the world has never seen before. Never when God, all up in arms. Okay, and and then what did Rocket Man do? He did what all bullies do. He backed down And came to negotiation. And now we're getting the bodies of our soldiers from the Korean War repatriated back to the United States. Unbelievable. Now he stood up and said to Iran, hey, we're putting all kinds of things upon you again that are gonna hurt your country because you aren't playing nice with the international community. Didn't you just love the European Union when he went over there and said, hey, we're striking a whole new thing because America has been basically bending over backwards and none of you have been paying your fair share and they said we're not gonna we're not gonna buy your soybeans, we're not gonna buy your oil. He said, okay, fine. Go with one of these other economies over here. See how you like that. And he walked away. See, I learned a long time ago when to walk away. Okay? I learned that from my dad when he was negotiating for automobiles. Okay? And and my dad would wink at me when the when the guy said, we just can't do that. We just can't do that. And my dad would wink and and I knew. And he started walking. I start walking with him, the little boy. And we get almost to the door. And the salesman said, wait a minute, wait a minute. Come on back. Let's sit down here again. It was the art of the deal. Amen. I love that My wife hates it. She hates negotiation. She's going, oh no. Look, the poor salesman. I said, he can make it up on the next guy that doesn't know this This is very good stewardship of God's money. Amen. And oh boy, I am the negotiator, you know, and I start walking, but in the back of my mind, I'm saying, I'll be back You know? And the guy they they pull it back. That's what Donald Trump does. That's good for our nation. Do you realize that num right now Because he's doing what's right, no matter what the opposition says, we are the number one nation in the world for oil exportation. Did you know that? News isn't telling you that. We export more oil than all the Middle Eastern countries. And we're exporting oil to our allies. You say, well, why don't we keep the oil? Well, we've got plenty for ourselves, but what I'm saying is we have the back and reserve, and in the back and reserve alone, we have more oil than all the Middle Eastern countries put together Most people have never even heard of the back and reserve, but extends over several states. We got the Alaskan pipeline rolling along. I love it. The environmental said, oh, it's going to be so bad for wildlife, but the pipeline is so warm that all the wildlife are going under the pipe and having babies. And the wildlife population is exploding in Alaska. Don't you just love it when they're wrong? Amen? I love it. And that's why the only thing they have left is character assassination See, he's a bigot in. And but see, what you do is you just keep on rolling and doing what you know is right to do. I can remember Ronald Reagan. And you remember Ronald Reagan, he met with Gorbachev. And before he said, take this wall down, he met with Gorbachev in Reykjavik. And they wanted him to put the Star Wars technology on the table for negotiations because the Star Wars technology that we were developing and almost had done would take a kill missile and with a laser beam could hit any inter continental ballistic missile out of the sky before it even reached the United States. And they wanted him to put it on the negotiation table. And Gorbachev said, and he got mad. He said, no, I'm not doing that. And he walked out. And then of course he you know they they pulled him back in again and and uh he didn't put it on the table and everyone was saying He put it on the table, put it on the table. And when they came out, my wife and I were watching the news. And when he came out and they said he didn't put the Star Wars technology on the negotiation table, I looked at my wife and I said The Cold War is over. The wall's gonna be coming down. You watch. And then he said, Mr. Gorbachev. Take this wall down. And then the wall came down, and then my wife looked at me and she said, Who are you? And what have you done with my husband? I said, I'm just someone that knows how to do the math because he made their ICBMs obsolete. And he was the great negotiation the negotiator as well. But may I say this, Trump's even better than he was. And I love Reagan. But he's even better. I mean he's done things this man that people are just shaking their head over. You know, he repealed the Johnson Amendment, right? Most people don't even know what the Johnson Amendment is. Maybe you remember the last time I was here, the Johnson Amendment was something that was passed on July the 2nd, 1954, that said pastors couldn't speak. about elections from the from the pulpit. They couldn't do that. They might get the tax exempt status taken away But the fact is, we're not tax exempt because the IRS says so. We're tax immune because the Constitution says that the Congress shall make no law respecting the establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof So we're immune. We're not exempt. And so after years, finally 33 pastors stood up in their pulpits and they Told the IRS, we're going to send you our sermon and we are bringing the news media in to report and we're preaching for and against candidates by name. We're preaching an election sermon. We're not going to tell our people how to vote, but we're going to tell our people how we are going to vote. That they should vote biblical values, not who to vote for, but biblical values. 33. And they told the IRS, we want to come and try to take our tax exempt status? Come ahead. We're ready with our constitutional lawyers. You know what happened? Nothing. The next year, 2009. over a hundred pastors. The next year, several hundred pastors. Now, every October, thousands of pastors are standing the pulpit and they're Preaching for and against candidates by name. This person doesn't line up as well with our constitutional values and our biblical values than this person here. So I'm going to vote for this person because they have a right to say that as an individual Now, one of those pastors, one of those original 33, that did that is a congressman. And that's where you go, woohoo! You know. And I sat in a meeting with him and he said, I know that President Trump has basically eradicated this through a executive order, but we want to do it legislatively so that we'll never have to worry about it again. President Trump signed it away, so we're good for the next few years, but this pastor, former pastor, now congressman So we need to do it legislatively. And I asked him, when it comes time to bring pastors in from all of the United States to give testimony before Congress, do you want us to help you with those pastors? He said, yes I do. I said, wow In the most distinguished way I could, said Wahoo. Okay. But what I'm saying is You can have an amazing amount of influence if you just know what to say. And you understand what the enemy's strategy is, you see, and what they're trying to what they're trying to say. Um Number five. Where is the main battlefield? Where is it? Romans seven 18 through 25 delineates it very clearly. For I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. For to will is present with me, but how to perform that which is good I find not. For the good that I would not do not Excuse me, the for the good that I would I do not, but the evil which I would not, that I do. Now, if I do that which I would not, it is no more that I do it, but sin that dwelleth with me. So as I've already covered, but I think it merits repetition, you must win the war from within. before you are actively going to win the war without. You must know in your mind and your heart that there is no good thing in you. The secondary battlefield as our daily walk with those who we encounter as we live. That we must understand that we Need to count upon God and knowing how to answer those who challenge us and our Western beliefs. And I'm going to give you some tools, but I'm not going to take time to go through tonight, but some tools that you can use and some issues. that you need to understand that are very critical to our society, so that you can kind of use these talking points, so to speak, and be able to then graciously give an answer to those people without attacking them. Because remember, we wrestle not against flesh and blood. So you're going to be answering the false ideology that they're operating from and take it away from them. And we can do that. Number six. What weapon will defeat the enemy? I love this. Look over to Luke chapter 4. Are you with me tonight? Say amen. Luke chapter 4 and verse 3, and I'll start reading for sake of time. And the devil said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, command the stone that it be made bread. And Jesus answered him, saying, It is written that man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God And the devil taking him up into a high mountain showed unto him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time. The devil said unto him, All this power will I give thee And the glory of them, for that is delivered unto me, and to whomsoever I will I give it. Now there's a couple of things there, it's kind of interesting to me. Okay? First of all, the devil said That the glory of all the kingdoms was given to him. But he didn't talk about Israel. What I'm saying is this, even though the devil's trying to, he hasn't got his talons completely into America yet. He thought he had us, November the 8th, but we saw God do something quite miraculous on our behalf. But see what the Lord said every time he answered. Now remember, he was the word made flesh. And anything he said would have been scripture. But for our benefit. You understand how he always phrased it? He said, It is written. And he quoted scripture. What I'm telling you is this: if we want to be equipped, For the culture war, we need to start getting in our Bible like we've never gotten in our Bible before. I mean, we need to start reading our Bible like we've never read it before. We start just, I mean, look at it and get some type of Bible reading program. Because you understand this, that it's the living word of God. And that the challenges of your day and the culture war that you are going to be involved with, perhaps, in one way or the other Which is spiritual warfare, God will give you the tools for that day from his word, because that is the living word of God. And those people will give testimony that read their Bible daily that when they come on to something, a pitfall or a challenge, God's given them the answer already from their daily Bible reading. Is that not true or not? Yes, it is. You know it is. Problem with a lot of Christians, why they come to the pastor and say, Pastor, I've got this problem, that problem, is they're not in God's word the way that they need to be. Well, I've got this problem. And a lot of times it's been generated simply because they have a lack of knowledge And they could have all this is the answer to life. And this is more up to date than the newspaper that hasn't even been printed, that will come out tomorrow morning. Amen? I don't know how God does it, aside from the fact that it is the living word of God and the Holy Spirit gives us exactly what we need. every single day. And Jesus Christ himself, being the example to us all, when the devil tried to tempt him, said it written. That's what we can say. Well, you may say that, but the eternal word of God says this. Or even thinking about that, see, we can have wisdom to answer people. in the truth of who and what God is, and disarm them. How do we obtain This weapon. That's Second Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 5. Casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalted itself against the knowledge of God and bringing into captivity every thought. To the obedience of Christ. We run out into the world unprepared. Unprayed, unprepared by God's Word, and we get in trouble. Because the pitfalls are out there. Challenges of life are going to be there. But if you just get up a little earlier and you get into your Bible and you get into prayer, when you walk out, you're equipped. But the battlefield. Every one of us, in one way or the other, even the young people here, are going to be fighting. We fight every day I love First Corinthians chapter nine verse twenty-six. I therefore so run not as uncertainly. So fine eye. Not as one that beateth the air. Too many times. This is what Krishna's doing. And they're swinging at things that make no difference whatsoever. They're centering at people when it's behind the people that they need to be looking at. And they're getting hurt. And they're being offended. And they're throwing into the pitfalls of the devil. And the reason why is because they're not fighting in a certain way. They're beating the air. They're not keeping their body under subjection. And they're thinking that they're sufficient in themselves. Oh, I can handle this. No, we can't. None of us can. The culture war, it looms large. But God will equip us for that particular battle that we fight in our particular area of life if we simply stay in God's Word and we get prayed up. And we will know exactly. The Holy Spirit of God will give us what to say in that moment. Not that we are sufficient. Of ourselves, to think anything as of ourselves. Folks, but our sufficiency is of God. That's wonderful, isn't it? To know that you can be equipped. And number eight, and last, why we're gonna win. Isn't it wonderful? We're on the winning side. Amen? We're on the winning side. Do you understand this? I mean, do we get a hold of this? Look, if things are going bad in your life, you know what every once in a while we need to do? Stop. And realize where we're going. We're going to heaven. You ever just think about you ever just contemplate on that I'm going to have it. I mean when things are going rough and you've got some struggles in life, it's good to just kind of step back for a few minutes and say, you know, no matter what I'm going to be victorious because of him. And I'm going to heaven one day And this life is just a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanishes away. But I'm going to be putting on a glorified body. The rapture is going to occur. I'm gonna be coming back on a horse. I talked to one of the ladies last night, and she said, I don't know, I'm kind of afraid. I've never ridden a horse. I said, you'll be fine. I said, you're gonna be coming back on a white horse to the to the valley of Armageddon and you're gonna watch the Lord fight. And we're gonna be cheering him on. And I said, You'll be like that lady went to a dude ranch and said, I've never ridden a horse before. He said, That's okay. We have a horse that's never been ridden. You can learn together But we're look, folks, we're already victorious. You understand that? We have already won. But God expects us to continue every day to stand for Him, to represent Him. Why do we do this? To demean someone? No, no. We do this to show them the falsehoods graciously. That is making them think this way, so that they can question actually how they think and come to the knowledge of the truth. That's why. The cultural warfare is for the gospel's sake. The spiritual warfare is for the gospel's sake I worked for the Federal Aviation Administration and in the Special Police when I was going to Bible college. And there was this young man he was going to Oklahoma University. And he was a big strapping looking all-American type of a young man. He may look like, you know, he he had it all going. And he was all wrapped up with evolution. And I can still remember, I started taking every argument that he had of evolution away from him. Cro magnum man. That was an extinct tooth of a pig. And they found the jaw that the tooth went into. The Ne Neanderthal man, I just one by one showed him how each one was false and evolution had nothing to stand upon. He got so angry at me. Now I was just I was just smiling and And talking to him and he got so angry that he cussed me. He cussed me out. I said, well, that just shows me you've lost the debate. Because you're now attacking me personally. Now I tell you, it God created all men as men. It must have been 20 years later. I was at and was sent by my pastor at the time to the International Day of Prayer and I got up, I was introduced, and I got up and I prayed. And there was a Christian uh couple and the woman played the harp and the man played the bagpipes. They played Christian music on the harp and the bagpipes. Go figure, okay? Did it sound good? Yeah, it sounded really good. And he walked over to me, and this is what he said. He said, You don't maybe remember who I am. I remember who you are. He said, when we were both working at the FAA, you talked to me about evolution. You took every fact that I thought was a fact and showed me that it was a fallacy. And I want to tell you that God used that to bring me to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. And I want to thank you. You didn't get mad. I cussed you out. I remember that. But I am a saved man. That's my wife. And she's a saved lady, and we serve the Lord today. I win. That's the culture war. That's the culture war. That's results, you see. That's how we fight. Graciously, with the right position and the right disposition, with the word of God And the eternal Spirit, that Holy Spirit that gives us power beyond anything anyone can comprehend who doesn't know Him who hath made all things. And I'll guarantee you, folks, when we understand that in essence As God says, dare you not stand still and see the salvation of the Lord, which He will show you today. For the Egyptians whom ye have seen today, ye shall see them again no more forever. 2 Chronicles 20 verse 17, Ye shall not need to fight in this battle. Set yourselves and stand ye still. And see the salvation of the Lord with you. O Judah in Jerusalem, fear not, nor be dismayed. Tomorrow go out against them, for the Lord will be with you. When we count upon God to fight our battles for us. To stand with us, to speak through us, that's what you call allowing the Holy Spirit To move forward and to accomplish his purpose, which is once again the salvation of souls. And the maintaining of the civil liberty that gives us the freedom to go forward with the spiritual liberty in Christ Christian and the cultural warfare. May we all be victors. May none of us ever be victims. By following these things, these principles, these eternal truths, that will each and every time allow us to walk away from a battle, knowing That we have done our best to represent our Lord and Savior. Heavenly Father. I don't think there's a person in here tonight that would say I read my Bible the way that I should I don't think there's a person in here tonight that would say, my prayer life is exactly what God wants us to be that could not improve upon their prayer life, upon their Bible reading, upon the graciousness of standing before people And looking past them and not attacking them, but the falsehoods that they believe in. Oh God, would you move upon us tonight? Well we need, as Christians, to get into your Bible more than we've ever Done so in our life, to commit it to our memory, to meditate upon it, that we might use it for thine honor and glory. Father, help us to know that secret mission of prayer, stepping into the Eternal as we walk into the throne room of grace. And ask our petitions of thee. Lord, might your people move tonight upon this old-fashioned altar. And do business by saying, I, Lord, will do my best to read more of my Bible, to read it in such a way that I'm not just reading it, but I'm studying it I'm committing it to memory that I might meditate upon it. Father, move upon us tonight. Oh God, help not one person Walk out of here and say, I know the Holy Spirit wanted me to go forward, and I'm sorry that I didn't. Lord, please move upon us as your people tonight. We ask in the name of Jesus Christ. I'm gonna have everyone please stand. And if you were to say, Brother Hardy, yeah, you know, that's me. I don't read my Bible as I should. There's room for improvement. There's room for improvement of prayer. I I want you to walk down this old-fashioned altar right now. I'm not going to ask the pianist to play. I'm not going to ask the organist to I'm just going to ask you to come down this old-fashioned altar. Oh, I'm I'm studying my Bible exactly the way I want to. Uh really Okay, then you've arrived, huh? If we've arrived, that means we're not going to be growing. What I'm saying is, folks, we need to ask God, Lord, move upon me. And give me a greater hunger. You might say, I don't have a desire to read my Bible. Ask God for a greater desire to read your Bible so that you can be a victor In this cultural warfare, we don't want to be victims. We want to be victors, victorious in Christ. Help me, Lord, to have a greater prayer life. David Brainerd. When the sun began to rise, he went to prayer. And he said, seemingly a few moments later, I looked over and the sun was setting, and I haven't even begun my secret mission of prayer. God help us tonight to be soldiers. in this cultural warfare, those spiritual battles, so that we can see some dear ones saved from the burning.