All right. Psalm fifty-five, and I want to read verse number twenty-two. Ties in with uh our scripture reading a few moments ago. And I'd like for us to read this together in unison, Psalm 55 and verse number 22. You read along with me. Ready? Here we go. Cast thy burden upon the Lord, and he shall sustain thee. He shall never suffer the righteous to be moved. I want to speak, and uh what I'm doing is I'm just I'm gonna I'm just taking the first part of my message on this passage. We're just gonna look at the first part, and I think maybe in the next, maybe two weeks. We're just going to come back to this verse and um and uh look at the burdens of life. That's the subject, the burdens of life. And I would encourage you, if this verse is not underscored in your Bible, I want to encourage you to underscore or highlight or mark this verse in some way. If you're in the habit of doing that, I think it's a good habit. And also, for the next couple weeks, maybe you'd want to try and commit this verse to memory. I know we're already working on one for our church, but that would be two verses you'd memorize. And I know for some of you that would be a great challenge, but uh I'm being facetious, all right? Lighten up a little bit. But um Try and memorize this verse. This is a tremendous, tremendous verse. Cast thy burden upon the Lord, and he shall sustain thee. He shall never suffer the righteous to be moved. The burdens of life. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven, Lord, I'm so grateful for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And what this body of believers has meant to myself and my wife and my family all these many, many years. And what you've done here and what you are doing, we give you the glory for that, Lord. Now we want to stop and pause for a few moments this morning and consider your word, particularly on the subject of the burdens of life. And I, Lord, have readily acknowledge I have nothing in and of myself that is of any spiritual or eternal value. In me, that is my flesh, there dwells no good thing. So Lord, our help's going to have to come from you. And so we ask you to speak to us and teach us your word this morning. I present my body anew, I yield my will with all my heart. I ask you'd fill me with your spirit. And dear Lord, you'd be the preacher, you'd be the teacher, and you would challenge us, encourage, direct us. And help us. Lord, by chance, if there's somebody in this service that does not know for sure that their sins are forgiven, that they're on their way to heaven, I pray that would be settled today. And they could have that assurance from your word. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. It's one thing I know about everybody that's in this service this morning. Yesterday we were out giving out tracts. We were down in Kaiser and Piedmont and Westernport, down in those areas, and we were giving out gospel tracts going house to house and talk to different people. uh lady on the porch and had a nice conversation with her. There was an older fella drinking coffee sitting out in the porch in the sunshine and had a nice talk with him There's something I know about every person that I meet on the street or in the marketplace, and one thing I know about every person in this service here this morning, and that is this. Everybody has burdens Everybody has burdens. Burdens are an inevitable part of life. There are some people who spend a lot of time, a lot of effort to flee burdens, to try and have a burdenless life. And I'm telling you right now, it is a futile effort. All the money in the world cannot buy a burdenless life. Burdens are inevitable. People try and avoid burdens with the bottle. And I want to tell you right here and now, the only one thing, only thing liquor's ever done for anybody is to hurt them deeper and destroy their life. There has never ever been a life made better because liquor entered into that life. You mark it down. There's never a marriage been happier because of liquor. There's never a life been more fulfilling. There's never a burden become lighter because of liquor. It is a lie of the devil that the liquor bottle can lift burdens. So burdens are inevitable. We cannot escape them. We cannot drown them in liquor or drugs or any other stimulant type thing Burdens are unending. I think everybody here would testify. If you've been around any length of time at all, would testify. We come out of one burden, and it's not too long another one shows up. Right or wrong? Got one issue, one trouble, one trial. Not too long another one shows up. So burdens are inevitable. From the cradle to the grave. Burdens are inevitable. Little children. There's some little children down in children's church right now, down in King's Kids. All right, listen up, young people. Don't not time to sleep There's some children down in children's church that I'm telling you, I know, rode the Sunday school bus, maybe they came in in a car, they're down there, and little children that have heavy burdens on their heart. You know, that doesn't seem right, does it? A little child ought not to have to deal with burdens of life, but they do. One of the houses I was talking about yesterday, we were down there and we had a fantastic time. We really enjoyed this road trip down to Kaiser, giving out these tracks. And I came up and there was these apartment buildings. And uh I I don't uh I don't mean to be crude or anything, but I'll just say this. They were absolutely one of the rattiest buildings I've ever seen. Just falling apart. The stairs were just collapsing almost. I was I was scared to go up the stairs And there was some kids playing there, a couple of little girls, and I gave them a little gospel track and did the anybody ever see me do that gimme five backside up eye, dunno, anybody I did all that with them and they're laughing and giggling and s and they're we had a little fun. And I went over and I I put some tracks on doors and I went over to the next one. And there's beer bottles everywhere. I mean it's just filth, trash windows knocked out and the screen doors just hanging loose the doors half open and I walk up and here and I'm I'm not trying to be crude but I'm trying to illustrate a a point and there was there was dried vomit. All down the side of that door, all over, been there obviously for days. And there's a little little child, three years old probably, I'm guessing, running in and out, living in that. No child ought to live in something like that. I mean, I understand being poor. It's one thing to be poor. But it's another thing to leave leave things like that. For days on end. What I'm trying to say is life life has burdens. And even little children are sometimes born into homes that the burdens are so overwhelming. Violence. Little kids, my wife when she was working downtown was by the head start and the little children would come by her desk. Using some I mean we're talking head start. What what grade is that? What age is that? Four or five year olds? Something like that, right? They're walking by there using some of the most filthy language that I when I was in a dope head would have been embarrassed to use around public people. Little children. Burdens of life. It's little children have burdens. Teenagers. We got teenagers here around. I thank God for our teenagers. I love our teenagers so much. I'm telling you, there's teenagers here. They might not say it. They'll put a smile on their face and they'll act up a little bit. And sometimes when the young people are acting up, you know what that's a result of? There's something going on. There's a burden in the heart. Teenagers have burdens. Young couples have burdens. Sometimes financial burdens get overwhelming, make some dumb decisions, end up so far in debt, you can't even breathe And they got that burden hanging on. Get learning to get along with each other. Sometimes that's a burden. Sickness shows up. There's a fellow that um I follow on the computer, and he's actually preached here years ago. I wouldn't say he's a close friend, but he's acquaintance, and he preached to our teens years ago. They had a baby born and just massive deformities. And constant seizures, and I think the baby's on a ventilator, and um it's just heartbreaking. And so that family has that burden, that young couple has that burden. Tell you, if God's blessed you with healthy children, you ought to humble yourself before God and thank him dearly. Thank him dearly. Young couples have burdens, middle-aged folks have burdens, sicknesses show up, diseases, and then senior citizens have burdens. My point I'm trying to make this is burdens are a part of life. It's not hard to convince people that life consists of dealing with burdens, difficulties. Psalm 55 Is no doubt written by David. Anyone want to guess how I know that, or written, it was penned by David. There's no doubt it was penned by David. Anybody want to guess how I know that it was penned by David? It says right on the top, a Psalm of David. When it says that, it makes my study a whole lot easier. But even if it didn't say that, if you read down through the chapter, if you just looked at it and the wording, it says it screams David. It says David all over it This is obviously an experience. This is obviously David, of course, under the inspiration of God, but David is pouring his heart out. To God, but also under the inspiration of God and preservation of God's word for you and I here today. He's pouring his heart out. This is David. Dealing with burdens. And I'll tell you, if there's anybody in the Bible, and there's a lot, but if there's anybody in the Bible that knew what it was like to have burdens, It was King David. I mentioned to my wife the other day I was studying. I mentioned my wife. It's amazing if you if you read through. First, 2 Samuel, the record of David's reign and his life. If you read through about David, take note how many times it references David weeping. In fact, I read the other morning where he wept, his wife and possessions, all his possessions were taken, kidnapped. And it says that he wept so hard he had no more power. He's just completely broken. So David, the penman of this book, of this chapter, knew what it was like to deal with burdens, overwhelming burdens. He knew what it was like to deal with trials and heartaches. David wept. David wept. David wept. Psalm 55, as I was pointing out here, is a psalm of heartache. If you would look at verse number four. Again, this is David writing under the inspiration of God, My heart is sore pained within me, and the terrors of death are fallen upon me. You talk about heartache. Look at verse 12 and 13 and 14. He says, For it was not an enemy that reproached me, then I could have borne it. Neither was it he that hated me that did magnify himself against me. Then I would have hid myself from him. But it was thou, a man mine equal, my guide, my acquaintance. We took sweet counsel together and walked into the house of God in company. He was hurt by somebody very, very close to him, somebody very dear to him, had hurt him so deeply He knew what it was like to have heartache. He knew what it was like to be hurt. But Psalm 55 is also a psalm of hope, of tremendous hope. Look at verse number 16. As for me, I will call upon God. Look at this next statement. Boy, what assurance, what confidence he had. And the Lord shall save me. He was confident God was going to see him through. He was confident. He's not talking here about the salvation of his soul from sin and judgment. He's talking about being saved through this burden, being kept and secured through this burden. And he's confident. God's going to see me through. God shall save me. Verse 17: Evening and morning at noon will I pray and cry aloud, and he shall hear my voice. Verse 18, he hath delivered my soul in peace from the battle that was against me, for there were many with me And then our text, cast thy burden upon the Lord, and he shall sustain thee. He shall never suffer the righteous to be moved. What was the context of Psalm 55? We're not told exactly what the events were surrounding when David penned this down, this heartfelt psalm. We're not told what the uh um uh circumstances around it were. Thank you, Diane. Um However, in looking at it and looking at what several Bible scholars and different folks said, look up here, I'm better looking than they are. Okay. My jokes are bombing today now. Man, this is terrible. Brian, I need help. Yeah. The cure is stop telling the stupid jokes, right? But anyway, the the context of this Psalm fifty-five here is we're not told directly what it is, but in looking at it and um Well I'm reading what others thought and said, I they convinced me, I believe, it was when Absalom uh uh rebelled against David. I just read that in my devotions here recently. And uh uh Absalom, David's son, rebelled against him and tried to uh uh tried to coup, tried to take over. Of course it ultimately failed. But that apparently is uh the context that uh David's dealing with this, his heart is shattered, his own son turned against him, uh he's fearful for his life And he's dealing with all of that. Now that whole scenario, let's say it is uh this is uh uh written in that context, Absalom rebelling against him. If that is the case Then David's heartache, David's burden, the trial he's dealing with here, is an indirect result, an indirect consequence. To some stupid, fully sinful decisions he had made earlier. Absalom's rebellion began in the heart of Absalom a number of years ago, I believe. When David committed the horrendous sin of adultery. And that had such a profound impact on his family life, that it was never the same. It was never the same. So this burden that David is dealing with, this heartache that he's recording here and he's looking to God and finding hope from God and it he is. But it's an indirect consequence of some decisions he had made earlier. Now, another uh uh item about this chapter, if you come back to the beginning there, And you notice the title above it. It says to the chief musician on, and he mentions, I believe is what a uh is a some sort of uh musical instrument. Then he says a mazgil, maskil Now I got looking that up, and apparently this is referencing it's describing this song a little bit. Now you understand the psalms, for the most part, are songs to be sung. In the nation of Israel, they would sing them in the temple different places, but they were songs. It was like their hymn book, the book of Psalms for the Jews. But that word tells us that this song is not just a song to be sung, but it is actually a tremendous lesson here. The definition that I found trying to study this out, it was this. It was a teaching psalm. Or one of the definitions is this, a contemplative song. In other words, he says, when you're singing this song, this song is to be sung To be, while it's being sung, is to be thought very carefully about. To really contemplate what is being said here, what is being sung. And so David understood that what he was experiencing and what he was going through and what God was doing for him and how God was helping him in the burden he was facing That God could use that to be a help to others. That if He records this down, again, under the inspiration of God, but it could be a help to others. And that, I'm trying to say this, that is a Bible principle. God allows us to go through heartaches. God allows us to go through trials, sometimes our own doing. In this case, perhaps David. Sometimes others hurt us. Sometimes burdens and trials and heartaches, difficulties come, and we don't even know why. As far as I know, I did everything right. As far as I know, I uh I try to do my best. And and no, I can't point to anybody that did this. It's just something happening to me. I don't know why. God allows these things to come into our lives for several reasons. One, to strengthen our faith, for him to prove his faithfulness, for him to prove his love and power, but also So that what I learn through my burden, what I learn through my trial, I am able to do what David is doing under the inspiration of God and pass that on to others. And to be able to show others, this is what God did for me. This was the struggles I had. This was the issues I dealt with. And this is how God responded. This is what God did for me. And what he did for me, he can do for you. And so that's the whole concept of this psalm, I believe, is David is saying, he's not just draping here. He's not just saying, oh, poor me, I was terrible, God help me. No, no, no. He's saying, listen, God did this for me, he can do it for you. Think about this. Contemplate what is being said here, what is being sung here. So it's a psalm as they all do, but particularly that applies to us. Psalm 55 is a psalm that speaks to the heart of broken hearts. It speaks to the heart of burdened people. Now, I want us to look at Psalm 55, verse 22. And we'll probably take a couple, three weeks to look at this. I believe verse 22, David is speaking to himself immediately, speaking to himself. He's saying to himself, cast your burden on the Lord He'll sustain thee. He shall never suffer the righteous to be moved. Anybody here ever talk to yourself Anybody here ever answer yourself? Oh yeah. I was I I mentioned this recently, but I was in the office and It's been some time ago, but I was talking to myself. Sometimes, you know, you don't know if you're saying it out loud if you're just thinking it. Anybody, you know? You think, did I just say that out loud or was I just thinking it? I think it's called senility But I was in there talking to myself about something. And then I answered myself. And I don't know if it's Jackie or who was in the thing. She said, did you just answer yourself? I said, yeah, I I need some intelligent conversation for a change. I think David's speaking to himself here. And it's kind of like this is the way I picture it. He's overwhelmed. His heart is so shattered. These burdens are so overwhelming. We'll look at them here in a bit. And it's kind of like he's in the morning, he's looking in the mirror, maybe he's fixing the shave. I guess he didn't shave probably, but uh he's looking in the mirror and he's and he starts talking to himself and he's saying, I think he's saying this, David Take this burden and just cast it on the Lord. He's going to sustain you. He'll never abandon you. He'll never forsake you. And he's talking to himself. And he's reminding himself of something that he always knew was true. That God loved him and God cared about him and God would help him if he would just exercise faith and put this on the Lord and claim God's promise. And let God do for me what I cannot do for myself. Life's burdens Now, I want us to look, the first thought, and we're only going to get to this one this morning, only part of this one this morning, but I want us to notice our response to life's burdens. Something hits us. We talked about this recently. Sometimes they come broadside us out of nowhere. We get sucker punch. Sometimes we see them coming a long way off and we know it's there. And uh I don't know about you. Sometimes those ones you see coming a long way off, sometimes that's worse than getting sucker punch. You know what I mean? Just out of nowhere. Boom. But do you see that thing coming? Boom, you're worried about it. And um uh how do I respond to that? I I had this burden, I see one coming, all right. How am I going to respond to this thing How should a Christian, and I'm speaking primarily to Christians this morning, folks that have trusted Christ's neighbor, how do we respond when a trial hits us? How do we respond when our heart is so broken we cry until we have no more power to weep? When the burden is so heavy, I don't even think I can make it through the day. How do I respond to that? Well, I think in Psalm 55, we have, first of all, how we should not respond to trials. How we should not respond to life's burdens. If you would come back to verse number one. And I see here that we, first of all, we should not doubt God's presence. When a burden comes, a trial comes, our heartache comes, it's overwhelming, our situation is overwhelming, one thing I must not allow myself to do, and that is this: to start doubting God's presence or not. Look with me at verse number one. Give ear to my prayer, O God. Now look at this. And hide not thyself from my supplication. David, in this situation that was so overwhelming to him, he became, I believe, concerned that God had hidden himself from him. Have you ever been in that situation? I wonder how many of us, and I'm not asking you to respond visibly in any way or audibly in any way, but I wonder how many of us have ever asked this question. God Where are you? Huh? God, where are you? And David is saying, God, don't hide yourself from me now. And we have to have to be one thing we have to be very very careful, when when when a burden shows up, a trial shows up, a heartache shows up, we need to be very, very careful that we don't start doubting whether God is present with us or not. David was concerned that God had removed his presence from his life. And I tell you, when we become convinced that God is no longer with us, when we become convinced that God has abandoned me, that God has hidden himself from me, I tell you, we start losing hope. And then it gets overwhelming. So we must not allow ourselves to begin doubting God's presence. I think it's interesting how he words it here. Notice what he says. He says, give ear to my prayer, O God. And then he says this, hide not thyself from my supplication. And I look at that and I think David is saying, listen, just praying isn't enough. Just repeating a prayer, just saying words. I need to know that I have God's attention. I need to know that when I'm praying, I have God's audience. And listen, just repeating words, just saying a prayer isn't going to change a thing. It is God's attention to that prayer that changes things. It is having God's audience. And here's the wonderful thing. As a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, someone that's accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, I have complete access to the throne of God, and I can and do have God's attention. when I pray. But I must not allow myself to start doubting God's presence. Take your Bible if you would. Now keep your place here. We're going to look at a couple other verses, but go with me to Psalm 46. Chapter forty six, just a few pages earlier. Psalm 46, and notice verse number one. Again, if you're in the habit of Highlighting verses in your Bible. This is a tremendous verse to highlight in one way or underscore. God is our refuge and strength. Look at this. Will you read that next statement with me? Would you read it with me? A very present help in trouble. That is a absolute statement of God. There's no qualifications on that. There's no uh uh exemptions on that. It's a statement. God is a very present help in trouble. We can read the next verse there. You could go down. Let's read the next couple verse. Therefore, we will not fear, because God has not abandoned me, God's presence has not left me. When I'm in trouble, I have God's presence, a very present Therefore we will not fear, though the earth be removed, though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea, though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake like the swelling thereof In this psalm, we're told that when we go through times of trouble, when we deal with burdens, when we have heartaches, we have trials, we have the very unique presence of God in those troubles. So, what I'm trying to say is this: when burdens of life come and they get overwhelming, one way I must not respond, I must not respond by doubting God's presence. There was a book years and years ago. I'd never read it. I just saw it on a shelf, but for whatever reason, the title of the book stuck in my mind. And it showed a picture of a school hallway with the lockers, and it said this: if God loves me, why can't I open my locker? Now we laugh at that, but I wonder how many times we've thought that in different burdens or situations. God, if you love me, if you're with me, then why am I having to deal with this? God, if you were present in my life, if you are everything that you claim to be, then why in the world is my heart so broken? Why in the world is it is life so tough? If you're with me, God, it why it wouldn't be this way. And God says, don't think that way. Because when you're in the trial, when you're going through that life is tough, and when things are that way, that is when I'm most present with you. A very present help in trouble. We won't take time to turn there, but if you would, jot this down. Hebrews 13, 5 We used to teach us to little children when I worked when I was in Bible college. I worked for a summer with with a children's ministry. We'd do these backyard clubs. And one of the things we taught them when they accepted Christ as Savior was from that passage. Well tell you what, let's turn there. Hebrews 13, 5. Now we're going to come back to Psalm 55, so don't lose your place there. So all the way back to the New Testament, towards the end of the New Testament. Last chapter of Hebrews. He starts out, he's addressing some other areas. Let your conversation be without covetous. Be content with such things as you have. Sounds like there was Some issues going on. For he hath said, I like this last phrase, and this is what we used to try and teach little children on our backyard clubs. For he hath said, I will. Never. I circled that word never. I got that whole verse underlined, and I circled the word never. I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. The word forsake means turn your my back on and walk away from. And this is what we used to teach the little children. I've done it here before. Some of you know what I'm going to do. We used to get their hand out like this. They'd put their hand out and I would say, alright. Once you repeat after me, Jesus said, and they would say, Jesus said, I will never leave Dennis. All the kids would go, Jesus said, I will never leave Dennis. Said, no, no, no, no, no. Don't say my name. Say your name. And they go through that. Would you get your hand out? Let's do it. Come on. Let's be kids for a little bit here. Alright? Put a smile on your face. Ready, say it with me. Jesus said, say it with me, I will never leave Dennis. Don't say my name, see Listen, when the burdens and you say, I if God was with me Why would I be dealing with this? Don't think that way. That is that is that's fake thinking It's false thinking. He has promised us over and over and over, as a child of God, God will never leave us. God will never leave us. God will never leave us. Jesus said, I will never forsake you. In times of trouble, I am a very present help, a unique presence. in time of trouble. I wonder how many of us that have been around for a little while, known the Lord for a few years, I wonder how many of us would say, you know, it was times of the great heartache, the great burdens, the great trials of my life. That I learned things of the Lord that I did not learn in the easy times. Can anybody testify to that? Sure. Sure. You know what that is? That's a very present help Very present help in a time of trouble. And so one way we do not respond to burdens is we do not doubt God's presence. We do not doubt God. God will never, boy, I wish we'd get this. God will never abandon his saints. He will never abandon his children. Alright, number two, how should we not respond? Number one, don't doubt God's presence. Number two, don't dump on others. Don't dump on others. Look at verse 2. Come back there to Psalm. I'll explain what I mean by that. Look at verse 2. Attend unto me, we're on Psalm 55. Attend unto me and hear me. Give a chance to get it there. Attend unto me, verse 2, attend unto me and hear me. This is David talking to God. Attend unto me and hear me. I mourn in my what? Complaint. And make a noise because of the voice of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked, for they cast iniquity upon me, and in wrath they hate me. I caught that phrase. He says in verse two there he says, I mourn in my complaint and make a noise Well, we know what complaining is here. How many people know what complaining is? How many people are experts at it? Don't raise your hand. We know how to complain. It comes natural, doesn't it? Complain. Whine. But I thought, what is the making of noise? I wonder what noise he made. I don't know. What kind of noises do we make when we're overwhelmed? What kind of noises do we make when our heart is so broken? And he says, I made my complaint. Now, here's what I'm trying to get at. My point is this: how do we respond? Don't respond by dumping on others According to verse 2, who is he complaining to? Look at it. Who's he complaining to? God. God at verse 1 is saying, God, don't hide yourself from me. And now he says, I'm pouring out my complaint. When burdens come, when trials come, we get overwhelmed with stuff. Our natural tendency is, and almost instinctive, we start going to others and telling others how terrible things are for me Right? Am I right or wrong? Do you ever go and ask uh do you ever go and tell someone say, boy, you know, man, I'm just trying to deal with this. Would you pray for me? And then the next half hour they're telling you how terrible, how why their situation is worse than yours. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And he's saying don't do that. Don't go and just pour out to everybody. Now it's good, I want to be careful here, it's good to have somebody close that we know loves us, cares about us. that we can pour our heart out to, right? I think that's what family is a lot of times. But don't go around and just complaining to everybody how terrible things are and how terrible I am. We have this victim mentality in our world today And we just need everybody to know how how difficult my life is. We need everybody to know how difficult. And David David didn't do that. I don't see him doing that. I see him pouring out his complaint. Listen, I'm not against complaining. In fact, I'm for complaining. You go out and tell people your preacher is for complaining. He's for it. If I complain to the right person You know who the best person to complain to is? God. He's the one that can do something about it. He's the one that can help us through it. Now, thank God for brothers and sisters in Christ, and we can bear one another's burdens. There's a place for that. But one thing we should not do is just go around dumping on others and and uh babble. The word complaint there, I got looking that up, it has this idea to babble over and over and over my unpleasant difficulties. Or it has this idea just to meditate over and over and over about all my problems and it consumes my mind and it consumes everything I'm talking about. All I can talk about is how bad I got it, and all he can talk about is how awful things are, and all he can talk about is how heavy this burden is Listen, take that to the Lord. Take it to the Lord. We are to bear one another's burdens, but not a constant complaining. So, number one, don't doubt God's presence. Number two Don't dump on others. Number three, let me give you a third one real quick. Don't despair. Don't despair. Look with me at verse number four and five of Psalm 55. My heart is sore pained within me, and the terrors of death are fallen upon me. Fearfulness and trembling are come upon me, and horror hath what? Overwhelmed me. When he says that that horror hath overwhelmed me, I think he's saying this. I'm getting to the point where it's almost hopeless I'm on the verge of despair. I don't see any way. It is overwhelming. I don't see any way that this is ever going to change. I don't see any way out of this hole. I don't see any light in this darkness. It is hopeless. How many times have we said that? How many times have we thought that in our life? How many times has somebody come to me and said, Pastor, my situation is hopeless? And I say immediately, that is a lie of the devil, do not believe it. The fact that you and I have a God in heaven that loves us dearly And we have a God in heaven who is all-wise, and a God in heaven who is all powerful. It is never hopeless for the child of God Because we do have a God that can do the impossible. We do have a God that knows what is very best, and he loves us. Not only can he do what's best for us, not only does he know what's best for us, but he loves us and wants what's best for us. The only person in existence that is in a hopeless situation, get this. The only person in existence that is in a hopeless situation is the person who dies in their sins. and is separated from God for all eternity in hell the lake of fire. That is the only hopeless circumstance or situation. As long as I'm not in hell, and as long as God still exists, there is hope. And don't ever allow the devil or your own sinful reasoning convince you. That your situation is hopeless, that it's don't that you come to despair. The only one that believes that, the only one that's trying to convince that is the devil himself. You'll never find anywhere in the Bible God telling his children it's hopeless. It's not there. God says repeatedly, with man this is impossible. Well with God, all things are possible My hand shortened that it cannot save? No. So don't ever allow yourself to think that I am in a hopeless situation. Don't ever allow yourself to come to the point of despair. As long as God is on his throne, there is hope. Number four, let me end with this one. Don't disappear. Burdens come, burdens of life hit us, it's inevitable, they're going to. Sometimes they're overwhelming. Our heart is broken. This trial is so intense. I weep until I can't even weep anymore. What should I do? Well, don't doubt God's presence. He's still there. He's there. Don't go around dumping on others. Now, if you've got a trusted friend, someone you can cry it on his shoulder, praise the Lord. That's good. Don't despair, and number three, don't, or number four, don't disappear. Don't disappear. Look with me at verse number four. I'm sorry, verse six. He says this, and I said, This is David talking, oh, that I had wings like a dove, then would I fly what? Away. And be at rest. Then would I wander far off and remain in the wilderness? Oh, I just want to drop off the end of the earth I just want to be away from everybody and everything. Do you ever say this? Do you ever think this? I wish I could just crawl under a rock. I wish I could just get away from everything. I wish I had the wings that I just fly away from. I wish I could just disappear. I tell you, that's wrong thinking. And God corrects them. We should never disappear. I believe we ought to stay faithful. When my heart is broken, when the trials are so overwhelming, maybe a Saturday night I wept all night long until I could not weep anymore. And all I want to do is stay in this room. I want to close the door. I want to turn the lights off. I don't want anything. I want to disappear. God says, don't do that. You stay faithful. You get up in the morning and you have your personal devotions. So I don't feel like it. Listen, if I ever if I only did what I felt like doing, all I would be doing is eating ice cream. Because that's what I always feel like doing. Breakfast, lunch, supper, midnight. Ice free. In fact, I want some now. I don't feel uh I just want to fly away. I don't want to. Well get up I'm going to be the drill instructor. Get your sorry carcass out of bed, right? Get the Bible open, stick your nose in there, and read it Don't disappear from your personal walk with God. In fact, when we're going, we need the Lord all the time, right? We need personal devotions all the time. But we especially need them when we're going through hard times. And that's when we're going to be the strongest, when we're going to be tempted the most to abandon it. So don't disappear in your personal walk with God. Get that Bible open. Read the book of Psalms. There's scores and scores of psalms in the book of Psalms that address broken hearts, that address difficulties and burdens. They're there for that purpose. By God. So don't disappear from your personal walk with God. Get on your knees. You say, I don't want to, and pray to God. Pour your heart out. I don't want to! But do it anyway. Don't disappear from your prayer life. God's waiting to hear. Did you catch the this very psalm begins with prayer? So don't disappear in your personal walk with God. Don't disappear from your public worship of God. What am I talking about? Go to church! You say, oh, I'm just too, oh, it's just overwhelmed. I don't want to see those people. I don't want to sin in the church. I just want to stay home. Listen, I'm saying that is one of the worst things you can do. One of the purposes of the church is to edify, build up. How many people ever came to church you didn't want to? I mean you you would never admit it at the time. And I'm not talking about today, all right? Sometime in the past. But you did not want to go to church. You didn't want to see those people. I don't want to hear that long-winded preacher. But you did it anyway. And after it was over it's like, I'm glad I went today. Can I get a witness? Almost What I'm saying is this, don't disappear from your public worship. Be in church, be in your place. You say, preacher, it's overwhelming. I'm backslidden. I'm not right with God. Then you really need to come to church. You know what the church is made up of? A lot of sinful people that have heavy burdens. That's what we are. I always thought if I ever changed the name of church, it would be this, messed up Baptist Church. That's pretty much what we are. Right? So don't disappear. God designed the church. The church is God's idea. This is the body of Christ. We need it. Don't disappear from your personal walk with God. Don't disappear from your public worship with God. Don't disappear from your precious work for God. Now I don't want to be unkind here, but listen, even when my heart is broken, I still ought to be in my place serving the Lord. Say, I'm a Sunday school teacher. I'm just my heart is broken. I've got this burden on it. I just need to disappear. I can't teach. No, no, no. You just get back there. You get there. You pray up. And you get in that class and you teach that class and pour your heart out to those students and keep staying faithful to God. Oh my heart's broken, I got a bus route. No, no, no. You get out there and you visit those kids and you ride that bus. And I tell you, I thank God for our bus workers. I'm telling you, there are few people in this church who work as hard as our bus workers Saturday and Sunday. Choir. Everything's just overwhelming. I can't sing in the choir. Get up there and sing your heart out. I don't feel like it. Do it anyway. Don't disappear. Your work for God is precious. Those children need a sunny school teacher that is there when the sun is shining and when it's not shining. That is there when things are going good and when things are going bad, they need an example of steadfastness and consistency Don't disappear. Sunday school class, the bus route, the choir, your family needs you Don't just h don't just h hold hole up and disappear from the family. You get out, you love your spouse, and you love on those kids, and you love on your parents. They're the ones causing the burden, then love on them even more. Do good to them that despitefully use you. Don't disappear. Don't back out. Don't drop out. And on the unsaved. Don't disappear on the unsaved. So, oh, I just got all these troubles. I can't go so I can't give out tracts. Somebody's got all these burdens. How can I give tracts out to people? Same way you do when you don't have a burden. You still witness. You still talk to people. Turn to Psalm 126. I'm going to end with this, I think. Psalm 126. I always read this verse wrong. For years and years, I read this verse wrong. Psalm 126, verse 5. It's a great chapter. Psalm one twenty-six And look at verse five They that sow in tears reap in joy He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seeds, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his seeds with him. Now I always had in my mind, and I believe this is part of what he's saying, but I always had in my mind, all that was talking about was my tears and my weeping is I'm so burdened for this lost person's salvation. And if I get to the point where I'm so broken and I'm weeping and crying that Ethan gets saved, God has got to get saved. And if I'm so broken and I'm weeping and crying, I go and witness to him, he's going to get saved. I think that's included in there and the fact that we ought to be broken. When's the last time any of us wept over an unsaved person? When's the last time there was tears on our cheeks because we were so broken for somebody to be saved? Telling you, that's a rare thing. There was days, there was days in the history of the Baptist Church when altars would be soaking wet from people weeping and crying over loved ones that are unsaved, praying they'd get saved. You don't see that anymore So that's a true statement, and I think that's included in this verse. But I don't think that's all what he's talking about. I think he's talking about somebody that is so burdened, so broken But they're not known to neglect their sewing. And even when my heart is broken, even when there are tears of heartache streaming down my cheek, hot tears streaming down my cheek. I'm still going to go out there and I'm going to try and do everything I can to win the lost. And he says they'll come with rejoicing. And when my commitment and my walk with God is so thorough and so strong that even when our burdens of life are overwhelming, I'm going to be in my place, I'm going to do my job God says, I honor that, and I'll bless that. Does that make sense? Just a little personal be if you'll excuse me, but there have been times in these 25 years, I'm just telling you. There have been times these 25 years where I stood behind that pulpit. I preached sermons I did not want to preach. My heart was so broken. I never said a word. Nobody in this church will ever know. I'll tell you, God sometimes used those messages. In ways greater than when I thought I was, well, I had the tiger by the tail. I've got everything. So don't disappear. Don't abandon. Dr. Lee Robertson, my pastor for years down in Highland Park, was preaching somewhere up in eastern Tennessee. He got a phone call Monday afternoon. He said, your daughter Joy, just a toddler, died suddenly. He said he had to cancel that mean right away. He was racing home. He said I was weeping the whole way. What in the world happened? My daughter. He said, I came to a detour. I was so anxious to get home. And he said, at first this detour, he said, I was so angry, this detour is in my way. And he said, God spoke to my heart. And he said life is filled with burdens and detours. And just trust him and follow the directions, and you're going to end up exactly where you need to be And he said, God spoke to my heart and he said, I'm going to use the death of my daughter to be a means of reaching people with the gospel and bringing glory to God. He came back, they had the funeral, and he started what at the time was a great, great ministry, Camp Joy. They brought in hundreds of thousands of kids free of charge to come to camp And hear the gospel and get a week of the love of God poured out on him. He took that burden and he didn't disappear and he didn't despair and he didn't doubt God's presence and he didn't dump on anybody else. But he trusted God and cast that burden on the Lord. Amen? Father in heaven, help us. The burdens of life. Help us have faith in you. Lord, it's a whole lot easier for me to stand up here and preach this than it is for us to go out and live it. I know that. So we need your help, Lord. We need the filling of your Holy Spirit. And we need to pray and look to you. I wonder with our heads bowed eyes closed how many would say this morning, preacher, I am dealing with burdens. You're right. The Spirit of God was dealing with me this morning, addressing me. There are some situations that in my mind seem overwhelming. He said, but I'm going to trust God and I'm going to respond properly. I'm going to ask the Lord to help me. I'll cast this on Him. Is there any like that by this morning? Uplifted hand, preacher, God's Holy Spirit has spoken to my heart. God's Holy Spirit. Has spoken to my heart. Any others around? How about it? Others? God's Holy Spirit has spoken to my heart. God bless you. God bless you I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I can't say I honestly know that my sins are forgiven, and I'm concerned of that. I tell you, worst thing that can happen, the greatest tragedy, would be to die in your sins. Die without Christ. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. I know I do. I need that settled. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. Young or old, all around. Any? Any at all? Now, Father, a lot of hands raised. You know what's going on in our lives, Lord. It's not a coincidence this truth was presented this morning. So we ask you to help us trust you, help us have faith in you.