Luke chapter fourteen. We're going to start reading in verse sixteen and then read down through verse twenty three. Luke chapter fourteen. A cap will not go on. There we go. In verse sixteen. Then said he unto him, Certain man made a great supper, bade many. And sent his servant at suppertime to say to them which were bidden, Come, for all things are now ready. And they all with one it one consent began to make excuse. The first said unto him, I have bought a piece of ground, and I must needs go and see it. I pray thee, have me excused And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen. I go to prove them. I pray thee have me excused. And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come. So that servant came and showed his lord these things. Then the master of the house, being angry, said to his servant, Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city And bring in and bring in hither the poor, and the maimed, and the halt, and the blind. And the servant said, Lord, it is done as thou hast commanded, yet there is room. And the Lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled. Let's pray in the the message this evening. Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you for for this day you've given us, Lord, just a good day to be be in church today, Lord. And Lord, I just thank you for the service this morning. We ask that you would uh uh bless this service tonight. Lord, I ask that you would uh just completely take over uh the service. Lord, hide me behind yourself. Um Lord, and I ask that you would teach us tonight. And Lord again, I just ask that you would fill me with your spirit. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. So Jesus here is telling a story of a man That had uh what was described here in verse 16, a great supper. Um now I've had some great suppers before. About every Sunday afternoon I have a great supper, and uh today uh Mandy brought egg rolls and shrimp and rice, and I don't know why I'm telling you this, but it was a great supper. It was a wonderful thing. Um but I think this might have been a little bit greater um than that. A great supper invade many The idea here is that it's a great big supper, and uh that there is room for many. And he even makes that uh comment in verse 22, yet there is room. So he has this great supper, and it went time for the banquet to begin. This man sent his servant to those that had been invited to inform them that things were ready. And as the servant is going to inform the people that were invited that it was time for the bank, the banquet, one at a time, they began to make excuses. And um we hear a lot of excuses uh these these days, and I guess we not just these days, but there's always been excuses. I always joke around and say I'm going to write a book of excuses because there's some interesting ones. These are just as interesting. Verse 18 Um one said that he had bought a piece of ground. He needed to go and see it. Now the question I have is, had he not seen it before? I hope he would have seen it before he bought it, or at least seen a part of it maybe. But he said he had bought a piece of land and he was asking to be excused so he could go see his new property. I would call this a weak excuse in our terminology. That would be weak. Verse 19, there is another man that gives another excuse. It says he had bought five yoke of oxen and you wanted to prove them. Now, if you wanted to test them to make sure they worked, I wonder again why he bought them. He wanted to test them out. It'd be kind of the equivalent of buying a brand new tractor and making sure the brand new tractor worked. Well I would hope it would. It's brand new. Again, weak excuse. Verse 20, another man said he married a wife and therefore couldn't come. Again, another excuse. So we see three excuses here, and I thought this was very interesting. Verse 18, it says, and they all with one consent began to make excuse. They were all in on it. Everyone that made the excuse was in on it. I just thought that was interesting. So verses 21 and 22, the servant returns to tell the host of the banquet that those that had been invited would not come. Now I I don't know the exact reaction, but I could imagine that there was the the master of the house, the lord of the banquet would be quite frustrated. Um and that actually it it uses the word angry here So he commands his servant to go quickly, again, that word is interesting there, quickly into the streets and the lanes of the city, and bring in the poor, the maimed, the halt, and the blind. Now the servant does exactly what he's told. The servant does this, and then he says, and yet there is room. So then in verse 23, this is going to be our text verse tonight, he tells them again to go into the highways and hedges and compel them to come in so that his house would be full. He said, as to the exact wording, that my house may be filled. So the servant did exactly as he was commanded. There was no issue with this servant. He was told to go and he went. The issue was that some would not come. And then there was the issue that some would come and were glad for the ones that did, but there was still more room for more. Verse 23 is where I want to spend most of our time tonight. The verse says, The Lord said to the servant, Go out. into the highways and hedges and compel them to come in that my house may be filled. Go out. That means don't stay in. Now I like being here. I like being in here. I like being in this auditorium. It's nice. It's comfortable. It's beautiful. I like being here. I like being in here. But there has to come a time where we need to go out from here And I think we understand that. And this verse sums up what the bus ministry seeks to accomplish. Where you have a few folks that show up early on a Sunday morning, whether it be cold outside, whether it be rainy, they'll show up, get here a little early, and then go out. And quite literally go get in the highways and the s and the lanes and the streets and the hedges and compel folks to come in. This is what the bus ministry seeks to do. Now we believe this: that our Savior has sent out an invitation for all men to be saved. And then one day attend a great supper in heaven. And there are many of us that have come. There are many of us that have come. But as it says here in verse 22, yet there is room. Understand, we're here, but there's plenty of room for more. And so the servant goes out and gets them. And that is what we seek to do. We believe that our master has compelled us to go in the highways and hedges and get people to the church To get people on a bus, to get people to a Sunday school teacher, to get people to where they can hear this gospel and be saved. There are many people that are in our world that have just flat out rejected the invitation. They've heard it and rejected it. But understand there are many people that have not even heard it yet. And there are a lot of people Children, teenagers, young adults, not so young adults, there are a lot of people that should they receive an invitation, they would come. And should they hear the gospel, they'd believe it. I love Romans 10. Hold your place here, but go to Romans 10. Last week when we started the uh the bus ministry training. We kind of claim this as our um our theme, I guess you could say. Romans chapter 10, verse 13 is a very famous verse part of the Romans Road. Many of us could quote it It says, For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Amen. You call upon the name of the Lord, you're saved. And I'm glad that that's an easy thing to do, to acknowledge my sin and say, yes, Lord, I need you to save me, and he saved me. And you would give the same testimony. But if we keep reading, how then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed, and how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? Last week um when we started the training I told about um uh me and and and and Courtney when we were uh uh uh visiting once Um in a trailer court, we begin to ask these kids if they knew about Jesus, and they're like, Who? They don't they have not heard. They have not heard. And if we keep reading here, in verse 14, it says, How should I hear without a preacher? Someone has got to tell them. In verse 15, and how shall they preach except they be sent? Someone has to be sent. Somebody has to go. To go out. Leave a comfort zone of a little bit. Go out and find the ones that will attend the sufferer Find the ones that will believe. Are there many out there that have flat out rejected the invitation? Absolutely. But there are many out there that would come if somebody would take them the invitation. There are many out there that would come. There are many out there that would not just come to church, but would trust Christ as their Savior and have a home in heaven if somebody would go out and tell them and compel them to come in. And that is what uh we are uh what the what we are trying to do here with the bus ministry. Now the message tonight is on the bus ministry, I understand. Um there are a lot that aren't in the bus ministry. I would like if everyone was, sure, but I understand that there are many um many uh uh uh parts to the body. I understand that. Not everyone is in the bus ministry But this verse still applies to every single person. Because everybody has received the Great Commission. All of us can get somebody. Can all of us drive a bus? No. Can all of us work on a bus? No. But all of us can tell someone how we got saved. All of us can tell somebody. All of us can at least hand out a tract. Everybody can do something. So anyway, there are a few observations that I want to make from this passage, just some observations, and then I'll have some application type things to follow, I guess. Now, again, like I said, these observations may be applied to the bus ministry, and you might hear us repeat, uh you might hear me repeat that over and over again, bus ministry. But they can be applied to every individual because the Great Commission is not just for the bus ministry, but for everyone. And everyone can learn from these principles. So the first principle is we are to go We're to go. Um that means go. That means I like the way um Um uh Dr. Smith put it. And we have in our Soul Winners Club we have uh uh several CDs that we listen to as sermons. And in one of his sermons he made the c the comment, he said, That means uh the good word go means you you you you get out of your chair, go outside, get into your car, go to someone else's house, get into their driveway, get out of your car in their driveway and go to their door. That's what the word go means. Right? Go. Go. And and Curtis Hudson, uh uh one he has one of the CDs we listened to as well. Um he he just kind of man, I I really liked listening to to him preach. Um he said you don't spell go S-I-N-G. That's saying. You don't spell go P-R-A-Y. Should we pray? Yes. Should we pray before we go? Yes. While we're going, yes. Should we sing? Yes. But we don't stop there. We still need to go. Hey that rhymed. I didn't do that on purpose. But but we are to go Matthew 2 verse 9, he says, Go ye therefore. Matthew 26, 18, go into the city. Matthew 28, 19, Jesus said, Go ye therefore and teach. Mark 16, 15, go ye into all the world. Luke 10, 13, go your ways. Luke 14, 21, go out quickly. And that was the verse we just read. Verse 23, go out in all four gospels. And in Acts, we see the Great Commission, and it's repeated, go. The word go is in the Bible 1,492 times. Going 135. G uh go with excuse me one hundred and thirty five, go wing at ninety-two. Um, I kinda get the feeling we're supposed to go. I kind of get the feeling we're supposed to go. We can talk about going. We can get training on how to go. We we can we we can say we're gonna go, but until we make the effort again yes we're talking about the bus ministry, but until you make the effort for your next door neighbor, until you make the effort for that person that the Lord has on your heart. Until you make that effort to actually get up and go, then they won't they won't hear. How shall they hear Fast forward to the next verse unless they're sent. They need to be sent. So, where are we to go? Well, to the highways. To the hedges. Now those are off those are very different things, right? The highways. We think of high travel. A lot of traffic. A lot of people. We think of the cities. We think of maybe high speeds. The highways. Then there's the hedges. A little harder to get to sometimes, a little slower speed sometimes, a little less traveled. But we're to go to both. Now the highway, that's what everyone wants to go to. It's easy to find people, it's easy to travel to, it's easier on the buses. It's uh it's sometimes it can be a very, very fast-paced ministry. I th I think about buses in some some big cities, um, and even uh the the bus that um Uh my dad was a captain on and I kind of grew up there on the bus. Uh it was not uncommon for us to run two full buses Um for one route. I mean it's just there there is just people. There's just people everywhere. It was on the highways. It was fast paced. You'd see uh multiple uh children saved per route each week. You'd see new riders every week on the route. It was a fast-paced thing. It was quick. But that's not every bus route. That's the one we envision. That's the one we think of. And again, this isn't just the bus ministry. This is Thursday night soul winning. That would be very good to go to. Sometimes we make it to one house. Sometimes we make it to two. Sometimes, Brother Dale, we can't find the house. Sometimes we can't find it. But then there's other times on Thursday nights where we might hit 50 or 60 doors. So should we, let me ask you this question: should we not go for the one? Of course we should go. Should we go only to the highways? Well no. We should go. Well should we go to the highways? Yes. But should we go to the hedges as well? Yes. Absolutely. The highways, the hedges. Some ministries are high speed, some are fast, some have a lot of action, some have a lot of rapid growth. And that's what everyone wants to see, but some are a little slower speed. Sometimes you might have to work a bus route for three or four months before you see one more rider. Before you see one child come to know Christ. But are the hedges any less important than the highways? No. We're to go to both, highways and hedges. And the message is the same to both. Compel them to come in. They're invited to the same banquet. They're invited to the same supper. It's the same message. It's just some are on the highways, and some are in the hedges. Now, I know our geography here. We have a lot more hedges than we do highways. So you know what we're supposed to do? Let's go get in those hedges. Let's go i you might you might go down a long Driveway that's three miles log long and then be be greeted by a a dog that wants to bite you But if the kids get saved, if the parents get saved, it's worth it. I'll take a dog bite for that. Amen. I won't like it, but I'll take it. Take me to the hospital afterwards. Anyway, we're supposed to go to both. Some uh some some ministries, and this isn't just the bus ministry This isn't just bus routes. There are some ministries that are very slow pace. But if we stay at it, there are some family members that are slow pace And you've been trying to win them, you've been trying to reach them. Just stay at it. Keep compelling them to come in. Keep compelling. There is still room. Verse 22, yeah there is room. Now where to do both. Highways, hedges. In verse 21, it talks about the lanes. in the streets. We're to so what are we to do? We're to compel. First, what are we to do? Uh go. Secondly, we are to compel. I looked up the word compel in Webster's dictionary. I like that 1828 dictionary. That's a very good tool. But the word compel means to drive or urge with force or irresistibility. Irresistibility. You know what people will do? People accuse you if you work in the bus ministry, right? This is what will happen. I'm just going to warn you, so because this is going to happen. You'll say, man, we had 25 writers. And we had three kids. Trust Christ is their Savior. Oh yeah, well you got them to church with prizes and toys Irresistibility. We're to compel them to come in. Hey, does that piece of bubblegum, does that sticker, does that nerd's rope have any eternal value? Absolutely not. But the kid that gets saved, that's eternal value. Well, they're just coming for the nerd's rope. Maybe But if they hear about Christ while they're here, worth it. Worth it. So we're to compel, we're to drive, we're to urge. You know what that means? That means you go you show up and you ask. That means you first go. Um Andy, Mr. Andy, you've probably figured out driving a bus around isn't going to get kids on it I I'll tell you when I first got here for a few weeks I I went um uh a bus visitation with Mr. Andy and that's fun. That's fun. That was a good time. And uh he goes and he he knocks on the doors And he urges them to come to church the next day, gives them a flyer, tells them about the promotion, tells them about what's going on. He's compelling them to come. Compelling them to drive or urge with force or irresistibility. Now, Noah Webster quoted this verse. Another reason I like the 1828 dictionary, he uses the Bible as um uh uh uh as uh definitions. He uses Bible verses for definitions. And he quoted this verse. We're to compel. Compel to do what? To come to the church, yes Why? Because they'll hear the gospel. And someone will compel them to trust Christ. Now, are we going to force anyone to trust Christ? Absolutely not. Um not not at all. You can't force anyone to do that. But you can give them the gospel, and then they can decide whether or not they want to accept them. So that's what we're that's that's what we're doing. We're going. We're compelling. Now now now why? Why Gas is expensive. Maintenance on the buses are expensive. Buses are expensive. Paint's expensive. It's expensive. M monetarily, yeah, it's expensive to run buses. It takes a lot of time to run buses. Again, you apply this to any ministry. A lot of time goes into that. A lot of time, a lot of effort. Why are we doing it? I think one, cu 'cause God said so. Um and that's a good reason I think, because the Lord said so. And if you look at the servant, I don't see uh the servant here in the story, I don't see anywhere where the servant said, No. I don't see anywhere where he said, No, Lord No, I'm not going to go uh compel them. In fact, we see him do exactly what he was told to do. This is a command that the the Lord gave his servant to go and compel them to come in The Lord said, go. Who are we to go to? Those in the highways, those in the hedges. And then specifically in verse 21 The servant came and showed his Lord these things, and the master of the house, being angry, said to his servant, Go out quickly into the streets and the lanes, and bring hither the poor, the maimed, the halt, the blind. The less desirable. Now understand this. Those words there, poor Main, halt, blind. Right away, we think of the physical. We see the word poor, we think of those that don't have money. We see blind, we think of those that can't physically see But applying this to the bus ministry, let me tell you this. There are people out there that are spiritually poor, blind, they've never been told the truth. They don't see it. The they don't have they haven't heard of Christ. They haven't trusted him. They don't even know what you're talking about. Poor, blind, halt, the maimed. There you you I don't have to explain to you and I don't have to try to convince you that there is a lot of hurting people in the world. There is a lot of problems that people have. I could go down a list. I don't have to But there are struggles that people have. You you you see some of these these kids that come in on the bus and and you know you might see, oh these kids are fighting, oh these kids have bad manners, these kids are You know we see the negative things about kids that might come in on the bus, but understand that spiritually poor condition there a lot come from. You know w when you don't have Christ in the house, when you don't have God in the house, you're gonna you're you're you're gonna have problems. We expect kids to come in on the bus acting like perfect little children, but they've never had any instruction in the things of God. Now now s some do, sure. Yeah, you know, someone might move into the area and eat a and need a ride or um or there might be some I don't know. And I'm not trying to stereotype by any means. Uh don't want to come across that way at all. But I will say this: if there wouldn't be somebody to get on a bus and go out there and compel these kids to come in Or teenagers or adults, sure. They would remain spiritually poor and blind. Halt. They just need someone to love them. And they just need s someone to show them that God loves them. Be surprised how many people have never heard that God loves you Someone needs to go. The Lord says so. Why are we to go? Because God. But then he says this, that my house may be filled. That my house may be filled. God wants to add people to his household. He wants to add people to his family. He wants to see people born again. And to his family. I'm glad that all we have to do is call on the Lord and be saved. Romans 10 13 says so. Whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. But how shall they call? How are they going to hear? Someone's got to go. Someone's got to go. Well, Pastor Matt, I can't get in the bus ministry. I'm too busy. Well, I I'll challenge you on that. If you feel like God is calling you to do it, he'll make sure you have the time. But if you s if if if you if you genuinely don't feel like the Lord's calling you in the bus ministry, he is still calling you to go out and get someone. Whether it's a neighbor, a friend, a relative. So, a couple things by way of application, I'll be done, and these will be quick. Fir first thing, everyone can bring someone. Everyone can bring someone. We we we know people. Everybody knows somebody. Everyone can bring somebody. Yeah, we want more people in the bus ministry, but if you're not, you can bring someone. And you should Everyone can do something to be a part of the bus ministry. Pastor Matt, I can't get involved. I'm already involved in other ministries. That's good. We need you involved in other ministries. That's good But you can still get on board. Prayers, support. Everyone can get behind this. Just kinda kinda kind of I mean it's missions is what it is. It's missions to our community. Not everyone can be a missionary to a foreign country, but we can all get behind it Not everyone can run a bus route, but we can all get behind it. Secondly, we're to care about what God cares about and who God cares about. What is his objective? Getting people to the banquet, getting people saved We're to care about what God cares about. Third thing, compelling takes effort. But it's worth it. It's worth all the effort you put in. Compelling takes effort, but it's worth it. Fourth thing by way of observation, there are many people that would come if someone would just invite them. There are many people that would come if someone would just invite them. That's what the bus ministry is about, but that's what we all should be about. Inviting folks. Fifth thing by way of observation, and I'll give you this, and then just one more thing. Without a vision, souls will perish. Where there is no vision, the people perish. And there are young boys and girls, there are teenagers, there are adults. That we'll perish. Must we get a vision? Must we get a vision to see those buses running again? Must we get a vision to go out and knock on some doors? Unless we get a vision to pick up the phone and call. Our relatives that aren't saved. Without a vision, people will perish. Proverbs says that. So then, last thing, what is your excuse for not going? I'm not saying what's your excuse for not being in the bus ministry, because I again I understand not everyone can be. I mean that'd be cool, but w not everyone can do the same thing. It wouldn't work But what's your excuse for not going? What's what is it that's key we saw those excuses at the beginning. You know, I bought five yoke of oxen. I bought a piece of land, I gotta go look at it. You know, I got married. What's your uh they're excuses? What are your excuses for not going? To the highways and hedges, compelling your neighbors, compelling your friends to come in. His house might be filled. So I hope this was a challenge to you. Um it was to me as I was studying it. And if you can't get involved physically, get on a bus That's okay. We want to see them pull. We want to see workers. We want to see four routes, really, well 20 million routes, but we want to see four routes go, one in each direction We have enough means right now for three, and we praise the Lord for that. But we want to see more. And if you feel like the Lord's leading you that direction to get involved with the bus ministry, don't hesitate Just just go right what did you say right up the gut. Just get just get right into it. But if not Pray for us as we get it uh back up and going. Consider what God would have you do, and by all means, don't use it as an excuse to not go and try to win someone to the Lord. Heads bowed, eyes closed, no one looking around for just a moment. Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you for the day you've given us. Lord, we ask that you would uh uh uh bless this invitation now. Um Lord and again help us just to to get a vision for the things you have a vision for. It's in Jesus' name.