The Bible says, Enter ye in at the straight gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat. Because straight is the gate, and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it. I'm going to speak tonight on the straight gate and the wide gate. We're actually only going to speak on the straight gate, and we're actually only going to give the introduction to my thoughts on the straight gate. And so um let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Word of God. I thank you for this sermon we've been studying now for quite some time, the Sermon on the Mount, what you've taught me. And the Lord would have learned from this. I pray that tonight as we look at these couple verses here, that you would uh open our hearts and minds and we would see and understand what you're saying. And Lord, I think I pray that more than just knowing what you're saying, I pray that we would know how it applies to our lives and what it means to us personally in our Christian life. And so I yield myself to you, Lord. I yield my will to yours as best I'm able to, I believe. I present my body anew to you in this moment. And ask that you would speak through me and that you'd challenge each and every one of us that we would grow in our walk with you and that we would be the disciples that you saved us to be. So please bless now, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Now some of the things I keep saying over and over and over, but I believe it's important for us to understand. The Sermon on the Mount is not an evangelistic message. If you remember, you go back to chapter 5 in the first verse or two there, the Lord is gathering his disciples, and I believe it's more than just his twelve immediate disciples. But it's a crowd of people who have trusted him as Savior. Uh I think that's implied there. And they have made the decision To not just be a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, but they're going to be a follower. They're going to be a disciple of Him. They've forsaken all. They've followed Him. They've met the conditions of discipleship, as the Lord lays out in other places. uh taking up their cross daily, following him, denying self. And um and so these are people that are pretty serious about their walk with God. They're pretty serious about being the kind of Christian God wants them to be. And they are called disciples. And so it's not an evangelistic message. It is a message on discipleship. And as I've said so often, it's basically the Lord is saying, you claim to be my disciple. You claim to be one of my disciples. Well, if that's the case, then these characteristics will be true in your life. Here's the thing about salvation. Here's the thing about being a Christian. And let me ask this. How many folks here tonight? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. Amen. So that's all of us, I would assume We know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. Salvation, and particularly discipleship, is not only getting a home in heaven. It doesn't just deal with my eternal destiny. Now, sometimes we're guilty of this, and I have to say, sometimes I'm guilty of this. We present salvation as if it is simply a fire escape from hell. And it is that I'm grateful that when I trust Christ, I'm saved from going to hell. I'm glad my sins are beginning. But it's so much more than that. Salvation is not just escaping hell and going to heaven. It is receiving a new life here and now on earth. We're all familiar with 2 Corinthians 5, 17. If any man be in Christ, he is a New creature, here and now. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. So it means when I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, it means I am not just receiving eternal life, a home in heaven I am also receiving a new nature. God is putting a new nature within me. He is creating within me a new, godly, holy nature. Peter talks about that. He gives us a new character. How many folks found that after you got saved, your priorities in life changed? Anyone here know what I'm talking about? Priorities changed. My values in life changed. And so the Lord is speaking to his disciples, and he is discipling his disciples, and he's saying, listen. You are my follower, you are my disciple, you've trusted me, you've forsaken all to follow me. Now there are certain attitudes that are going to be true in your life. And he talked about that early on in the message, back in chapter 5, when he went through the Beatitudes. He's really talking about these attitudes should characterize you as a disciple. And we spent a good bit of time on that. And then he talked about our reactions to people. As a disciple, I am going to react to what other people do or don't do differently than the world reacts. Because I now have a different nature. I have a new nature, a distinct nature from the nature the world has, what I was before. I still have that old simple nature, but I also have a new nature now And so when somebody hates me, I love them. When somebody curses me, I bless them. When they despitefully use me, I pray for them. And he goes through a list of things there and how we react differently as a disciple than what we did before we were saved and what the world does. So he says your character your life is going to be characterized by certain attitudes certain reactions to others. Remember we looked at a a lengthy portion there. He spoke on as a disciple, we have not just an external righteousness, but we have an internal righteousness. It's not just outwardly going through the motions, but inwardly in our hearts. Not only do we not kill somebody, we don't even hate them. Not only do we not commit adultery, we don't even lust in our heart. And he's saying this should be what characterizes the believers. And so there's an internal righteousness. He changes us from within. And not just this external that the Pharisees has. And then he says our motives in giving of our alms and our prayers and fasting. The Pharisees did all that externally to be seen of men. He says, but as my disciple, your motive is not going to be to draw attention to yourself and draw a claim for yourself. As a disciple, your motive is going to be to bring glory to God and uh have a real genuine fellowship and relationship with the Lord. So he's going through the message, is is a fascinating message, and here's the thing It's a very practical message. Did you pick that up? The Lord's not just throwing doctrine out there. He's going to say, this is how you behave. This is how it applies to you. And uh one thing the Lord is does tremendously, and then Paul was very good at that in his writings later on, of course, under inspiration, but he would present a doctrinal truth, but he always presented in a way that had a practical application. And that is the important thing I believe in uh in my role as pastor in preaching, but also in our ministries is that we not just throw facts out, but we want them to be practical, how they affect our lives and and become uh uh uh incorporated into how I live my life And that's what the Lord is doing through this sermon. He is being very, very practical. He'll make a statement. He'll give a doctrinal truth, so to speak, then he'll say, all right, this is how you respond to that. This is how you're affected by it. It's a tremendous sermon. And by the way, I say this fairly often. I want to keep it in front of us. We are an independent fundamental Baptist. It means we hold to the fundamentals of the faith. There's just nothing complicated about it. But the thing we have to watch out for is we don't just hold to a doctrinal statement, but we allow that doctrinal statement to affect how we live our lives. I've always contended that fundamentalism is more than just having a fundamental doctrinal statement. Fundamentalism, genuine fundamentalism, is living my life in light of that doctrinal statement. And allowing it to affect my life. I've been in churches back before when I was traveling. I'd be in churches. They were doctrinally as as they were as clean as a hound's tooth doctrinally Now I had a hound and its teeth weren't that clean, but um uh you know what I'm saying But they were as carnal and cold and rigid and unloving and uncaring and no soul winning and no concern for others and nobody got along, but boy they had their fundamental doctrines. To me that's not fundamentalism. Fundamentalism is, alright, I believe these fundamentals of the faith, and thus it affects how I live my life, how I interact with others. So that's what the Lord is doing here in his sermon, is very practical. He means for them to live out. The truths that he's presenting to them. And one of the one of the applications through the sermon is our priorities in life. Remember there when he was talking about our treasure? Lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and thieves break through and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures where? In heaven. For neither moth nor thief can get into. And so he's talking about priorities. And I have something I want to give. This is a little rabbit trail. But if you have the back of your sermon notes here, I want to give us all a test And this applies, I think this fits right into the message, and I think you'll see how it ties into our text. I want to give us a test tonight, and this is just for your own self. I'm not going to collect them up. This is just for you But a test on how to de how to evaluate my priorities. How many people think here think you think, well, I think I got a good grasp on what my priorities in life is. How many people say they would say, yeah, I think I know what my priorities in life is. Uh anybody ever think something was true about yourself, found out you were wrong? Yeah, I think I'm fine. There ain't nothing wrong with me. The doctor goes in, you're about dead, man. You better do something right now. You know what I'm saying? And so I got a little test I want to give. To evaluate. And I took it myself, and I'm not going to tell you how I scored. Alright, but how a test on how to evaluate my priorities. Write this first question down. This is going to help us evaluate our priorities. Write this question down. Then you answer it however you want, and maybe take it with you and work on it some other time. Determining my priorities. As a disciple, I have different priorities than the world. The Lord has saved me. He's given me a new nature and new priorities. So, what are my priorities? Number one, write this down. How do I spend my free time? How do I spend my free time? Obviously, we got work schedule and different stuff that we don't have any choice. But when I got some time and I can choose to do with it whatever I want. That will be a good indicator to some extent of what's a priority in my life, what's a high value in my life, what I choose to spend my time with Now, I'm not suggesting that all we do, well, if you're going to be spiritual, if the Lord's your top priority, you're seeking him first. I'm not suggesting that we just sit and read our Bibles and pray all day long. I'm not suggesting that, and I don't see that anywhere in scripture. That's all you do. But I am suggesting this. When I evaluate how do I use my free time, If I put something before the time I spend with my Lord, then that becomes an issue. Is my time that I spend in devotion to the Lord, the time I spend alone with God, Him speaking to my heart through the Bible and me speaking to Him in prayer, and I'm interacting with the Lord that uh devotion time If that's constantly being pushed to the side, that's constantly being fit in when I quote unquote have time Then I think it's safe to say that my time with the Lord is not a high priority. Would you agree with that It's always secondary. It's always if I have time. It's always pushed in. You get the end of the day. Oh, good night. I didn't read my Bible. All right, there we go. Got it done. Right? And so how do I spend my free time? It doesn't mean I do not place other things before or above my time with the Lord. Number, here's my second question. How do I spend my money? Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. So how how do I spend my money? He said, well, I pay my bill. I got a couple bucks left over or whatever. What is the priority of my money? Somebody says, let me look at your checkbook and I'll know what you value. What you're spending your money on, what you're investing in. And that'll tell me what you value. I like the story of the guy that was getting baptized and he was coming down the water. The preacher was baptized, he's coming down the water, and the preacher noticed his wallet was still in his clothes. And he says, uh hold it, hold it, he says, you got your wallet there, let's take that out and set it aside. He goes, Nope, I want my money to get baptized too. So a good question to ask myself is what am I investing my resources in? My time? What do I invest my finances in? Now we're not suggesting we don't pay our bills. We don't get groceries. We don't and there's nothing wrong with spending a little, you know, so on our cells, vacation or whatever. Not saying any of that. But If my finances are all about whatever my finances emphasize, that's what I highly value. And so a good question there. Number three Ask myself this question. What do I talk about? What do I talk about? Out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. And so we have a tendency, or we can put on a show, and sometimes we can talk the talk and not walk the walk, but we have a tendency. To talk about what's important to us. What comes out of my mouth is a strong indicator of what's in my heart. And so the Lord addresses that. Let me give you this fourth one here, real quick. How committed am I to church? How committed am I to church? I put it this way: my involvement in church is a strong indicator of my commitment to Christ and his body. I personally have a hard time separating my commitment to Christ from my commitment to the body of Christ. Me, the church is part of my relationship with Christ. And so evaluate myself there. It's secondary if I just kind of squeeze it in when I can I can if there's nothing else going on. If I can't come up with something to get out of it, I'll go there or whatever, you know, or uh You know, we have a thousand things. Or if it's good and strong, then that indicates to me that my relationship with the Lord is a high priority, a high value in my life. And I think my commitment to the church is a good indicator of that there. Let me give you one more, and I think this one's important. And we think of the young people in this one, but it's true for all ages. Who do I choose as companions? Who do I choose as companions? If I got some time, who do I gravitate to? If there's you know, I got a day or so off or whatever, I got something who are the people that I tend to gravitate to that I want to be with, I I I'm comfortable with spending time with? If I will look at them and look at what their values and priorities are, that's a good indicator of what my values and priorities are. The people I choose as companions, whatever their values and priorities are, is a good indicator of what my values and priorities are. Birds of a feather thought together. Like interest and and uh thing. It's amazing uh when um when I was younger at youth pastor and we have a big rally. We'd have uh every now and then kind of like we do here in the fall or big one we do one in Indianapolis there We have a big rally and uh it's incredible how the how the kids are rebellious, the rebellious kids, they're total strangers. You got 15 different churches, none of them ever met with each other, and it's like they have sonar, radar, being, rebel, how in the world do they find each other like that? And uh so how I gr who I gravitate to and who I choose to spend time with is a strong indicator of what I value. So here I said all that, that's my test. So you can take that and work on that if you want to. But uh I said all that to say this: the uh the whole gist of the Lord's sermon, in my mind, is the Lord is saying, as disciples of mine. Your values, your priorities, your attitudes, your nature is different than the values, priorities, and the nature of the unsaved world, of the world Do you notice he's constantly contrasting with the Pharisees? Constantly contrasting with uh uh with the world. So the Sermon on the Mount is basically disciples have different values, different priorities, different perspective on life and God and all that than the world. So now we come to our text. That's kind of a summary. So why were you summarizing the Sermon on Mount at this point? Because I believe But at this point in the sermon, we have a major change in the sermon. I think this is a major, you could say, major division, maybe in the sermon. We're coming down to the end of his sermon. And these last statements that he's making are, I believe, as I studied this, I came to this conclusion. These are the final statements of the sermon. He's made his argument He's presented his points. He's uh he's uh given these truths out as he goes through and makes application. Now he's kind of coming back I believe in this last verse 13 down through 27, and he's kind of summarizing, in a sense, what he had been teaching them. He may be restating it to some degree in a in a simpler form. He's making application here. Now Let's look at verse thirteen and fourteen again. I want to read them again, then I want to look at these in an introductory way, and then I'm going to give you the outline of the sermon I'm not going to preach tonight Verse 13, Enter. Now remember, he's saying you're different than the world, your reaction, your character, your nature, all that's different than the world. Now he says this. Enter ye in at the straight gate For wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat. Because straight is the gate, narrow is the way which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it. I do not believe that this is an evangelistic passage. I think you can apply it in an evangelistic way. I've used it. You know, listen, you know, the straight gate, narrow way, broad way leads to destruction. Life destruction. I think you can apply it with that, but I don't believe that's what this is. I think the Lord is presenting here, I think he's addressing two aspects of the life of a disciple Two aspects of the life of the disciple. Notice two key words. He says, Enter ye in at the straight gate. Gate. Alright, somebody help me out here a little bit. What is a gate? Entering in at the straight gate. What is he talking about when he says enter in at the Don't don't focus on the word straight. We'll talk about that later. Just the gate. What is he what is a gate? Just a doorway? A way in, an entrance. It's the entrance into something. It's a, would you maybe put it this way? It's an opening in a barrier And well hey you have a house, you have the walls, you can't get in, I gotta go through this gate. Maybe a yard, uh I gotta go through this gate, down uh, you know, on the farm, they got the fence, you got the gate. And so that is the entrance into the life of a disciples of a disciple uh the entrance into a disciple, uh into the life of a disciple. Uh I'm getting a little ahead of myself, that's why I'm hesitating here a little bit. But um How does what is the gate into eternal life? The Lord Jesus Christ. He worded it a little differently in John. He said he says, I am the door. I am the door. In John chapter 14, verse 6, he says, I am the way, the truth, and life. No man cometh unto the Father but By me, through me. And so when the Lord says, when the Lord says here in verse 13, any in at the straight gate, I believe he's addressing the entrance into the life of a disciple. I cannot be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ if I'm not a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. Right? And so this is the entrance. This is the beginning. This is the entrance into the life of the disciple, the gate. We're going to talk about that a little bit later, the gate. But then notice he says you come down to verse number 14. He says, because straight is a gate. Now he contrasted, verse 13, the second half, he contrasts the way to hell. Straight is the gate that leads the light. Way to hell is broad. But then he comes down, verse 14 says, because straight is the gate, and then he makes another statement. Because straight is the gate and what? Narrow is the way. He's talking about two different aspects of the life of a disciple. First is the entrance into the life of disciple through the gate, through the Lord Jesus Christ, the door. I'm accepting him, I'm putting my faith and trust in him, and I'm now entered into The life of a disciple. I've now received eternal life. I'm in the family of God. So he says that gate, that entrance into eternal life, is very, very straight. But then he says, narrow is the way. The way, the word way there has this idea: a path that is traveled to a destination. It's one place it was translated a journey. Narrow is the path that leads to a destination. Narrow is the journey. Once you're in the door, once you're in, then the life, that way, that journey, that path you're living you're living, you're walking on, you're traveling on, is narrow It's very narrow. Um it's uh it has the idea of uh I like this definition, a route to a destination. So I believe there's two aspects of the Christian life being presented here. One is my entrance into eternal life. into the life of a disciple. And then the way, the narrow way, is my experience. Once I'm in Living the Christian life, living the life of a disciple. Now, with that in mind, that narrow way, again, I'm getting way ahead of myself here, but that narrow way, looking back over his sermon We can see what he means by that narrow way, right? I mean he's saying you're not like the Pharisees. You're and you're not You're not giving an eye for an eye. You're going to forgive if somebody does something. You're going to somebody cusses you. You're going to bless them. If they hate you, you're going to love them. That's a very narrow way, as far as the world's concerned. The world says, what? Why don't you knock the knucklehead out? You know, he deserves a good cursing. Curse him out. The Lord says, no, if you're my disciple, you're on a very narrow way. Very narrow way. And so I think he is here first addressing two aspects of the life of disciple. One is the gate entering in, it's very straight. And the other is the way, once you're in, it's very narrow. So then, number two, I notice here, is he explains these two aspects of the life of a disciple. Alright, the gate is the entrance into this life. And he says that gate is what? What'd he say? Entry in into what kind of gate? A straight gate. In fact, he makes that reference a couple times down through here. Anyway, and it's a straight gate, verse 14, because straight is the gate. Anyone want to take a guess at what the word straight means? Well, it's not crooked. It's not talking about being crooked. It means this. This word straight is an old English word. It simply means this. To be close on either side. To be very, very restrictive. In other words, you it is the only way to get through. You go through there. It is very narrow. It is very uh the the in other words what he's saying here, salvation is very, very specific. Very, very narrow The gospel is narrow minded. That way into eternal life, that way to salvation is very, very straight, very, very narrow. uh is very very restrictive. And then uh the the s the gate is straight. And then he says the way is narrow. Once you're in, now I'm living that Christian life. Now I'm living that life of a disciple. I'm on the journey now. to my destination. And he says that way is narrow. And it has this idea. It's very compressed. In other words, there's not a lot of room in the life of a disciple to meander around. It's pretty laid out. It's pretty narrow there. If I'm going to be the disciple, God saved me to be. If I'm going to journey that travel that journey that God uh saved me to travel, if I'm going to live that life, God saved me to live. It's very, very narrow. Um uh the word means to be no room to meander about or to wander about. You see some people who they may be saved. I mean, we see some people that are saved but aren't living the life of a disciple. They may just profess to be saved and be going through the masons, but they're just constantly wandering. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Sometimes they're on, sometimes they're off. Sometimes they're in, sometimes they're out. Sometimes they're hot, sometimes they' Cope The Lord says, no, no, the life of a disciple, if you're going to be the disciple, if you're going to be my disciple, then that way, that journey, that life, is going to be very, very narrow. There's not going to be a lot of wandering around The Lord said in Revelation, he says, I would that thou wert cold or hot. But because you're lukewarm, you're just wandering around. It's nothing. I spew thee out of my mouth. And so uh the word uh narrow has the idea of being very compressed, very narrow, no room to wander around. And I got studying that word and I found this definition. In fact, it's translated several places in our Bible this way. The word narrow mean uh also has the idea of being troublesome Difficult, challenging. One word, definition I came across was stressful. You say, what? The Christian life? Being a disciple of Christ is difficult? There's trouble? There's challenges? It's stressful? Yeah, that's what the Lord says. Nowhere does Jesus Christ present the Christian life as something easy. Never. He never presents the Christian life as something that is going to be very, very popular He never presents to the Christian life that there's not going to be any battles, there's not going to be any warfare, there's not going to have you're never going to have to stand up against anything. In fact, the very opposite, he presents the victorious, the disciple, the life of a disciple, as a constant warfare. Constant battle with the world, constant battle with the flesh, the constant battle with the devil. Read the stuff that Paul said. He said one place he says I fought uh where is it in Ephesus he says I I I fought the lions, the beasts, is that how he words it? Man, Paul, and then if he gets to the end of his life in Timothy, and he says this, well, it's been a great luxury cruise line. And everything was just cake and pie and and whipped cream and i and strawberries. And say that at all. He says, I have fought a good what? Fight. I've fought a good fight. And so the Lord's telling him here, say, listen, the way into salvation, the way into eternal life is very, very narrow. There's only one way. We live in a day We live in a day where a lot of Christians are trying to stretch that gate and that straight gate and make it as wide as they possibly can. Well, as long as you're sincere Well, you know, we all worship the same God. They're all, everybody's going to make it to heaven. No, no. Jesus said that gate is very straight, very narrow. There's only one way through it. It's through the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, once you're in, you need to understand in this world, because we are so different, because our nature is different, because our values are different, because our priorities are different We are going to have challenges and opposition and difficulties, and we're going to have to deal with stress because we are in enemy territory. We're on a very narrow way. And a very difficult, challenging way. Here's the thing about the Lord Jesus Christ: He never sugarcoats the Christian life. Never does. In fact, he said one place says, Y'all want to f and I'm putting this in my own words, he says, y'all want to follow me? You've got to hate your mom and dad, brother, sister, wife, husband, kids, your own life also. What? It's like we do everything we can to try and get as many people as, and it's like the Lord did everything he could to thin the crowd out. And say, listen, it's for real. It's not easy. It's a challenge. You say, well, Brother Leatherman, that's miserable. Who would want to do that? I tell you, the Lord gives joy in the midst of the battle. Read the Psalms David is singing in the midst of his biggest challenges. The Lord gives peace. In the most stressful situations, the Lord gives us peace. Peace of heart, peace of mind. I heard a preacher of a large ministry, a good, solid work years ago. I mean a huge school and ministries around the world, monstrous. If I said his name, probably most of you would be would be familiar with it. He said this. He pointed up to a tree and out on the little limb, there was just a little limb sticking out way up at the top of the tree. He said, That's where I live. Out on this little limb Just have to live by faith. And I think that's what the Lord is saying here, you and I as a Christian. So we need to understand. Then he goes through. Now here's the outline I'm not going to give you because I want to spend time, but here's the outline of the sermon I'm not going to give you, and we'll come back after missions conference and give it to you. But the first thing I notice there is decision. Enter ye in at the straight gate. That's a decision needs to be made. Now we're not preaching it, but just say this. Nobody gets everybody that gets saved gets saved on purpose. Nobody just happens to meander into this straight gate, just accidentally walk through it. Oh wow, I didn't even know where I went. No. It's decision. Number two, there's distinction. And verse number 13, he says, this is the straight gate, there's the wide gate to destruction. There's the wide, broad is the way, wide is the gate. Many are going that way. So he compares the two. He makes a distinction between the way of life and the way of destruction. And then he gives the difficulty, and he says, straight is the gate, narrow is the way that leads to life, and few there be that find it. So, how do I apply this? I think number one, we need to understand that if we're saved, I believe most of us here on a Wednesday night would Call ourselves a disciple. Most of us, I think, would decid consider ourselves, I'm a disciple, I'm trying to follow Christ, I'm trying to do that. And he says, well if that's the case, then you're going to be very, very different than the world. Your values, your priorities, your way of thinking, your perspective on everything is going to be completely different than the world. This world is not his kingdom, he said. I'm of a different kingdom. We live by a higher standard, a different standard. And we have got to get comfortable with not fitting into the world. That's where a lot of people struggle. If I'm a disciple, I'm very, very different. I'm on a different way. I'm living by different values and different priorities. Amen? Does that make sense? So let's pray and ask the Lord to help us to see that and understand that. And I think if we understand that we're in enemy territory and we're traveling on a very narrow way I think that helps us understand maybe some of the things that come into our lives, the things the Lord allows us to deal with that we have to deal with Now, Father in Heaven, we come to you and I pray that these thoughts uh made sense, Lord, and that um they would challenge our walk with you and the importance of um understanding as disciples that we are uh have a new nature, we have new priorities or a new character, and we would allow those things to be true. We'd recognize that and and live according to these things. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, say, preacher, you know, I n need to uh consider my priorities in life and the things I value and Things I invest my time and effort and resources in. You'd say, Preacher, pray with me. I want to keep the Lord there, the very center, and be that disciple he saved me to be. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? That's my heart and mine. Certainly. We would all feel that way And so we need the Lord to help us on a daily basis. Father, I pray you'd take these thoughts that you would challenge us. Lord, we it's hard to give an invitation without the piano, but Lord, I just pray maybe our pew's here. would be uh a little altar. We could say, Lord, here am I. Uh you saved me to live for you and to be that disciple. So Help me, Lord, I pray, to live that life and be that person you saved me to be. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen