Alright, 1 Peter chapter 5, verse number 10. The Bible says, But the God of all grace Who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus. Now look at this statement. This is what I want to zero in on, this last little phrase here. After that ye have what? After that, you have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. He says you're going to suffer. And after that's over, after your suffering, if you get through that, it's just going to be a while, but when you come out of it. Four things you can benefit from that suffering. One is make you perfect. Two, it can establish you. Number three, it can strengthen you, and four, it can settle you. And what Peter's telling these believers who knew a little bit about suffering, they, as I say it all the time, but they paid, they paid a heavy price. For their discipleship, for their being disciples of Christ, followers of Christ. They pay dearly. We've talked about that at length. And he says, listen, when you get through this suffering, after a little while, you'll come out of it, and there's four benefits. And so I want to talk about the benefits of suffering. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. Sure has been a good day, and I pray that you would meet with us once again in a very real way. I pray your presence would be very, very evident tonight As we talk about something that you know what this is, Christ suffered for us. And so as we join in with his suffering, and we experience it in our lives, I pray you'd help us have the right perspective and the right understanding of why you allow this. And so, Lord, I yield myself to you. I want to be a faithful preacher of your word I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you would speak your word through me to all of our hearts and minds. That when we do face that suffering, or some of us in it right now going through a hard time Pray you'd help us have a right perspective, a right understanding, and trust you and come out and experience the benefits Of that suffering you allow. So again, have your way, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Nobody likes suffering. And Peter is trying to encourage these folks. And like I said in my opening statement there, they knew what suffering was: physically, emotionally, spiritually. And uh they've been through it. And here's the strange thing about these New Testament believers. And by the way, we want to emulate the New Testament believers. That's the pattern. That's the model that's been set for us in the book of Acts, church-wide and our own individual lives. And here's the strange thing about these New Testament believers, and I mentioned this two months ago in our message. I'll just briefly get us up to speed. But the strange thing is they rejoice in their suffering. How many people agree with me? That's odd. To rejoice in affliction, to rejoice in persecution? And if you remember, I doubt, but if you remember, we went through and looked at a numerous passages Where they said stuff like they are they rejoiced that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for the Lord Jesus Christ. And they're talking about being thrown in prison, being beat up. Stoned, uh, uh beaten with uh cadinine tails. I mean, they're talking about real heavy duty persecution, and they're rejoicing in it. We pointed out, we started this, if you notice there, verse 10. It says, after that ye have suffered. And the implication there is that suffering is inevitable. Nobody's getting through life without facing some suffering. In fact, you're not going to get, in fact, I don't know how it was you. I mean I was just born. I wasn't 30 seconds old and the doctor slapping me. And that's kind of a precedent for the rest of your life, isn't it? You're just getting slapped around. And you can't get through life. It's inevitable. Nobody gets through life without suffering. Most of us try to avoid it. I do. We don't like it. We try to get away without it, but nobody gets through life without a little bit of pain. Am I right or wrong? In fact, I'm at the point I don't get through the day without some pain. Tears. Tears are a common affliction with humanity. Tears Um, hurt. By the way, our church said shed some tears in the last two, three days, haven't we? Betty Gallagher and her stroke and all that. Here's our part of life. We can't avoid it. You might think you're the toughest macho man in the county, but I'm telling you, the right circumstances, you'll break down, you'll be crying. Right or wrong? It's inevitable. Hurt, heartache, grief For the disciples of Christ, the early believers, suffering was a very real part of their Christian life. It was part of it. Very common part, very normal. In fact, in Acts chapter 14, it makes this statement. It says, we must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of God. Jesus said, I believe it's in John, he says, he says, in the world you shall have tribulation It's inevitable. Say, boy, praise the Lord preacher, I'm glad I came to church tonight, tell me you how terrible things are Oh, it's a fact of life. Do you know sometimes we bring suffering, we bring tears, we bring hurt and heartache and grief. You know, sometimes we bring it on ourselves by our own stupid decisions we make. How many people here? Anybody here give testimony that preacher at some time in my life I've hit I made a stupid decision and man it hurt me. Can I get a witness? Yeah We've all been there. Sometimes our actions we bring tears to our own eyes because of our own stupid actions. Our own sinful behavior. Our young people are down here. I appreciate the young p I'm telling you, I thank God for the young people who come to our church. I love them. I like to tease them. I like to have fun. And uh but I want our young people to understand When we get up and preach, or when Pastor Matt teaches, or we sit down and talk with him a little bit, I want our young people to understand when we say firmly, listen, you should not do this. Or stay away from that, or make sure you do this, and make sure you don't do that. I want our young people to understand we're not doing that just to be hateful. Pastor Matt and I don't sit in the office and come up with schemes to make our teams miserable You know why we do that? You know why we say you need to stay away from this these type of people and these places and these these websites? You know why we do that? Because we've made stupid decisions in our life and it hurt us and we don't want you to do the same thing We love you. It's like it's like somebody standing at an intersection and they know that that road leads to a dead end or a cliff. And we say, don't go down that road. It's bad. You're going to have an accident. You're going to have it messed up. It's going to destroy your car. Don't go down this road. That's what we're saying. Listen, we've been down some of those roads. We know where they lead. Don't go there. And sometimes we bring grief and sorrow and hurt on ourselves because we act stupid. We don't listen to God. They don't listen to others that have gone before us and know a little bit what they're talking about. Ain't nobody telling me what to do. Well, if that's your attitude, I can I I'll tell you, I know something about you. You're gonna have a rough rope. You know, life is hard. It's even harder if you're stupid. It's one of my favorite quotes in all the world. That great theologian, John Wayne, said that. So suffering is inevitable. He says, after that you have suffered for a while. In other words, the implication is, hey, it's coming And sometimes we bring it on ourselves and sometimes we do everything right. We trust God and we try and live by the book and we trust We listen to others and we do our best to make wise decisions and be submissive to the Lord. And we still suffer. Sometimes we suffer because we do right. We live in a world that does not appreciate doing right. Sometimes it's because of our faith in God and our obedience to the Lord we have heartache and grief and pain. Anybody here ever have somebody that was important to you, you cared about them, but because of your faith They said something unkind and it hurt you. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Sometimes God brings it in, he's trying to develop us, and that's what Peter's talking about So my first point, I already talked about it, I spent longer on that than I wanted to. First point is suffering is inevitable. I mean we're going to have heartache. We're going to go through some tough times. Young people, just brace yourself. It's coming Old folks, we're still dealing with it. It's part of life. Number two, we pointed out here: suffering is not just inevitable, but it's temporal. Look what he says there. After ye have suffered a while. That phrase a while means a brief period of time. Back in chapter 1, verse 6, he said, for a season, a short while. It isn't always this way. Maybe I'm talking to someone here in the auditorium or online or listening later date. And man, you're going through it. And our tendency, our the temptation is to think when I'm in the midst of heartache and my heart is so broken and I'm uh I'm hurting so bad, the temptation is to think, this is the way it's always going to be the rest of my life. And that's not necessarily the case. Joy comes in the mourning. We thing may endure for the night, but joy comes in the morning. Sooner or later the storm blows away and the sun comes out. And Peter says, listen, it's for a while. And by the way, for some folks, that sooner or later is when we walk through the gates of heaven and be with the Lord, and it's all past. But it's not going to be this way always. I tell you, for the believer, going to heaven is a wonderful thing. It's a wonderful thing. Sorrow is all past. What a day that will be. When Jesus I shall see. And so suffering is inevitable. It's temporal. And then here's what I want to get to as quickly as I can tonight. Suffering is beneficial. And that's what Peter is saying here. Look here with me. After that ye have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. Nobody likes to suffer. We've said that. And here's the thing. I did a funeral this past week and I spoke with the family a little bit. And when someone dies unexpectedly, usually, maybe younger Our first question is what? Why? Now here's my question. Why do we ask why? Because we want to try and make sense out of it. This is what I think. I think we ask why. The reason we ask why did this happen? Why did this happen? I think the reason we do that is because if we can believe that there is a reason, that there's a purpose behind this It helps us deal with it. It helps us understand. Okay, uh all right, I see why. All right, that makes sense. All right, I I can deal with this. You follow what I'm trying to say And we ask why. We want some reason. We want some rhyme. We want some purpose and meaning behind what is hurting me. Here's the thing, we don't always know why. In fact, most of the time we don't know why, a lot of times. And so if we can just figure out why is God allowing me to hurt Why is God allowing these tears to burn down my cheeks? Why is God allowing all this turmoil in my life? Why is God allowing all this pain? And if I can figure out that there's a reason behind it, that there's a purpose behind it, that'll help me deal with it. I'm here to tell you there is a purpose. And by the way, that purpose for hurt and suffering is not because God made a mistake. God's too wise to make mistakes. And it's not because God is unkind. God is far too good to be unkind to us. He has something he wants to accomplish in our lives. There's some purpose he wants to fulfill in our lives. There's something about us he wants to develop. And so he allows this suffering for a while To mold us and help us and develop us. How many people ever heard this statement? No pain, no gain. Weightlifters know what this is, Pastor Matt. He'll come we'll we'll pray here sun uh Saturday nights sometimes and he'll be uh working out and lifting weights and all of that. Hey, I'm I want to tell you I lift weights too. Every morning I get up, I lift weights up out of the bed. And he'll come in and say, Oh my legs. Am I right? Oh, I was doing squats. Oh, my legs hurt so bad. And I'm thinking, what knucklehead would do that to himself? And he says, uh and he'll uh tell me if I'm right or wrong. He'll say, It was great You know what he's saying? He knows if he's going to be in the physical shape he wants to be, there has to be some pain. Has to be some suffering. Has to be some hurt to get to that point. And what's true physically is true spiritually. And God knows if we're going to grow spiritually, if we're going to develop spiritual maturity, if our faith is going to grow and be strong. It will not grow. It will not be strong. In comfort and ease and luxury, it has to be tested. It has to be stretched. It has to be poked and pulled for our faith to grow. He says, so after you suffer for a little while, there'll be some benefits. It'll help you if we respond properly. The Bible gives us several benefits for suffering. Stu, can I get you to close that door back there for me? Thanks. The Bible gives, I mean, we could spend a series Six-month series on the benefits of suffering. We won't turn to all these, but Genesis chapter 50 and verse 20, Joseph, would you agree with me? Joseph knew a little bit about suffering. He knew about injustice. And his brothers come to him after after daddy died. His brothers come to him who betrayed him and planned on murdering him, lied about him their whole lives. I mean you talk about a a group of fellas I would not trust these yardbirds And they come to him and they lie to his face and they say, oh, Joseph, now remember, he's number two in Egypt. I mean, all he had to do was look at a guard and go These guys are done. And they come and say, Joseph, sir. Daddy said before he died that you're supposed to forgive us. That's a flat lie. Joseph said, Off with their heads. No, he didn't say that. You know what he said? It's tremendous. I wish we'd time. He says, you meant this for evil, but God meant it for good. And then he tacks on a little statement to, and I'm and I'm I'm not sure I'm quoting this exactly right, but something to this about He said, You meant it for evil, but God meant it for good to save many lives. Do you know there's a whole nation? That God allowed Joseph go through that suffering so he could get in a position where these lives could be saved. There was a purpose for it, there was a benefit. I wonder how many of those Egyptians that survived that famine would have said, Boy, I'm sure glad Joseph was willing to endure that and maintain his integrity, because I'd be a dead man if he hadn't. So there's a purpose. Joseph didn't know anything about all this while he's gone through it. But he trusted God, he did what was right, and God had a plan. We could go to and we want, but we can go to Psalm 119, 71. It said, It's good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. I always think of Paul's sign, Charlotte, every time I read that, because he would quote that to me and he said how God used his sickness to help him learn the scripture and grow. Sometimes God puts us through the mill so we can understand some of what that book says and understand how it relates and what God's talking about. There are benefits to suffering. Sometimes it helps others. If I'm faithful through that suffering, trust God, do right. It'll be a blessing and help to others. Sometimes it's I can learn and develop my understanding of who God is and what he says and how he operates. Second Corinthians 1, verse 4, I use this one a lot in working with people, but it says that after we've been through it, that we can comfort others with the comfort that God gave us. Sometimes God lets us go through some physical pain and physical affliction. God helps us through that and God strengthens us through that so that I come across someone else down the road a few years and they're going through the th same thing I can say this, I can say, listen, I know what you're going through, but I can say more than that, I can say, let me tell you how God helped me through that, he'll do the same thing for you. And so if God puts us through trial, God puts us through suffering, then he helps us if we trust him, he sees us through that, then down the road we have somebody else that says, hey, let me tell you what God did for me I come from a broken home. You know my story. Talk about making stupid decisions. I'm the king of stupid decisions. And that wasn't God's will. It's never God's will for anybody to sin. But when we do, God can take that and turn that around and use that so we can help others. And you know what I can do? I can sit down, I'll tell you right now, I can sit down with someone that's gone through a broke a child of a broken home. I'm telling you right now, I can sit down with them and with confidence and authority I can say, listen God used that in my life to bring me to Christ. I messed up just as bad as you did. Let me tell you what God did. He forgave me, He changed my life, He showed His power in my life. And so God has a purpose. Part of one of those purposes is so that we can help others going through that same thing at a later date. But here's the thing, we've got to stay faithful to the Lord through that trial. Or I can't help anybody. If I get bitter, I say, uh God. I'm not going to be much of a help to the next person comes along. What am I going to tell them? Oh yeah, get bitter at God. That'll help you. Curse God and die, that'll be bet good. Follow what I'm saying? So God allows things into our life. Sometimes He needs to Break our heart and disappoint us and have us go through unjustice and get us in a position and man we can do some great good Sometimes it's to help us learn more about him and how he operates and who he is. Sometimes it's to prepare me to be a help and blessing to someone else down the road. James chapter 1 says, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, trials, sorrows. Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. Now let me just let me paraphrase, let me use my rendition. I think when he's talking about patience there, to an extent, he's talking about maturity. Would you agree with me? Impatience is a characteristic of immaturity. Right or wrong? Let me just I'm just gonna say it. An impatient person is an immature person. Say, what, you don't think you're impatient? Hey, I never said I'm not impatient. I'm just saying it's a characteristic of immaturity. Do you ever notice a little baby when they eat, what do they want? Ah! Right now Not one of our boys, when they were small babies, sat around and said, uh, whenever you get time, bring the heat the bottle up and bring it around. They never said that. They want they widdle of the night. Am I right or wrong? Thank you, Nikita So God I mean we could go through, and I spent longer on that than I wanted to, but we could all through the scripture we have examples and illustrations. Of people whose hearts were absolutely shattered, whose hearts were completely broken. And God used it in a great way. Did you note we're studying David on Wednesday night, so we're winding down our study of David? We only have a few more messages on that, I believe. Do you know some of David's sweetest, most encouraging psalms? That have been a blessing to more people than perhaps any other psalm ever written. Some of David's greatest psalms were written times when his heart was absolutely shattered. When he's being hounded by Saul unjustly, being lied about Some of his great Psalms were written, Psalm 51. What a Psalm. Anybody here ever been helped by Psalm 51? That was in the midst of absolute abject failure. I mean as as dead of a failure as you can come up with. David. And tears, no doubt, streaming down his cheeks, his dead child. His conscience torn apart, his testimony in shambles. The shame that came upon that man after God's own heart when it dawned on him, what have I done? And he pens. Have mercy upon me, O God. Against thee and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. How God has used a man who is shattered. And out of that, one of the most encouraging, blessed testimonies and songs of restoration in all scripture, right or wrong? God, here's the thing. We were talking about this a little bit yesterday. Here's the thing. Not everything that happens is God's will. We understand that, right? Is it God's will that somebody dies and goes to hell? No. Right, exactly. Is it God's will that some young girl be hurt by some sick man? No, that's not God's will. Never. Never Does God allow it? Just because He allowed it, doesn't mean He's His will, but He does allow it. And the fact that he allows it tells me this. I can use, as horrific as it may be, I can use that to help other people. There was a gal, I'm so far off my notes, there's no hope of ever getting back tonight. I've crossed that international dateline, there's no going back There's a dear lady who come down the Tennessee Temple and she'd about once a year, Dr. Robertson bring her in there and she'd give her testimony in a chapel. I don't remember her name, but I know it was horrific. Her parents, what people did to her. As a young person, is horrific. But she got saved. And here's the thing: not a hint of bitterness Not a hint of anger. Now she went through that, but she came to the point and said, God, you allowed this? And you must have something you can bring out of this, and I'm just going to trust you. And I tell you, God used that dear lady to help so many thousands. Of people that went through her situation or similar or unrelated, but she could touch their heart. She could feel their empathy, she could empathize with their pain and their sorrow, and she'd win people to Jesus Christ. Left and right. We don't like sorrow. We don't want to be treated unjustly. We don't want to be hated. But God allows it and he has a purpose. Preacher, is it wrong to ask why? I don't think it's wrong to ask why. David did over and over. Wherefore? God, why? Why? Read the book of Job. God, why? In fact, Jesus Christ on the cross said, My God, my God, why? It's not a problem. There's no reason to ask why. But we need to keep in the back of our minds there is an answer to that question, why Whether we ever get it or not, we may not get it ever get it to heaven until we get to heaven. But we need to know God is good. God has a plan, and God can use our mess, as horrific as they are, God can use them to bring some good to other people. Amen? I'm not even going to try to go back to the notes. Let's pray. Oh, wait a minute, before we pray, I'm sorry. I do want to say this. How many people ever saw a preacher do that before? I think that was a first for me. Did you know that 67 years ago today, and this applies, And that's the reason why I want to use this today. Sixty-seven years ago today, on January 8th, 1956. Listen. Five young men had given their lives to reach a group of Indians they called the Auca Indians down in Central America. They've been making contact, and they've been flying over. These are Indians that have never been t never been interacted with civilization at all. Cannibals, barbarians, in every sense of the word. Before they left that morning, they prayed. And this is what they said. If God would grant us the vision, The word sacrifice would disappear from our lips and our thoughts. We would have a vision of heaven and hell and what Christ Can do for people. The word sacrifice would disappear from our lips and thought. We would hate the things that seem now so dear to us Our lives would suddenly be too short. We would despise time-robbing distractions and charge the enemy with all our energies in the name of Christ. In other words, we'd put away We would hate these things that are wasting our time, and we would charge the devil. We'd charge the enemy with all our energies in the name of Christ. May God help us. Ourselves by the eternities that separate the aukas from a comprehension of Christ And him who, though he was rich, yet for our sakes became poor, so that we might through his poverty be made rich. That was their prayer that morning before they flew out. We don't want to be distracted and waste our life with these meaningless distractions. We want it to be all in all out for Christ, whatever the cost. And they landed on a sandy beach of the river there in that jungle. They radioed back. We're making contact. We're making contact. Silence. I think it was a day or two later, the National Guard or whoever came in, they found their bodies pierced through with arrows and spears. Killed by the people they loved and wanted to bring to Christ. You say, what a waste. And the wives, Elizabeth Elliot, the brokenheartedness, the weeping, the the grief. Their husbands gave their lives in such a tragic way. And the world said, what a waste! Sorrow. All meaningless. But it wasn't meaningless. As a result of that, tens of thousands of Christians were stirred. to get the gospel out and there was a revival of missions efforts all around the world and missionaries flooded out on the mission field as a result of the testimony. And those men that killed those five missionaries, Jim Elliott and Nate Saint and those guys Macaulay, those five guys Those men that killed them, the wives went back later and won them to Christ. And they began winning souls and starting churches there among their villages. He's not here tonight, but Brian Schofield, he was in Bible college, met one of those men who killed Nate Saint. And came and spoke in his Bible college down in Washington and shared his testimony how God saved him from sin in hell. That's something? Ask Brian about it After that you have suffered a while. There's a benefit. God has a plan. God has a purpose, even in our deepest grief. Now, let's bow our heads and close our eyes and pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to have faith in you. Against all odds and in the most confusing circumstances, help us to trust you. Help us to believe you. And Lord, we want you to mold us and make us through our grief and through our sorrow into those people, those men and women, that you can use to have an impact on an old sinful world. I wonder how many would say tonight, say, preacher, I want God to have his way in my life, whatever it involves, whatever that means. I want to yield fully, completely to him. Heartache, sorrow, pain, whatever it may be, I'm going to trust him. I want him to use me. Be a testimony to the grace and goodness and power of God. Is there any like that? But the uplifted hand. That's my hands raised. I don't like to cry. I don't like the heartbroken. I don't like tension and grief. I want God to do what he needs to do in my heart and life to make me the person I need to be. Father, bless our invitation. Help us. We finish out this Lord's day. Submissive, yielded to you. And you can use us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads bowed, eyes closed. Jennifer's playing that invitation hymn