And uh then his preaching is just straight down the line. I've said this before, there's a lot of good preachers out there, and uh I think Dr. Barons is a great preacher, but I'm looking for the preachers that have the hand Hand of God on him, that God is using, the presence of God is there. I believe Brother Barons is one of those men. God's used him in great ways. Let's ask the Lord to speak our hearts as he comes to preach tonight. Well, amen. Good to see everybody here. Good crowd of uh visitors, amen. And I'll only keep you listen, I promise you, I'll only keep you about three hours tonight, okay? I'm only kidding now, come on. But uh it won't be long, but it's great to see everybody here to I don't know why he won't let me count visitors I mean I really hurse. I mean I had these two, right, did I not? At least I had yeah. And uh You know, he wouldn't let me count them and then I had my buddies back there the other night. I mean, you know, they came out because of the wild game. And you know, he won't let me count them either. I'm I'm really feeling restricted here Well good to see everybody here. If you have your Bibles, turn over to the book of Isaiah. Isaiah chapter 59. Isaiah chapter 59. And I'm going to read verses one and two. Isaiah chapter 59, verses one and two. Behold the Lord's hand. Is not shortened that it cannot save. That's a great verse, isn't it? Don't care who you are, don't care how bad you are, don't care what you've done, God can save you if you want to be saved. Neither his ear heavy that it cannot hear. But there's that little three-letter word again. So so important. But your iniquities have separated between you and your God And your sins have hid his face from you. Notice this that he will not hear. I want to talk to you tonight on this subject. The promise. Of unanswered prayer. The promise of unanswered prayer. Do you believe God will answer prayer? We all do, don't we? But you know what? He also promises not to answer prayer. And that ought to scare us. And you know what? We hear very little preaching on that. You ever think we hear a lot of preaching on prayer, but we hear very, very, very little preaching on when God says, I'm not going to answer your prayer. I want to talk to you about that tonight. I believe it's one of the great keys to revival, too. Sometimes we won't why why won't God say why won't God answer ever? We're praying. Why won't he? I believe maybe I can help you a little bit there tonight. Let's pray. Father, bless the time that we have here this evening We thank you for these dear people that came out. I thank you especially for the visitors. Lord, I know, I know myself, they had a choice tonight. And I'm uh I am tickled to death. I am so happy that they made the choice to come to the house of God tonight. I pray that you'd bless them for that. Help me to be a blessing, help me to be an encouragement. To those that are here tonight, Lord, again if we have anybody here tonight that's not saved They don't know where they're going to spend forever. God, I pray that tonight would be the night they'd trust you in their heart, get saved, and go to heaven. Which in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You know, I think we'd all be in agreement when I make this statement. Everybody, hey, there's no exception to the rule in this. Everybody, as we go through life, we all run into problems. Am I not right? We all have trials, we all have difficulties. Some of us we we have tragedies. All of us at times we get our backs up against the wall. And we have nowhere to turn except God. And so many times at that point in time, when we get our back up against the wall Nowhere else to go, we turn to God. Have you ever done that? We turn to God. A God, think about this: a God that knows our situation, a God that can help, a God that wants to help. But he won't. I don't know about you, but when I think about that, I think to myself, you know what? That's a tragedy. Isn't that sad? Somebody that can help us meet a need, get us out of a fix, and they won't help us. It's a tragedy. You know what's interesting? I could spend 15 minutes right here, I won't for the sake of time, but there are tons and tons of verses in the Bible on answer prayer. On the fact that God will answer your prayer. But there's also the other end of the spectrum where God promises not to answer your prayers. I read my Bible and I see phrases like this in Jeremiah chapter 7, verse 16. I will not hear thee. That ought to scare you. Psalm 66, verse 18. The Lord will not hear me, personal pronoun. Isaiah chapter 1 Verse 15, I will not hear. Proverbs chapter 1. Won't take the time to read the whole chapter, but I'll tell you what, there's not a time in my life when I don't read part way through Proverbs chapter 1. It scares me. Proverbs chapter 1, 1 verse, verse 28. Then shall they call upon me, but I will not answer. They shall seek me early, but they shall not find me. Now, I don't know about you, but as a Christian That believes and depends on prayer. When I read verses like that, it scares me to death. I'd hate to be in that situation. But can I say this? I believe that's a lot of people today. And then I see people getting mad, they're getting angry, they're getting bitter against God. Because God didn't get them out of a mess, God didn't answer their prayers, when in reality the person they ought to be mad at is themselves Folks, understand something. There is absolutely in life absolutely no substitute for prayer. You can lose a leg, get an artificial leg, amen. You can lose your telephone, you can send an email, tell a female, whatever, amen. Come on, I'm only kidding. Where's your sense of humor tonight? Come on. But you know what? There's nothing that will take the place of prayer. Now, I'm not an expert on prayer. If you think I have all the answers, then I'm overselling myself. But I do know this in my Bible. My Bible says in many, many places that God will not hear, He will not answer if you do this or you don't do this. Now If I'm if I'm even halfway smart and I have something that's broke Not working, and I need it. I'm gonna find out why that thing is broke, and I'm gonna get that thing fixed. Does that make sense? My car is my second home. You'd be amazed what I carry in my car. It is. Man, I carry everything from irons, you name it, it's in there. If my car breaks down, I mean within hours, that thing is in a shop getting fixed. Does that make sense Some of you here would be shocked at how many meetings I book off my computer. Huge amount. If my computer goes down, I mean within a couple days, it's in the shop, it's getting fixed If I'm driving home, I call my wife, and my wife says, honey, the stove just broke within minutes. That thing's getting fake, you say, why? Because I like to eat, amen. And I'm not getting the benefits Now listen to me. Everything I talked about we can relate to, but wait a minute, what about prayer? Isn't prayer a lot more important? And what is so sad? There's so many of us, I'm talking so many of us. We go through life and our prayer life is broke. And we never wonder why. We never try and fix it. And then we wonder, why isn't God blessing me? Well, why aren't we seeing revival? Why aren't we seeing the hand of God, maybe in my life or on our church? Now, let me give you, here's what I'm going to do. I want to give you tonight four reasons. Get what I'm about to say here. Four reasons on why good Christians. What kind of Christians? Good Christians. Not bad people, not reprobate. I'm talking good people. Why good Christians go through their whole life and they never see answers to prayer They're really simple. In fact, I'll guarantee you this, probably every one of these ideas that I'm going to give you, you've heard preach before. But you know what? It's the basics that we forget, isn't it? It's the simple things that we forget. These are simple. These are the basics. But I believe there are the reason why so many good Christians go through life and never see answers to prayer. Number one, why do good Christians go through life N a and and uh never see answers to prayer. Here's the first reason. Number one, unprayed prayer. Did you get that? You all look at me like Bambi in the headlight. Just a mmm. Unprayed prayer. I don't understand. I just think that God just doesn't hate you by saying, well, wait a minute. James 4, 2, you have not because ye asked not. Do you know what never ceases to amaze me? I mean, listen, I'm an evangelist. I am in a different church almost every single week of the year. I could write a book on the people that I meet I could write another book on the strange people that I meet. They say every church has at least one strange person. Don't look around. Somebody might be thinking about you right now too. You know, I don't know why everybody focused on Jerry up here, but But but you don't hit me, I I've lost count. People come to me and and there's a well brother Barrett You know, man, I've uh I've got this problem and I've got this situation and I've got this trial and I've got this need. And then here then I say this. I always say this Man, have you have you really get what I just said? Have you really prayed? Duh. Well, not really. Hello. Come on. And then we get mad at God. You know what I'm thinking? I'm when somebody says that. No, I'm really have I'm thinking, you know, you maybe you forgot to pay your brain bill, amen. Folks listen to me, I'm not trying to be I'm trying to help you. Help How in the world can God answer your prayers if you don't ask? Isn't that just common sense? If we don't learn to pray, if we don't nail it down, if we don't get specific. Man, don't blame God. Man, we need to look in the mirror and blame ourselves. Hey, I've been saved. Well I've been pr I've been at this now for forty years. I know I don't look that old. If you say amen, I cut back on the sermon by five minutes. Come on But I I I've been sh I don't even know why I call him a friend anymore. I mean he badgered me all afternoon I say that to say this. I've been around the block a few times. As I mean this, as I stand here tonight, I believe this. I still think tonight. The single most deep theological staggering spiritual thought that I have ever had in my life as a preacher is this. That I have a God in heaven that wants to answer my prayers. Man I mean, that amazes me. I still have a hard time comp, wait a minute, but I have to pray to reap the benefits. How many of you here have ever received a gift one you know those Walmart gift cards he's trying to give out that he won't give to me How many you know how many of you ever got any kind of a gift card at all? How many have ever gotten one of those gift cards? Now look at that. Okay, how many of you still have one at home? Rick, come on, still have one at home. Okay, tomorrow night put them in the plate. Amen. Especially, especially if you got a Wendy's gift card, amen. Put them in the plate. Now, yeah, listen, we're we're They say that last year alone, two thousand and nine, last year alone in America Over one billion, that's a B, not an M, one billion dollars in gift cards alone were wasted. Isn't that amazing? Now wait a minute. Did they have the gift card? Yes or no? Was it available to them? Could they have reaped the benefits? Why didn't they? Now you're getting pretty good at this participation time. Why didn't they? Tell me They didn't redeem it. Huh? They wasted it. The things they could have received, the benefits they could have uh reaped, they wasted it, they blew it. Whoa, wait a minute. Some of us might be putting a spotlight on ourselves in the spiritual realm. We have a think about this, we have a God in heaven that is looking down right now and he's saying, Hey, for some of you, for you saying Man, I want to open up the windows of heaven. I want to pour out blessings that you can't even begin to comprehend. Why don't you pray? Why don't you specifically ask? I think some of us would be shocked. At what we can have, but we don't have, because just like the gift cards, we didn't redeem the prayer. I think of the I think of the preacher that uh not you preacher But I think of the preacher that thought of himself as a great, great hunter. Not you But he was a lousy preacher. I mean he couldn't preach his way out of a wet paper bag. One day he's walking down the street Coming up the other side of the street is a Quaker. The Quaker knew that this preacher thought he was a great hunter, but the Quaker also knew he was a lousy preacher. And so they they meet and they're talking, and the preacher begins to brag about how great a hunter he is. The Quaker looks at him and he says, This, if I were a fox, I would hide me where thou cannot find me. The preacher looked at him and said, Where? The Quaker looked at him and smiled and said, In thy prayer closet. Folks, not just for preachers, if the truth really be known, it's a lot of us. Harold Slegler. How many ever heard of Harold Schlegler? Great old-time preacher. Pastor of the Great Tabernacle Baptist Church. Greenville, South Carolina. I you know I I I had the opportunity to to meet him on a number of I mean eat lunch with him, everything else Harold Seitler told me this one time. He said when he came, when he first came, just a little church when he first came, he said, when we first came to Tabernacle Baptist Church, he said every single day, seven days a week, every single day, for five straight months. He said we had a prayer meeting. Five months, seven days a week, no matter what. He said this. Forty-seven years later, he said, we are still reaping the results of that five-month prayer meeting. But you've got to ask. You've got to nail it down. Why do so many good people like us go through life, never see answers to prayer? Number one, unpray prayer. Number two, unconfessed sin. Unconfess sin. Psalm 66, 18. We'll come back to this one Psalm sixty six, eighteen. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. Proverbs chapter fifteen, verse twenty nine. The Lord is Far from the wicked, but he heareth the prayer of the righteous. Let me just say this: I could park here for 15 minutes. You know why I could park here for 15 minutes? There is more That is said about this in the Bible than any other reason in the Bible for God not answering prayers. Unconfessed sin. Can I ask you a question tonight? Is there an area of your life that you know is sin? Is there some sin in your life that you're holding on to, that you're struggling against? You know you ought to confess it, you know you ought to forsake it. I'm not gonna listen, I'm not gonna spend 20 minutes going down through the list. You know why I don't spend a lot of time on going through a whole string of different things? Because the Holy Spirit's a lot better than I am at dealing and convicting our hearts of personal sin. But is there, listen, is there something in your life tonight? You know it's sin, you're holding on to it. Proverbs chapter 28, verse 9 says this: He that turneth away his ear from hearing the law, get this, even his prayer shall be abomination. God's word says this. God says there's some things that I hate. But there are other things that I absolutely, totally abhor. That ought to be a wake-up call for us. That ought to make us perk up and say, whoa, wait a minute. It's bad enough if God hates some things, but I don't ever want to get to the place to where God abhors. You say, well, what is that? Let me show you what what he's talking about here. If we go back to Psalm 66, verse 18 The Bible doesn't say this. The Bible doesn't say if I sin. The Bible says if I what's that next word Regard. If I regard iniquity in my heart. Now, what is this? This is you and me holding on to a particular sin. We make excuses for, or we excuse certain sins in our life. We covered up. The evangelist comes in, he preaches. Pastor Leatherman gets up, he preaches. We're sitting out here We we know we have a certain sin. We know that we ought to confess it. We know that we ought to repent. We know that we ought to forsake it. Amen? We know that we ought to hit the old fashioned. We know that. But we don't. We sit back and we say, you know, I'm not gonna come, I'm not gonna confess it, I'm not gonna forsake it. I'm not going to obey the Spirit of God when I know that I ought to. So God says this. God says, if you sin, by the way, we all sin God says if you sin, that's one thing. But if you don't do anything about it, that's another. God says a Christian who makes a conscious decision, a purposeful decision, to sin and then to stay in that sin. God says your prayer is an abomination. Can I go back? To what I said, I think it was maybe Sunday night, and just repeat what I just said. That is why it is so important that we stay soft and sensitive and tender. When I go through airports now, I I don't know why they do this, but some of the bigger airports now you've got to go through uh two uh two metal detectors on some of these air I don't know why, but you got you've got to go through two of them You know what always confused me? I go through one metal detector in an airport. Everything is fine. All the green lights, I go, I mean, I go right through it. But then I go through the second one exactly the same way. I go through it, all the red lights, the bells, the whistles, the buzzers, and I'm on the terrorist watch list. And I'm thinking, how is it I can go through one, no problem, go through the second one, and they got me in that little room. And then it hit me one day. It hit me. The reason why that happens is the person that controls the sensitivity level of that machine. Are you with me? The first guy, the first guy, he sets that sensitivity level so high, man, you could walk through there with a machine gun. The second guy, he's got that thing set so low that if you got a if you got a filling in your tooth, it goes off. Now, I don't know about you, but when it comes to my spiritual life, I want to be door number two. I want to set that sensitivity level so low that when the Holy Spirit comes and says, hey, hey, hey, you got a problem here. I don't want to be so hard that I miss it. I don't want to be so far gone. I don't want to be so calloused that the Holy Spirit of God can't even reach me anymore. It is so important, folks, that we stay sensitive. That hey, I just go a step further and I go through my third one here. That's why it's to me anyway, it's so important that I never become a stranger at the older. I I tell you, I start going a month, month and a half, two months, and I start becoming a stranger. Listen, it isn't a preacher, it's me It's my heart that's becoming cold and hard and stiff. Why do so many good people go through life Never see answers to prayer. Number one, unpray prayer. Number two, unconfessed sin. Number three, hey, here's a biggie. You may not think so right now, but this is a biggie right here. Unbelief Unbelief. Now I'm going to make this real simple here because then you understand how important unbelief is in our lives. Unbelief. James chapter 1, verse 6 and 7. But let him ask in faith. In other words, the idea, you believe that God can do whatever he says he can do. But let him ask in faith. Nothing wavering. You're steady on the helm. You believe God can do it. Nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind, and tossed. For let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. I believe that there is a huge gulf, a huge gulf between what we say we believe and how we actually live. Do you know the name of that huge gulf? It's what I call the Gulf of Unbelief. You know how it works? Here's how it works. We say something like this. I get up and I say, Would you like to see revival? And your answer would be Yes. I say this. Do you believe that God could send revival here? Yeah. And then listen, be honest now. Be honest. Then in our heart we say, well Just not in our case. Come on. Anybody ever do that? Come on, the rest of the Pharisees do this. Am I not right? Don't we all do that? Now, wait a minute, what is that? That is what we call unbelief. Anybody ever read the biography or the autobiography of George Mueller? Man, I probably read that thing 25 times. One of the great prayer warriors of the thing. Unbelievable book. If you've never read it, you need to get before you die, you need to get it and read it It'll change your prayer life. And unbelievable. I've read the thing 25 times. Here's what happens. This is me. I'm reading it. Oh man! Oh hang you can't do it! Oh wow! What? Well, I tell you what, wish God could do that for me. Let me ask you a question. Could God do that for me? But as soon as I said, Wish God could do that for me, what is that? It's unbelief. Well, Brother Barns, I believe God answered prayer, but just not for me. And you're right. When you say that, it is not just for you. He won't. Until you believe that God can answer prayers. Till you believe that God can send revival in your life. Overcome it. Hey it's it's kinda like it's kinda like the little boy that wanted a bike. Little Johnny He wanted a bike, his mother knew he wanted a bike. So his mother decided to teach him a spiritual lesson. She came to Johnny one day and she said, Johnny, you want a bike? Oh yeah, my dad wants a bike real bad. She said, Do you believe God can Give you, oh yeah, I believe God give me. She won't we get down here right now? Let's pray God give you a bite. He goes, Okay, mommy. They knelt down. She goes, Johnny, go ahead and pray. This is exactly what he did. He got down and goes, Oh God. Shut me a boy. Chrome Wheels A bell alive. Fallia's mother stopped him And she said, Johnny, you don't have to scream like that. God can hear you. Johnny looked up and smiled. He goes, I know God can hear me, but grandma can't, and she's in the next room. Come on. Come on. Confession time. Come on. Hey, I y hey, you listen Since some of you won't do this, I'll do this. You know what I do? I get, hey, I'll get myself in a fix You know what I do? I scheme. I know none of you do that. Amen. You're all angels. I begin to scheme and connive. and plan and plot and call and you know and all the while God's looking down for hey I'm talking about me he's looking down from heaven and saying hey dummy What about praying? You've tried everything but prayer and it hasn't worked. Why don't you pray? Because all too often we use that as a last resort. Unbelief. Oh yeah, Brother Bear, praise the Lord. I believe God answers prayer. Oh, hallelujah. But not just for me. Hmm. And that's why, hey, listen, that's why so many we go through life. We don't see answer prayer. We don't see revival. We don't see miracles. We don't this is why right here. Hey, I'll take it a step further since I'm getting everybody mad at me tonight. I I think that's the reason why so many Christians today play pray what I call general prayers We pray such general prayer. You know what? That way we can get away with unbelief. We never have to put God to the test. We never have to prove God. Oh Lord, save the lost, heal the sick, meet the needs, bless the church, help the missionaries, amen. What's that? What is that? Huh? Let me show you what I'm talking about here If Jerry, I'll pick on Jerry tonight, because Chip isn't here, is he? He can't handle strong preaching, I figure. If Jerry, if Jerry says, you'll come over sometime He doesn't mean that. He's lying through his teeth. Come on. Y'all come up. What's that? Y'all come over sometime. If I did y'all come over sometime, he'd be shocked. I knock on his door. He said, Brother Barrett, what are you doing here? I said, Well, you said y'all come over something. Well, why? But but get this now get this but if Jerry comes up and says hey brother Barons I've got eight fresh-cut 20-ounce ribeyes I've got fresh picked corn and a cob. I've got homemade fresh Black raspberry ho ho ho ho ho ho ho black raspberry pie. How about tomorrow at noon? Now He means business. Come on. What's the difference? Yeah, come over sometime, or he got specific. Amen. Now, you know what God's telling you tonight Some of you that some of us that are wallowing in unbelief, God says, hey, why don't you just name it? Why don't you just believe that you have a great God? Why don't you just nail it down? Why don't you just get specific and show me that you mean business? I think it would shock some of us. Bob Jones Sr. used to say all the time, I'd rather listen to a man that says, I seen something, than somebody that says I heard of. There's ha there's a I hate to say this, but it's the truth. There's a lot of preachers today out there writing books and talking about and preaching about this and that, but they've never seen this and that. And you will never see this and that. You will never see everything that God can do, everything that God wants to do in your life until you overcome unbelief. Believe that you have a God that can answer your prayers. It'll amaze you what it will do for your life, what it'll do for belief as opposed to unbelief. First of all, why the good people? Hey, these are good people. Go through life. Never see answers to prayer. Number one, I'm praying prayer. Number two, unconfessed sin. Number three, unbelief. Number four. When I give you number four here, you're going to say, well, preacher, you you must have been you must have been really desperate for a fourth point. Not really. I added this fourth point, because it may well be for somebody out here tonight the most important point. Here's the fourth point: unresolved conflicts. Unresolved conflicts Nobody has to say anything, but can I ask you something tonight as you sit here? As soon as I said that word or that phrase, unresolved conflicts. Did you think about something? Did you picture a name? Did you picture a face? Did you picture a situation that happened to you? And as you sit here tonight, maybe in your heart you have the root of bitterness, unforgiveness, anger. Of grudge, resentment, negative feelings. Now, if you're saying, yes, preacher, I've got one of those areas According to God. This isn't Bill Barron's here. According to God. Everything I just gave you there, those types of feelings. They add up to a little three-letter word called what? Shin. Shin. Now stay with me. You go back now to Psalm 66 and verse 18. God's word says, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. You're here tonight and you're holding on to the sin of an unresolved conflict. It makes it impossible for God to answer your prayers. In fact, your prayers are now an abomination. Can I give you some great advice? Keep short accounts with everybody. You say, well, come on, preacher. How, I mean, how when you when oh I I can understand the the other three, but is this really that let me show you how important this is to God. If you had your Bibles real quick, turn over to Matthew chapter 5. Matthew chapter 5. Now, this is so important. That if you have a Bible and I see you not turning over there, I'm gonna preach another hour. If you want to, just grab a song book and fake it if you don't have a Bible. Amen. Nobody will know the difference anyway, amen. Because I'm going to read it anyway. Turn over to Matthew chapter 5. Let me show you how important this is. In keeping a good spirit and a good is that important in a Christian life? It is. And by the way, can I say this? All of us as we go through life get hurt. Come on. All of us are wronged, all of us are slandered, all of us are stabbed in the back, everybody is. Let me show you how important this is. Matthew chapter 5, look at verse 23, and we're done. Therefore, if thou bring thy gift to thee, what's that next word? Altar. Now what are you doing? Here you are. You're bringing your gift. What you're doing is you're sacrificing. You're making a sacrifice That is important to God. Therefore, if thy bring thy gift to the altar, now notice this, and there, what's the next word? Remembers. All of a sudden, you're coming to worship. All of a sudden, you remember something. Oh! I just remembered. Well, wait a minute. What are you remembering? That thy brother hath ought against thee. All of a sudden, you remember I've got a conflict. I've got a problem With some, I'm angry, I'm bitter, I'm holding a grudge, there's anger, there's resentment. All of a sudden you remember this. Look at verse 24. What's the first word? Leave. This is amazing. Leave there thy gift before the altar. Drop your gift. Leave it right there. And go thy way. Notice this, first. Be reconciled to thy brother. And then come and offer thy gift. Nowhere else, I dare you to find it, nowhere else in the entire Bible does God say stop Praying. Stop sacrificing. Stop worshiping. And I want you right now to drop everything and go take care of personal business. What personal business is so important that God would tell you, stop praying, stop worshiping. Here it is, forgiving. Keeping a short account. I was in Wisconsin preaching a meeting when I flew in Preacher picked me up in Milwaukee, got in the car, I turned to him, I said, how things going? He said this. Horrible I didn't need to hear that. He said, horrible. He said, preacher, this is what he said. He said, preacher, it's like a dark cloud hanging over the church. He said, uh, we haven't had anybody walk the aisle in months. Oh And I'm thinking, what am I doing here? He said, nobody wants to sing. He said it's just the atmosphere is horrible. And so I'm thinking, you know, I'm a little bit, you know, I think, well, you know what? I I I'll get this thing started. Yeah, come on. Huh? Yeah, I I thought I'd get I show him. Oh, it was worse. Sunday morning, one of the three worst services I've ever preached in my life. I won't tell you the other one. Horrible. Nobody I couldn't get I mean I I I couldn't get yeah I couldn't even get a little baby down the aisle. I mean nobody nobody moved. When I went back to my room, I I'm I'm I was thinking this, I was thinking If I could get out of this meeting, I'd pay my way back home. That's how bad it was. I called my wife, I said, pray for me. It's going to be a long week. Maybe he'll cut it short. Sunday night it was even worse. I mean flat, dead, uh, you know, man, I'm using my entire repertoire, nobody's laughing, nobody's nobody even looks like they're enjoying themselves. You know, I I'm not even enjoying myself. Monday night. Come back again. I'm preaching away. Now I'm just counting the hours. I'm pre- and some I it wasn't even in my message. Wasn't even in the message. Somehow I hit on this. Bad spirits. I just thought I'd just skip them Bad spirits, anger, bitterness. You know, and I mean I just did it all. But only for about two or three minutes. Then I went on and preached what I was going to preach. I got done preaching. Gave the invitation. When I gave the invitation, the pastor and his family, they sat right here. He's tall and skinny. Pastor came up and he stood right here. Clone skinny. His brother, who was his assistant pastor, was short and uh chubby. Him and his family sat right here. Right here. And uh he was the it was his younger brother. He was the oldest, he was the younger And uh he they were sitting right here and I'm giving the invitation and all of a sudden the younger brother he starts doing this And uh I could see there was some conviction. And I'm thinking maybe the pastor told his brother to just try anything. You know, just jump start this meeting, you know? All of a sudden, the younger brother does this. And he starts walking, but when he gets right to his brother, he does this. All the way over here. And the older brother is just kind of And I'm looking. He gets over here and he This is sheer to my memory. I'll never forget this. He gets over here and he goes. And I looked and he goes. And I'm looking and I went He goes The older brother doesn't have a clue. He's just kind of So I walk down, I come right up to him. Now we're looking face to face. He's here, I'm here. He says, Brother Barrett, he says, I got a problem. I said, What is it? He says, uh I hate my brother. I said, Huh? He says, I hate my brother And I went him. He's watching this whole thing. He said, what should I do? I said, this is exactly how it played out. He said, what should I do? I said, man, you need to take care of it. He says, When? I said, Now. He said exactly what he did. I said now He goes, Now it's like and everybody just I said now I said I can't take this anymore He he walks over. And he looks up at his brother And he said, Paul, that's his first name. He says, Paul, I hate your guts. That's what he said. Paul goes and he looks at me. I'm I don't got a dog in this flight, amen. Uh uh. No Most policemen get shot or hurt over domestic disputes, amen. I man, I stay out of them things, amen. And uh I I still let They went over here and knelt down. Hour and a half. Everybody's gone. Everybody. Three people were in that auditorium at night. These two and me. I'm sitting there. No, you're you're gonna think I'm I'm not kidding you. They started at about fourth grade. You know, do you remember what you did to me in fourth? Oh. Fourth then. Then when they got four, yeah, I'm sure we will you forgive? Yeah, I'll forgive you. They prayed, they cried, they hugged, then they went to fifth grade. I'm not kidding you. Then from fifth grade they went to I mean they they went all the I mean uh back and forth and back and forth. They would talk and they would confess and They would just ball, and then they would hug, and then they praise some more, and then they went to when they went to college, you know, and hell, you know. When they got up, everything was free and clear. I kid you not, the next night. Nobody knew but us three. The next night though, you know what? There's a different spirit I couldn't believe it. I mean I could not believe it. People they actually shook my hand. I I actually had to use sanitizer. They didn't have to use it all week. People were smiling, people were, hey, people came down the aisle. Wednesday night we started heaven visitors. Hey, by Friday night, by Friday night, I hated to leave. That church, that church literally went from a church that was on its way to a slow, agonizing death To a church tonight that's running well over 250. Do you know why? Because two brothers decided they were going to get some unresolved conflicts taken care of. Yeshua, Brother Barons, you don't understand what's happened to me. They they done did me wrong. Not that people, they slandered me and they stabbed me in the back. Listen to me, listen to me. You're missing the whole point, friend. Forgiveness doesn't release them, it releases you. It may never change them, but it'll change you. You know what I tell people? I tell people, people that carry anger and bitterness and hatred and grudges and revenge. That is like you drinking a glass of poison and hoping the other person dies. That's how smart that is. Huh? And I listen to me, I often wonder what could have been in the lives of people and in our churches, but for an unforgiving spirit. Mark it down. There is going to come a time in your life, no exceptions here, a time in your life when you're going to have a problem. A situation It's going to bring you to your knees. At that point in time, folks, I don't want silence. I want an answer. Do you do you remember and I'm done there, but do you remember do you remember the uh before the presidential election, the primaries between Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton? Remember that Remember the commercials? Do you remember the famous commercial that Hillary Clinton put out against Barack Obama on who do you want answering your phone in a national emergency at 3 a. m. in the morning? How many remember that? You remember that? Remember that commercial? You know, I used to say Me, you know, let me answer the phone, you know. But the point was this in a national emergency Who do you want answering the phone at 3 a. m. in the morning? Can I ask you a can I ask you a question? Just suppose tonight you go home. 3 a. m. this morning, you get a phone call One of your children, one of your grandbabies. It drives you to your knees. Is God gonna pick up that prayer phone at 3 a. m. in the morning? Or is that phone gonna just keep on ringing and ringing and ringing? Folks, there are some unbelievable, great, wonderful promises of answer prayer, but there's the other end of the spectrum. Where God promises not to answer prayer. And I believe these four areas are the reason why so many good people, I mean great people, good people, lovable people, likable people Go through life and never see answers to prayer. And listen, it doesn't have to be. It doesn't have to be. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes Every head bowed, every eye closed, nobody looking around. Here's what I'm gonna do. This this is a very general question. You say, preacher, after a specific message like that, why a general question? I'll tell you why a general question. I believe there are some areas, this is my personal opinion. I believe there are some areas of our lives that are between you and God. That's it. Just you and God. Your prayer life is none of my business. That's why I, in certain areas, I never try and embarrass anybody. I never try and put anybody on the spot. What you do in your prayer life is between you and God. It's none of my business. And so the question here is a very general question. It applies to everybody. You could be here tonight, you could be here tonight and say, Preacher, I don't even have a prayer life. It applies to you. You could be here tonight and maybe you have a stop-start prayer life. It applies to you. Let me go another step here. You could be here tonight and have a very, very good prayer life It applies to you. You know why? Because we never arrive in our prayer lives. We're always improving. The question, very general, very simple, applies to all of us. I'm wondering tonight, how many might just simply say this, preacher? As you were preaching tonight, God's dealt with my heart. I want to have a better, a deeper, a more serious prayer life. Would you pray for me that I'd work towards that end? Simple question like that, but you'd say, preacher, would you pray for me that I'd work towards that end Towards that goal. Would you slip your hand up tonight? Just slip them up. Hold them up high. Thank you. Just tons and t lots and lots of hands, thank you. Just just a lot of hands. Hey, I'm gonna tell you something, friend. For all you know, think about this, for all you know, three o'clock in the morning you could get that phone call. You know the first thing that's going to pop in your mind tonight This message. Why didn't I make that decision? Why didn't I ask God to help me? Why didn't I just promise God I was going to work at this morning? Not trying to put you on the spot, I'm just trying to make us understand it happens to all of us. Every one of us it happens to. Is there anybody else here tonight to just say Frederick Well you know what, you you're right. I really if if I if I do get an effects, I just want I just want more assurance that my prayer life is such that God will answer the prayer phone. Would you pray for me that that would happen? Thank you, man. Thank you Anybody thank you, young man. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anybody else? Just slip it up, put it back down. Just a ton of hands tonight. I appreciate that. Let me ask one other question You know that there's a prayer, think about this. There is a prayer. We talked about the promise of unanswered prayer, but do you ever stop and think that there is a prayer that God always, always, always 1000% Promises to answer. You ever think about that? There is a prayer that God promises He will never say no. You say, preacher, what prayer is that? It's the prayer of salvation. Isn't that amazing? The prayer of salvation. When you ask Jesus in your heart as your Savior, when you're willing to take Him, God says, I will always answer that prayer. How do you get saved? Acts 2. 21. And it shall come to pass that whosoever, put your name right there. Mary, Mike, John, Sue, that whosoever shall call. That's the prayer of salvation. On the name of the Lord shall be saved. You see, listen, there's only one reason that you're not saved tonight. never asked. That's it. I'm not trying to be mean here, but if you walk out of your night unsaved, you die in a car wreck on your way home, and you go to hell, it's your fault. Because all you had to do is call in the name of the Lord And get saved. That's how simple it is. God saved me years ago. I just got off the drill field as a Marine Corps drill instructor, Parison, South Carolina. Heard the gospel, few weeks later, I called on the name of the Lord Bad background, hard background, wicked background. But you know what God did? God heard that prayer of salvation. Saved me, changed my life. Best day of my life was the day that old Marine Corps drill instructor got saved Completely changed me. If God can save me, He can save you. Do we have anybody here tonight? And again, I'm not going to embarrass you. I want you to understand this. I don't want you to feel uneasy or nervous. I'm not going to embarrass you But I'm wondering tonight if we have anybody here, perhaps a man, a woman, a young person, that would say, you know, preacher, I'm not sure that I'm saved. If I did walk out of here tonight and I died some way on my way home, I don't know if I go to heaven or hell. I have no idea, but I do know that I don't want to go to that place called hell. I want to go to heaven. And I do worry about that. Would you pray for me also? Would you just slip your hand up, put it back down? I'm not going to embarrass you But I'd like to pray for you. Just slip it up real quick, quietly and quick, and I'll pray for you. Anybody at all? Just real quick. Just slip it up. Preacher, would you pray for me? Anybody at all? Anybody at all? Now's the time to do it Father, again, we thank you for the time we had this evening. Lord, I pray that all of us would just have a more of a hunger tonight. To have the type of prayer life to where, with full assurance, we can drop to our knees and that we will consistently see answered prayer in our lives God help us to want that more than anything else in the world. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. With heads bowed, eyes closed, let's stand to our feet. Every head bowed, every eye closed. In just a moment, the piano's gonna play. I'm gonna say this, listen.