We're going to be reading a passage out of each of the Gospels here to start off with as our text. Matthew 28 We're going to reread what y'all read a few minutes ago in verse 18 through 20 there. Verse 18 through 20. Matthew chapter 28. It says, And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things, whatsoever I've commanded you. And lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen. Now go to the next Gospel of Mark, chapter 16, with me. Mark chapter sixteen. Look in verse fifteen Another verse that's probably very known to us here, maybe even have it memorized. It says, And he said unto them Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every preacher. Now go to Luke chapter 24. I like hearing those pages. Bring your Bible to church. Amen. Matthew, or I'm sorry, Luke chapter 24. Look in verse 45, and we're going to read down through verse 48. He said, And then opened he their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures, and said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behoved behove Christ to suffer. And to rise from the dead the third day, and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning At Jerusalem. Now look at verse 48 here. And ye are witnesses of these things. One more passage here to open this up in John chapter 20. John chapter 20. And verse twenty one John chapter 20 and verse 21. Then said Jesus unto them to them again, Peace be unto you, as my Father hath sent me, even so send I You. You know, we see here in each one of the gospels is you know each time Christ is is speaking and he encourages the disciples and the Christians that were gathered around listening to him there. He encourages them to do one main principle, one main mission that he had given to them, and that was to take the gospel to the world. To preach the gospel to them, to share the gospel. I walked in this morning, first thing I noticed back there on that table. I like that. Y'all have bundles wrapped up in a rubber band back there, these little tracks, and especially for Christmas The greatest gift. You know what we hold right here and what what we're reading about here this morning. You know, we we sing that Christmas song you mentioned a minute ago, how Christmas and missions go together. I think we'd all agree that the plan of salvation is the greatest Christmas gift ever given. It is. And this is one thing that we see in each one of the gospels, and we could read many more verses and passages Not just in the gospels, but we'll see others as the morning goes on and this evening, how often God emphasizes this idea, this principle of missions. The heart, you've heard how many times, I'm sure you've heard this before, the heartbeat of God is where is missions. It is at the heart of God. It should be the heartbeat of the church in following after Christ. We must understand that as a church, we have received an order to evangelize with the gospel. to this world. It's an order given to us. It's not a recommendation. It's not something that says, hey, listen, y'all raise enough money, if you get enough time, go out and share the gospel with the world. No, that's not what God says He commissioned us. He gave us the orders to get it done. It's an order that we've been given. This command has been ongoing. Since before Christ even ascended up into heaven, we just read four passages where he encouraged the disciples, hey, let's get on with this. Let's move. Let's get busy. Let's share the gospel. Let's tell others about Christ and about how to get to heaven and how to have their sins forgiven. God's plan for taking the gospel to the world was not a last-minute thought that he hastily planned down. Think about this for a second. When Jesus Christ ascended up into heaven, he didn't start rising up into the clouds and say, Oh, wait, wait, hold on one second. I forgot to tell you one thing here No, he had this. Well, God had it already laid out and planned, ready to go for them. And he gave them exact instructions of how to get the job done. And those instructions that have been passed down from generation to generation throughout the times and throughout the ages, given to us right here in the Word of God, passed down to us today. We are still under this command, under this commission to get this job done We must remember as we continued onward with this fact that God that God's plans always work. God gave us a plan here, and we're going to be looking at it throughout the day. He gave us a plan in his word of how to get this done. How many people are in this world today? Didn't we cross that 8 billion mark now? A couple weeks ago. That's a lot of work, isn't it? Do we have 8 billion Romans up here? Not quite, right? But we got some. We're doing part of the work. We're doing our part of the work. That's why we keep busy with and praise the Lord. I can't tell you how many of these down in Puerto Rico we have been the recipients of these We started a mission a ministry about five years before we left the field of getting just Bibles and tracts and Romans down to Puerto Rico. Six months, you know, we handed it off to another missionary. Six months after we left, the one millionth Bible reached Puerto Rico through that minute ministry. It's a blessing to see. Still ongoing praise the Lord God gave us a plan, and his plan never fails. Where does it fall short? Well Let's look in the mirror at that. You know where I'm not saying necessarily this church. I mean this church, I understand this church is always busy in getting the gospel to the world. But I know I'm human. I know you're human. And we get tired sometimes. We get worn down. And if we're not careful, this flesh takes over, and we say, I'm just going to take a break now. No, we can't take a break yet. We're not in heaven. Amen. We can take a break when we get to heaven, and even then we're going to be praising the Lord for the rest of eternity. But this plan works perfectly when it's executed. What do we mean? When it's obeyed properly. It's always successful. And this morning I want to just very quickly look at three different essentials that are necessary to make this plan that God has given us to make it work. The first thing we're going to look at is God's power. We've got to have God's power. It's God's plan, so guess what He gives right along with it, if we're willing to accept it? His power. It also needs manpower God, you know, it's uh when I drive out especially through here, you know the verses in the Bible that talk about how he could have caused the rocks and the hills to cry out? Men, y'all live right in the middle of them. Could you imagine how noisy it would be out here if he caused the rocks and the hills to cry out? But no, who did he choose? You and I. His people to share the gospel. We need manpower to get this job done. And then also Pastor Leatherman just talked about it here at the end of the service. We're going to take up these little cars. What's the purpose of that Well you know anything, and we're going to be looking at anything you do in this world today requires finances. It's not free. These Bibles up here, I wish it could be said they were just given for free to get it printed and get the paper and get the the mailing out for free It doesn't happen that way. It takes finances to get this job done. So we're going to be looking at those three principles here this morning. The first one I want us to look at is God's power. Go with me to Luke chapter 24. Luke chapter 24. And look in verse 49. Luke chapter 24 And verse forty-nine says, And behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you. But tear ye tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem until ye be endued with power from on high Later on in Acts chapter 1, we see that verse in verse 8 where it says, But ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and in Samaria. And unto the uttermost part. of the earth. Well, guess what happens in Acts chapter 2? The Holy Spirit comes down upon them and empowers them. And ever since that day, the day you get saved, and by the way, I hope you're here this morning and you know the Lord is your Savior. I hope you know for sure that your sins have been forgiven. And you've trusted Christ, his sacrifice on the cross, to pay for those sins. I hope you know you're on your way to heaven. If you don't know that for sure this morning, let me encourage you in just a few moments, we're going to have an invitation. We said a minute ago, the best gift you'll ever receive is God's Christmas gift. His only begotten Son. Salvation. Let me encourage you, if you don't know that this morning, come forward and get that taken care of. But ever since that moment there in Acts chapter 2, when a person gets saved, the Holy Spirit indwells them. You don't come to church, and all of a sudden a light starts showing above your head. You see some strange figure. You don't see some 50-foot Jesus. You had some weird pizza or something the night before if you did. It doesn't come like that. When you get saved, the Holy Spirit indwells you. Now it's your choice whether you want the Holy Spirit to control you or not. That's called being filled with the Spirit. You're not flopping down on the floor and wiggling all over the place. You know, you're just filled with the Spirit means you allow the Holy Spirit to have control over what you do. You give it all over to him. God instructed his church there in the passage that we read in Luke to wait in Jerusalem for further empowerment. And then in Acts chapter 2, we see just a powerful thing happen where the Spirit came down on them. And since that moment, the church has been busy all throughout history doing great and wonderful and marvelous things through the power of the Holy Spirit, through the power of God. We ask the question sometimes. I hear people, especially when they first get saved, they ask, well, why is what is the purpose of the Holy Spirit? Why are we given the Holy Spirit It's not so that we can gloat over other religions and over the rest of the world that we have them and you don't. No, it's not for our glory. It's not so that we can revel in delight and some kind of personal benefit from it. Why was the Holy Spirit given? Why did Christ promise it and send it there in Acts chapter 2? Well, first of all, to enable us to obey his command. He wouldn't have given us command that we look at humanly. It is humanly impossible to reach 8 billion people to the gospel of Christ. We can't do that. We can't. Not by ourselves. But it's amazing. It's incredible what the power of God can do. He gave us the Holy Spirit to enable us to obey Him. He also gave the Holy Spirit so that we can comprehend the things that are taught to us in the scriptures. I often wonder, uh I would have liked to seen the faces on some of the disciples after the day of Pentecost and they started thinking Oh, that's what he meant by that. All the teachings that they have heard of Christ and they wonder what did Christ mean by that? Now they have the Holy Spirit to help them understand those things. The light bulb came on, right? You know, oh, that's what he meant. You ever read the Bible and you you've read this passage a hundred times before, and all of a sudden, wow I never saw that before. It just jumps right out. You know what that is? That is the Holy Spirit enabling you to understand what the Scripture says. But one other thing that the Holy Spirit does for us here, and specifically with what we're talking about today, He enables us to be a witness. He enables us to be a witness. Without the power of God on your life, do you have anything to be a witness of? No, we wouldn't, would we? If it wasn't for what the power of God has done in our life as a Christian, we would have nothing to give testimony about. Nothing at all. Nothing worthy to be a testimony, at least. But it is the Holy Spirit, it is the power of God through the Holy Spirit that works in us. And in our lives and gives us a testimony to be a witness of. I don't know everybody in this building here. I don't know your testimonies. I don't know your backgrounds. I don't know where you came from, how long you've been saved. But I'm probably safe in saying that some of us came from a rough background. There was a pastor that just passed away a couple years ago in our area. John Burke was his name, pastor of Gid Brown Bible Baptist Church in a little small town of Washington, Virginia. I mean his church The the teen room that we met in this morning is about the size of their auditorium. It was just an old country church. They'd get together and talk about how many possums they shot and they have in the freezer this week. You know? It was just an old country church back there. He was the town drunk. For years he was the town drunk John Burke was known as the man sleeping out on the sidewalk in front of the storefronts, drunk as a skunk. But then God saved him. And he grew in the Lord. God called him to preach. And he started that church. And John Burke won more people to the Lord than most people ever will in their lifetime. God changed him. He had a testimony. Now you don't have to have some extraordinary, outstanding testimony like that to be a witness. Anybody can be a witness with the power of God on their life. The power of God given through the Holy Spirit is an absolute necessity to evangelize the world. Whether you're going to Colorado or Puerto Rico or Australia or China, wherever it is, you have to have the power of God on you to get it done. Whether it's in Oakland, Maryland, you have to have the power of God to get it done. We must consistently allow the Holy Spirit to work in and through us. So that we can be obedient and be used in this great work. So we see the first essential in getting this idea of evangelizing the world, getting this job done, we've got to beg God for his power. Thank God for his power each and every day. Ask the power of God to rest upon you throughout the day so that you can have boldness to talk to people, wisdom of what to say to them. The second thing we need is manpower. You know, God works through human instruments. That's us. That's us. Now it's easy, and I'm guilty of this, and sometimes this is all you can do. Sometimes I'm guilty, though, of just letting this do all the work. That's a good start. Don't stop using them. That's what they're there for. But as God leads and God gives the opportunity, don't just give it to them. Whether it's following up with them, hey, did you get read that track I gave you the other day? Do you understand what it says? Talk to them about it You see, God uses people. He uses us. What an honor that is Yeah, I think we are all in the same boat when I say when we hear a good juicy story, we can't wait to tell it, can we? Yeah, I see a lot of smiles going on right now. You know what I'm talking about. Folks, we've got the greatest story ever told We should be the same way more so about this story. That we can't wait to tell somebody about it. God has ordained it to be that way. He uses us to get the job done You think about this. When Christ was in his earthly ministry on earth, yes, he preached to the multitudes, he fed them, he worked miracles, but you know where God or Christ spent most of his time, who he spent it with? The disciples, teaching them, and training them to do exactly what we're talking about this morning: to take the gospel to the world. You know, if the world's going to hear the gospel, he will use us to tell them. So if they don't hear the gospel, you didn't tell them. We did. In Matthew chapter 10, he called the twelve and sent them forth. In Matthew chapter 28 and Acts 1, he did the same thing to us. He commissioned us to go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them, teaching them to observe all things. You see, God supplies this man power. He uh he he taught the disciples that of course they became apostles there in Acts chapter in in the book of Acts they became apostles and he started teaching them You know, he he gave them that commission, that challenge, you're going to receive the Holy Spirit, and here's what I want you to do. Be witnesses unto me in Judea and Samaria and the uttermost part of the earth. Well, Acts chapter 2, they received the Holy Spirit, and you know what happens immediately? Some of them start preaching, some of them start staring the gospel. Start putting to practice what they've been taught. And in Acts chapter 2, verse 41, it says, And they that gladly received his word were baptized. In the same day were added unto them about three thousand souls. Acts chapter 4, verse 4. Howbeit, many of them which heard the word believed, and the number of the men was about 5,000. Here we went from a group of 120 believers. 3,000 added to them. Later on, over 5,000 added to them. Acts chapter 5, verse 14, the believers were Were the more added to the Lord multitudes, both of men and women. Now we just go to multitudes. And then finally in Acts 6. 7 it says, and the word of God increased, and the number of disciples multiplied in Jerusalem greatly. And a great company of the priests were obedient to the faith. It just goes to simply saying, listen, they just multiplied. What was happening? God was adding manpower to get the job done. How many of y'all in here were saved as a result of the ministry of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church? Raise your hand. Okay, a lot of hands are going up there. I trust the rest of y'all are saved, just not from here. We need to have invitation right now, brother. When God saved you. He didn't just save you to come here on Sunday morning and warm up the pew you're sitting in And one thing I've learned about Oakland, Maryland, it needs a lot of warming up up here. It's cold out here. Every time it seems like every time I come out here, it's in the winter. Man, it's freezing out here. Now he didn't bring you in here to just warm the pew up. I'm glad you're here. Praise the Lord. You ought to be here this morning. But when you leave these doors, you have a responsibility. God saved you to multiply, to win others to the Lord, to tell others what Christ has done for you To reproduce in that way and in that fashion. God supplies this manpower through our witness and others getting saved. You know, we rejoice in seeing souls saved, but God has his own reason. This is how he accomplishes this task that we're looking at here this morning of missions. Everyone is to have a part. Now I see, I can just tell, and I've heard some of the stories about some of the folks here in this church. Not all of us have the best of health. Some of us are very limited physically of what we can do. But you know what? If you prayed over it hard enough and long enough, I guarantee you God would open up some doors for the person with the worst health problems in here. To be a witness. To share the gospel with someone. Everyone is to have a part. Each Christian is to contribute to this overall goal. God will supply if we perform the task, if we obey. You know, I've heard who knows how many times and how many ways it's been preached, but he saves us to serve He saves us to I praise the Lord, I'm going to heaven. I mean we all are looking forward to heaven. Don't send me there right now, but I'm looking forward to heaven. I can't if God said it's time to go, it's time to go. Amen. Let's go We're ready. But I didn't get saved just to go to heaven. God saved me so that I can tell others about salvation. So I can be a witness unto him, to this world that's lost and dying and going to the eternal fires of hell. And he did the same for you. God blesses the church and grows it Grows that church that is involved in obedience with what we're talking about here this morning How does this manpower get used? We can divide this up. And we have examples here of all three. In Acts chapter 13, verse 2, we have the first group where there's those that go. The angel family. They're going. They're going to Colorado. Now not all of us can just pack up our stuff and go to Colorado, can we? I wouldn't mind. I'd love Colorado looks beautiful. But I'm not going. God wants me here. Well, there in Warrington. Not right here. But Not all of us can go, can we? Not all of us could go to Puerto Rico. Not all of us can go to China. Or I see Kazakhstan back there. That's how you say it, right? Kazakhstan? Kazakhstan. Learn something new this morning. Kazakhstan We can't all go, but there are those that can. In Acts chapter 13, verse 2, it says, And they ministered unto the Lord and fasted, and the Holy Ghost said, Separate me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work whereunto I have called them. There came a day in Brother Angel's life, evidently, God said, Separate unto me, Brother Angel, and his family. I've got to work for them in Colorado. Then there's those that send them. In verse 3, the very next verse it says, And when they had fasted and prayed, and laid their hands on them, they sent them away. This is one of those churches that is doing that for the angel family. You're sending them off. Their home church sent them off to go to Colorado. And other churches join in. And number three. There are those, and number two and three are kind of m usually the same people. There's those that help sustain. In Philippians chapter 4 and verse 10 it says, But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now at the last of your care of me hath flourished again, wherein ye were also careful, but ye lacked opportunity. In verse 15, it says, Now ye Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only. Several times throughout the ministry of Paul, we see him reference other churches that would send gifts to help him out in the ministry. Whether it's monetary or clothing or just encouragement, there are those that sustain. There's those that go, those that send, and those that help sustain. We can kind of break that down on the angel family. They're going. Their home church is sending. And Mountain Lake is helping sustain them. Back them up in it. But the going, the sending, and the sustaining all require the church. Us And then last of all, we see one more essential. And that is financial power. Financial power. Now we don't like talking about finances, do we You find it one of the hardest things to preach about is finances? It is. It is. Unless we're on the receiving end of it, right? You know, if you want me to pay you something, I'll put you off as long as I can. But if you want to give me some, I'm right here. And my birthday was yesterday two days ago, so if you want to give me a birthday card, it's not too late, okay? That's the way we are. You know, I remember the old far the remember the far side comic strips You know, I'll never forget there is one where this pastor is baptizing the man and he's going all the way under, but he's holding his wallet up out of the w out of the water there. God can have it all, but he can't have my money, you know But there's a fact that we cannot avoid in this. Little is accomplished in this world without money, including God's work. Including the work of the Lord. You can't eat without having to buy the food, right? You can't travel. Oh my, we all know gas prices today. You can't travel. Without money. You can't make money without spending money. I think it costs 1. 7 cents to make a penny. We're spending money to make money that's worth less. Does that make much sense? No one likes to talk about money, but we have n we have to face it. God has a plan set up even financially To get his work done. He knows this, and he provides it. Where's those cards? Look at your card real quick. Those little pieces of paper a pastor was talking about a minute ago. Look at the very top of the card. It says, my mid-year what? What word is that next word? Faith. Promise. We trust God by faith. That he provides this to get his work done. That's why we call it faith promise. You know, it's recorded throughout several passages in the book of Acts, the Book of Corinthians, Philippians, and other passages, discussing giving and finances that are used in the church. Especially in each one of them, in each example, in each passage that talks about this finances in the church, it is speaking of getting the job of getting the gospel out to the world Getting that done. That's what the finances were used for. You know, and Pastor, he I thought you were going to preach part of my sermon here a few minutes ago. Why why do we need what do we do with all those millions of dollars that come in the offering plates? Well, maintenance. Gotta take care of the building. You nice and warm this morning? Praise the Lord. Amen. We have to heat the building. Lights are on. Praise the Lord for that. Gotta pay for the electricity. I don't know how much of the staff that's paid, but you know I know you at least have a pastor. He kind of has to eat, doesn't he? Please well, we'll try and get you some more backup in that next time But it's also, like we just said, to provide for those who labor in the work of the Lord. You know, in 1 Timothy 5, verse 17 and 18 it says, Let the elders that rule Well, rule well, be counted worthy of double honor, especially they who labor in the word and doctrine. The scripture saith, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn And the laborer is worthy of his reward. You better praise the Lord. And I say this, having been in a lot of churches as a missionary, you better thank the Lord you have a faithful pastor. He's worthy of reward. He's worthy of it. And it's a command of God to take care of him. But it takes finances to do that. But it also takes finances to supply the needs for those who go and maintain them as well, speaking of missions. How are these finances supplied? Through us. God uses us to supply them. And he mentioned a minute ago this isn't your tithe. Your tithe is fixed. 10% goes right to God of your first fruits. This is not your tithe. The Bible talks about your tithes and offerings. Your offerings is what we give just special above our tithes. You know, here in a couple months our church is getting ready to have a Christmas offering. It's just something special that people would want to give for just a special offering, an extra offering to the Lord. And then we come to this idea that we look at here this morning of faith promise giving. You see, the tithe is fixed. The offering fluctuates. It depends on what the Lord lays on your heart. But this that we're talking about here in giving to missions is by faith. It's done by faith. Sometimes called grace giving. We read about it. We're not going to read all the passages. I'm sure many of y'all have read them before. I'll read a couple verses here in just a moment. But in chapter 8 and chapter 9, we see a perfect example in 2 Corinthians of this faith promise, this grace giving, and how it was used in the church and in the ministry. It's a decision that you perform based on what God has laid on your heart to give to missions by faith. By faith. I started when I was a teenager giving the faith promise. And my faith was huge. I gave 25 cents a week I was a teenager and didn't have a job yet. Give me a break, okay? I would even wash dishes or wash the car or go cut the grass or do something just to get 25 cents so I can put it in faith promise that week. But I I I'm not going to say what did I give today, but it's grown. Why? Because our faith grows. It should be that way. In 2 Corinthians chapter 8, and I'll close with this passage right here. Verse 7 through 11. It says, Therefore, as ye abound in everything in faith. And utterance, and knowledge, and in all diligence, and in your love to us, see that ye abound in this grace also. I speak not by commandment, but by occasion of the forwardness of others, and to prove the sincerity of your love. You know, when we give to our faith promise in a way, we are proving our love to God. We're proving how many of you men, I hope I'm not getting you in trouble here, how many of you men are gonna go out and get you somet your wife something special for Christmas this year? Don't don't raise your hand. He's brave. Okay. You saw it. You saw it. You know what to expect now. Why do we do that, guys? Because we love them. We love them. Not that we're paying them to love us, but we want to do something special for them because we love them. We're talking about God Almighty here We're talking about the love that we have for souls that are lost and dying and going to hell. How are we going to prove that love? Verse 9 goes on to say, For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor. That ye through his poverty might be made rich. And herein I give my advice, for this is expedient for you, who have begun before, not only to do But also to be for it a year ago. Now listen to this verse right here. Now therefore, perform the doing of it. That's what this is. It is a manner, a way of performing the doing of it. Of getting this job done. That as there was a readiness to will, so there may be a performance also out of that which ye have. Folks, let me encourage you this morning. I'm getting ready to hand this back over to the pastor. A moment we're going to pray and have the invitation. He's going to collect these cards. Let me just encourage you this morning as you are praying about these cards and what to give to missions. We can't get around that this is necessary. It's necessary. We need to do this. And God uses it. He blesses it. Faith promises one of those things, I've been on the receiving end of it as a missionary before. It's incredible what God can do through it. To us, it's a bunch of dollar signs. But it's incredible what God can do with that. Let's continue to put this faith to practice. Let's perform the doing of it so that we can get the gospel out to the world. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, God, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the gospel. God, we thank you so much for the privilege it is to share the gospel with this world. God, I speak for myself, first of all, Lord, that I I pray that you work in my heart and help me to be a better witness, a bolder witness God, I pray that us as a church right here this morning that will determine that we're going to be a better witness for you, sharing the gospel any way we can. But God, I pray especially this morning as we look at this idea of faith promise. God, maybe there's some here this morning, they've been faithful at it. Let it just be an encouragement to them to stay faithful. Lord, maybe there's some that you've laid on their hearts to increase, to let their faith grow a little bit more. Show them your will in that. Maybe there's some in here who have never been a part of this, Lord. You've touched their hearts this morning to see that they can have a part in a great work. God, I pray that you'll lay on their hearts what to give as well Lord, I pray if there's one here this morning that's lost, that does not know you as their Savior, oh God, this will be a great morning, the best time in their life to come forward, and we can show them from the Bible how they can know for sure their sins are forgiven. And they're on their way to heaven. I pray that they'll do that today. God bless this invitation we're about to have. In Jesus' name, I do pray. Amen.