Verse 16 is actually what I want to read. The Bible says, For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout. with the voice of the archangel and with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds To meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord, wherefore comfort one another with these words Paul is writing under the inspiration of God to a church that he had started in the little city of Thessalonica there in Greece. And he's writing back to them. They had a concern about what would happen to those believers who had already passed away. They were buried. When the Lord Jesus Christ comes back. They were concerned that their loved ones who knew the Lord that had already passed away would somehow be left behind we'd be caught up and Paul is addressing that confusion there and he's reassuring them that no, when the Lord comes back They will be resurrected. They'll be caught up. We're not even going before them. They'll be caught up. We'll join with them in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. So that's the context of what we read here. But my message this morning, my point I want to try and get across as briefly as I can, is uh the fact Jesus Christ is coming again He is coming back for us again. Mark it down. So let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, we come to you on this last Sunday of this 2025 year. Lord, it just goes by time goes by so quick. And I ask now, as we are about to turn a page on a new year, a lot of changes in this coming year. Lord, a lot of no doubt we're look anticipate some great blessings, great victories. Lord, no doubt there'll be struggles. No doubt there'll be battles to fight. Lord, behind all of that, I pray you would help us keep in the forefront of our minds the fact that you are coming back again. I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit as we look at what your word says about your return, what you've told us about your return. Please speak through me. Teach us. I pray your Holy Spirit would teach us this great, great truth this morning. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Um uh the the Jesus Christ is coming back again. Um you cannot read the Bible with any level of intelligence. I mean if you have if you have even a little bit of intelligence like no I'm not going to name anybody but um even a minimal level of intelligence if you can read that let me put it this way if If a person is able to read the Bible intelligently, you cannot help but come to the conclusion that the second coming of Jesus Christ is a major doctrine throughout Scripture. I think it was Dr. Lee Robertson said, if I remember correctly. He said if the if if how often a doctrine is mentioned in the Bible determines its importance Then the second coming of Jesus Christ is incredibly important because it's all through Scripture. It's mentioned all through Scripture. It is a major doctrine The second coming of Jesus Christ is a central three theme throughout the New Testament. It's a fundamental of the Christian faith. In other words If we reject the doctrine of the second coming of Jesus Christ, we are rejecting Christianity in a very real way. You cannot have biblical Christianity and not accept the doctrine of the second coming of Jesus Christ. It is a fundamental, a necessary doctrine to have true biblical Christianity. Now, some people may debate some of the details about the Lord's return. A lot of times there's a lot of speculation about what the circumstances are going to be, what the the specific details about his return. It's a lot of speculation along with that But um you cannot believe and that's the case. There is some speculation, we don't uh debate about some of the details, but what I'm trying to say is you cannot believe the Bible without believing in the second coming of Jesus Christ If we take the Bible literally, if we take the Bible for what it says, we cannot help but come to the conclusion Jesus Christ is coming back again. To reject the return of Jesus Christ, I have to reject the integrity of Jesus Christ. He said over and over and over in the Gospels, I will come again. He referenced his death, burial, resurrection, and his return all through the Gospels. If Jesus Christ is not coming back again, then Jesus was either delusional in his thinking that he was, or he was deceitful. In his message, I am coming again. But I'm here to tell you, Jesus Christ is not delusional. He is not deceitful He is deity. He is God Almighty. And when he says he's coming back again, you mark it down. Jesus Christ is coming back again. So for someone to reject the return of Jesus Christ is to reject the integrity of Christ, the veracity of his promise. The reliability of his teachings if we reject the coming of Jesus Christ. By the way, if I neglect The coming say, all right, he's coming, but I don't pay much attention, and I don't think about that much. We're disregarding a very, very key teaching that Jesus gave to us So, to reject the coming of the return of the Lord Jesus Christ is to reject the integrity of Christ. To reject the return of Jesus Christ is to reject the inerrancy of Scriptures. Over and over and over through scriptures, as I've been saying, we're told Jesus coming back again. Jesus coming back again. And if I say, no, I don't believe it, I don't believe Jesus coming back again, what you're saying is I don't believe in the Bible. I don't believe the inspiration of Scripture. And if we reject the return of the Lord Jesus Christ, we reject the importance of the church. I'm going to remind you: the church is the bride of Christ. Jesus is coming back for his bride. And if we suggest, if somebody, some theologian or seminary professor, gets it in his head that it's just a myth that Jesus coming back again. What they're doing is rejecting the importance of the church. Jesus Christ is the bride of Christ, and he's coming back for his bride. Let me say this: be very, very careful about criticizing the church. It's the bride of Christ. It's God He He gave His blood for the church. Now, is the church perfect? No. If you find a perfect church, let me give you some advice. Please don't join it, you'll ruin it. Right? The church isn't perfect, but it is the bride of Christ. And Christ loves his bride. Jesus Christ loves the church. Can I say this? Jesus Christ God Almighty, the Son of God, loves Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And if we reject the teaching that Jesus Christ is coming back again, We reject the importance of the church. It's the great anticipation of the church. Look with me, if you would, at chapter 1, and notice with me verse number 9 of 1 Thessalonians. Got your Bibles here? Are you alright, girls? Are you girls doing okay? Alright, good. 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. Look with me if you would at verse number 9 For they themselves show of us what manner of entering in we had unto you. And he's talking about their salvation, this church, in Thessalonica. He's talking to them. He says, You turn from to God from idols to serve the living and true God. Now look at this. This is the church there. To wait for his son from heaven. Whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath to come. That church there in Thessalonica was waiting for Jesus Christ to come back They were just waiting for them. Waiting. Turn with me over, if you would, to chapter 2. Notice verse number 19. Again, he says, For what is our hope or joy or crown of rejoicing? Are not even ye in the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ at his coming? Paul said, I won you to Christ. God used me for you to find Christ. And you're growing in the Lord. You're serving him. You're living for him. You sincerely love him. And he said, when Jesus Christ comes back again, you are going to be my crown and rejoice. I'm going to rejoice in what God did for you when he comes back again. Come over to chapter number three and verse 13. He says again, oh, verse 12, he says, The Lord make you to increase and abound in love one toward another and toward all men, even as we do toward you. Why? To the end that he may establish your hearts unblameable in holiness before God, even our Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints. In Titus chapter 2 and verse 13 and 14, he refers to the coming of Christ as the blessed hope of the church. What is Mountain Lake for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church? What are we looking for? What are we anticipating? What is our blessed hope? Well, we want lower taxes. Yeah We want gun right. Yeah. And by the way, I'm for all that. But that's not our great anticipation. Our great anticipation ought to be Jesus coming back again Coming back again. You agree with me? This whole world could use Jesus Christ coming back again. What a mess. What a mess. Do you know? Even in the Lord's Supper Church has two ordinances. One is baptism, death, burial, and resurrection, buried with Christ in baptism, raised to walk in newness of life. And the other is the Lord's Supper. We celebrate the Lord's Supper out once a month. We did Christmas Eve. Generally, once a month, we'll have Lord's Supper. It is a vital, important ordinance of the church. And by the way, this is off-subject, but God expects his church to sell to celebrate, take part in the Lord's Supper. You study the wording there carefully. But there's an interesting phrase. He says, you do this, and we don't have time to turn there, but he says, do this in remembrance me, until the Lord come. The Lord's Supper is designed for the church to do within the back of our minds, or really in the forefront of our minds, Jesus Christ coming back again, Jesus Christ coming back again, Jesus Christ coming back again. Someone says, Preacher Leatherman, you're a fool to think that Jesus is going to come back again. You can call me whatever you want, Jesus Christ coming back again. Bible's clear. Bible's clear. I believe uh I believe that old book. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church believes that old book. Mark it down, he's coming back again I want us, and again I'm trying to abbreviate here a little bit, but I want us to consider first of all the certainty of our Lord's return. The certainty of it Some preachers never mention the second coming of Jesus Christ. I'm not trying to be critical. I'm not in competition. with any other church or any other preacher in Garrett County, anywhere around. I've got my hands full with this church. Hmm, I don't need to worry about others. But I'm here to tell you, there are preachers in our community, in our area never once mention the second coming of Jesus Christ. They never preach on it. In fact, I guarantee you I could take you to quote-unquote churches that do that that reject the idea of Jesus Christ coming back again. They say we're foolish For believing in the second coming. They say uh it's not going to happen. They don't they don't uh uh preach on the second coming, they don't teach the second coming, they don't believe in the second coming. I say they are the foolish ones. I say they're being negligent to pre not preach on the second coming of Jesus Christ. It is impossible to preach the Bible and not preach on the second coming of Jesus Christ. The certainty of his coming. Over 300 times. 300 times. In the New Testament, we're told Jesus Christ coming back again. Now, either the Bible's true or it isn't. And he's coming back again. The second coming of Jesus Christ is mentioned in 23 of the 27 New Testament books. Jesus Christ himself referenced his return at least 21 times in the gospel. Jesus Christ is coming back again. I hope if you get nothing out of this message this morning, I hope that every one of us gets this one truth burned into our hearts and minds when we walk out those doors, Jesus Christ coming back again. Maybe this coming here. So the certainty of his coming. His second coming is just as certain as his first coming was. Now, we don't know when I don't know when Jesus is coming back again. If you would, take your Bibles and turn with me to the book of Matthew, real quickly, if you would, Matthew, chapter number 24. In Matthew chapter 24, the disciples are um he had he had told his disciples about his cru his death, burial, his resurrection, and they're at the temple, uh they're in Jerusalem at the temple. And they ask him this question in the beginning of the chapter. They ask him, when will you return, and what will be the signs of your coming? It's interesting to me, and again, this is not the subject this morning, but it's interesting. The very first thing Jesus says to his disciples about the signs of his coming is deception in the world. Be not deceived. He makes that statement over and over and over. Be not deceived. Be not deceived. Be not deceived. One of the chief characteristics of society In the days before Jesus Christ comes back again is going to be widespread deception. Would you agree with me? We live in a day of deception. On the internet, in our government, in our businesses, in the economy world, in the religious world, you get to the point anymore, you just almost don't believe anything. And that's exactly where the devil wants it. I read a quote, it's been some time ago. They said, they said The devil's not putting lies out there so we believe the lies. The lies are put out there so we don't believe the truth. Saturate it with lies. That way you don't believe anything and we don't believe the truth. And he says to his disciples, they said, what are the signs? When will these things be? What are the signs? And he says, well, don't be deceived. Deception's going to be everywhere. But if you would, come down. He goes through and he gives various signs, but he emphasizes one truth. Look at verse 36 of Matthew 24. He emphasizes, he says, but of that day, the Lord's return But of that day and hour, what's those next three words say? Say it with me. Knoweth no man. No, not the angels of heaven, but my father only. Preacher, when's Jesus coming back? I don't know. I don't know. Look with me if you would at verse 39 And uh he used an illustration of Noah and the flood. And he says they knew not until the flood came. He's emphasizing, illustrating, we don't know when the Lord's coming back Just like the world didn't know when that flood was going to start. They knew it was going to happen. Noah had been preaching it. They mocked them. They neglected it. They ignored it. It didn't mean a thing to them They knew not when it came. Look with me if you would at verse number 42. Watch ye, watch therefore, for ye what? Know not what hour your Lord doth come. Down to verse number 44. Therefore be ye also ready. For in such an hour as ye think not, the Son of Man cometh. Verse 50, the Lord of that servant shall come in a day when he looketh not for him, in an hour that he is not aware of. If you would, come over to chapter 25. Look with me at verse 13. Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of Man cometh. Jesus Christ is absolutely coming back again, and we absolutely do not know when And these characters out there that are writing books and putting these statements out and giving dates and times When Jesus is coming again, they are flying in the face of the clear teaching of Jesus Christ, no man knows when he's coming. We don't know. We don't know. We sing the song Maybe morning, maybe noon, maybe evening. And I used to sing it this way. I changed the words. Maybe morning, maybe noon, maybe evening. It must be uh no, I used to sing it this way. It will be soon. God convicted me Because I don't know for sure it will be soon. I think it will be. It looks to me ha it has to be soon. But I can't say it will be because I don't know when he's coming again. Maybe this afternoon, maybe next week, maybe next year, maybe next decade, maybe next century. I don't know when he's coming, but I know I am sure of one thing. He's coming back again He's coming back again. The certainty of the Lord's return. We know for certain He will come, but we can't say He's coming. If you've been around Bible preaching any length of time, you've heard this term. You've been around any true Bible preaching. You've heard this term, the eminent return of Jesus Christ. How many people have ever heard that term before? Sure. The eminent return of Jesus Christ What do we mean by that? That word is not in the Bible. It's a teaching. It's a word that describes a teaching in Scripture. The word eminent means could be at any moment It means there's nothing has to be take place or be put in place before it could happen The word imminent is a combination, I like this definition I came across, a combination of certainty and uncertainty. Eminent. It is going to happen, I'm certain, but I don't know when. I'm uncertain when. You with me? Eminent return of Jesus Christ I think we are seeing signs and events taking place that are spoken of in Scripture. I don't know how you can deny that. Um the the the last chapter of Daniel, and again I I don't have time to go to all this, but the last chapter of Daniel He says that in the end days and the last days, knowledge will increase. Good night. We have artificial intelligence. Lou Rossi preached powerfully on that. We have this this uh just this this massive amount of information Available to us. Knowledge is phenomenal. And we carry it around our pockets and our smartphone. We can Google and look up, get information and get knowledge. By the way, it's interesting to note, he doesn't say wisdom shall increase. You can have a ton of knowledge and have zero wisdom. He says, in the last days, the days before the Lord comes, knowledge shall increase. And he talks about transportation. Men will go to and fro. You can travel this earth from end to end. Uh within twenty-four hours. In February, Lord willing, I'll be going down preaching Australia, Sydney, and then over in uh New Zealand with a bunch of the guys I go down to I'm telling you, within 24 hours I'll be from Oakland, I'll be in Sydney, Australia. Transportation, transportation, going to and fro, to and fro. Do you ever get one of those little apps that shows you where all the airplanes are I mean, there's tens of thousands of airplanes in the air at any given time. Never in the history of the world has so much knowledge And such advanced transportation existed, but it's exactly what the Bible says. Will be in the end days. We see signs all around. I think the signs we see Israel as a nation of all this number of things. I think all those signs are indicators of what's going to happen during the tribulation period. The fact is, none of them have to take place, none of them have to be in place for the rapture, the return of Christ. It's an eminent thing, whether these signs were there or not. Jesus could come back. Paul anticipated the Lord's return in his lifetime. And so the certainty of his coming, but we don't know when. We don't know when. Could be any moment. Let's take a vote. How many people would vote Jesus come back this afternoon? Amen. He's got his timing. He knows when it is. I think there's some people say, uh, not just yet. I got some things. I want to go fishing out here before he got He's coming back. Mark it down. Jesus Christ is coming back again. Say what is that church out there? What is that church out in Broadford Road? What do they believe? One thing they believe, Jesus coming back again. Jesus coming back again. So the certainty of his coming, I want to real quickly, in a little time I have, the chronology of his coming. The chronology of something. God does not operate haphazardly. He doesn't wing it. Everything God does is according to plan by design and on schedule. God has a very specific timing for his return. Jesus referenced the day and the hour. Now we don't know what that day and hour is, but there is a day and an hour, a very specific date and time when Jesus Christ is coming back. He has a plan. He has a purpose. He has a very specific schedule for his return. If we find, if we study the Bible very carefully, and for most of us, this is nothing new. I'm not telling you anything you haven't heard before. But if we study the Bible very, very carefully, we find that the return of Jesus Christ is not just a single event. Now I was young, and I learned this later, but I was young, the church we were in when I was young, they believed and taught that there was just one general return of God of Jesus Christ, just one event And judge the world and everything. It was all just took place at one time. The problem is, you get studying the Bible, you find that the return of Jesus Christ is not just a singular event It is a series of events. It takes place over a series of stages, so to speak. Carefully scheduled, carefully timed events. When Jesus came the first time. It wasn't just bing, here I am. No, there was it was scheduled in the fullness of time. Woman brought forth a son. God had a very specific time. He had a very specific uh date and time when Jesus Christ would be born of a virgin. Jeremiah talked about that. Daniel referenced that. It was very scheduled. In fact, there were events that took place before and after the birth of Jesus Christ. They were all part of God's schedule. Before Jesus was ever born, God raised up John the Baptist to be a voice in the wilderness to proclaim the day of the Lord and prepare the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. He just being showed up, God had a schedule. God had John the Baptist, he had his ministry, introduced the Lord Jesus Christ And then there was a series of miracles Jesus did, fulfilling Old Testament prophecies of these miracles Jesus would do on the cross, as he died on the cross. There was a whole series of prophecies that he was fulfilling there on the cross, buried, resurrection, then a period of time he ascends to heaven. All of this was a scheduled, detailed, finely tuned event in the mind and plan of God. And just like the first coming of Jesus Christ was very specifically scheduled So will the second coming of Jesus Christ. It's not just a general bing, there he is. Now again, I uh we could do a year series on this. But just a brief overview of what is going to happen with Jesus Christ. What is the schedule of His return? Well, the very next event on God's schedule for the return of Jesus Christ is what we call the rapture of the church. I know some people make a big deal, well the word rapture is not in the Bible. Yeah, well the word substitute is not in the Bible either, but Jesus is our substitute. Amen or not? It's a lot of words we use to describe biblical teaching that that word itself may not be in the Bible. By the way, the word Bible is not in the Bible. I don't believe the Bible. The word Bible is not in the Bible, so I don't believe the Bible. So the rapture is the next event on God's return, uh on the return of Christ. It's a It's the next thing. The rapture, again, just briefly, quickly, is when Jesus Christ, the trump of God sounds, the archangel shouts. To me it sounds like a very noisy event. And the church, every single believer is, to use the Bible terminology, caught up To be with the Lord in the air. That's where we get the word rapture. It means to catch up, to snatch up very quickly. Boom! In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, that trumpet God's going to sound, angels are going to shout, and boom. Boom, every single believer is caught up to be with the Lord in the air. That's the blessed hope that Titus was looking forward to. Now I don't know when that will be. There's a lot of speculation about specifics and all that, and I've got all kinds of questions. I'm anxious to see how it all plays out. But one thing I know, when that rapture takes place, one moment we will be here and the next moment we will be gone. Then, after the rapture, we're caught up. The world is left behind. There's no believers. There's no believers on the planet. Not one. The Holy Spirit of God is removed from this planet, from society. And for the first time In the history of mankind, there will be nothing on this planet to hold back the sins of mankind. It will be absolute spiritual anarchy. The most v you think society is bad now That tribulation period, the most vile sins that the heart of man can concoct will be widespread. The judgment of God will fall upon this plan. Again, I don't have time to go into details. And this whole tribulation period is very finely tuned, very finely scheduled. There's a lot of things I don't know. But there's one thing I do know. Not one of us here in this auditorium under the sound of my voice want to be left behind when that rapture takes place. I don't know a lot of things. I'm not the smartest guy in the world, but I know enough to know that you are a fool If you reject Jesus Christ and you disregard the promise of his return and you end up left behind, you are a fool. And I don't say that lightly. Our only hope is Jesus Christ. Our only hope is to be born again and trust Christ. The next event on God's calendar is the rapture of the church. Those left behind go into that seven-year period of unbelievable horror, the wrath and judgment of God. For seven-year period, God is working, judgment is falling. Then at the end of that seven-year period, Jesus Christ comes back visibly Seeing every every eye shall see him. He will come back visibly to the earth, touchdown in the Middle East. You'll have the battle of Armageddon, he'll destroy the armies of the world There's a lot of details we're given, I'm not touching on. He'll destroy the armies of the world. Israel as a nation will turn to him, believe. And he'll establish what we call the thousand-year millennial reign of Christ, where he will literally reign as King of kings and Lord of Lords from Jerusalem and rule the nations of the world under his rule. There'll be a thousand years of unprecedented peace, a thousand years of unprecedented prosperity and holiness and godliness in this world. At the end of that thousand years, there'll be a little uprising, I believe, from Satan, and Christ will squash that. And then comes the great white throne judgment of God. All the dead, unsaved dead, will be raised up from the graves, brought up from the sea, out of hell. Brought back and they'll stand before God Almighty. It'll be Jesus Christ. They'll stand before Greek Jesus Christ at that great white throne. And it's not a judgment of whether they go to heaven or hell. That destiny was sealed the moment they died in their sins. It is a sentencing judgment where everyone that's not written in the Lamb's Book of Life, the Bible very graphically tells us they're cast in the lake of fire. Fever and ever and ever. It is not annihilation. It is eternal suffering in the lake of fire for rejecting Christ. For rejecting Christ. I say it again. If a person knows this truth, they know. And they say no and they reject it. What a fool. Listen, I I know I'm using that term. I'm telling you, I was a fool for years before I finally trusted Christ as Savior. Greatest decision I ever made in my life. One thing I did in my life that was right I accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior. I urge all men everywhere to do the same thing. Trust Christ. Trust Christ. Trust Christ. After the great white throne, this old earth and heavens are destroyed, burned up. God creates a new heaven, new earth. You say, what's after that? I have no idea. Bible doesn't tell us but it's it's going to be out of this world. Literally That's the chronology. Chronology. Now we can debate the little details among some of the little stuff. We can speculate a lot of stuff. But what I just described to you is very clearly taught in God's Word. Very clearly. Jesus coming back again. We can be certain of that. It's not haphazard, it's not just some pfft It's a very fine-tuned, deliberately scheduled, detailed stages that take place as God, God in the person of Jesus Christ comes to this earth and addresses the sins of mankind and completely alters the future of mankind. The certainty of his coming, the chronology of his coming, then the comfort of the Lord's coming. This is for those of us that know Christ as Savior. This is for those of us who have been born again. We trust in Christ and we have new life in Christ. One of the comforts is, and I'll just list them here for you, one is that we're going to be reunited with saved loved ones. Most of us here have folks that we've known that knew the Lord. They've passed away. When that rapture takes place, we'll be reunited with those loved ones. I get to see my daddy again. I get to see my grandpa and grandma again. They knew the Lord. Be reunited. Be with them ever. Isn't that a wonderful thing? Church members here that have gone to be with the Lord. We'll get to be with them again. Get to be with them again. Listen, you say, oh, they're gone. I'll never see them again. Listen, if you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior and your loved one did They died. You die in your sins unsaved. You'll never see them again. I had a guy tell me years ago in Indianapolis. He says we were talking about heaven and hell if he knew for sure. He goes, now I want to go to hell I got friends down there. I want to go down and be with them. I said, I got bad news for you. You're not going to be with them. You're going to be alone in hell. Forgotten by everybody So it will be comfort of the Lord's Eternal. I'll get to see my loved ones instead of going ahead. I got a little baby brother or sister died uh in uh before birth, and uh I'll get to see uh I hope it's a brother, but um Uh I'll get to see him. We'll rejoice in the presence of our Savior. I got scripture for all here. I can't give it to you on time. We'll see Jesus. We'll see him. The one that our soul loves so dearly. See his face. We'll hear his voice. Touch his hand. We'll see Jesus. We'll receive glorified bodies, First Corinthians fifteen fifty-two. New bodies. We buried Alvin's daddy a couple weeks ago. We'll get to see him again. I was just thinking when he comes back he's resurrected, that old new body, no more diabetes, no more none of that stuff That's something. Get a new body. Pain, arthritis, and bursitis, and all the itis brothers are gone. Won't it be something? Somebody said, Preacher, I bet you can't wait for that new body you get a full head of hair. Where do you see in the Bible it says you have a head of hair? Maybe glorified bodies are Less hair. Maybe the perfect body for a man is no hair on the head. Maybe some of us are closer to perfection than others. Just say it How many people would love to get a new body? Glorified, just like Jesus' body. Reunited with loved ones. Rejoice in the presence of the Savior. Receive glorified bodies. We're removed from the horrors of the tribulation. 1 Thessalonians 1. 10, 1 Thessalonians 5. 9 make it very, very clear that we're raptured out of here before the tribulation period. We will not experience that horrific, horrific time. God's wrath is poured out. God's wrath for Dennis Leatherman's sin, and there is a heap of it. But God's wrath for my sins, that I've said, the things I've said and done, I've thought God's holy wrath on my sin was poured out on Jesus Christ on the cross. And I do not fear the wrath of God because Jesus already suffered, took that wrath upon himself for me. And I'm raptured out of here. And when God's wrath is poured out on this earth during that tribulation period, His children, those that are saved, are brought out of here, and we will not experience ever The wrath of God for our sins. What a wonderful thing. Thank God for the rapture. Jesus Christ is coming again. We're certain of that. It's scheduled. There's comfort in it, and I am with this. There are some cautions. There are some cautions. One, we need to be certain of our salvation. If there's any doubt in your mind about whether you're saved or not, get that settled. Listen to me, don't ignore it. You go to the doctor, and the doctor says, We found something that's very serious. You cannot ignore this. It must be addressed. And if you or somebody has doubts or uncertainty about whether my sins are forgiven, or whether I'm saved or not, you must address that. Do not ignore your spiritual condition. Number one, make sure you're safe. I put this down. Number two, be pure in our lives. 1 John 3 says, Every man that hath this hope of the Lord's return purifieth himself. The word purify means make morally clean. Not be ashamed at his coming. And again, this is me, so just bear with me. But when I first got saved, so dramatically changed that summer, a group of the young people from the church I was in, it was a very large church, about around five, six hundred or more. And a group of the college-age kids, post-high school kids, they're like, oh, we're going to the movie theater, we're going to watch this movie. It was movie Jesus or something. It was some religious movie. I didn't know Before I got saved, we went to movie theater every Sunday night. I mean every Sunday night we were at the movie theater. So I was okay, well, if they're going. We went to that movie theater and again uh as far as I remember nothing just a nice it was just nothing bad but I'm telling you, I'm just telling you what my experience. I sat in that movie theater and all the years that I've been in that thing and the garbage that was shown, I got thinking, man, what if Jesus comes back? What if that rapture takes place and I'm sitting in this place? And I thought, I got so ashamed. I said, I can't do this. And I got up and went out. I said, I can't do it. Sometime later they took us to a group of folks. It wasn't church sponsored, it was a group, and they went to a a music, Christian music concert down in Philly We got in there and I didn't know anything. I was just going on I'm like two, three months old in the Lord. I didn't know. We went And the whole place was dark and these big blasts go off and lights, flash lights and s and the these guys come out in long hair and they're jamming and boom boom boom Christian I sat there and I thought, oh God, this is what I came out of. This is what God saved me from. What if Jesus comes back and I'm sitting in this? God burned in my heart, and I've not lived up to this, but God burned in my heart that I have got to be prepared every moment for the return of Christ. I wish I could say I lived perfectly though, and I have, and I've failed so many times. But I'm here to tell you one thing. That we ought to be cautious about is how we live our lives. What do you get involved in? Can you imagine drinking, taking, putting some liquor to my lips, and the rapture takes place? I stand before Jesus, involved in some fornication, whatever it may be. Imagine having bitterness in my heart as a Christian towards a brother or sister in Christ and unforgiveness, and then I'm raptured. He says that we purify ourselves. We need to be faithful to our church. Listen to Hebrews 10, 25. Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as a matter of sum is But so much the more, as ye see the day approaching, be bold in our witness. This gospel, the kingdom preached in all the world, for a witness to all nations, then shall the end come. And then be patient and kind one to another. Be kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you How tragic to meet the Lord with bitterness in my heart. How tragic to meet the Lord with unforgiveness in my heart. Jesus is coming back again. You mark it down, I don't know when, I don't know when. But I know he is. We've got to be ready. We've got to be living for him. We have a lot to rejoice in all that's going to take place. But we must be careful. Jesus warns us over and over, watch and be ready, watch and be ready. Watch and be ready. When I park the car, I like to back in. I don't know if any of you guys are this way, but I like if there's a parking area, I like to back in. Some people said, somebody said, you know reason guys back in when they park is they're just showing off. And um, maybe But the reason I like to back in, I back in our driveway, I back into our garage, I'm along the wall here, usually back in, I back in. Reason I I want to do that is because when it comes time to leave I just get in the car and go. I don't have to maneuver around. I just go. I'm saying let's back in spiritually to Jesus. When that rapture takes place, we just go. Because I'm here to tell you, we don't have time to maneuver. We're not going to have time to make things right. So let's back in. Let's get make sure our salvation is settled. Let's love one another. Let's love the Lord. Let's live for Him. Let's live every day anticipating the coming of Christ. Are you saved? If not, you need to get that settled. If you are saved, are you living for him? Have you dedicated your life to Christ, to live for him and please him in your home, as a family, in your individual lives, living for Christ? He's coming again. Father, please help us. Help us be prepared. Help us to be backed in, Lord. And when you come, we're ready. Their heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there's some this morning, say preacher, I know I'm saved, there's no doubt about it. I've trusted Christ But there's some areas of my life, does the Lord come back I need to get ready, I need to have in line. There's some areas God spoke to my heart And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. God will help me make these adjustments that I can be ready when the Lord comes. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God spoke to my heart. God bless you. Hands all around. And it's ongoing. It's a lifelong thing. working, keeping things in line, keeping things in tune, so that we're ready. Wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I know some folks, I'm not trying to be judgmental, but I know some folks that need Christ Family members or friends, and I don't want them left behind. You'd say, preacher, pray that God will help me be a good witness Be a good testimony that I can see these folks come to Christ before it's too late. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Pray with me, preacher. God bless you. Hands all around. Pray. I'm telling you, pray for them. Ask God to help you a witness to them. Wonder if there's some this morning say, Preacher, I'm not sure about my salvation. I don't want to be left behind. I don't want to end up in hell, the lake of fire. I want to know that God has forgiven me. That my sins are taken away, I'm on my way to heaven. Is there any like that by the uplift at hand? Preacher, I've never trusted Christ. I need to get that settled. Any at all? Any at all. Father, bless our invitation now. I ask in Jesus' name. Let's