Chapter 8, 9, 10 of 2 Corinthians are what we really use as the foundation and the basis of what we call faith promise or grace giving. And I have not preached on that this week because I just didn't felt led. But tonight I want to talk about the character of grace givers. The character of grace givers. Look with me, if you will, at verse number one. And I out of respect, I didn't do it this morning, but would you stand to your feet as I read and then I'll have prayer and you may be seated. 2 Corinthians chapter number 8. And verse number one. Paul's writing to the church, he says, Moreover, brethren, we do you to wit of the grace of God bestowed upon the churches of Macedonia. How then, in a great trial of affliction, the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded unto the riches of their liberality? For to their power I bear record, yea, and beyond their power, they were willing of themselves, praying us with much entreaty that we would receive the gift. And take upon us the fellowship of the ministering to the saints. And this they did, not as we hoped, but first gave their own selves to the Lord. And then and to unto us by the will of God. Insomuch that we desired Titus that as he had begun, so he would also finish you in the same grace also Therefore, as ye abound in everything, in faith and utterance, and knowledge, and in all diligence, and in your love to us. See that ye abound in this grace also. Let's pray, shall we? Our Father, we do thank you again for the privilege it's been to be here, Lord. I am so excited. I've been so encouraged. I've been, Lord, just brought into your presence so many times through the fellowship, through the the singing of the music and the song services and and the all the things that you've done. Lord, what a blessing it has been here in this church. Now Lord, we pray as we Come to the close. Lord, this is not the ending. This is just the beginning of this new year of faith promise And so I pray, God, that you would uh bless the church because of it, use them in the uh spreading of the gospel around the world. And Lord, we're going to be careful always to thank you. Now, Lord, meet with us once again tonight. Would you please? And we'll thank you already for what you'll do. In Jesus' precious name we ask it. Amen. Thank you. You may be seated Paul's writing here, and of course he's uh wanting to help the church at Jerusalem. He's wanting to uh take a gift and to uh encourage those I want you to realize that all of us are stewards of God's blessings, are we not? Everything that we have really belongs to God. He's entrusted us with it. And so when he's entrusted us with it, then he wants and desires and expects us to be good stewards of what he's given. And that includes, of course, every dollar we own, every home that we have, all the clothes that we wear. I I always tell people this suit doesn't belong to me, it belongs to God. And aren't you glad I have a suit? And so the fact is that we have to get to that mindset that everything that I have literally always belongs to God. So he wants us to be a good steward of what he has entrusted with us. We will never get anywhere in our Christian stewardship until we, as Christians, acknowledge that God owns it all. He owns it all, and that's what we have to understand. Every dollar you have in your wallet tonight or your purse belongs to God. And all he's asking us to do is to share a little bit of that so that we can accomplish what God wants us to do Paul here is writing, he's encouraging, he wants to see a great thing accomplished for the cause of Christ, and I believe he is seeing it done. Paul describes giving here as a grace. That's why we kind of interject the thought of faith promise with grace giving, because it is a grace. It is something beyond it. Grace is a dispensation that is created in the heart of a person. It is not by your flesh or your will or your knowledge. It is something done in the heart by the Holy Spirit of God that allows us to do what we feel that maybe even we can't do, but He will help us to do it Uh uh tithing is one of those things that it's a it's a command and we ought to be obedient in our tithing. Uh like what the preacher said earlier. I don't believe you can give to a building program or to faith promise if you're not faithful in your tithing. That's the first thing. But then after that we ought to give offerings. We ought to do those things that come beyond it. So it is a grace that God gives to us an ability above all else to do something that we can't do of our own So what kind of character then do we find in these folks that get involved in grace giving? Well, I think the Bible tells us very quickly here, first of all, that grace givers are generous givers. Look at verse number one and two He says, moreover, brethren, we do you to widow the grace of God bestowed upon the churches of Macedonia. And by the way, the Macedonians were the poorest of all churches. I mean, they were poor, they were being persecuted in all the trials that they were going to. In fact, look at verse 2. This is how that in a great trial of affliction The abundance of their joy and the deep poverty abounded unto the riches of their liberality So we find that grace givers are generous in what they give. Someone once said they ought to give until it hurts. The only trouble with that is some people get hurt easier than others. And that's not a measure of how much I ought to give. Amen. In verse number two, there's a little equation, I think, that we find, and that is the power of God, and it is simply this. Notice it: first, there's affliction. That affliction is in poverty, plus grace. Now look at what it equals: joy in liberality. You know, you think about people that are going through problems and trials and afflictions, not having the joy, but that's the grace of God. Amen. And out of that affliction, when you think of it Affliction plus poverty plus grace equals joy and liberality. And I said the other night there's nothing wrong with being liberal In the right context. Amen. We ought to be liberal. And they are. They were willing to do what was needed. This grace, uh this was grace that was working in the lives of the Church of Macedonia. Uh when you experience God's grace, your circumstances will not hold you back, no matter what When we get to thinking about what God wants us to do, there is nothing that I cannot do that God has encouraged me to do. Let me tell you something. If God lays on my heart, and I I I do I say this with fear and trembling If he would lay on my heart to give $1,000 a week to missions, no, I don't make $1,000 a week. But if he would give me, if he would lay that on my heart, I want you to understand that if God leads me to do that, he will also bring about the way of doing that. God will never ask us to do something that He will not help us to accomplish. Amen. So we are generous in what we do. And turn over just one page to chapter 9. Look at verse number six. It says, But this I say, he which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly, and he which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully. The reason that many are struggling today financially is because they are sowing sparingly and they're reaping what they sow. You know, I'm not saying I'm not preaching a prosperity gospel. I don't believe that that just because you give, God holds you back, okay? But I do believe this, that God, if I'm what I ought to do and be what I ought to be in my giving, God will bless me back. Amen? In some way. He will take care of my need. And so he is a generous God And we ought to be generous in our giving. Then secondly, notice that grace givers are responsive. Look at verse number 3 of chapter 8. It says, For to their power I bear record, yea, and beyond their power they were willing of themselves These people did what they could, then they went beyond what they could, and did that which normally would have been impossible to do. They gave beyond their ability. They were responsive to the need. Just like uh you're building this building out here and you've got a great building program You've been responsible to that need and you've been getting involved in that. And that is exactly what missions is, is when we see the need We understand the need. The Lord burdens us. Then we become responsible in this grace of giving even beyond what we have. They had a responsive and a willing heart, which is evident that something and someone is growing in the grace as a Christian. When we respond to a need. When we respond to a need. I love Brother Morgan on that video. He's the one that talked about this conference is to keep us on the field. And that's exactly what it was. Brother Morgan was a very generous fella and uh would do things above and beyond a very uh hard area in Romania that he was laboring in And yet he was responsive to the needs of those around him. Certainly that's what we ought to be. When we see the need, we ought to be responsive to that need. Uh verse number four it says, praying us with much entreaty that we would receive the gift and take upon us the fellowship of the ministering of the saints. These Macedonian churches came to the Apostle Paul and begged him, begged him. to take that offering. Now Paul looked at the situation. Paul probably looked at their their financial situation, the the the uh persecution, the affliction they were going through And it was probably, as we would be, probably a little hesitant, and that's a shame, because they begged him. They said, No, we want you to take this money and use it for the cause of Christ. They're responsive to the need that they saw These were quick to respond to the burdens and the needs of those that were around them in all areas. You know, someone once said this: He who gives only when he is asked has waited too long. When you're asked, we ought to be willing to see and look. Find a need, find the burden, and then respond to it. Grace givers are responsive to the needs. Grace givers also are are uh agreeable. Look at verse number 13 of chapter 8. It says, for I mean Not that other men be eased and ye be burdened. Agreeable. Sometimes some of you might think that the whole thing of giving And stewardship's unreasonable or unfair. But I want you to say that God is not trying to rip you off, He's trying to burden you with the uh needs of others Grace giving is an agreeable thing. It's something to which we all can agree on that there is a need to get the gospel message out. Do you agree with that Do you agree that there is a need to spread the gospel? Do you agree that there's a need to encourage our missionaries and keep them on the field? Six hundred and eighteen thousand people have perished so far this week Since Wednesday night, it's a need that we ought to have. Look at verse number 14. But by equity, that now at this time your abundance may be a supply for their want. That their abundance also may be a supply for your want, that there may be equality or equity. You see, the fact is If you want to have a burden for the lost, then you have to share in the burden of the lost. You have to be involved in it. An opportunity to give that you by the supply of their want. And the abundance also that they may be supplied for your want in need. You know, it's amazing when we give to a need, the building. We give to missions. My desire, as I said this morning, is I want children. I want to see people in heaven. And as they are ministering in their area through my gifts and giving, our involvement, they are meeting my need by having people one to the Lord. I can't be in all those countries around the world. I wish I could. There's no way I can. But I can have a part of their ministry. And we can see people in heaven from all of that as they are working, and we agree with the fact of reaching a world for the cause of Christ. And the fact is, is we ought to do that. And then I want you to realize that grace giving is a continual giving. Look at chapter 9 and look at verse number 2. Says, for I know the forwardness of your mind, for which I boast of you oft of you to them of Macedonia and Achaia. uh was ready a year ago, and your zeal hath provoked very many. Uh giving is a continual thing uh most of them uh in Macedonian ready a year ago, but it's continuing on. What you're giving today is the starting of another full year of giving to reach a world for the cause of Christ. What you're giving this week and next week, it's not just for a time. It is to be continual. And I I'm glad. I I I I'm excited about this church. And I think that what we need to do is realize that If you're just starting this year and trying to get involved in faith promise, it's the beginning of it. It's not the end of it until Jesus comes. Amen. And every year I want to do a little bit more for the cause of Christ. It's something that's going to be continual. and never ending. And we ought to do that. And the Bible says as I I mentioned in verse number uh six and seven of of chapter nine It says, But this I say unto you, he which soweth sparingly shall reap sparingly, and he which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully. Every man according as he purposes in his heart. So let him give. I like this, not grudgingly. That's a mad giver. I gotta give. Faith promise. If I don't give, somebody's gonna know it, and they're gonna say something about it. So I got to give. That's a mad giver, grudgingly. Notice, or out of necessity. That's a sad giver. That's somebody that has to give because they feel motivated to give I have to give it. But then notice this, for God loveth a cheerful giver. That's a glad giver. You know what? I love it. I think when we take the offering, brother We ought to all stand up. We ought to all put a smile on our face. And we ought to just get excited. Yeah well uh it's it's amazing some churches when it comes to the offer and it's not here, thank the Lord. I better clarify that. I love the pianist here, all of them, beautiful music. But in some churches, when it comes to the offering, they play aces death. You know, da da da I gotta give. Da da da instead of playing something, you know uh exciting and thrilling and oh what a thrill it ought to be a joy in giving amen it ought to be uh an exciting time I can have a part in the cause of Christ. I can have a part in seeing other people get saved. Man, what a thrill. Well I'm investing in eternity with every dollar I give. It ought to be an exciting time. Bible says and oh here we go again. I'm sorry, I did not fall, I'm okay. Stupid watch Luke chapter 6, verse 38 says, Give, and it shall be given unto you, good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, shall men give into your bosom, for with the same measure That ye meet it, with all, it shall be measured to you again. Oh, we ought to be given, and it's a continual thing, constantly. Every Sunday, you ought to be coming with the church already, your checks made out, ready to give, ready to give, excited to give. Why having a part in it is a continual thing And then grace giving also exalts the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse number thirteen of chapter nine. Whilst by the experiment of this ministration They glorify God for your professed subjection unto the gospel of Christ and for your liberal distribution unto them and unto all men. It exalts the Lord Jesus Christ. Isn't that our purpose in life? Isn't it my purpose to lift up the Lord Jesus Christ? The Bible says, if I be lifted up, I will draw all men unto me. My purpose in this life is to lift up, to exalt him. Amen? In my life. And what I accomplished, how I come to church. You know, listen, I want to just help you a little bit tonight. When you come to church and you get up in the morning and you get out in the car, don't fight with your mate to the car. Alright? And in the car while you're coming, watch the attitude. It ought to be a constant lifting up of the Lord Jesus Christ. You want to come to church excited. I get to come to church. Amen. I don't have to come to church. I get to come to church. I get to serve God. Isn't that an exciting? I get to go soul winning. You know what? God could have put a uh wrote the plan of salvation in the sky, couldn't he? He could have caused anything else. He could have sent angels, but I get to go and go soul winning And everything that we can do in serving ought to exalt the Lord Jesus Christ and in my grace giving as I give to missions As I have a part in winning people and sending missionaries around the world, I'm exalting the Lord Jesus Christ by their life to the Mormons, by their life to the uh uh seamen. By their life going to the orphans in South Africa. Exalt in Christ. What a thrill to have that privilege and opportunity to do so. Grace giving, exalting the Lord Jesus Christ. Bible says in Matthew chapter 5, verse 16, Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. You know what? Every time you get a prayer letter and you hear of a missionary, you ought to go and tell your neighbors, you ought to tell your family, boy, you ought to hear what God is doing through the missions program of our church People are getting saved. You say, well, they won't understand it. Doesn't matter. You ought to exalt Christ. The goal of every Christian ought to be that God is glorified through our lives. I heard a story some time ago of a dad who gave his little girl two one dollar bills. And uh he said uh on Sunday morning. And he said to her, he said, now this dollar is so that you can stop at the store and buy some candy. This dollar is for the Lord. So that goes into the offering plate. Oh boy, she was excited and she took off and she was running to the store thinking about all the gum and candy and things that she could buy with that dollar. Of course, this is back some time. Now you'd have to have a bank account to go. But uh this was back some time. And uh on the way she fell And when she fell, one of the dollar bills went out of her hand, went into the gutter, and then into the storm drain. It was gone. She stood up, brushed herself off, and she said this, Well Lord, there goes your dollar. That ought not be Our attitude. We ought to exalt the Lord Jesus Christ. Turn back to chapter 8, look at verse number 7. It says, Therefore, as ye abound in everything, in faith, and utterance and knowledge, and in all diligence, and your love to us, see. That you abound in this grace also, the grace of giving. We ought to abound in our faith. Amen. We ought to abound in the utterance of the Word of God. We ought to spread it out. In our knowledge of who God is, of what God has in our life, in all diligence to be faithful. In our love for the Lord Jesus Christ and for others of the household faith. And as we abound in those graces, we ought to be abounding in the grace giving as well. Every one of us are in a different spot, a different position in our area of grace giving, and we understand that. I understand that. And we ought to do it. Calvin Cooley said this one time: No person was ever honored for what he received. Honor has been the reward for what he gave. Jesus came, as I said this morning, humbled himself. Gave himself, died on the cross. The Bible says that God hath exalted him, given him a name which is above every name. For what he gave. One day, as we stand before the Lord, we're going to give an account And I hope, I pray, I want to hear the Lord say to me, Jim Moore, well done. Thou good and faithful servant, you've been faithful, faithful, and not only serving me, but faithful in what I've entrusted to you as the steward. Are you a good steward? So let me ask you, are you generous in your giving? I find that if you're involved in grace giving, you're also going to be involved in doing what's right Building, tithing, and all the rest. Are you responsive in your giving as the needs are presented? Uh praying for these uh missionaries as they go out Are you agreeable to what the needs and the burdens are? Listen tonight as we look at this privilege of giving and being a part of Faith Promise. Let's be truly, solely, wholly involved for the cause of Christ. Father, as we close tonight, And Lord, I realize that this is uh the end of it all, Lord, as far as this conference, but truly it's the beginning of this new year. And we're excited, Lord, of what you're going to do and work through this dear church to see souls saved and missionaries supported all around the world. Help us, Lord, as we think of our individual parts, Lord, the opportunity to be certainly Givers in grace giving the way we ought to. Help us to be generous. Help us, Lord, to be agreeable. Help us, Lord, to be involved. Help us to be faithful. And Lord, I pray that as we hear from this church, that we'd hear great, great and mighty things. Lord, if there's one here tonight that yet does not know you as Savior, Does not know that if they perished tonight, if they died, that they'd go to heaven. Lord, I pray, O Holy Spirit, speak to that heart tonight. Lord, I'd love to see somebody get saved tonight. I'd love to see somebody birthed into the kingdom of God. And Lord, we need you to do that. So speak to hearts, I pray. I'm going to ask heads to be bowed, eyes to be closed. Now I wonder how many of us tonight would say, Preacher, I want you to know that without a shadow of a doubt, I know beyond a shadow of a doubt that I'm saved. and going to heaven. Here's my hand as a testimony to that all over the building. God bless you. Thank you. May put them down. Out of you that just raised your hand. How many of us would say, you know, preacher, I want to be found faithful. I want to hear, well done, thou good and faithful servant. And with God's help, I'm going to do the best I can every day to exalt Him, to live for Him, to be found faithful. Preacher, I wonder if you just kind of remember, I know I don't know a lot of names, but I'd like to pray for the group. That would be saying, preacher, would you pray for me that I'd be found faithful? Here's my hand all over the building. God bless you. God bless you. One last question, and I'll be finished I wonder if there's someone tonight that would say, preacher, I'm just not sure I'm saved. I don't know if I died right now that I'd go to heaven And I am concerned about that. I'd like you to be my friend and just pray that I could get it settled. Listen, I'm not going to come bring you down the air. I'm not going to call your name. I don't know it probably. But I'd like to pray for you by need, if you'd let me. I wonder if there's one to just slip your hand up and say, Preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. But I wonder if you'd just pray for me. Anyone like that in the building tonight? God bless you. Thank you. God bless you. Anybody else before we pray? Anyone else? Listen, tonight Don't hesitate. Get it settled before it's too late. Preacher, you come. Let's stand together. It's about either.