Galatians chapter 5, notice verse 22. We're doing a series this summer on the fruit of the Spirit. And we have it listed here. This is the information we have about the fruit of the Spirit. The Bible says, but the fruit of the Spirit is. Now he lists these nine uh uh uh items, these characteristics that make up the fruit of the Spirit. Love Joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Now the word temperance means self-control, discipline, self-discipline. Against such there is no law. So tonight we're going to look at the first of these this fruit listed here, and the fruit of love. The fruit of the Spirit, love. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to teach us about this. Father, we are grateful for today. What a good day it's been. A whole week. My heart is so blessed. I'm encouraged Rejoicing in the Lord. Lord, this testimony of Christmas Evans, this song, I pray you'd help help us that know your Savior. We never lose the wonder of what you've done for us. And I pray now that you would please speak to our hearts from this passage. Lord, I yield my mind and my will to you. I ask, Lord, you guard my words that I'd not say anything that you would not have me to say that would be inappropriate or out of line with Scripture or your will tonight. I pray you guide my words that I would say exactly what you want me to say. That my words would be true to Scripture and would be helpful. And Lord, I present my body anew and pray that you would fill me with your spirit. And not only the fruit of the Spirit be in my life, but the power of the Spirit be upon the preaching. So bless now and help us. Have open hearts and willing minds. to let you lead us and uh correct us and change us, encourage us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think if anybody understands, it's this crowd, there is no salvation apart from the Lord Jesus Christ. Nobody finds forgiveness of sins in the baptistry, in a church service. I cannot take your sins away. I can't take my own sins away. The only place we find forgiveness of sins, the only place we find eternal life given to us, an escape from hell, an assurance of heaven, the only place we find that is in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. We understand that, right? We've got that nailed down. Along with that, there's no spiritual maturity. Now, once I get saved, I'm born in the family of God, to quote that famous fellow, Malcolm, I'm a child of God. Once I trust Jesus Christ the Savior, I'm born again, Jesus said. I'm born in the family of God. I'm a child of God, and God expects his children to grow. How many parents here have young children? You anticipate your children growing. Right? And yet, oh, sure. If we come back in five years, your child's the same size, same level of intelligence, and all that, there'd be something wrong. We anticipate them. Well, God anticipates us to grow and mature In our spiritual life, our standing with Him. He expects us to grow and mature. Now here's the point I'm trying to get at. There is no spiritual growth There is no spiritual maturity apart from the Holy Spirit. When I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, the Holy Spirit comes in my life, and He is the one that enables me to grow and mature in my faith and be that person, that man or that woman, that young person, whatever, to be that what God saved me to be, the purpose he created me His plan and purpose for my life, the Holy Spirit is in me to enable me to grow and develop and mature. I don't grow as a Christian on my own effort Now I have a part in that, don't misunderstand, but I can't do it. The Holy Spirit works in me. As I cooperate with the Holy Spirit, Then the Holy Spirit develops my faith. The Holy Spirit matures my faith, or I get stronger in my confidence in the Lord, and I get more effective in my witness to the Lord. Now I've got to cooperate with the Holy Spirit, but He's the one that does it as I cooperate with Him. He'll let me go through trials and difficulties, and He'll through that, if I let Him, He will teach me and strengthen my faith in God. So there's no salvation apart from the Lord Jesus Christ, and there's no spiritual growth or maturity apart from the person of the Holy Spirit. Now we've emphasized this, this is I think third message into this series, and we've emphasized it twice already. I'm going to touch on it again tonight. Every person that gets saved, the Holy Spirit of God moves within them. We had some folks saved this week. Little Malcolm, Monday, when he got saved, the Holy Spirit of God moved into his body and dwells wherever he is now, whatever he's doing. The Holy Spirit of God is in Malcolm. And everyone else that trusts Jesus Christ as Savior. Um uh little uh Amelia Amelia Mila? Mylan, just before the service, she called on the Lord Jesus, asked to come in her heart and be her Savior. The Holy Spirit of God dwells in her body now. Not something? Jamie and others around. How many folks you're saved and you know it? Say amen. You got the Holy Spirit in you. The moment you trusted Christ. And we've looked at that, we can show that very easily, clearly from Scripture. And so that means the Holy Spirit here, and this is the big takeaway from me from this series. That means every one of these fruit, all these characteristics that make up the fruit of the Holy Spirit, that means because this is the fruit of the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit dwells within me, that means every one of these characteristics is where? It's already in me. This love is already. You say, preacher, I I I'm just not a person, I just can't love. If you're saved, that love is already in you. It's latent In the person of the Holy Spirit in you. Joy, peace. Preacher, I I don't think I can ever have peace in my heart. Oh yeah, it's already there. It's a fruit of the Spirit, and the Spirit's in us. And um and so uh so the you say, well, all right, if it's already in me, why am I not Why am I not patient with people? Where is this joy at, this meekness, this self-discipline? Why is it missing in my life? Well, it's already there. It is manifest as I cooperate with the Holy Spirit. As I yield myself to the Holy Spirit, let him have his way, then he produces that in my life. And so it's manifest as I yield myself to the Holy Spirit. Now keep your place here. How many people brought your Bibles tonight? Alright, good. Let's use them. We brought them, we might as well use them. So go with me to Ephesians. And um and uh maybe we'll get through this tonight. I'm gonna try to, but go with me to Ephesians chapter number four. We're gonna jump all over. Ephesians chapter 4. So if you're in Galatians, you just go one book back and go to chapter 4. Notice with me verse number 30. A lot of us are already familiar with this verse, but notice what it says. But come back to verse 29. Get this thing in context. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth. In other words, don't say bad stuff. Don't say ugly things. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of my mouth, but that which is good to the use of edifying. As a believer, the things that come out of my mouth ought to encourage people, help people, strengthen them, not cut them down, accuse them and be hateful. Let no corrupt uh communication proceed I am out, but that which is Good to the use of edifying that it may minister grace to the hears of people here. Now look at verse 30. And along with that Grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. He says, grieve not the Holy Spirit. That word grieve there, I think we understand what it means. It's basic meaning. It means to make sorrowful. I can behave in such a way, and if we take it in context, verse 29, I can speak to and about others. In such a way that the Holy Spirit that dwells within me is grieved. He's made sorrowful And of course, it's not just speaking, it's my behavior so many other ways, but the immediate context is how I talk, what I say to and about people, grieves the Holy Spirit. And so if the Holy Spirit is grieved, if the Holy Spirit is sorrowful because of my actions, uh I'm not going to have that fruit of the Spirit be manifest in my life. It's not going to be born, produced in my life by the Holy Spirit, because I grieved the Holy Spirit. Come over to 1 Thessalonians with me now. Again, towards the back of your Bible. We're going to look at a lot of verses here. 1 Thessalonians and chapter number 5, he makes another statement about the Holy Spirit, and I think these affect Whether this fruit, this love, joy, peace, long-suffering goodness, whether I experience these things in my life or not, are dependent upon these statements here. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. And look with me, if you would, at verse number 19. Just a short little itsy, bitsy, teeny weeny verse. He says, quench not the Spirit, the Holy Spirit. The word quench there means to stifle, to suppress. And I know we talked about this previously, but I want to make a point here. I can behave in such a way. I can conduct myself as a Christian, as a saved man. I can conduct myself in such a way That the Holy Spirit, rather than bearing fruit in my life and empowering my witness, and guiding me, and helping me, and comforting me I can conduct myself a way that I literally quench the spirit. I stifle him. I suppress him And do not allow him to lead me and enable me to be what God wants me to be. And probably all of us as believers, if we've saved any length of time, we've done this at some point. I mean we just are human and we get selfish and we went our way, not God's way. For instance, sometimes, and I wish I could say this has never been true about me, but I can't honestly say that But sometimes the preacher's preaching, or I'm in a revival, or you know, over the years, and God speaks to my heart about something, and I get convicted. How many people know what I'm talking about by that? You've been there? Man, the Spirit of God. Deals with my heart and I know, God, there's something I need to do, there's an adjustment I need to make, there's some action I need to take, there's some relationship needs to be restored, some apology I need to make. And God deals with my heart, the Holy Spirit's here. You need to do this if you're going to be a mature Christian, you're going to be what God wants you to be, you need to address this issue. And I say, no, I'm not doing that, God. And what am I doing? I'm quenching the Spirit. The Spirit's leading me, the Spirit's working on my heart to take this step of faith and do whatever I need to do, make adjustment, and I say no. And I quench the spirit. I clench the spirit. We talk preachers talk sometimes about people Uh white knuckles holding on the pew at the invitation time. Did you ever hear a preacher talk about that? The Lord's dealing, the Lord's committing, and I'm saying, no, no, no, no. Now I know I'm talking to folks that have done that very thing I just described. At some point we do that. And when I quench the Spirit, when I say no, the Spirit's trying to lead me, the Spirit's convicting me. And I disregard that conviction, I suppress it, then that fruit of the Holy Spirit is not born in my life You see, it's this fruit here, this nine items, are not something I produce. They're not something I manufacture The moment the Holy Spirit moved within me, the potential for my life to be characterized by these nine items that are listed. That potential is there immediately when the Holy Spirit moves in. I just need to not grieve the Holy Spirit. I need to not quench the Holy Spirit. I need to let Him do this and produce this in my life. And so, the the again, the big takeaway for me is the fact that, man, this is all already here. I can experience this. Regardless of my circumstances, regardless of my situation. Now we said all that, and that was repetitious. Come back here and let's look at this first one in Galatians. The fruit of the Spirit is love. Now, we looked at that before and we pointed out that there's significance, I believe, to the order that they're listed here. Love is the first one. If you remember from last Sunday night, we pointed out that this fruit love that the Holy Spirit wants to produce in my life, bear in my life. It's a foundational fruit that makes all the other fruit possible. If that fruit of love is not being produced in my life, I'm never going to have joy. I'm never going to have peace. I'm never going to be patient with people like God intends for me to be, long-suffering, gentle. I'm going to be harsh. I'm going to be unkind. I'm going to doubt God. I'm going to question his word. I'm going to be proud. I'm not going to discipline myself to submit to the Lord and let him have his way. All this other fruit is built upon this fruit of love that begins the list. Some have suggested that all these other fruit are outgrowth of the fruit of love. So I want to look at this fruit. I got two thoughts really quick, I just want to share with you. Number one the substance of this love. In other words, what is this love he's talking about? The world talks about love, the musicians and and famous uh s m uh music stars talk about love. Hollywood makes movies about what they call love. Authors write novels and books about their understanding of love. And I'm here to tell you, 99% of the time, the world's definition of love and what love really is are two very different things. Generally speaking, when the world talks about love, it's talking about lust. Right? That's what they're talking about. They're saying about making love. Well, they're not talking about love. They're talking about lust. Indulging the flesh. And so we need to understand what God is talking about when he says the fruit of the Spirit is love. I assure you, He's not talking about lust. The word love here, if you've been around Bible preaching very much at all, you will recognize it comes from a Greek word, the Greek word agape. We're familiar with that, right? Most of us have heard about agape love. There's various Greek words that we get our English word love from. The Greek language is much more descriptive in some ways than the English language is. They will have We'll say love, and it could mean any number of things. When they say uh they have uh uh words for each specific type of love there is Friendship love, philosoph, philo, the philadelphia, brotherly love. It's very kind, gracious, gets along. There's uh Eros is a Greek word, erotic love, lust. And then they have this agape love. Agape love is the highest form of love in existence. That's the word that that's what the Holy Spirit wants to produce in my life. This agape, this love that the Holy Spirit, this fruit of the Spirit love, it is the purest Love in existence. There is no love this world can come up with that is as pure And as holy and as as noble as the Dape Love That the Holy Spirit produces in my life. I'm convinced it is impossible for a person to express or experience this love apart from God Himself. It is sacrificial love that is unaffected by how I'm treated. It's unaffected by my treatment. In other words, this love is so pure and so sacrificial that it is expressed, it is displayed, it is manifested on people regardless Of how they treat me back. It is a sacrificial love that is unaffected by my circumstances. Say, Praetra, if I just had if I just had a little bigger income, and I'd be more loving. I wouldn't be so stressed and I I could love people a whole lot better. If I just had a little bit more money or a little nicer house or a a little better car to get around, I wouldn't be so stressed out. Then I could love like I should This is the purest form of love. It does not matter what my circumstances are. This love is there. Irregardless of how what my treatment is, regardless of what my circumstances are, I love. That's what the Holy Spirit produces in the woman when he we have this fruit of the Spirit. It's sacrificial love that's unaffected by my own condition. Uh we we get not feeling well. And I guess the uh the way I understand it, men are worse about this than ladies. I'm not convinced that that's true, but But we get we get sick or we get a flu or something, and man, our main concern is who? Me. Anyway, don't me. I'm sick. It all's about me. It's me. It's uh you know, I mean I ha I had a really bad cold. It was like it it reminded me of when my wife had a baby. I was so bad, it was awful. But here's the thing, this love that the Holy Spirit is so pure, it is so, so, it's the highest form of love that even when I'm miserable. I can still love others sacrificially. Give of myself to others sacrificially. Now I'll be very honest with you, and I'm kind of jumping all over the place, but that's not something you and I can work on. That's what the Holy Spirit of God does in our life. Regardless of my treatment, regardless of my circumstances, regardless of my own condition, that is the love that was displayed by the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to show you one statement Jesus made that I think captures what this love of the Holy Spirit that's produced does. Go to Luke chapter 24 with me. Tw chapter twenty-three, I'm sorry. Luke chapter twenty three Jesus is on the cross. If you come down to verse 34, chapter 23, verse 34. Jesus is hanging on the cross. Now think of me his condition that he's in physically Think about his circumstances that he's in, and think about the treatment he's received. He has been rejected by the very people he came and offered himself for. They lied about him. They made accusations of him, unjust accusations. They accused him of being of the devil, the Son of God He was rejected, he was lied about, he was mocked by the people he gave life to. The people he created, the people, everything they have and are and were, was because of him. And they mocked the Son of God. Treated unjustly, falsely condemned in a kangaroo court. He was tortured, literally tortured. And we could go into the description of physically what he went through. And then they nailed him to a cross where he literally suffocated. If you read a If you'll read a medical uh evaluation of what crucifixion does, you literally overwhelming pace, the shock that goes through your system, but then you literally suffocate And you have to pull yourself up to get a gasp of air and then slump down. That's why they broke the n broke the the legs of the thieves that were still alive. They they couldn't push themselves up to breathe and they would suffocate. And on that cross, in that condition, and these people did it to him They're standing there looking at him, laughing at him, mocking him. And look what he says in verse 34. Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them. They know not what they do. You know what that is? That's agape love. And that love Is what the Holy Spirit of God, that very love that we read about there, that very love, is what the Holy Spirit of God wants to and will. Can and will produce in your life and my life if I will let them. If I will let them Again, I think I mentioned this in a previous message, but I encourage you to read accounts of people that are martyred for Christ. I've got some books I'd be glad to pass on to you. Contemporary people, I mean of our time, people from years gone by. And to hear, to read the accounts of the love that they had in their hearts for the people who are pulling their fingernails out, breaking their fingers with pipes, putting gun to their head, pretending they're pulling the trigger Finally, one time they do and they drop, all because they're a believer in Jesus Christ. No other reason. And to read the accounts of how these people loved. They're persecutors and would talk to them of Christ and would show kindness to them and do acts of kindness to the people that are treating them this way. That's the fruit of the Spirit. That's the love that He's talking about there. It's the purest, highest, most sacrificial, most selfless love that exists, and it comes only from God. We can't produce it. Go with me, if you would, to 1 Corinthians. You can't talk about agape love, the love of God, without going to 1 Corinthians 13. Everybody with me? 1 Corinthians 13. Now the term that is used in 1 Corinthians is charity. It's from the same word, agape, but it has a unique flair to it. I always emphasize this because just about every other translation out there, which I reject, Uses the word love, and that is not accurate. The word charity is this love we're talking about, this pure, selfless, sacrificial love. That's what it is But chapter 13 is talking about how it's manifested. It's talking about the action of this How it responds. I'd love to spend time in the whole chapter. We can't. But look at verse 4. Here he's saying, this is what this love does. Charity suffereth long. There's that fruit of the Spirit, long suffering, is kind. Charity envieth not. Charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, doesn't push itself to the front, doesn't talk all about me. Doth not behave itself unseemly. It's always appropriate. Seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil. Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth. Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Charity never fail. How many people would agree with me? In and of ourselves we fall short of that. Right? None of us have love like that's described there. Not in and of ourselves. Now here's something that I noticed that I saw pointed out in this. This is not saying that you and I need to do those things. It says love does these things. Paul, again, under the inspiration of God is personifying This pure sacrificial selfless love. He's presenting as a person. If you look down through there, use this pronoun, we hear about pronouns, use the pronoun her It's as if love is a person. And this is how that person behaves. This is how that person loves. Charity. This is how this person, charity, behaves. And by the way, love is personified in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the Holy Spirit bears this fruit, this love in me. That's described here. The love is in me. It's there. It's not something I'm working up. I'm not doing this. It's the love of the Holy Spirit in me that is doing this. Some believers, now get this, some believers never mature in their faith. They remain spiritual babies. Because they want to decide who I'm going to love, how I'm going to love them. The way I'm going to love them and when I'm going to love them. I'll love people, but I'm the one deciding who, when, where, why, and how. And you'll never grow. You'll remain a spiritual babe your whole life as long as you and I have that attitude about love towards others. In fact, the Corinthian church had that very problem. Come back to chapter 1. Told you we're going to use our Bibles. Now I'm going to try and wind this down real quick. But come back to 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and look with me, chapter 1, verse 11. 1 Corinthians 1, 11. He says, For it hath been declared unto me, my brethren, by them which are of the house of Chloe. That there are what? Contentions among you. They're fussing. They're not getting along. And notice why. Now, this I say, that every one of you saith, I am of Paul, and I of Apollos, and I of Cephas, and I of Christ. And then he goes on addressing that. It's Christ divided. He goes on. But what was happening here was they were deciding who they were going to love and who they weren't going to love. I love Paul. That's right. I can't stand Peter. Phew! Yeah, I don't like him. I don't want nothing to do with Peter. Uh-oh. Apollos, oh I love uh, and someone else goes, I love Apollos, I can't stand those other guys And so they were deciding who they were going to love and who they weren't, who they were going to be gentle to, and kind to and patient with. And they never, ever, ever grew up. They were babies. In fact, come over to chapter 3. Look what he says, verse 1 of chapter 3. He says, and I, brethren, could not speak unto you as under spiritual, but as unto carnal, even as unto what? Babes in Christ. I fed you with milk, not with meat. I treat you like a little baby. For hitherto you were not able to bear it. Neither are you now able. Now are you able Are you not carnal? Look at this. For where is there is among you envying, strife, and divisions? Are you not carnal and walk as men? For while one saith, I am of Paul, another, I am of Apollos Are you not carnal? They were deciding who they were going to love and who they didn't love. They were deciding who I'm going to be kind to, I'm going to be kind to these people, and I'm not going to be kind to those. I'm going to be patient and got good and humble with this craft, but I ain't treating them that way, new we And he says, your spiritual little infants. I had to change your diaper, I had to feed you with a bottle. And then he gets to chapter 13, and he says, this is a more excellent way. Faith, hope, and charity, the greatest of these. It's charity, love, personified in my life through the Holy Spirit of God and the person of Christ. I'm convinced that this love that he's talking about here, and Peter mentions it, is the ultimate goal for God for his people, is to love at this degree. At this level. That's what we're all striving toward. That's what God's trying to lead us to, that point, that love. These Corinthians, they had all the gifts of the Spirit. Oh, they were talented. They were gifted. Back in verse number chapter 1, verse 7, he says, You come behind in no gift. Oh, you've got all the gifts of the Spirit But you don't have one of the fruits of the Spirit. They're carnal. And then the source of this love, and I know I gotta quit, the source of this love. Again, it's the presence of the Holy Spirit. Romans 5, 5. I'll just give you the verse. It says that the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Spirit. It's spilled out. The shed abroad needs to pour it out. It just spills out of me. It's not something I work up, oh, for Pete's sake, I've got to love this person. It's not that way at all. I just die to self and let the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit puts a love in my heart for that person. Holy Spirit prompts me to be kind, genuine, sincerely kind. Not some facade and I gotta do this. That's the flesh. It's not what I produce, it's what the Holy Spirit Spirit produces, as I die to myself and yield to the Holy Spirit. I wish so badly we had time. 1 John 4, 7 and 8 says, God is love. It's not what God does, it's what God is. Ephesians 3, 16-17, Paul is praying for the Ephesian believers, and he says that they would be filled with the love of God. God is the source of the purest and highest love there is, because that's what He is. And He dwells within me. And if I will just learn to die to self, don't grieve the spirit, don't quench the spirit, get myself out of the way, the Holy Spirit will produce this fruit of my life. I heard a quote this week, and man, I wrote it down, it stuck in my mind. We learn to love. Get this We learn to love by being loved. There's no academic, there's no curriculum that teaches how to love. There's no academic attainment of this love. I learned to love this way by being loved this way. And there's only one being in the world that can love me this way, and that's my Heavenly Father. You say, preacher, I'd like to have the fruit of love. I'd like to grow, mature spiritually, and be able to love like this. Like to have that. Well it's already in you. It's already in me. I just need to die to self, get my pride out of the way, let the Holy Spirit fill me. And I'll tell you, a good thing to do is study the love of God for you. Then I'll be able to yield to Him and then love others. He'll love others through me. Are you with me? Let's pray together. Father, I ask you'd help us to learn to love by yielding ourselves to you and letting you love through us. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved, and I'm certainly not there yet. But I want to grow. I want to grow in my faith. I sure would like to have this fruit in my life. And you say, preacher, pray with me that I'd not grieve the Spirit, I would not quench him, but I'd just get myself out of the way and let Him love through me. Is there anything like that? Uplifted hand. God bless you. If you're here tonight and you don't know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you go to heaven, not to hell, that's a very first act of love on God's part to give you that assurance. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure about that. I need to get that settled in my life. Is there any any anyone like that? God bless you. Any others around? Hands raised. I won I want to know for sure. I want that settled. God bless you. I hope you let a we can't save you, but we can show you how Jesus can and will. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.