Thessalonians chapter 3, if you would turn there. Once you get that, that's our text. Of course, we're preaching through uh Thessalonians, both the books. We're up to chapter three. of 2 Thessalonians, but when you get that also find Jeremiah chapter 17 and then just mark that. So 2 Thessalonians chapter 3 Jeremiah chapter number 17. While you're looking for that in your Bibles, we got our report from May uh from our website and the sermons that go out. I'm I'm always fascinated by this. I'm always anxious. to see what the report is. In the month of May, we had 840 sermons downloaded off of our website around the world. The total number of sermons to date since we've been on the air, and I don't know what when we started that, but uh total number of sermons downloaded is 37,376. in however many years. Two hundred and ninety of them this month went on to cell phones, people listening to them on their smartphones. Um the number one sermon for the month of May, uh I preached it on a Sunday night, was the message on anger. And so that was downloaded forty-five times. I thought this was interesting. The second one, which was downloaded forty-two times, was Dr. Barron's on When God Writes Your Obituary. And so I think people s Googled in and found that and and listened to it. So that was a great message. Um and then the number one state in the country for downloading sermons was Pennsylvania. Ninety-one sermons downloaded into Pennsylvania. California was next with 50 and then Texas. uh New York, West Virginia, Maryland, Tennessee, and down on through there. Just about every state in the co in the country, I think. The number one Country was Germany. 30 downloaded into Germany and then Canada, New Zealand. So now we know where Lou gets all his sermons from. Philippines, United Kingdom, Australia, China had eight sermons into China. Let's see if there's any in other interesting ones here. Singapore, Ireland, Jamaica. Argentina, Madagascar, Tanzania Peru, so pretty exciting, isn't it? That's just amazing to me. And so I like to share that with you. Second Thessalonians chapter 3 and verse number 3 That's all we want to look at tonight. It says, But the Lord is faithful, who shall establish you and keep you from evil. Now, this is God's infallible word. The Bible tells us here that God is faithful and that he'll do a few things for us. And so let's pray. And that's the thought tonight. God is faithful. And let's ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, I'm so grateful for this verse here and what it's meant to me is I've studied it. Lord, you've encouraged my heart And I pray that the uh encouragement that I received from this truth uh would be able to be able to pass on to others, and that you would help us in every one of our lives, the different struggles and issues and decisions That you would uh help us in this. I yield myself to you. I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit now and speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. It's interesting, all through the Bible, the Bible warns us about trusting in man. The Bible over and over and over strongly cautions us about putting our trust in man. Now, before I go on with that, I think I I feel like I need to qualify it a little bit. There is a certain extent where we need to trust our fellow man. Am I not right or wrong? There is a certain extent. You go to the bank, you deposit your money, you're trusting those people there that they're gonna do with it what they say they will. There's accountabilities in place. You got an airplane, you're gonna fly somewhere, you're trusting that pilot that uh he's qualified and he's capable, uh and that plane, the people that built and inspect the plane. So we there is an element where we trust people. If I was g if I was sitting on that plane and the pilots came in and they're staggering all over the place, reek the liquor, they can't stand up, uh I don't think I'd trust them. You know, I'd want to get off of that plane So we do trust man to an extent. But I think what we're saying here is, is though we trust man and we have to to function in society and we trust one another, uh it our trust doesn't stop with man. Our trust is ultimately in God. In other words, to get on that airplane, I'm trusting that pilot, I'm trusting the people who inspected it, and I'm grateful for him, I trust they did their job. But ultimately my trust is in God, that God's going to overrule everything, and that He's going to take care of me, and anything that happens, it's in His goodwill. So you follow what I'm saying? But the Bible does very strongly caution us about putting our trust in man, especially in spiritual matters. Now I ask you to find Jeremiah and keep your place here. We're going to come back The Thessalonians, but look at Jeremiah chapter 17. And boy, he lays it out here about trusting. Jeremiah 17, verse number 5. I'm going to read verse 5 and 6. And notice what he says here. He says, Thus saith the Lord. Man, strong language coming up. Cursed be the man that trusteth in man. and maketh flesh his arm, and whose heart departeth from the Lord. For he shall be like the heath in the desert, and shall not see when good cometh But shall inhabit the parched places in the wilderness in a salt land and not inhabited. Do you get the idea of what we're being told there? Man alive, you put your trust in man, you're going to be disappointed. You put your trust in man, it's going to come back and really hurt you. And so we're cautioned here to put our trust in man. But on the other hand We're strongly encouraged, in fact, we're commanded by God to trust God. Look at verse number seven. Verse 5 said, cursed. Verse 7 says, Blessed is the man that trusteth in who? The Lord. and whose hope the Lord is, for he shall be as a tree planted by the waters, and that spreadeth outer roots by the river, and shall not see when the heat cometh. But her leaves shall be green and shall not be careful in the year of drought, neither shall cease from yielding her fruit Uh you get the picture here. It's ca it's a tree that's planted by a river, and so you got a drought, maybe you have a desert. You've seen pictures maybe of desert or maybe you've been places Where there's a desert and you see off in the distance, you see a bunch of trees grown, a bunch of greenery going on. And you know immediately in the desert, if there's green vegetation there, there must be what? There must be water there. And he's saying a person that puts their trust in God, even in times of drought, even in through difficulties, even in times when uh everyone else is hurting, the person that puts their trust in God They can still thrive. They can still grow and succeed and be strong. And so we're strongly warned about putting our trust in man. Too often, and even in churches, too often, people look to man, to a person, to do for them what only God can do. Follow what I'm saying? Uh sometimes that happens in churches where people expect from the pastor, church members expect from the pastor things that only God can do for them. And vice versa. I know pastors, and a temptation of a pastor is to look for acceptance or approval or whatever from the people when the fact is I'm not to look to the people for that, I'm to look to God for that. And so there's a real in marriage, sometimes we look to our spouse to do for us what only God can do for us. And uh so there's a real danger there. And God says, don't put your trust, your hope, your dependence on man, put it on God. What does Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 say? Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy path. Do you notice in that verse, not only am I told not to trust in man, I'm told not to trust in what? My own self. Trust in God with all your heart. Lean not into thine own understanding. Listen to Psalms 37:3. Trust in the Lord and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land. Commit thy way unto the Lord. Trust also in him. Psalms 37:5. Psalms 118, verse 8 and 9. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in man. Verse number 9. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in the prince. And so the Bible tells us we should trust the Lord. Trust the Lord. Now, come back to 2 Thessalonians chapter 3. Why can't I trust the Lord so confidently? Bible goes through. Trust the Lord, trust the Lord, trust the Lord, trust the Lord. Why can I do that? Why does the Bible emphasize and say that I can trust the Lord so confidently? I'll tell you why, because God is faithful. You can be trusted. Uh do you ever go somewhere or do something, uh whatever it may be, and you just say, you know, you say to yourself, I'm not sure I trust this guy with this. And and then I was years ago we first moved here, I I needed something done in the car. I think I need a battery replace. And uh I was down at the gas station here and this fellow came out And it was very obvious, and now I'm not a mechanic, by any stretched imagination. How many people believe that? It's very true. And it became very obvious to me that this guy was less of a mechanic than I was. And he he didn't know where the battery Yeah, that's uh shocking. And uh he was in there and I actually ended up helping him put my battery in my car. And uh just the look at it, when he walked out, I thought, I'm not sure I trust this guy And uh why? Because they don't they're not trustworthy. But God is faithful. Question How would you define Faithful. Somebody comes up there, learning the English language, you say, Well, that guy's faithful. They say, Well, what does that mean? What do you mean he's faithful? Alright, you can depend on them. Depend on them what? Okay, depend on there. Uh how about this? You can depend on them to do what they say they're gonna do. Right? Their word is good. They're faithful. You can depend on them. They say they're gonna do something. You can depend on what's gonna happen. How else would you define someone that's faithful? Alright, they're loyal. He's a faithful employee. Uh dependable, loyal. I have a couple others down here. Alright, it's trustworthy. You can trust him maybe with valuables or something like that. I got that down. A couple of these are a little overlapping. Alright, keep on keeping on. I put this down. He's constant. He keeps on keeping on. He's faithful, man. He's just staying at it, just staying at it, just staying at it. He doesn't quit. He's faithful at that thing. I think of a pastor friend of mine out in Pennsylvania, John Truex. He's about that tall, nicest guy you ever meet in the world. He's been up there for thirty years, I think, some little town in Pennsylvania. Uh another friend of mine went by and preached for him. Uh he said they're running about twenty, twenty-five, and uh he said, Oh brother John It's just out there every day knocking on doors, trying to win people the Lord, and um just the thing hasn't taken off, but he's just staying at it and staying at it and staying at it. He's faithful God's called him to that and he doesn't quit. Faithful, I put this down, one who keeps his word Now, think about our text. A faithful person is someone who keeps their word, someone that can be relied upon without fail. Someone who is loyal, someone who is constant, they're not fickled That God is faithful flawlessly. Now we think of people being faithful and people fail. People some people are very, very faithful, but it's not flawlessly faithful. How many folks here have ever had someone tell you they would do something and then they never ended up doing it? Anyone here? Sure. Now before you get too worked up, how many folks here ever told someone you would do something for them and then you it didn't work out the way you intended to? So it goes both ways, doesn't it? So we're flawless. Anybody here ever start something out and you say, Philly, it's not worth it, and walk away from it. Anybody ever I've done that? But God is faithful. Flawlessly slow. So perfectly slow slow. So in fact, he would be more than flawless. He would absolutely perfect in his faithfulness. Now, let's look at our verse. Let's break it down a little bit and see what it's saying to us. But the Lord is faithful. I put this down. Point number one. As the faithfulness of man deteriorates God's faithfulness remains constant. Anybody here ever some of you old timers Th there's I don't think there's any old timers here. I don't see any. But um uh you hear old timers say sometimes, yeah I remember back when a man's word was good, that's all it took. You shook your hand you shook hands on it and that was it. Anybody ever hear anyone say that? Anybody ever say that? Yeah, back in the day, uh now we gotta sign contracts and loopholes. Now they've got a contracts for marriage, you know. If we if this thing falls apart, I get the house, you get the car, and uh you uh right? Man, man's faithfulness, would you agree with me? Man's faithfulness is deteriorating. Uh it used to be you'd get buy something, insurance was included in the price. You bought it and buying it it was they would stand behind it. Now you've got to pay them an extra 150 bucks and then we'll stand behind it And uh what? For three years. Or until it breaks. But God's faithfulness is constant. Man's faithfulness deteriorates. But God's faithfulness is constant. I'm going to give you some Bible institute terms here God is what we call immutable. What does that mean? Unchanging. Unchanging. It's a great word. God never changes. God is immutable. In other words, what God. Here, let me put it this way. In other words, God always will be what God always has been. And so that means if God is faithful and he's immutable, that means he always has been reliable, he always has kept his word, he always can could have been trusted. And he always will be faithful. He always will be trusted. He always will keep his word. We can trust God To the same degree that Noah trusted God when he built that ark. Right? I can trust God. God said, Noah, build this ark. I'm going to flood the earth. It made no sense. We preached on this a year or so ago. It made no sense. It had never seen anything like that before. But Noah trusted God because he was convinced. That God is what? Faithful. If God said it was going to happen, then he could bank on it, doesn't matter what anyone else said, doesn't matter how ridiculous it may seem. God said it, God was faithful, he could trust him. And you and I can trust God equally so. We can trust God today to the same degree that Abraham trusted God. God called Abraham to go out, the Bible tells us, to a city he didn't know where it was. He didn't know where God was living, he didn't know where he was going. But God was faithful. And Abraham knew that. He was short of that. And he trusted God. And he went out and Uh eventually ended up in the land God promised them. He said, Stop your offspring will be like the stars of heaven, like the sand of the sea. He gave them the dimensions of the land that God was going to give his offspring. And Abraham believed God. Because God was faithful. And you and I, and because God is immutable, you and I can trust God to the same degree that Abraham trusted God. And so God is faithful. Always has been, always will be. We can trust God to the same degree that Moses trusted God. Read in my devotions this morning in Hebrews chapter eleven that Moses um uh I'm not quoting this exactly right, but he esteemed the reproaches of God higher than the riches of Egypt, and he left, forsook his position in Egypt, and went out and followed the Lord and trusted God by faith. Um, tell you I'll tell you this, I'll tell you a big aspect of Noah, or Noah, Moses trusting God was um, can everybody hear me alright? Alright, alright. I don't have my cordless mic on. Uh I tell you a big aspect of Moses trusting God for in my mind Because when he stood on the edge of the Red Sea and God parted that water, and they said, Alright, walk down across there and uh I don't know, that would take some faith, huh? And uh by faith, Noah did that. And the whole crowd did that, a million plus people. And uh can you imagine, it was on dry ground, and can you imagine walking across there and there's walls of water on both sides And just thinking, I'm glad God keeps his word. God promised them that go across. I wonder if you could see the fish swimming in the there and there, I'm not sure. But um uh but we can trust God to that same degree. We've had missionaries through this month. We got Tony Hess coming this Tuesday. These are men and women, their families, that God said, hey, I'm calling you to go to a field on the other side of the world. Tony's going to Tony's been in Ukraine, Russia, for years And he said, You know, God's faithful. It's where God wants me to go. God is faithful. I'm going to trust him. God will keep his word. God can be relied on. God will be loyal to me. And I can go and do that. Isn't that something? It's exactly what these men did, I'm referencing. Peter trusted God. He said, Lord, if that's you, look, have me come out and walk to you on the water. And Jesus said, Come on. Wow. I'd like to see that, wouldn't you? Um uh I got what? Yeah, that first step was the biggie. And uh I would have had my fishing pole with me, I think, but uh just in case you saw something, but not r I'm kidding. Uh but anyway, uh he stepped out in that water An act of faith. Why? Because he believed God was faithful. Now his faith wavered, right? Why did Peter sink? Was it because God was not faithful, or was it because Peter's faith wavered? His faith wavered. He saw the wind and the waves, and he began to doubt. But God was faithful. And you think about it, Christ got them, and they both walked back to the boat. They didn't swim back. So they walked back to the boat. And uh what amazing. Do you get the point this verse is telling us? God is faithful. We can trust him. He always has been faithful. He always will be faithful. If God says he will do something, you and I can mark it down. God will do it. He's trustworthy. We can rely on him. Don't trust in man. Man may have the greatest intentions, I'm telling you. I I know myself there's times I told folks, you know, I'd do this or I wouldn't do this or whatever. I had the all the intentions in the world and something comes up or I forget or whatever and it doesn't happen and people are disappointed God never disappoints. He's faithful. He's faithful. And so my first point is: as the faithfulness of man deteriorates, and it is. God's faithfulness remains constant. My second point, I only have two points tonight. Second one is God's faithfulness brings confidence. His faithfulness is constant, it's unchanging, but it also brings confidence. And notice in our verse here, there are two consequences. Of God's faithfulness. Two things that are true. Look at verse 3 again. But the Lord is faithful who shall establish you. Now, the word establish, we think of the term establish, maybe similar to what uh an English word for it, but it simply means to make something stable. To firmly place it, to make it unmoothing. God is faithful who shall establish you, who will make you stable. We all have a tendency, some more so than others, but we all have a tendency to waver. Can I get a witness? Anybody here ever go to revival meeting? Boy, your heart's all stirred up and you love the Lord and you're just determined you're going to do right. Five days later, you're back worse than you were before the revival started. Anybody know what I'm talking about? We have that tendency to waver. But the faithfulness of God, the stability of God, enables us to be stable. To stabilize. Uh I like my little canoe and I'll take it out, pull you out there in the water, that thing's moving around. And you get across, you get where a dock is. And you grab a hold of that pole that's grounded down into the ground, grounded into the ground, and you hold on to that, and boy, that canoe stays right there. Because the stability, the faithfulness of that pole enables me to be faithful. Me to be stable. You follow what I'm saying? God is faithful, who will establish you. If I trust God He can see me through the greatest of trials without me getting turned over. He'll establish me. I'll even get through the driest deserts. Now, what were the Thessalonian believers going through? They were going through intense persecution. In fact, to the point that some of them were getting so bothered by it that uh it was messing them up. It was disturbing them. And here at the end of the book, Paul is writing and saying, Listen, God is faithful. He can establish you through the midst of this persecution, God can and will see you through it. Through this difficult time, you just trust God's faithfulness, you depend on His faithfulness, and God will see you through. That's what the church at Thessalanca needed to hear. That God would see them through it. They didn't have to abandon shit. They didn't have to run and hide. Just stay, trust God, stay right at it. Don't quit. God is faithful. He would establish that It is, oh, and by the way, that applies to the matter of salvation. I am, I, my salvation is secure, not because of my faithfulness. But because of God's faithfulness. If my salvation, if me ultimately ending up in heaven was dependent upon my faithfulness, I would lose it. Right? In fact, the Bible tells us not to trust in our own faithfulness, not to trust in man's faithfulness, trust in the Lord. It is because God is faithful. I tell you what helped me so much when I first got saved What helped settle in my heart and mine, I've never doubted it since, in my mind it's a settled fact, was Romans chapter 10, verse 13, that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And I knew that I called on the name of the Lord. I did what God said with all my heart. And if I end up in hell, if I end up lost, then God lied to me. Because he promised that whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. Does that make sense? So it's not my faithfulness, it's not my uh word that I'm trusting in, it's on the promise of God. God is faithful. If he said it so, if he said, Whosoever calls the name of the Lord shall be saved, then we know that whoever calls the Lord shall be saved. And he establishes us, he tells us. I read about a young preacher who was visiting an old Scottish lady, and the young preacher didn't believe in eternal security. He believed you could lose your salvation. And he questioned this elderly Scottish woman about it over in Scotland. He questioned her about this and uh about uh she expressed that she was sure she was going to heaven, that Christ had saved her And settled matters, you don't have to worry about it. And he challenged her on that. And he said this: What if, after all, ma'am, God let you sink into hell? And the dear old lady responded without hesitating. If God allowed me to go to hell as a saved person, she said, all I would lose would be my soul. But God would lose his good name. Isn't that a good point I'll die and go to hell. But God would lose his good name. He would not have kept his word. And we know God is what? Faithful. He keeps his word. If we trust Jesus Christ, our personal Savior sincerely, believing in our heart that God raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. And that's a promise of God. God is faithful. God is faithful. Now, here you have a saved person. They're secure. God's faithful, he keeps them safe. How does he establish them? How does he keep them from going out and going crazy? I'm telling you, there is an important passage of scripture that every Christian should be very familiar with. Is that our alarm system, Mark? No? Someone's car. All right. I don't think the devil wants me to preach this message tonight or something. Tom will fix it. Uh go to go to Hebrews chapter 12. I think it's Dave's card. Sounds like a foreign car. Sounds like a foreign car. Hebrews chapter twelve. Is everybody doing alright? Everybody bearing with me here? Alright, good. Whose was it, Tom? I love it. Hebrews chapter twelve Notice verse number four. You guys are hanging in there pretty good. Look at verse 4. Verse 4. Ye have not resisted unto blood, striving against sin. Man, I wonder how many of us have got to the point where we're bloodied and before we won't give in to that sin. We're not going to do that and uh we end we bleed before we end up. He says you guys haven't, you Hebrews haven't And ye have forgotten, verse 5, the exhortation which speaketh unto you as children. My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him. Now watch this. For whom the Lord what? Loveth, he correcteth, and scourgeth every What's the next word? Very important. Every son whom he receiveth. Who is it that is being scourged and chastened here? What does this verse tell us? Those that he loves, and that are his sons. In other words, saved people. Look down here. Look at the next verse. If ye endure chastening. God dealeth with you as with sons. For what son is he whom the father chasteneth not? And the assumption is there aren't any. Fathers correct their children But if ye be without chastisement, whereof all sons, where all are partakers, then are ye bastards and not sons. What is he saying here? He's saying that what God does is his children, people who are saved, to stabilize them, to establish them, like it says, God is faithful. If they do wrong, if they engage in wrong behavior, if they uh engage and live in sin, God will intervene. God will bring correction. God will bring chastisement. Why? Because he hates them, though. Because he loves them And he wants them to be stabilized, to be established, not wandering out away from him into sin And so he brings, he in, he gets involved. In fact, he says here, he uses very strong language. And he says, if you can live in sin, And God does not chastise you, God does not step in in one form or another, then you are not a legitimate child of His. In other words, your claim to salvation is an illegitimate claim. You say, how do you know if a person's saved? Somebody says, well, you can tell you're saved if you don't sin. That is not the Bible way to determine whether you're saved or not. The Bible evidence of salvation is when I sin, God deals with it. Now God deals with us differently in different schedules. Sometimes God may deal a long time with someone. Before he intervenes. Sometimes God intervenes immediately. He's got his own plan and purpose for every one of us. But if a person can go on year after year after year after year after year, and there's no conviction, there's no chastisement, there's no intervention of God, Then that's a good indicator that that person's not genuinely born again. Their claim to salvation is illegitimate. So God is faithful. And he'll establish you. He will get you those that are saved. He will intervene in their life and he will keep them. I've prayed for years. I've begged God for years. God keep me on a short leash. I don't want to wander far from God's will. God, I want you to intervene. I want you to chasten quickly. Don't let it get out of hand. Don't let it get destructive. God, if I say or do uh if when I say or do something I ought not to, God, I want you to step in, I want you to chase and stabilize me Keep me where I'm supposed to be. Let's read on. Look what it says. If ye endure chastening, but if you without chastisement, verse 9. Furthermore, we had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence. Shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits and live? For they verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure, but he, God, for our prophet That we might be partakers of his holies. Now no chastite, no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous But grievous, nevertheless, afterward, it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereof. In other words, it establishes them. They're where they ought to be in the peace and blessings of God. And it's because God is faithful. Aren't you glad God cares enough about us as safe people that he intervenes when we mess up? Can you imagine if God just let us go? If God just said, all right, I'm not going to intervene, we would be a disaster. In fact, Romans chapter 1 tells us that that is the result of the perverse societies when God just gives them over to their own lusts and says, All right, I'm not going to intervene. And so uh God is faithful, God is faithful. Uh God stabilizes us by loving us and correcting us and blessing us. I had a lady years ago and I've told this before, but a lady asked me, I did a Bible study down here at Pinewood or at Meadows East. And um one of the daughters of the residents there who sat in, I did a thing on eternal security, and she came to me afterwards, she goes, Reverend Leatherman, I'm going to ask you a question, and I want you to answer yes or no. Well, you know you're being set up. Right? So I said, I'll answer your question, but I'm not going to answer just yes or no. She said, Do you believe once saved, always saved? I said, Yes. I said, but I do not believe that that is a license to sin. And I knew that's what she was going to say, because that's what they always say. One saved, always saved, you believe you have a license to sin. And I took it to Hebrews chapter twelve. I said, if you have a minute, let me sit down and tell you why I believe that you cannot lose your salvation, why I also believe you don't have a license to sin. And I showed her this. I said, if you're genuinely saved, you're a child of God, God will chase you, God will convict you and intervene if you live in sin. And she seemed satisfied with that, and I never saw her again. So God is faithful, and number one, his faithfulness stabilizes us, establishes us, and there's one other thing here, just real, real quick, in 2 Thessalonians 3, he says He says, Lord is faithful who shall establish you and keep you from evil. The word keep means guard, protect, to care for. Now is this saying that God will keep us from sinning? No. We still sin. We just dealt with that. But what this is saying, this God will keep us, there's two possible explanations for what he means by the term evil there. One is, it's translated six times in our Bible, it's translated evil one. When the Bible talks about the evil one, who would he be referencing? Satan. So he may be saying to us here, God is faithful, who will establish you and keep you from Satan. And that's biblical. God does keep us from Satan. Read the book of Job. You know, God took away the hedge on Job and let Satan have his way, and man Satan just tore him up. And so I believe there is an extent where you and I as Christians we do have God's hedge about us, where he keeps us, he guards us from Satan having his way with us, because if Satan has his way with us, he will tear us up. And we give, you know, we break the hedge down here here and there and let Satan have some shots at us. But God's faithful. And it would take this. The other option is it also has the reference to wickedness or sinful behavior. And we can indulge in it, but God is faithful, and it goes back to Hebrews chapter 12, I think, where God will intervene. And pour us back, pour us back on that leash. And uh God is faithful. God is faithful. We can trust him with our souls. Isn't that what salvation really is? May 7, 1979, I bowed by my bed and I put the destiny of my soul in the hands of Jesus Christ. God, I am trusting you to take me to heaven and not to hell. So he's faithful. We can trust him. If you happen to be here tonight and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, that when you die you're going to heaven, I'm telling you, the Lord is faithful. You can trust him. He can and will save you from hell and take you to heaven You can trust him for that. He's reliable. That's what a saved person is, someone who says, I've taken my destiny, I put it in the hands of Jesus Christ, I'm trusting him to take me to heaven. We can trust him with our souls, with our destiny, but we can also trust him with our possessions. I can come to God and trust God with the things I have. Boy, it seems like the more we have, the more we hold on to. Doesn't it? Boy, I said uh I don't know. Uh-huh. Let me hold on to that. I mean you go to some of these third world countries and somebody has a need. People don't have nothing give stuff. I learned that when I was down in Highland uh in Chattanooga. I worked in the hospital. And we were doing a thing at Christmas for all the bus kids, just unbelievable poverty on these inner city kids. And they didn't have the programs around here like we do here, all the churches giving stuff. These kids had nothing. So we're going to have Christmas and we made up boxes and I thought, man, alive, a hospital, surgery department, these doctors are loaded Our bus routes are going to have the coolest gifts of any kids on the whole They had 42 bus routes. And so I put boxes out and put announcements and hand it out to all the doctors and the big shot nurses and uh something for Christmas and we're giving these to poor inner city kids. You know how much I got from the doctors? Nothing. They didn't bring a thing in. I had some boxes set up down in housekeeping where the uh uh a bunch of the ladies worked in the inner city. They didn't hardly have anything. You know what those boxes were? They were overflowing. And we have a real tendency, the more we have, the more we try to hold on to it. And I'm saying to you, you and I are poor stewards of our possessions. God is a much better steward. We can trust Him. To take care of us. If we will use our possessions the way He teaches us to, He's faithful. Well if I if I give to the Lord and I give my time and if I give my missions and if I give to this and do that and invest this time and all this Man alive, I won't have nothing. My God's better than that. God doesn't take from us and leave us with nothing. Come on now, help me out here. Amen. He promises us that if we'll trust him, he'll take care of us. And so he's faithful. I can trust him with my soul. I can trust him with my possessions. I can trust God with my life. I can take my life and say, Lord, I've got however many years to live on this earth, I get one shot Lord, I'm going to give you my life, but I can trust you with it. You're faithful. And you can take me and use me however you see fit. Now, whatever age, I think that's a good decision. Lord, I give my life to you. Take my hands off it, do with my life, use it however you see fit. God is faithful. Or I can say, nope, this is my life. I'm going to live it where and how I want to. You can do that. What my Bible teaches and my experience has been that God is very faithful. We can trust Him with our lives. I have yet to bury someone that says, Boy, I regret giving my life to the Lord. Amen. Never met a person that said that. I met a heap of folks. I've buried a heap of folks that said, Boy, I wish I'd did right. Wish I'd have trusted God sooner. I wish I'd have done this, that, or the other. God is faithful. God is faithful. God is faithful. Let's think about Elizabeth up in Alaska. Just trusting God for the summer. Hey, if God's faithful, she's going to be just fine. Amen? We trust God. Uh the the Knickerbockers going to Nepal. Can I be real f frank with you? I haven't said this but to a couple people. I was sitting there and they were giving their testimony, our missions conference. I thought, you know, where they're going and just something about them, their trusting God and their simple faith, I could see God taking them home off of the mission field. You know, you never know. You know what I'm saying? I could see them giving their lives for Christ on the mission field. And I know Luke feels that way, and he's willing, understands that's a real possibility. But God is faithful. And they can trust God with that. God is faithful. Now, I don't know what situation or issue you and I are facing. But I'm telling you this, God's faithful. We can trust him. Do what he says. And it'll be alright. It'll be alright. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for being faithful, dear Lord. And we have so many troubles. And Lord, do we make mistakes and we say and do things? But God, you're unchanging and you just stay so faithful. And help us to trust you and let you have your way in our lives. Help us not to get panicky when things go wrong, and help us not get over. Excited when things go right. Help us just to stay focused on you and trust you. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Is there any here tonight? Say, uh, preacher. I'm facing a situation that's difficult. I have a sneed. I just, I don't see it. I don't see how it pans out. But you say, I really believe with all my heart that God is faithful. And you say, pray with me that I'll trust Him. In this situation, whatever it may be, say, preacher, I'm going to trust God. How many are like that? You have a specific situation you're facing. Say, you know, I believe God's faithful. I'm going to trust him. How about it? By the uplifted hand. God bless you. Bunch of hands around. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, you know, I really struggle with my possessions and those types of things. And you say, Preacher, you know, I know God's faithful. I know that's true. And I just want to trust the Lord with my possessions. And whatever his will is, whatever his direction is, I just want his will to be done. Because I know that's best. I trust the Lord. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, praying. God bless you. Several hands. What about your life? So you say, well, I got my plans, I got it all planned out. What about trusting God with your life and say, Lord, here I am, here's my life. Take my life and let it be. Consecrated, Lord, to thee. Is there any here say, preacher, I'd like to just trust my life to the Lord Jesus Christ and let him lead me and direct me and use me in whatever capacity he thinks is best? Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. Several hands. What a wonderful way to live. One last question. Is there anybody here tonight to say, preacher, I don't know for sure when I die, I'm going to heaven? You say, I don't want to go to hell. And I want to trust Jesus to save me from hell and trust him. Take me to heaven. He's faithful. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell when I die. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Father, bless our invitation now, Lord, teach us to trust you and have faith in you. In Jesus' name. Let's stand in