Risk, we're young and uh we have not proven ourselves, but we we look forward to reaping a a great eternal harvest together for the Lord there in the Dominican Republic. Um last time I was here I preached about how to pray for missionaries and I want to thank you for your prayers. Uh the prayers of God's people have been evidence in our deputation ministry, and I I thank you for that. Um I was telling someone the other day I notice when I send out my prayer letter, I always notice some sort of blessing a week or so after that. or maybe uh hear from a supporting church or you know we're taking you on that type of thing. So prayer really works. It's one of the most important elements of missionary activity And so we really appreciate your intercession on our behalf and appreciate your financial support. Thank you for partnering with us in this great work of the Lord. If you uh speaking of the work of the Lord, if you would turn with me to Psalms chapter 107. My wife had to step back there. Her name's uh as Pastor Ed Clarissa uh Sharon Sharon Fluby and then uh our uh little daughter Clarissa Rose And uh if you get a chance to meet them later on this evening if you haven't already, and she's uh stolen daddy's heart completely. I she is daddy's little girl, and I just love her to death, and that's just a great thing. But uh Psalms chapter 107 Psalms chapter 107. I want to talk to you for a few moments tonight about the works of God. Read with me, if you would, Psalms 107. Psalm 107, verse number 31. The Bible says Uh oh that men would praise the Lord for his goodness and for his wonderful works to the children of men. Um I think it's an exciting thing, it's a thrilling thing that God is willing to work in the hearts of of men, in the children of men. I think it's a great thing. I mean if you read the Bible and you and you study out the condition of mankind, I had a Bible, a biblical counseling classic Several months ago, we were talking about the the inability of psychology and these different things to address the condition of man, and I really learned a lot more about the condition of who we are. I mean we're abject rebels against God. I mean we're we're we are lost. We're filled every one of us. And and the things you learn in Scripture, they ring true in your own experience, do they not? I I know as I as I as I you know work in deputation and as I make progress to the mission field, I I I often come against in my own spiritual walk, I come against this inner rebellion against God This inner uh re rejection of his will for my life, this this insistence on doing my own thing, and we've all experienced that in our life And I think it's an amazing thing that God would work in the lives of the children of men. The idea, the wonder that God would even consider doing anything for his enemies. But think of the the actual works that he does. I mean have you ever stopped and think about the things that God has done for you? Have you ever stopped and think about the miracles of God that you've seen in your own life? I was telling Pastor I noticed on the internet this week about the the the the Sunday you had here recently where you had some visitors and and a soul was saved and so forth. That's a miracle Whenever somebody is converted to Christ, that's a miracle. In fact, Jesus said he said he was speaking about the things that he had done, the healing of the lame and causing the blind to save, but he said to his disciples, he said, Greater works than these shall ye do And there's no greater miracle than somebody being converted to Christ. That is the greatest miracle that can ever be done. Of course, it can only be done by God. The wonder of the miracles that God does for men But as I as I meditated upon this passage, when the Lord first brought it to my mind, I wondered at the availability of the works of God to the children of man. I mean, if you are a child of men, if you are a born of a man, then you are a candidate for the work of God in your life It doesn't matter how little you know or how much you know, how well connected you are or how n not well connected you are, uh how spiritual you are, how not spiritual you are, doesn't matter who you are, how simple you are, how not simple in fact, the more aware you are of your own sin, the more prepared you are, I believe, for the work of God in your life. But as I having a mission uh heart, as being called to the mission field, and as I as I having that that perspective, as I meditated upon this passage even further I thought about the idea of God working worldwide in the children of men everywhere. God's interested in doing a work still today. It's it we read the newspaper and it's hard not to be depressed. We read about these things that's going on in Egypt and all over the Middle East and we hear about the things in our own country and the coldness of the hour and the darkness and the rebellion of people again. Northern Virginia, I mean you knock on a door and you want to tell something about Christ and and they they don't want to hear it. You know, and and you think about these things and it's easy to get discouraged. But as you read the Bible, you re you realize that God is is still very interested in doing a work in the children of men wherever children of men can be found. All around the world. God is interested in doing a work in the children of men at this very hour. Are you experiencing the work of God in your life? Are you a part of the work of God in and around you and through you? Have you seen the works of God? Look at with me if you would, please, at verse number 43 of Psalms 107. The psalmist says, Whoso is wise and will observe these things, even they shall understand the loving kindness of the Lord. I think about that word, observe these things. The idea comes to my mind when I think and meditate upon that word, the idea of being an eyewitness, the idea of seeing something take place right in front of your eyes. The idea of being involved there in the work of God is it happens right in front of you. I mean you're watching God transform a life right in front of you. You're watching God meet your needs right in front of you. I mean you're seeing the works of God take place I remember when I was a a a child and I would watch the news and I would watch it was AB Seven ABC 7, you know, eyewitness news. And it was I could never figure out why they called themselves the eyewitness news when it seemed that their cameras always showed up after the event had already happened. So they weren't really eyewitnessing anything. They were just doing the same thing I was gonna do. If they were gonna find out what had happened and then they're gonna rehearse it back to me. But we can be eyewitnesses. I mean we can be right there on the spot while it's happening, seeing the works of God, and then we can go and tell other people about it. Are you seeing the works of God? I want to talk to you tonight about the works of God. And look at five works here in this passage. Five works, the five works of God that He is wanting to do at this very hour in our world. And let's go to the Lord in prayer here briefly. Father, thank you so much for the opportunity to preach tonight to your people. Lord, this is your word. This is not my word I pray that you'd give us clarity of thought, I pray that you would anoint our ears, that we would hear your word, and that we would be changed and transformed into your image, Lord, that we might be more profitable servants of thee. We ask your blessing upon us all that is said and done tonight. In Jesus' name. Amen. Turn with me if the look with you at the beginning of the chapter in Psalms 107. David says, O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy. And gathered them out of the lands from the east and from the west and from the north and from the south. The work of redemption. I'm glad that God is still involved in the work of redemption. I'm glad he's still seeking people out. I'm still glad he's still looking for lost sinners everywhere, not just in America and not just in the Dominican Republic But in places like Kazakhstan, in places that are very dark in the middle of Africa, God is still seeking out the children of man. God is still interested In gathering men out of anywhere, anywhere anyone will respond to the light of the Lord Jesus Christ, God is willing to redeem. I'm glad God's doing a work of redemption. I remember when I was a teenager, I was 18 years old. I remember when the the summer of 2001, when the Lord got a hold of my heart, and I realized I was lost. And uh and I remember uh after I trusted Christ, it was just a long time for me to to to grasp this idea of being assured of my salvation and having a peace in my heart that I was a child of God. And one day the Lord showed me These two passages, uh Ezekiel thirty-three, verse number eleven. Uh Ezekiel chapter thirty-three verse number eleven, if you have opportunity to turn there, it's a great verse. The Bible says Say unto them, as I live, saith the Lord God, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turn from his Way and live. Turn ye, turn ye from your evil ways, for why will ye die, O house of Israel? What cloaked my mind about that passage was the fact that God says, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked Certainly, his justice requires the death of the wicked sinner who will not be saved. Certainly that is so, but it doesn't give God any pleasure. He draws no joy from the death of the sinner. Indeed, he is willing that all should come to repentance. He wants men to be saved. I thought about that and I thought, you know. Here I am. I've trusted Christ. The Lord's did a work in my heart. I don't seem to have insurance, but I know the Bible tells me that God does not want me to perish. He's interested in me uh being saved. He's interested in me uh uh uh trusting Christ, he's interested in me having eternal life. And then then the Lord uh showed me this passage in Isaiah chapter fifty three, a very A very uh familiar passage to us all. Isaiah 53, just uh a few pages back in uh on the other side of the book of Jeremiah there, Isaiah 53, verse number 10. The Bible tells us, yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed. He shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied. I mean, God is telling us he has no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but then in another verse he says that he was pleased to bruise his own son. He was pleased to sacrifice his own son Arab. And I put that together, and it was as though the Lord said to me, listen, you want assurance of your salvation, do this. If I'm satisfied with the death of my son, then all you need to do is be satisfied with the death of my son. And from that moment I began to have peace in my life because I realized that it wasn't about anything I could ever do. It wasn't about even my emotions. It was just about Being satisfied with what Jesus Christ had done for me. And that's what redemption is, is being satisfied with what the Lord Jesus Christ has done on our behalf. But notice the Bible says that in verse number 2 of Psalm 107, turning back to Psalm 107, the Bible tells us that the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy. It's the idea of God going out of his way, performing this work of redemption, bringing his people back from the land of the enemy, hand of the enemy for himself. God is redeeming a people for himself, for his name. And so the Bible tells us in 1 Corinthians 6, 19 and 20, it says, Ye are not your own, for ye are bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. In this redemption, in this work of God, we now belong to God. We are now His children, and we have to submit ourselves to His will for our life. And the question that comes to my mind as I dwell upon this passage and I think about the works of God that He's longing to do in my life, the question comes to mind: is God getting what he paid for? Because he paid a great price for me. He went out of his way to purchase myself for himself. And is he now getting what he paid for? God wants to do a great work in your life, but you can resist it by not allowing him to have that which he has paid for. Is he getting what he paid for in the work of redemption? The work of redemption. Notice with me if you would please in verse number nine, the work of filling. Verse number nine. The Bible tells us For he satisfieth the longing soul and filleth the hungry soul with goodness. I'm glad that the Lord is in the business of satisfying Men. I'm you you you go around this world and you can't help but notice people who have an emptiness. Uh people who are not satisfied with life as they know it. Uh you you know, I I drive around Northern Virginia and and I see people with these these Awesome houses. Oh what a beautiful house. And I thought to myself Are they really getting out of life what they think maybe that house will give them? And there's nothing wrong with having that house. I'd love to have that house. But I'm saying there are people who are empty with what they have found in life. They have not found what truly satisfied, but the Bible tells us that God is waiting. He is ready to fill The hungry soul. Notice it says the hungry soul. It's not talking about a nation or a church or churches or denomination. He's talking about one hungry soul That's all it takes for God to begin to do a great work in a church. That's all it takes for God to do a great work in this world. It takes one missionary to get a burden for a mission field. And to go there and to be fully sold out to God for the will of God for his life and to turn that country upside down. It just it only takes one hungry congregation that's desperate to see God do a work in a place like Kazakhstan And to get down on their hands and knees and to beg God to do a great work in a place like Kazakhstan. Just one. God just needs one person, one church. One individual. It's no trouble for him to say by many or by few, we are told. God can do a great work and he can do it through one. I remember hearing the story about my great-aunt Val. She was my grandfather's sister. And she went to a revival campaign, to this Great Big Tent meeting in Chicago in the late 1940s, as I understand it. And she she heard the gospel preached, and she got saved. And she went back to her family and she told them about the gospel and she told her father, my great-great-grandfather, who I who I never had the privilege to meet. And these many many of the flugi family were saved and born again and converted to Jesus Christ through my one great aunt vow. And today, because of her efforts, there are five generations of flugies who are saved, born again, and on their way to heaven. Just one Is all it takes. Just one person to get hungry for the work of God. Just one soul to get down on your hands and knees before God and say, God, before I leave this earth, I've got to see something happen that only you could have done. One hungry soul. The problem is, oftentimes, and I know this from my own personal experience, we're not hungry enough. In fact, we're filled, but but with every other thing except for God Himself. The Bible tells us in Proverbs twenty-seven seven, it hits the nail on the head, so to speak. The fool soul loatheth in the honeycomb, but to the hungry soul every bitter thing is sweet. Listen, we will not begin to see God do greater works than he's been doing in our churches in America until we begin to to to be empty of everything that we fill ourselves with and we begin to get desperate before God and say, God, would you would you turn our land upside down for the cause of Christ? Would you would you do a work in us as you've never done before? You've got to be to experience the work of God. We've got to be hungry. We must be hungry. We must be begging God to do something that He has never done before. I'm thankful that the Bible gives us the promise in Luke chapter 6, verse number 21. Blessed are ye that hunger now, for ye shall be filled. Listen, God doesn't make us hungry for spiritual things just to tease us and just to just to string us along. God wants to fill us. And he promises that when we get hungry and we get desperate before him, he will fill us. You know, the idea of being hungry, it it uh it uh I I know when I when it when it comes to losing weight, I've got to get to the point where where I can I can uh deal with that hungry feeling. You know what I'm saying? I mean when you when you've cut you've cut your calories back to a certain amount, you you just get that gnawing hungry feeling at certain times of the day And you just have to get to the place where you're just gonna you're just gonna put up with it. You're just gonna be hungry because you want to lose that weight. And it's a spirit, it's the same as true in spiritual. You've got to be able to have that hunger in you. If you want to see that lost person get saved that's in your neighborhood If you want to see that co-worker get saved, you're going to have to be willing to have a burden that's gnawing at you and that's burrowing deep inside your soul. And you just can't get away from it, and it's just on your back, and you've got to go to God constantly about this burden that you have. for this lost family member or the co-worker. You've you've got to be willing to be hungry, not just for yourself, but for others. Are you hungry? Are you are you able to carry burdens for other people Are you able to carry burdens to the throne of God on behalf of yourself and others? Are you truly hungry to see the work of God? Jesus tells us in Luke 11, verse number 13, If ye then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit unto them that ask him? It's amazing the things that you you learned as you become a parent, the things that become more real to you, the the things that the spiritual truths even that have more meaning to you as you become a parent. And this verse is one of them I mean I would do anything for Clarissa. I would do anything to protect her. I would do anything to provide for her. I'd make any sacrifice. I'd go anywhere to do anything that would be to her her benefit. And I'm a the Bible says I'm I'm a I'm a sinful, wicked human father. And so how much more would my my holy and pure imperfect heavenly father do Things for me, do good things for me. And the Bible tells us that He will give His Holy Spirit unto them that ask Him. Are you hungry? Do you long for a fresh moving of God in your life? in your family, in your church, wherever, in your work, wherever there is a work that needs to be done. If you're hungry and you get down before God and you ask him. He longs to show us what he can do. I long to get to the Dominican Republic, and I long to see what God can do. Uh shortly after I left here in December of uh December 5th, um there had been a man on my n my mind named Sam when I still was still in the in the in the workforce, he was one of my customers And uh he had been to my church a couple of times and we had talked about some spiritual things and so forth, and I didn't know where he stood spiritually, but after a while the Lord just laid him on my heart and I couldn't get him out of his mind, out of my mind. So I called him And I said, Sam, I left a message. I said, Sam, would you would you be willing to just go get coffee with me? I I just feel like, you know, maybe I should just reach out, be his friend. I said, Sam, would you would you would you go to Starbucks with me? And I didn't hear anything from him for a day or so and I thought, well, I maybe maybe he doesn't I guess. But then on Monday morning I got a call back from him and he said, Damn man, I'd love to go to Starbucks. Let's do it. Let's do it. So Thursday night we met at Starbucks at eight o'clock. I didn't know what the situation was. I knew He had had some family struggles and so forth. And and I didn't know what we were getting into, and I didn't even know if he was saved. And I remember just asking the Lord to direct me there as I as I as I met with him and And tried to encourage him and and witness to him. And the Lord led our conversation there. After about fifteen minutes of of of small talk, the Lord led me into a gospel presentation And after a while I went to John chapter 112 and I told him the idea of accepting Christ, as many as received him, to them gave he the power. I said, Sam, have you ever has there been a time in your life When you accepted Christ, I mean you made a definite decision that from this day forward I'm trusting Christ for my salvation. And he looked at me and he said, Tim, I've never heard it explained that way. And Sam went home that night, and later on I found out he accepted Jesus Christ on that Thursday evening in his own private house. And the Lord's been doing great work in Sam's life. He he's been uh he came up to me the other day, Pastor, and he said, Tim, can you tell me about tithing? And I said, I'd love to tell you about tithing. That's great. And he he came to me and he said, Can you tell me about baptism? I want to get baptized. I want to join the church. And he's getting baptized this Sunday and he's inviting his lost friends to come with him to church And listen, uh God can do a great work. And it's exciting to know that God can change a life in Northern Virginia because if he can do it there, then I know he can do it in the Dominican Republic And so God is waiting for someone to be hungry. And it only has to be one. If one person just begs God to do something, he will. The work of redemption, the work of filling. Notice with me if you would, please, in verse number 20, the work of revelation. And we'll begin in verse number 17. The Bible tells us in Romans chapter 107 and verse number 17 fools because of their transgressions, and because of their iniquities are afflicted. Their soul abhorreth all manner of meat, and they draw near unto the gates of death. Then they cry unto the Lord in their trouble, and he saveth them out of their distresses. The Bible says he sent his word and healed them and delivered them from their destructions. The work of revelation. I'm glad that God has gone out of his way to reveal himself to us through I'm glad we have a more sure word of prophecy. I'm glad that I don't have to rely upon my emotions. I'm glad I don't have to rely on what I think or Or my philosophy. I'm glad I have this absolute truth, the word of God that I can hold in my hand. I'm glad that God has undertaken the work of revelation But notice in this verse, it's his means of healing in this word. God doesn't work apart from his word If you study the great revivals, you will study they were combined with a great prayer ministry and a great ministry of the Word of God. Wherever God's work goes, you can find the ministry of truth closely intertwined with it. The work of revelation, He sent His Word and healed them The Bible says that all things, God has given unto us all things that pertain unto life and godliness. And those all things are through the Holy Spirit, our teacher, and through his word. That's all we need to live this Christian life. That's all we need to be healed from the distresses. But as you read through this chapter and you look at you look through verse 17, fools because of their transgressions, because of their iniquities are afflicted Their soul forth all manner of meat. They draw near to the gates of death. You don't have to travel much around this world to look upon the the the way that we are afflicted and to realize it's really our own doing Every day when I get up in the morning and I get up and I'm the f if I'm the first one up, I have to turn the alarm off in the house. And you know why that is That's because we're sinners. And that's because we don't know how to treat each other right. And that's because we don't know how to respect each other's property. I was in Guyana in January, my home church, they invited me to go on a mission in South America and y and you you you you you can only come to the conclusion that ultimately it's because of our own sin. It's not that the Guyanans are any worse off than I are we are s is in speaking of of their sinfulness. It's just that the human condition When you let it go to its own end, it results in in very, very bad things and bad situations. We are suffering because of sin. The world is suffering because of sin. There's mission fields that have not been reached where the people are just longing for healing. They're longing for some kind of they're longing for someone to show them any good. Who will show us any good? The psalmist said there are people all over the world who are suffering the effects of sin tonight And they need somebody to take them, the word of God. The Bible says He sent His Word. His Word has to be taken. His Word has to be brought The Bible says that we've we've we th we can't just uh sit on our our couches and so forth at home and expect the Lord to do a work in this world. We've got to find a way to get this book into the hands of other people. Uh I don't I was uh surfing the internet yesterday uh doing uh some deputation work and I saw this headline uh that said uh I was checking the weather and uh on the the the home page there there was a headline that talked about these pirates who had had uh murdered in cold blood four American citizens. And I looked into the city uh the story a little bit more and and found out that a couple of these Americans had been uh sailing along the coast of Africa if I understood correctly, and they were giving Bibles to remote areas. And I thought, man, that's a that's a great thing. And and if you're gonna give your life for something, then you might as well do be doing that when you have to, you know, give your life But that's the idea. It's got to be sent. If God's going to do a great work in Oakland, Maryland, and in Washington, DC, and in Dominican Republic, we've got to take the word out. We've got to get the word out, so to speak. But notice God's written revelation reveals his living word. I like Psalms chapter 40, verse number 7 and 8. Turn there, if you would, with me. Psalms chapter 40, verse number 7 and 8. Psalms number 40, verse number 7, the Bible says, Then said I, Lo I come in the volume of the book, it is written of me. And we know from the book of Hebrews that this is a messianic psalm. And we know that this is speaking about the Lord Jesus Christ. And he said, In the volume of the book it is written of me. The theme of the book is Jesus. That's the point of reading this Bible and getting to know this Bible is getting to know him. And he said when we get to know him, we know the Father. Jesus is the theme of the book. When I take the book to the Dominican Republic, my job is to communicate this book to them in such a way that they know Jesus better. And through Jesus that they come to know the Father. If you want to be a soul winner at work and in your community and you want to be used with the Lord to bring people to him, you've got to know Jesus better. And the only way you can know Jesus better is through his word. The written word reveals the living word. Are you saturated with the word? Are you being used to sending to send the word? Is God using you to get this world out, this word out into the This world, the work of redemption, is he getting what he paid for? The work of filling. Are you hungry for the work of God? Are you desperate to see God do something? The work of revelation. Are you saturated with the word and are you are you getting the word out? But notice with me, if you would please, in verse number 32. Verse number 32, the work of the local church. The Bible tells us: let them exalt him also in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the elders. When you study this Psalms this Psalm 107 out, you find that uh some commentators believe it was written by uh the remnant who returned from the Babylonian uh imprisonment, from the Babylonian uh uh captivity for the seven years, seventy years in Babylon. And you can imagine as they're writing out this this this uh these 43 verses here And they're contemplating where they had come from and what God had delivered them from, and how he's brought them back into their land, and he's gathered them back together into a congregation, and he's they're saying, Let them exalt him also in the congregation of the people and praise him in the assembly of the elders. And so they're going back to the land, they're congregating back together again, they're serving the Lord together again, and they're exalting the Lord Jesus together again. If you go farther back into Israel's history, you remember that the land of Canaan was once not a place, was not a land of people who served God. It was a land of barbarians and people who were pagan. It was a a land of wicked people. And and there was no one there who worshiped God. There was no one there who served God. And what happened in the Old Testament is essentially what is happening in the New. We are going to a place where they do not know God. They do not serve God. They do not worship Him. Jesus Christ is not exalted. But then we go and we go with the promise of the Lord Jesus Christ. He said, I will build my church. And we go with that promise. And we start a new church And there in a land where there was no worshippers of God, there was no one serving God, there was no one who loved God, after five years, and ten years, and fifteen years, you begin to see a congregation spring up And you begin to see people exalting Jesus. And you see God glorified through transformed lives there in the Dominican Republic or wherever church planning is going on. It's a miracle of miracles to take place. And God has been doing it for thousands of years. He's been gathering his people together into a local assembly where they can serve him and where they can worship him. Listen, are you involved in your local church? Are you exalting the Lord Jesus Christ in your church? That's the reason we have church. I I heard of an old country preacher not long after I was saved. I went to a tent meeting, and this fellow by the name of Craig Edwards was preaching, and he said, he said, you know A lot of people go to church to get out. You can tell by the way they park. He said, I go to church to get in. You know, when you go to church, you're going to church to learn more about the Lord Jesus Christ. And to exalt him and to praise his name and to learn more about him and to be transformed into his image. Listen, nothing brings God more glory than a church that is right. than a church that is is is seeing things happening. The work of the local church. I'm excited about going to the Dominican Republic and see the Lord Jesus Christ use us as his uh unprofitable servants, the book of Luke says, and to see him do his work there in the Dominican Republic. As we get to be eyewitnesses to this miracle of church planting of the local church It's an exciting thing to be involved in it. It's an exciting thing to be participating in it. If you're not 100% involved, let me tell you something. You're missing out. Church is great. When God doesn't, when a church is right, and when a church is focused on Jesus. Uh I I was watching I I I love to watch uh documentaries. I was watching this documentary about uh snipers, and I was watching this uh one particular show where they had this fifty caliber sniper rifle And at a at a they were it was at a distance of over fifteen hundred yards and they took out three insurgents through a concrete wall with a fifty caliber sniper rifle. Now let me tell you something, they could not have made that shot. If they have not had their weapons sighted in. And listen, as a local church, we're not going to see God do great things unless we're exalting Him. We're sighted in on Him We've got to have our focus right. When we go to the Dominican Republic, we've got to be focused not on ourselves, but on the Lord Jesus Christ being glorified Are you sold out in the program of the local church? But then notice with me uh the work of redemption. Is he getting what he paid for? Uh the work of filling, are you hungry for the work of God? The work of revelation are are you getting the word out? The work of evangelism, the work of the local church, verse number 32, are you involved in the local church? But notice with me, if you would, the work of evangelism in verse number 35 through 38 Look what God says here. The Bible says he turneth the wilderness into a standing water, and dry ground into water springs, and he maketh the hunger swell that they may prepare a city for habitation. And sow the fields and plant vineyards which may yield fruits of increase. He blesseth them also, speaking of the people, he blesseth the people also, so that they are multiplied greatly, and suffereth not their cattle to decrease. God is interested in multiplying his people. Just as he was interested in bringing this remnant back from Babylon and raising them back into a nation again and seeing them grow in number, today God is interested in seeing his people Multiplied. God is interested in the work of evangelism. He hasn't picked out an arbitrary number of people to get saved. He wants whoever will come to Christ to be saved. God is not willing that any should perish. But notice work of the multiplication of the people of God. Notice it it it requires work. The Bible tells us that uh that the He maketh the hungry to dwell that they may prepare a city for habitation. I mean they've got to build the city, they've got to build the buildings, they've got to do some work with their hands, they've got to sow the fields, uh, and plant vineyards which may yield fruits of increase. So we've got to go out and do some work. We've got to go out and do some planting, and we've got to go out and do some sewing. We've got to go out and do some door knocking, and we've We've got to go out and and and and do some work and we've got to put some effort into this idea of evangelism But notice also it requires resources. The Bible says he blesseth them also, so that they are multiplied greatly, and suffereth not their cattle to decrease. If you had a lot of cattle, you were pretty well off. And so God is saying, I'm not going to let your resources decrease. I'm going to be increasing your resources so that you can get the job done. I like what the Apostle Paul said. But God gave the case. He that planteth anything, neither he that watch giveth the increase. The work of revelation uh the work of uh evangelism We've got our work to do. I mean we've got our work cut out for us. We've got things that we need to be doing. But ultimately it's God that multiplies his people. You ever wonder what it means for God's people to be multiplied? I mentioned Sam just a few minutes ago. He's baptism on this. uh in the hard hearts of northern Virginia. It can happen here in Oakland. It can happen in the Dominican Republic. God's people can be multiplied. It's God that gives the increase. We've got to do the work. We can't be afraid of the work But he gives the increase. Are you a worker in his fields? The work of redemption, is he getting what he paid for? The work of filling Are you hungry for the work of God? The work of revelation, are you sending the word out? Are you getting the word out? The work of the local church. Are you involved in the local church? The work of evangelism? Are you a worker in his fields? He'll do the work. He'll give the increase. You've just got to be a participant. You say, you know, I I've seen these these works as they're described in the in in this chapter in Psalms in I've seen some things happen in my life, but I'd like to go to another level. I'd like to see some new things happen in my life. You know, how can I know the works of God? How can I see? How can I observe these things? Verse number 43 You know, some people ask Jesus essentially that same question in the book of John, chapter 6. Turn with me if you would, please, to John chapter 6, verse number 28, as we close. John chapter 6, verse number 28, some of the children of Israel said to Jesus, They said, Then said they unto him, What shall we do that we might work the works of God? Jesus answered and said unto them, This is the work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath sent. God can really begin to do his work when his people get a hold of who he is. The Lord Jesus Christ can really, really see a great work done in his people. When his people catch a vision of who he is through his word. And they get an idea that they serve a great big living God who can do great big things. And they have a faith in a great big God. Faith is the victory that overcomes the world. Faith is that which will enable us to see great big things. It's not us that does the works, it's God that does them. He does them for us, he does them in us, he does them through us and all around us. We just need to be great big believers in him. I like what uh William Carey said. He said uh expect great things from God, attempt great things for God And really that's a pretty good definition of faith if there ever was one. Faith is an expected obedience to the Lord, just knowing who he is and what he can do, and acting upon that knowledge. But notice with me if you would in Mark chapter six. Mark chapter six Mark six, verse number five. The Bible tells us at the beginning of the chapter that he went out from thence and came into his own country. And his disciples follow him. He's coming home. He's coming to his own, to his kin, and so forth. But the Bible says in verse number five, that he could do there no mighty work Say that he laid his hands upon a few sickfold, healed them. Verse number six tells the story. And he marveled because of their unbelief. The only thing that can hold back the work of God is the hard hearts of his people and the unbelief of his people. But if God's people will be a believing people and an obedient people, and as the prophet Jeremiah said, will call unto him, then he will do great and mighty things. That we know not. God's waiting and ready to do the works of God, His works in your life. Works you've never seen before, works you never imagined. Life transformation in people all around you, all around the world. Do you believe in him? Do you believe he can do it? Are you willing to act? In the knowledge that He will do great things. Have you seen the works of God? Thank you, Pastor.