Turn to First Thessalonians. I'm not falling for that one. First Thessalonians chapter three. I sang one time, I well actually, I don't know if anybody remembers it. It was like our first or second Sunday here. Kathy and I sang Sang together. Does anybody remember that? Brother, how could you forget it, right? I sang uh we had a mission ministry down in Chattanooga, my one roommate Dean Demares and I, and we would take turns. It was weekly. You had it it started at five thirty in the morning. And uh so we would go and one week he would leave the singing and sing a special, and the next week I would leave the singing and sing a special. and then the other one would preach. And uh I never sang a special. One time I told him I said, I'm gonna try and sing a special. And so I got up there at 5 30 in the morning And I sang a special. I have no idea what it was. I don't remember. But um all I remember the dogs were howling and the sky turned black and uh it was terrible 1 Thessalonians. Oh, did you hear about the little boy was in school and the teacher said in math class, the teacher said, if I gave you two rabbits and two more rabbits. And two more rabbits, how many rabbits would you have? And she said, Bobby, Robbie, and uh he said, seven. She goes, no, listen carefully. If you had two rabbits, I gave you two more rabbits and gave you two more rabbits, how many would you have? He said, seven. He says, you're not listening. All right, let's use something else. She says, suppose I gave you two golf balls and two golf balls and two golf balls, how many would you have? He said, six He goes, all right, well I gave you two rabbits and two rabbits and two rabbits. How many would you have? Seven. He goes, how do you get seven? He goes, I already got a rabbit So he would have seven rabbits. First Thessalonians chapter one, verse one. Let's read down here a little ways where I want to try and move through this a little quicker. Paul and Sylvanus and Timotheus unto the Church of the Thessalonians, which is in God the Father and in the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father in the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers. Remembering without ceasing, now he lists three things here. Your work of faith and labor of love and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ in the sight of God our Father, knowing, brethren beloved, your election of God Now go down a verse or two, and he says in verse number seven, he says the church at Thessalonica was an ensample church, that they were example to other churches. As I study the book, I find out that we have here in Thessalonica a rapture-ready church, a church that's ready for the rapture. He deals with that back in chapter 4 And so we're looking at some of these characteristics of a rapture-ready church. We want to apply it to our church in our lives, and so that um uh whenever the rapture does take place, which we don't know when it is will be prepared. Let's pray together. Father, bless our study tonight. Help me, Lord, to be clear and correct according to your word and the message. I pray, Lord, you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. I'm grateful for folks that have come out. And I pray your word would bear fruit in our lives. And we ask these things in Jesus' name Amen. All right. We said pointed out, first of all, we had the introduction to the book in verse number one. It's pretty basic as far as uh introductions to Bible books go. We could break it down. There's a lot of truth in there, but we just noted that the we have the introduction. We noted a few things about that. Then if you remember, we noted in verse uh two, in the first part of verse three, the fact that um not only not only we have the introduction here, but we have the intercession by the men of God. Paul and Sylvanus, which is Silas, Timotheus, who is Timothy, they emphasize the fact that they were praying for the church. Um they were th grateful for the church and the people and what God had done in their church. And then they were making requests for them If you remember, and I don't want to belabor this, but they were companions in prayer. All of them were praying together, and we emphasized the importance of God's people joining together in prayer. The Wednesday night service is a good example of when we come together and we lift our hearts, our requests up before the Lord as a body. And that's what he says. He said we. Then they were continuing their prayer He said always, which means at all times, continually, uh they were in a state of prayer for this church, and then they were comprehensive in their prayer. They prayed for everybody. Then last week we began, and I had every intention of doing all of this in one message, and it didn't happen. But we started looking at the integrity in verse number 3 and 4 of 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. The integrity of the church. He makes some statements about this church at Thessalonica that are powerful statements. And they're challenging to us as a church that I would like, can I just say this as pastor, I would like to Uh I would I would love to uh have somebody outside of us, uh outside of our church but knows about our church, be able to say these three things about Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Wouldn't that be great? Our labor of love, or their work of faith, and labor of love and patience of hope. He lists these three characteristics here uh which I call them integrity, uh characteristics of integrity, and they were the outstanding characteristics of this church. These are the things when folks thought about the The first Baptist Church of Thessalonica, they thought about their faith, their love, their hope. They thought about their work and labor and patience And this is what stood out about the church. I could name some churches. I could give the name of a church. Many of us perhaps would know about it, and a certain thought would come to our mind about that church. And uh when somebody mentioned first when somebody mentioned the church at Thessalonica, these are the things that came to mind, characteristics of that church. So what a challenge for us The first thing we noted, we broke these down, and if you remember, we pointed out, this was a couple weeks ago, that every one of these characteristics, faith, love, and hope, were active Particularly that of faith. And last week we spent a good bit of time, we spent a whole message really on the fact that their faith worked. Look what it says there. They're work of faith. You cannot separate, and I hope I was able to convince you from Scripture that we cannot separate faith and work. Now it has to be in the right order. You can't get the cart in front of the horse. But faith, genuine faith in Christ Always produces works. Now, somebody talk to me a little bit. What do we mean by our works? I think I asked this last week. What are we talking about? Faith produces works. Alright, our actions. Our faith in Christ affects our actions. Very good. What else? What other word could you use? Faith produces service is a word I was looking for. Faith produces service. It affects, we could say it this way: faith always affects our behavior. Would you would you uh go along with me on that? What we believe affects how we live our lives, at least primarily we uh struggle sometimes. Uh remember the illustration, the house burn and the guy sitting in the living room One guy says, oh yeah, I believe the house is burned down. He sits there and just goes through. Obviously he didn't genuinely believe that. The other fellow, what? Yikes, he goes running out. He obviously believed that. And so their faith produced works. I like this statement. This is a good quote to put in the margin of your Bible. The Bible knows nothing of passive faith. It's always active. It always produces things. We went to the classic passage on faith, salvation by faith, Ephesians 2, verse 8 and 9. And if you read on to verse number 10, you find out that that faith produces good works. And so their faith, they had an act of faith. They believed the Bible, they believed what God said, and man, it affected how they lived. It made them active. They were out there serving and going on. Then the next thing we neck next characteristic of their integrity listed here is that uh work of faith and labor of love Now I didn't get to that. I got reading the notes here again and I thought, man, maybe I already preached this. I didn't do this yet, did I? No. Very good. I got paranoid for a second there. I panicked. And um But even if I did, I would take it as the Lord you needed it again. You heard about the one preacher that preached the same message, new preacher showed up, preached the same message for six months straight And they came to him finally and said, good grief. It's the same message every Sunday, the exact same reference, same illustrations, same points, same message. And they said, well, how long are you going to do it until you start doing what I'm preaching? Then I'll change to something else. So anyway, uh good, I didn't preach this. And so he says uh he remembers without ceasing their work of faith and their labor of love. Now when you hear that word labor. What do you think of? Physical exertion. Physical exertion. Is that anything different than the word work in the previous phrase? Why is he using a different word? Because he means something differently. The word labor there is actually a completely different word. It's not another English word for the same Greek word. It's actually in both cases it's two completely separate words The word labor there has the idea of physical exertion, but it has the idea of pain involved in it. Painful exertion. Now, with that statement, what do you think of when you hear the term labor? Giving birth. That's the idea behind this word. How many people know that a woman having a baby is very painful? Although a woman had babies, oh yeah. And so uh he says here, I know, he is well we can't we can't forget. One of the things that sticks out in my mind in our minds about the church at Thessalonica is the fact that you guys labor In love. You your love is of such intensity, it brings pain to you, not the one being loved Um he's saying here is that uh their love for God cost them something Their love for other people cost them something. Have you ever tried, or have you ever heard anyone try and define the word love? Or try and give a definition for the concept of love. That is very difficult. I've been preaching for since 1985. So however many years that is, and I still struggle to come up with a concise, clear, what I feel is accurate definition of the word love. But one thing I think I've come up with is it is impossible to love without it costing you something. If it's genuine love, it's going to cost me something. John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he Did it cost Christ anything for God to love us enough to save us from going to hell? Good grief. So he says that that was characteristic of this church. Their love for God was so intense of such a degree That he described it, it's he described its action. It was manifest as labor He was saying this to some degree, and I'm going to give you some scripture here in a minute to back this up. He was saying, you are hurting yourselves In the love that you are displaying to God and others, it is costing you something. So their love for God and their love for others cost them something. Let me This may be a better way to put it. It brought hardship on themselves. They love God so much. That it brought hardship on themselves. You say, how can that be? Keep your place here. We're coming back because I really want to get to that third characteristic and then wrap this up. But turn with me, if you would, to 2 Corinthians. Just a few pages the other direction. 2 Corinthians chapter 8. Now if you've been in a church that has faith promise for any length of time, you know every year about this time we start going to 2 Corinthians chapter 8. It's the faith promise chapter, basically I call it. Chapter 8 and 9. But lo and behold, in verse couple first couple of verses of 2 Corinthians 8. The church at Thessalonica is brought up in the conversation. Look at verse 1 of 2 Corinthians 8. Moreover, brethren, we do you to wit. What in the world does that mean? We do you to wit. What is he talking about? Yeah, we want you to understand something. We want you to be aware of something. So that's what he's saying here. Moreover, brethren, we do you to wit, of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia. Now he uses the term grace here in a very interesting way, a way unique from other places in the Bible, and we pick it up from the context. He says there was grace bestowed on the churches of Macedonia. Guess which was the primary church in Macedonia? Thessalonica. He's making reference to the church at Thessalonica. And no doubt there's others in the area here, he's including him, but that's primary who he's referring to. Now look At his description of their love for God and for the cause of Christ. How that in a great trial of affliction The abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded unto the riches of their liberality Now, are you thinking and paying attention that the words he's using here? What's he saying here? He was saying they were in a great trial. They were going through a lot of afflictions. But they were still very joyful. They were in deep poverty, but their deep poverty, in that deep poverty, They uh abounded unto the riches of their liberality. Now, that term liberality, he doesn't mean they were liberal in their theology. They weren't liberal politicians What does he mean here by the term their liberality? Okay, they're giving. Exactly. They were liberal. They gave liberally. They were in deep poverty, they were in great affliction, but they just gave and gave and gave Now read on. For to their power, that word power there has the idea of ability. For to their power I bear record, yea, and beyond their power, beyond their ability. They were willing beyond their power, they were willing of themselves, praying with us with much entreaty that we would receive this the gift. And take upon us the fellowship of the ministering to the saints. So what's he saying here? Say they were poor They were under affliction, they were under persecution, and they gave and gave and gave. And look what he says. Even beyond their ability, they didn't have that to give. They didn't have those resources, and they're just pouring it on us. And look what he says, verse 4, praying with us with much entreaty that we would receive the gift. What's he saying there? Yeah, they're begging Paul, take this. This is the way I picture this in my mind. They're just they Paul shows up and he says, I'm going over to Corinth, you know, and we're gonna We're taking these missionary trips and he's telling them all what he's going to do. And they say, Oh, we need a help. And they start dishing out stuff And they just dish it out and dish it out. And finally, Paul says, and again, I'm just surmising this from this passage and imagining in my mind, Paul's saying, listen, I can't take this from you. Good night, you guys are you guys need this yourself. And they entreated them. They said, no, wait, you've got to take this We want the cause of Christ to succeed. We want others to hear the gospel. We want this thing to go forward. No, no, no. Good night. You've got to have food to eat. You've got to have houses to live in. No, no, no. We want to give it Their love, it was a labor of love. It was a hardship of love. I think, see if you don't agree with me From how I've described this, if I'm accurate and correct, and I believe I am, or I wouldn't be doing it, if I'm accurate and correct in my description of what's said here Would you agree with me when Paul left Thessalonica, Macedonia with their gift, that they had a little bit harder time than before he showed up? Sure. Now I can hear the misses saying to the mister when they get home from church that night, Now how are we going to buy groceries? Huh? Uh uh, you know, they I don't think they were surely they were more mature than that, they wouldn't have said that But um uh alright now, all right, we gave we gave the farm away, you know. What are we gonna do now? We've got uh And we'll find out later what they did. But that's the idea here, their labor of love. They loved God They loved others. They loved the cause of Christ with such intensity, it brought literally brought hardships on themselves. It was a labor of love. It made it more difficult. There's a fellow that has visited our church a number of times over the years and we became good friends. Some of you know who I'm talking about, and I don't want to I don't want to embarrass him. He hasn't been here for a long time. But um he has a very good job. He has for years, very good job. And so one year they said uh they said, you haven't taken a vacation, why don't you come on down and spend a few days? We want you to come down and stay with us I said, oh Kathy and I worked it out. This was years ago. And um we said, okay. So we went down just for a couple days. And the whole time we're driving down here, the boys were small. The whole time we're driving down, I kept telling Kathy, now this guy's got a A great job. I said this house is going to be nice. This was before Facebook and all that stuff, so we just no pictures to look at. So uh we're going down there and oh boy, this is gonna be and we finally got down, followed the direction. This was before they had GPS. You know, back in the Dark Ages, when you actually had paper maps. How many kids know they used to put maps on paper? Really, they did. It's like papyrus. You know? So anyway, we get down there. I'm having fun. I don't know if anybody else is. I'm having a good time of year. So we get down there And uh we're driving around looking for these big mansions, you know, with swimming pools and all this. And uh huh, there ain't no mansions on this house. They must have the only mansion on this road in this development. So we get back and we finally get the house. And it wasn't shabby. I mean it was nice. But it wasn't anything like what I know he could afford. I know, it wasn't at all. I thought, well, that's interesting. And so we got going, got doing things, and spent time. We had a great time there. The guy loves the Lord. And um I don't remember it's on that trip or some uh um not consequent, some later-on trip. What's the word I want one. Subsequent trip. Uh anyway, I come to find out, and I think it was through his pastor, I come to find out he does make the money that I thought he did. But he gives almost he gives the majority of it to faith-promise missions. And they literally drive a less nice car than what they could drive if they didn't give so much to the Lord. And they literally live in a much smaller and not nearly as nice a house as they could live in, but they give it to the Lord. When I was studying this, that came to my mind. A labor of love. Now, that house, my house, your house, by the rest of the world's standards are mansions, right? But in our society, but in our uh uh economy, in American society, your average American would look and say, man, you're crazy. You could be driving this kind of car, you could be living in this size of a house, you could have all this stuff, and you're giving it all to missionaries Labor of love. Their love for the Lord costs them. I submit to you that genuine love will cost us something. There's all kinds of love stories out there where somebody gave up something for the one they loved, or they sacrificed something for the love of their life. The love of the life, for the Thessalonian church, the love of their life was the Lord Jesus Christ. Labor of love brought hardships on them A gay, love will give, here's one of my attempts at defining love, love will give without demanding anything in return. Right? It's more of a description. 1 Corinthians 13, you know, read through there. And so they had faith that worked. Their love labored. And then the third thing he says about the church, come on back here, third characteristic. Remembering without ceasing your work of faith and labor of love, look at this, and patience of hope Patience of hope. Now what did we say? We touched on this before. This is what threw me about the definition of the word hope. Remember we said, well I think it was last week or sometime, we said hope is not wishful thinking, right? Everybody remember that? It's not just, oh I hope it doesn't snow tonight. Well that is wishful thinking. I hope that's not what he's talking about here. It is a confident assurance that something is going to take place. Now, the subject of the Thessalonians is the second coming, the rapture, primarily, especially later on. So I think he's referencing here, they're anticipating, they are confidently anticipating the coming of Christ. Paul anticipated the return of Christ in his lifetime. This church was absolutely certain, no doubt in their mind, Jesus came back yet. No doubt about it. He is coming back in. Let me just here's a rabbit just ran across in my mind. Um It's kind of like our hound dog. He runs out, he'll start track I try to get, I'll tell you a little story. I try to get our hound dog Faith to track deer. Remember that time The only problem was every time she'd cross a chipmunk trail, she'd go and chase the chipmunk. So that's what I want. They were absolutely confident that Jesus Christ is coming back. Now this is what I thought in the last two days. Anybody hear about that guy that got killed over in Pakistan? Anybody hear that in the news There's a bunch of people out there saying, well, I don't think he's really dead. Where's the body? Where's the body? And so they're doubting whether he's really dead. You know what that made me think of? The resurrection of Christ. There's no body. Right? And by the way, they don't have pictures or anything else of his body. So I don't know, that just was a chipmunk right across. I thought of that But they were absolutely certain, they were absolutely positive that Jesus is coming back again. And that confidence, that hope, that assurance produced in their life great patience. What's the date? You got a Schofield Bible, what's the date there on the writing of this book? Right in the margin there, what's it say? 54 A. D. They said somebody comes to them and says, all right, Christ Christ resurrected and ascended, let's let's just say around 34 A. D. Alright, that's probably general range. Goodbye, that. And so, I bounced stuff off of Brian. And so, 34 A. D. we'll say Christ ascended in that range. So this is 54. How many years have gone by? Well, you Thessalonica Christians, you Baptists over there at Thessalonica, Jesus come back, Jesus come back. It's been 20 years. He ain't back yet And what he's saying here is this, their patience of hope didn't faze them a bit. Twenty years or so, he's coming. I can hear him saying, it might be 2,000 years till he comes back again. We have no doubt he's coming. We know it. Patience of hope. They were absolutely certain that Jesus Christ was coming back again, and that produced in them great patience. Didn't rattle them at all. You know, if we would just take God at His Word, if we would get to the point where we're absolutely certain that what God says is so, we wouldn't get nearly as rattled as we do about stuff. Confurance. Now, the question came up, and this as we were discussing before, was Faith, their work of faith, that's active. That's activity work. Their labor of love, that's active. But patience of hope is patience active Does this mean, and this is what I'm trying to get at, is what he's saying here is does this mean this is what they did? Oh yeah, geez come back again, we just sit down and wait. Eh, we got all day, he's coming back in. Is that what he's saying? Very patient as in the No The idea is this, they were very diligent in what they're doing, and it doesn't matter how long it takes till he comes back, they're absolutely sure of it And they're going to stay at it, and they're going to stay at it, and they're going to stay at it, and they're going to stay at it until Jesus comes because they're absolutely convinced Jes Please come back again Now, some folks, if he doesn't come in the time frame they think he should, they start losing their patience. Well, what's the use? We've been doing this for 19 years and he still ain't back yet. Ah, Philly, I quit. Well, wait, not this church. They just stayed at it and stayed at it and stayed at it. I got a friend of mine, pastors, down in Hollywood, Florida, not Hollywood, Florida, Hollywood, Maryland. Rick Conner, some of you know Rick, he's been up here. I think he preached here one time. Rick Connor started the Petungs Baptist Church down in Hollywood, Maryland, down by Lexington Park, down in that area. For seven years, he's out of Dr. Creed's church. For seven years, Rick Connor, his wife Lori, and their kids were all the ones that came out to church. Seven years. I mean every now and then a visitor come and leave. Um Sunday morning, he'd preach to his wife and kids. Sunday night, he preached to his wife and kids. Wednesday night, preach to his wife and kids. Sunday morning, preach to his wife and kids. Seven years. You know what he has today? He's got a boom in church. Chris War is out of their church. Chris Corrigan is out of their church. Kannoyer, Scott Kanoyer is out of his church He's got preachers and missionaries. That church is on fire for God. They've got an old Jehovah's Witness kingdom hall. They pack that thing out, and they're just going gung-ho for God. You know what that is? That's patience. Of hope. He knew God called him. He knew God was going to build a church there, and he just stayed at it and stayed at it and stayed at it and stayed at it and stayed at it. That's the way the church at Thessalonica was They had patience of hope. They just kept going. They knew God was true. They knew the Bible was true. They knew there was a heaven. They knew there was a hell. They kne I like that. Another word for the word patience there, I looked it up in Strong's another definition and other way it's translated in the Bible is endurance. Endurance. I'm having opportunity. The longer I've been in the ministry, I'm having more opportunity to work with younger pastors, and I really enjoy that. And just trying to help them, encourage them, and different things like that. Not a big crowd, but every now and then I get a call. I had lunch yesterday with a preacher and trying to help with some things. And you know what I'm finding myself telling these younger preachers more and more and more I'm telling them, plant your feet, ground yourself there, just plan on dying at that place and stay at it and stay at it and stay at it. I had one guy in New York uh emailed me, we were emailing back and forth. This has been several months ago, I think I might have mentioned him. He said, We've knocked on all the doors here three or four times I said, knock on them seven or eight or nine or ten times. Just keep going at it. Just keep going at it. He said, Do you think I should resign? I've been here three years. I said, man, you're you're not even down the wedding aisle yet, let alone the honeymoon. Just go at it. And that's what they were here. Just stay at it. Let me show you a verse. Go with me to Hebrews chapter twelve. You say, preacher, I've been through the soul-winning training and I've been out knocking doors and I ain't never led anybody the Lord yet. Well then just keep on going, keep on doing it, keep on doing it, keep on doing it. And here's the thing, the longer it takes to get that first one, the more excited you are when the first one shows up. Look at Hebrews chapter 12. Here's one of my favorite verses. Wherefore, seeing a rear comp seeing we are also compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses Let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which thus so easily beset us, I have this next phrase circled in my Bible, and let us what? Run with patience. Boy, isn't that a paradox? That sounds like contradictory terms. What do you think about when somebody's running? What do you picture? Something going fast. Yes, running, running, running. But running with patience, that tells me you're going to be running what? A long time And it also means you're going to endure. You're going to get tired. There's going to be obstacles, and you just keep running, and you just keep running, and you just keep running and you just keep running. It's not sprint. It's not a hundred the Christian life and Christian service is not a hundred-yard, fifty-yard dash. It's a lifelong marathon, exactly. You just keep going and you just keep going and you just keep going. You know, sometimes somebody will start a ministry, and for some reason we always think our ministry has to be sensational. Has to be the biggest, fastest, growing fruit. It has to be headlines of everything. I found that at most churches that explode into growth Within several years, they're shss, they implode. And they really don't make a lasting impression. They get a lot of attention for a while, they make a lot of noise, but they really don't have lasting influence. But I found those churches and those ministries where people just plug away and plug away and plug away and plug away and plug away and plug away and plug away And finally the person passes away and you have the funeral service, and you know what? People from everywhere come out and say, you know They won me to Christ. They influenced me. They did this. They were a witness to me. And they have a powerful influence. And that's the way this church was. They just stayed at it and stayed at it and stayed at it and stayed at it. It's not um fireworks get a lot of attention, right? I like this illustration. I've used it many times. Fireworks get a lot of attention. Whenever the fireworks goes up, shh And everybody does what? Ooh, come on, you can do better than that. Let's try it again. Shh. That was pitiful, Molly. And then what? Everybody goes home. Anybody ever see the North Star? Anybody ever sitting and outs back and look at the North Star and everybody goes, uh The North Star. Ooh. Nobody does that. You know what people do by North Star? They guide their ships. They get to their destination. They they progress. Nobody guides their ship by a firework. You'd wreck every time Right? The church at Thessalica wasn't a fireworks church. It wasn't just boom, ooh, oh, where'd it go? What happened to them? They they were there had the patience of hope. They just stayed at it and stayed at it and stayed at it. God give us some long-term Christians. God give us some marathon ministries. That just keep on going and keep on going and keep on going. I like, who was it? William Carey. He called himself the plotter. He just plotted and plotted and boom, boom, boom. Boom, boom. That's what he says this church was like. I would hate. You know what's wouldn't it be awful if we give up Say, ah, we've knocked on our doors affilially. Let's just give up on trying to have an influence. And the next week the Lord comes back. Wouldn't that stink? And so they stayed at it. So we have their integrity. We have the integrity of their character. And I'm we're going to wrap this up here. Their character was characterized by their faith that worked, their love that labored, and their hope that endured. But then he mentions one other aspect of their integrity. Come back here to 1 Thessalonians, and I'll end with this. Verse number 4. He says, knowing brethren beloved. Now, whenever the term brethren used, it's always talking about what? Christians, with the exception of where Paul refers to other Jews as his brethren according to the flesh. So these are are these saved or lost people he's addressing? Saved. Now look what he says, knowing, brethren beloved, your election of God The term election only refers to saved people. Never in the Bible is the term elect. Or election applied to people who are unsaved. The word elect simply means to choose. God does not choose unsaved people to go to hell. So when he's referring here to brethren, beloved, your election in God, this is not a support verse for Calvinism. Which is where God chooses some people to go to heaven. God chooses some people to go to hell. They don't have any say in the matter. It's all up to God's election. That is not what this is talking about God in eternity past has decided, has predetermined, has the foreknowledge and predestination of God that he has determined that anyone who believes in Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, that person will go to heaven. Anybody that accepts Christ as Savior is elected to go to heaven, chosen of God. He's saying, I am choosing all the people of their own free will who trust Christ, those people I am choosing to come to heaven. That's all there is to it. And so what is he saying here? He's saying, knowing, brethren, that word knowing means being aware of, of seeing with my own eyes, being convinced of. Knowing, brethren beloved, your election of God. This is what I believe he's saying. He says, I have no doubts about your salvation. It's absolutely clear. Your testimony is so crystal clear. Your walk with God, your service to the Lord is so crystal clear. Anybody that knows you has a clear, has no doubt in their mind that you know Jesus Christ as Savior. You've been born again. You're a new creature in Christ. There is no doubt about it. It is absolutely crystal clear Isn't it sad sometimes you have somebody and their lifestyle is such that in the back of your mind, you just wonder, wonder if they've really been saved? You know, their lifestyle is such I just I I I are they saved? Well they claim, you know. I but man you look at it, I don't know You know what's hard to do as a pastor is to do a funeral for somebody that has no clear testimony of salvation. What do you say? Are they in heaven? I'd say, well, you know, they claim to have trusted Christ. And so we just hang on to that. We hope so. But there's nothing clear there. There's no crystal clear testimony. That's not the way the believers at Thessalonica was. He says, man, we know your election of God. Good grief. There's no doubt about it in anybody's mind. Those folks are born again. That guy is is a saved person. I mean you can just everything they're witnessing, they have testimony, their lifestyle backs up their lips style their lips Lip style. What a testimony. I'd say this is a rapture-ready church I'd say this is a challenge to you and I. That our faith is active. We don't just sit there and say, oh yeah, I believe that. Amen. Praise the Lord. But it actually affects the way we live. Their love is such that it costs them something. I'm not saying we all have to live in squalor, but I am saying if we love God, it's gonna cost us something. It's gonna, hey, it's gonna cost us some time. We have to change our schedule. I have a hard time believing folks that say they love God so much and they don't have time for anything that goes on at church You know, how many ladies would uh you know or men, it goes both ways. You know, your spouse says, Oh yeah, I love you, I love you, and they never want to do anything with you. Never. I mean I understand they're busy or whatnot, but when they have free time, they don't want to do anything with you Kind of rough. Uh their hope. They didn't quit. They didn't quit. And they had a testimony that they were absolutely born again. No doubt about it. Brother. If anybody in Thessalonica is saved, it's that crowd out at First Baptist of Thessalonica. That was their testimony. Now what about us? That's a challenge to me. That's a challenge as pastor of this church that we be this way. Wouldn't it be a great thing if every member of the church here had a testimony on the workplace at home in the neighborhood out in the marketplaces that they were born again, no doubt about it. Absolutely clear. Wouldn't that be something? It's what we got to work towards. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask Lord us to learn from the church at Thessalonica what a challenge. Lord, in my mind, as I'm studying and preaching this, it seems like some supernatural, super duper church. But Lord, we found out earlier they're just folk like us. But they loved you, Lord, and help us to love you. Help us to trust you. Help us not to quit. God, help our testimony be strong and clear. Not that we get praise, but that the glory goes to God for what you've done in our lives. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many, I don't know how God, the Holy Spirit, applies this to your life. I know how he does to mine But maybe this evening the Spirit of God is working in your heart and speaking in your heart, and you say, Preacher, you know there's some things there that you touched on tonight from this passage that the Lord's really brought home to me. Maybe it's your work of faith, just active. Maybe it's your any hope you have, you know, and sticking to it and just staying at it. Maybe it's a testimony of salvation and you know just need to work on that. But you say, preacher, the Spirit of God has really dealt with my heart. And I want to learn from this church here. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. How about it? Others all around, sure. Of course we want to be more like we ought to be We want a stronger witness, stronger testimony. Father, I saw a bunch of hands. Lord, you know our hearts. You know where we're at. Help us, Holy Spirit. to humbly trust you and to step out in faith and obey you and let you work in our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand our