A report on our website for the month of March on the sermons that are downloaded. I was fascinated by this. In the month of March, nine hundred and four sermons were downloaded off of our website. And that's something almost a thousand sermons. And here's something a little interesting three hundred and fifty of them went to smartphones People download it onto their phones and listen to it. I think a lot of that might be truck drivers out in the road and different things like that. But uh three hundred and fifty. That's a that's a lot of people. What's that? And missionaries too, yes, that's right. The number one sermon downloaded for the month of March, believe it or not, was a Wednesday night sermon a few weeks ago, Salvation After the Rapture. 99 people downloaded that sermon. Something about that apparently caught people's imagination. And that was the number one. The number one state where we had sermons downloaded. Anybody want to take a guess? Virginia. I don't know why that is. 173 sermons downloaded into the state of Virginia. Texas was second. California and Tennessee. Coming in last place with one sermon in the month was Maine. So somebody up in Maine listened to one and didn't like it, I guess. Yeah, it's probably Bill Barron's sermon, yeah. Uh the number one nation was United Kingdom over in England. Germany, Canada, France, China had sixteen sermons downloaded into it. Uh Netherlands always has six, we know who that is. Um and then uh let's see. There was someone here. Uh Chili had a servant downloaded into Chile, uh, Turkey, Trinidad, Tobago, um, India. Korea. It doesn't say North or South. I wonder if it's North Korea. Might be that's why they're all men. And so I thought that was a blessing. And uh uh I I just love getting that and love sharing it with you. I preached for Brother Ken Lake last night. He has a Bible conference going through April. He moved his Wednesday night service to Tuesday And he's bringing different preachers in to preach each week. And uh what a blessing that was down there. He's doing such a good job. It's just neat to be there And uh had a little b I had a young man trust the Lord his Savior. I gave the invitation, boy, he was sitting down front, his hand went right up and uh came forward right away and they took him out And uh he trusted the Lord. It's cute. I was shaking hands afterward in the back. He comes up. Hey preacher, I accepted Jesus and asked him to come in my heart. And uh so that was pretty neat. And then another boy they ran the bus and brought in a bunch of bus kids. He was probably ten or twelve maybe. And uh he came up to me and uh I was joking around with him before doing the high five, low five, backside, all that stuff And um he came up to me and he says, uh Preacher Leatherman, I sure liked your sermon. And uh that was a blessing. So if the kids are liking it, I'm happy Alright, 2 Thessalonians. I got my Bible upside down. There we go. And uh verse number 11 and 12. Second Thessalonians chapter two verse eleven Uh it says, and for this cause, God shall send them strong delusions. Boy, that phrase caught my attention. That they should believe a lie, that they all might be damned who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness. I want to talk about this strong delusions that he mentions here. Let's pray. Father, bless our study of your word. And Lord, it's just a joy to be around your people and so encouraging. And refreshing, I pray that as we look in your word, a somber subject here, nevertheless, important for us to understand. So fill me, I pray, with your Holy Spirit. I yield my body anew and ask that uh you would teach us what this means here. And I pray, Holy Spirit, that you would apply it to our lives. That uh we be the people you intend for us to be. I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Now it's been a couple of weeks since we've been in here, and just a brief review of where we're at and what's going on here You know 1 Thessalonians was written by Paul under the inspiration of God and addresses primarily the rapture. There was a question about the rapture they had there in the church. He wrote very thoroughly in chapter four of 1 Thessalonians. He went into great detail about what all transpires at the rapture and just facts that were not given anywhere else in Scripture. Six months later he writes well is what we believe six months later he writes Second Thessalonians to the same church. That's not a long period of time between the two letters And the reason being, I believe, is uh for two reasons. One, their persecution of the church at Thessalonica was increasing tremendously. It was getting hot for those who were preaching the gospel. And it was starting to get to some of them. We noticed that in chapter one, the first part. Some of 'em it was really starting to affect them. We don't we're not told how. But the persecution was getting to them. And so Paul writes and addresses that. And if you remember at the end of chapter one he talks about the Lord's second advent, inflaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God. And uh I mean he really uh really lays it out there and what he's doing I believe is assuring the Thessalonians hey listen those that persecute you God will deal with them God will take care of that don't let that b wor worry you you just keep right on Plug away, don't let it mess you up. The other reason he was writing this book is to address they apparently got some misconceptions about the rapture. Now we don't know exactly what the confusion was. We can maybe glean a little bit as we study this. And I'm coming to the conclusion that because of the persecution the church there was facing I mean they're being thrown in jail, they're losing their jobs, they're being threatened, uh no doubt there's physical violence against them. Uh families are ostracizing them because of their witness and and uh I I think they got in their heads that the rapture had already happened and this persecution was part of the tribulation period coming down on them. Now, I don't know for certain that's what their thinking was, but as I'm studying this, I'm kind of coming to that. And so he addresses this here about events that are going to take place at the rapture of the church and immediately following. He's talking about um uh the um I'm trying to get back to my notes here. I was winging it here. Uh he tells about the spiritual effects of the rapture. And what do we learn? Let's see how you're doing. I'll get you all guys on board with me here a little bit What are we told here in chapter 2 that is going to happen at the rapture? Some things we're told very clearly are going to take place immediately at the rapture. Anybody take a shot? Anybody remember? What's going to happen to the Holy Ghost? Yeah, the Holy Spirit's going to be removed. uh from the earth in the sense of indwelling the church. Alright? Now he's omnipresent, so the Holy Spirit's everywhere all the time. But his unique ministry during the church age is going to be removed And so the Holy Spirit, his uh hindrance to sin is going to be removed. So what's that going to do to the world? If the church is gone, the Holy Spirit is gone, there's no restraining sin, what's going to happen in the world? It's just going to go headlong into sin and unrestrained debauchery and sinfulness. All these restraints are removed. So the Holy Spirit's going to be removed. Then we noted that something else is going to happen After the rapture, after the Holy Spirit is removed, something else is going to happen. The wicked one will be revealed. The Antichrist is going to be revealed. We do not know who he is until after the rapture. Then he's revealed. And then there's a third thing, and that's what we're touching on. We looked at it the other week, and we're going to look at these two verses here, and that is this salvation is restricted. Is the way I'm putting it. These three things, the Holy Spirit's removed, the Antichrist is revealed, and salvation is restricted. Now what do we mean by that? By that we are told here, we're taught here, that those who those who had an opportunity to be saved. Those that heard the gospel, understood it, and rejected it, at the rapture, when the rapture takes place, if they're in that condition still, they will no longer have opportunity to be saved. Now, there are millions of people who had no opportunity to be saved and will have that opportunity after the rapture. They maybe they didn't hear the gospel. They might have heard of Jesus and and uh whatnot, but they were never uh clearly presented the gospel and they will still have opportunity These are people, and we noted that in verse number um look at verse ten, with all deceivingness and righteousness, because they received not the love of the truth that they might be saved They understood it. It was given to them clearly. They fully understood it. And they refused the gospel. And at that point, they would have no longer have an opportunity to be saved. Now, verse 11 picks up there And he tells us, we're told here, God's response to all of this. Look at verse 11 with me again. And for this cause. What cause? When it says for this cause, what do you do? Yeah, you look just before. And what are we told just before? I just highlighted. Yeah, they rejected salvation. Uh notice there, uh uh they received not the love of the truth that they might be saved. For this cause, because they did that God sends them strong delusions. So here's my first point. The reason for the strong delusions Now we'll look at what they are in just a moment, what it is actually, but the reason for the strong delusion for this cause. God restricting salvation or withholding salvation from this class of people who had an opportunity to be saved and refused it. God withholding it from them is not without a reason. God is not just arbitrarily saying, all right, you folks, you can't be saved. Alright, do you understand that? That is a major tenet of Calvinism. Calvinism teaches that God Just for his own reasons and his own wisdom, chooses some to be saved, and some to be lost, die and go to hell. It's very fatalistic. I mean that's the ultimate end of Calvinism. Very fatalistic. God just arbitrarily, you these people go to heaven, these people go to hell. That's not what's being ha happening here This is a result of the deliberate refusal of the gospel. They made a conscious decision That I will not receive the truth of the Word of God, I will not receive the truth of the gospel, I do not want that And as a result of that decision to refuse the truth of the gospel, there are consequences. And this restriction of salvation after the rapture of these people is a consequence of a decision they had previously made. You know what I learned? Didn't take me long. I found out that decisions have consequences. Anybody ever find that out? In fact, you and I today are very much the result of decisions we've previously made And so it's not God is not being hateful here, God is not being mean here. These are simply uh they they refused it, and this is the consequence of the decision If they are in that state at the rapture, they do not have the opportunity to be saved. No different, hey, if somebody rejects the gospel They hear the gospel, they have an opportunity to be saved, they say, No, I do not want Christ to be my Savior, I do not believe that, I'm rejecting that, and they die in that condition. What happens to them? They die in hell. They end up in hell for all eternity, separated from God. No different. It's the exact same principle. Somebody hears the gospel, reject deliberately rejects it And the rapture takes place, they do not have opportunity to be saved after that. So that's the cause for the uh the gospel being restricted here. Number two, I notice in verse number 11, the root Of the strong delusion. Look at verse 11. Now this this throws you a little bit if you don't think it through. Verse 11. And for this cause, what's the next word? God shall send them strong delusion. God's doing it. The root of this strong delusion Is God. Now, I'll be frank with you. I first got studying this, I thought that doesn't make sense That contradicts what I understand to be true about God. Let me ask you a question. Does God ever lie? No, God doesn't lie. In fact, we're told in Titus, God cannot lie. So is God, is this saying here that God is lying to them And they're going to believe this lie that God is saying to them. Is that what is being told? Well, that can't be it because God cannot lie. He does not lie. So what is the answer? The answer is in the meaning of these words. Do you remember I say it over and over again, and I push it in institute a lot. Whenever you get a portion of scripture, particularly if the meaning is not real clear, there's three things you do. Number one, you look up the meanings of the words. The words may not mean what you're assuming they mean. So it's important to look up the meaning. Number two, you do what? Anyone remember? Look at the context. You always go to the context. And number three, if that still doesn't clarify it for you, and the third one is still good to do, is go to other portions of scripture that deal with that subject and Let them shed light on it. Let Scripture interpret Scripture is what I'm saying. So let's take that first step. God God lying to them, God's telling them lies, and so they're believing these lies so that They don't get saved? No, it can't be that. So what are the answers? The word delusion is an interesting word. It says God will send them strong delusion. Now you probably picked up what my immediate understanding of that word was was some type of falsehood It was my immediate assumption. God send them strong delusions, some falsehood, and they're going to believe this falsehood. But that's not what the word means. The word itself is very interesting. In fact, some of y'all are doing it right now. It means the wandering of the mind. I can tell by the look in their eyes. I'm creating away and they're just And that's that's the meaning of the word. God's gonna send them very powerful, wandering minds. In other words, another way you could define it is I was looking this up and getting different definitions from different uh sources, I came to this definition. It means to cloud a person's thinking. So God is not lying to these folks who rejected the gospel. Somebody else is lying And God is simply clouding their mind up so that they will believe the one who's lying to them Our mind is a very important aspect of our walk with the Lord. How we think How we understand, how we view things, how we process the information that comes to us very much determines the success of our Christian life. The Bible talks a lot about the mind. Having the mind of Christ, the understanding of Christ, the perspective of things as Christ. And the Bible is saying here, these are folks, they heard the gospel, had opportunity to be saved, they refused it, and the rapture took place. And now the Antichrist is revealed, and he is giving out this lie. Now, what is the lie? I think the lie is, we talked about this before, the fact that uh he's Christian, he's of God, and he really isn't. And God clouds their thinking and they believe that. And it makes sense to them. And they're not thinking clearly, they're not thinking spiritually. What does Corinthians tell us? It says the natural man receiveth what? Not the things of the Spirit. He doesn't understand it. And we need the Spirit of God to help us. And the Spirit of God. Did you ever read through a passage of Scripture? Maybe you read it a bunch of times. One time you're reading it, it's like the Lord's right there, and all of a sudden it makes sense to you. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's God clearing up our thinking and helping us to see that. Well, this is the exact opposite. He clouds up their thinking. Um he he gets their mind wandering off of truth and logic and d'ever listen to liberals, uh Bible haters and people that deny scripture? Do you ever listen to the talk and And you think, what in the how in the world do they even think that way? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Their mind is clouded. And it doesn't even make sense. You know, just and I don't want to get into it, but I do. Um but just in recent weeks we've seen in the news where New York City You can't get a two-liter soda pop with a pizza, but your daughter can get an abortion pill over the counter without telling parents. What in the world are they thinking? You know? It's just clouded, big, and that doesn't even make sense. And so God sends these strong delusions. Satan, through the Antichrist, is the one lying. And I want to remind you: Satan is a liar. And he is very good at making that which is wrong seem right and that which is right seem wrong. And we're living in a day and age when we have a world telling us that what is right is wrong and what is wrong is right. And so Satan gives this lie out. And God clouds the minds of this group of people, and they believe it. They can't see through the lie. And they believe it. So, one, it's not God lying here, it's God affecting their thinking, God clouding up their thinking. And second thing on this is, I believe God is simply granting them their desire. Yeah, God's just giving them over to what they want. Look at verse 12. At the last part of verse 12. We'll read the whole thing. That they might be damned who believed not the truth, but look at this, but had pleasure in unrighteousness. They heard the gospel, they knew what it meant, they knew what it involved, they knew what it uh its effects, what its effects would be on their life. They said, we don't want that. We enjoy living in sin. We enjoy living violating scripture. That's the way we want to live. And God is basically here at the rapture says, okay. You want to live that way? Fine. Here's your opportunity. This is the tribulation period. Here's the Antichrist. You can live in sin however you want. And I'll not bother you. I'll not bother you. And uh what a tragedy. God did something very similar for the nation of Israel. In Psalms chapter 106 and verse 15, the Bible says this: they got so hard-hearted And they were so self-centered. They had to have their way. It didn't matter what God said. And God says in Psalms 105 and 106, verse 15, he says. God gave them the desires of their heart, but sent leanness to their souls. You know what he's saying there? He's saying, okay, yeah, you can you can live without me. Go ahead. You want to have your way and pursue everything your way and And uh your understanding of all that? Alright, go right ahead. But I'll tell you where it's going to end up. You're going to have an empty soul. It's going to be empty. And life is going to be so shallow. And then purpose is missing. And it's that exact same principle. They refused the truth of the gospel, but had pleasure in unrighteousness. The rapture takes place. God says, all right, that's what you wanted, fine. I'll tell you what's amazing. Ironic maybe. When I was preparing this, this very verse, I was studying this verse, the phone rang. I picked up the phone. It was a young woman in Oakland here, was absolutely asked for Pastor Letham, and I told her that's me. She was absolutely irate. Somebody had the gall and audacity to put a gospel tract on her door of her apartment. I said, really? And she said, I told them not to do it, don't ever do it. She says, I came out today and there was one on my car. I said, You gotta be kidding me. And I mean she was absolutely irate. I so I got a new tactic. So you guys give the tracks out. I'll take the phone calls. I'm actually enjoying it a little bit. So I got a new tactic this year. I'm gonna s just stall and keep them on the phone as long as I can. And uh so I said, now what's your name? And she told me, I said, How do you spell that? She spelled and I'd say each w letter after it, and she's just furious, and I'd say, and and your last name? And I spelled it out, how do you spell that? And I'd say each letter after she said, What's your address? And she gave me the address and I went through all of that and I said, Now who was it that left this track on your door? I don't know. And um she's going on and I said, Well if I knew it had a name I could talk to him about it, you know, and find out who it is and And uh went on and on and on and finally she said this. And I was enjoying it and she was frustrated. That might be carnal on my part, I don't know. But it's carnal and spiritual love. But she made this statement, and and this is, I mean, it's just floored me, what I'm reading here, what I'm studying. They refused the gospel and had pleasure in righteousness. She said this. She goes, these tracts, these pamphlets, whatever she called them, are idiotic and they're totally ignorant. I thought, wow. Maybe she read. Apparently she did. And I thought of this, because they receive not the love of the truth. And I thought this, who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in righteousness. And she slammed the phone down, hung up on me. Wow. That now, can she be saved? Sure, absolutely. You know what my feeling is, my gut feeling is? I think she's under conviction. I think it bothers her. Yeah, like Paul, you know, he was fighting it. But you know what's the the fact is that's the mentality that this verse is talking about. If the rapture would happen with that frame of mind, if I understand this correctly, and I can't judge her heart but from what she said, that girl would have no opportunity to be saved. No opportunity. If she would die in that condition, she would go to hell. Fever and ever and ever. No hope. Isn't that tragic? I was over in Terra Alta last week and I've kind of taken upon myself I want to put a track on every door in Terra Alta, at least the town area, and so I've got about one one hundredth of the town done And uh there uh it was last week one day, the first nice day we had uh in nine years. And um I was going up there and and people were outside and everybody was friendly and oh I and I I I'm going, hey I'm giving gospel tracts to anybody will take it. How about it? Oh yeah, I'll take one And we're going up there and this guy's working on this big Harley Davidson motorcycle and he's just shining it and going on and his little boys there, about five years old, beside him, and he's rubbing the exhaust pipe And uh I said, hey fellas, I said, nice bite. He said, thanks. I said, uh, I'm giving out gospel tracts. Anybody that'll take them. Can I leave one with you and your son? He goes, no, I'm not interested in that. I said, uh, do you go to church anywhere? He says, nope I said, how about when you were a kid? He says, yeah, they made me to go. He says, and I'm not interested. I don't want anything to do with that. I said, oh, come on. It's just a gospel tract. And he said, he says, I believe in karma. I said, in other words, you reap what you sow. And he goes, well, sort of, not exactly like that. I said, well tell you what, it's just some Bible verses. I said it'd be a real blessing to you. And uh let me leave this with you. And he got kicked. He said, no, I don't want it. Get out of here. I said, All right, have a good day. God bless you. Started walking away. And his little boy said this. I was just right there, just from Deb away from me. His little boy said, What was that, Daddy? He said, This. It's just Bible junk. Just Bible junk. There was a little boy. What's he teaching that son? He knew exactly what it was. Daddy did. He said, I don't want it. I don't want it. I thought of that. Man, that's the mentality. That takes place that the Lord is addressing right here, that same way of thinking. Now listen, God is the final judge. This world can take what we say and what the Bible teaches and twist it around and manipulate it. I was saying that Sunday, they can just twist it all around and make us look like idiots and self-righteous and hateful all they want. Fact of the matter is, God's the judge. His word stands. And we refuse uh people we refuse his mercy to our own peril. When God the judge extends mercy and man refuses it, that's a fearful thing. So, the root of this strong delusion, God thought of their mind being fogged up and believing the lie of the devil is God fogging it up simply because that's what they wanted. That's the decision they made. Last of all, notice the results of the strong delusion. Verse 12. The first part of verse 12. That they all might be what? Damned. Well the word for the world throws that word around a lot, don't they? Little do they realize how sober that word really is. That they might be damned. That they all might be damned. The word damned, the root of the word damned means to be separated from. It has the idea of being judged, and the result of the judgment is being put away. We get our word doomed from the same root word. Something is doomed. There's no hope. It's put away. God makes a very sober judgment here. These people are condemned. I looked at this, that they all might be damned. I thought, man, there's finality to that statement. You know it? That statement is done. It's done. Nothing beyond that. There's no more open doors. It's final. The offer of salvation is withdrawn, and judgment is declared, and their doom is sealed. Now here's my question, as I was preparing this, and I asked myself as a as teaching and preaching, what does that have to do with us? How does that we're those of us that know the Lord is Savior, what does this have to do with us? Remember, Paul is writing this, giving this information to a Bible-believing church Church in Thessalonica, they were saved. There is no doubt about it. And he's giving this information to them for a reason. Now what was first thesis what was the church at Thessalonica? What was their strong suit? We learned this in the first book. They were extremely aggressive and successful in getting the gospel into all the world. Remember, he said, we can't even go anywhere without running into folks you've already told them about Christ. That was their strong suit. You know what I think behind this is? He's urging them to stay at it. Listen, this is urgent. This is important. What you're doing is eternally important. And I thought this fit right in with track money. How urgent it is that we get the gospel to people, but we have to do more than that. We've got to live a right life so that it when they see it it backs up what we're saying You know what I'm saying? If we're living like an idiot and then we're talking about God and the gospel, we're we're incubating people. We've got to be pure and gracious and Christ-like and filled with the Spirit and then get the Word of God to Him and pray and work and love to get people saved. Because when this happens, it's final, it's over. Strong delusion. Man. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us. Lord, we don't want to be morbid, but like the emergency squad goes out, very urgent. Very diligent in what needs to be done. And God, we live in a sinful, sinful world. Desperately needs the gospel. And Lord, it's just clouded with lies, distortion. And I pray, Holy Spirit, that you would use us, like the Church of Thessalonica, to get the truth of the gospel out in an effective, powerful way. Bless our tracks that go out. I pray for this gal that called me Or maybe she'd sit down in her anger and read that again, and maybe you'd break her heart and save her soul. Many, many others. Help us. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I wonder how many folks here tonight, their heads bowed eyes closed, between you and God, you thought of someone. Someone came to mind that you're burdened for as this was being presented You say, preacher, somebody came to my mind. I'm concerned for them. I want to be saved. Any like that by the uplifted hand. How about that? Specific person comes to mind. That's the Spirit of God. Bring it to mind. Let's pray for that one tonight And earnestly pray God will give us wisdom and God will open our hearts and they'll believe and be saved. Father, bless us now as we go to imitation time, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Austin's just playing a verse of invitation, and maybe God spoke to heart, there's someone that you're burning for, and you just want to kneel at an altar and say, God, please save them. God open their heart for it's too late that they would believe and be saved. Said, maybe it's a family member. Parents