First Peter chapter three verse seven. Likewise ye husbands, dwell with them, the wives, of course, dwell with them according to knowledge. Giving honor unto the wife, as unto the weaker vessel, and as being heirs together of the grace of life. Now look at the reason the husband should do these things. That your prayers be not hindered. Now, a title I put in the bulletin I've been using is a husband's honor, but that doesn't really capture what the message is here. And so I retitled it. How a husband can avoid having his prayers hindered. How a husband can avoid having his prayers hindered. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to bless tonight. Father in heaven, it's sure been a blessing today. Be in your house with your people. And Lord, my heart's full. And we do pray for revival. We pray for the power of God to be upon your churches again, as we heard tonight of years gone by. Lord, I think if we see that happen, it has to first start in our homes. So I pray you challenge us husbands particularly, for your Holy Spirit would speak to us, convict us, and instruct us, encourage and challenge us. I yield my will to you, Lord. Present my body anew Again, every ounce of my desire is that you would fill me with your Spirit and that you would speak through me to my heart and all of us. And help us husbands to get a hold of this. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. If you will keep your place here, come all the way back to Genesis. Would you do that? Come all the way back to Genesis. Now we're going to get back to Peter here in just a moment. But come back to Genesis chapter number two. And I want us to notice a few things here. Genesis chapter 2, of course, God is In the process of creating this is a record of God's creation. And the following days, or weeks, or months, whatever the time frame was, after God had created everything. You get to verse 15, Genesis 2, verse 15, all the way in the beginning of your Bible there. And look what the Bible says in verse 15. And the Lord God took man And put him in the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it. And the Lord commanded the man, say, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil thou shalt not eat of it, for in the day thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die. Alright, so God put Adam in the Garden of Eden, gave him instructions here, what to do, not to do, gave him responsibilities. Now look with me, if you would, at verse 18. And the Lord God said, It is not good that the man should be alone. I will make him a help meet for him. And then it goes on as something interesting. God has Adam do something very interesting. Verse 19. And out of the ground, the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every fowl of the air, and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them. And whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that was the name thereof. And Adam gave names to all the cattle and to the fowl of the air and to every beast of the field. Then he comes back to what he referenced in verse 18. He says, but for Adam there was not found a help meet for him. Now here's my question. God creates Adam. It's just Adam at this point. Puts him in the garden. He gives him instructions. Gives them responsibilities till and keep it. Says you can eat of these, you can't eat of that for your knowledge of good and evil. And then he says, uh, it's not good that man should be alone. And he doesn't, God doesn't immediately provide the wife for Adam. He has them do a little project in between here. And in my, as I'm reading and look at this, it looks like this project that Adam has, this assignment he's given, has something to do with the fact that it's not good for him to be alone And the project is, Adam is to name all of the creatures, all the animals and the fowls of the air and all the creatures. Now it doesn't say anything about the fish I don't know how he would have gotten to that, but God had him name all these things. So here's my question. Well, let me make the statement first. God says in verse 18 that he designed man in such a way that he would need a woman. He said, it's not good for man to be alone. So God designed man in additive He was incomplete in his initial design. And he says there, verse number 18, he says, there was not found a help meet for him. And verse 18 says, I will make him a help meet for him. Now here's what I'm trying to get at. That little phrase, a help, meet for him, has this idea: someone that would complete him. He was incomplete. He needed something additional there in his life that would help him be what God designed him to be. Everybody follow me so far? Now let me come back to my question. Why did God give him this project of naming all the critters? Now here's my theory. My theory is, now naming all the critters, that would probably take a lot of time, right? So why did God have him name all these critters? Was it because God couldn't come up with names himself for them? Now, God's not like, oh, I don't know what to name all these things. Good night, I'll have Adam do it. That wasn't God's problem. Was it just, well, I don't got anything for Adam to do. Go have him name all the animals. No. I think God was showing Adam something. I think God was showing him that he needed something he did not have yet. Because he says he named all these, then at the end there, did you catch what it says And it says there at the end of verse 20, but for Adam there was not found a help meet for him. I think God was showing Adam something. He was showing Adam, Adam, I'm going to give you something, and you really, really need it. And I want you to see how badly you need it. Now I'm a guy, so I have a little understanding of guys. Ladies, you'll never figure us out, so don't worry about it. I know uh uh a little bit I'm wondering, again this is just I'm I'm having a little fun here a little bit, but I'm just wondering if God hadn't s had him see the fact that he needs somebody. There's nobody else out there that meets his need. There's nothing else in existence at this point that meets the needs I wonder if if he hadn't done that and Eve showed up, he might have been like, what's this? You know, what's this showing up in my life? But instead, God created in him an awareness of the need. Everybody follow what I'm trying to say? And I wonder if that isn't maybe what God was doing. Displaying, illustrating, letting Adam Stephen sense the fact that he was incomplete. That he needed a help who was neat, who was fit, who was adequate for him to do and be what God had created him to be. I put this down. God is showing Adam that without a woman, he is incomplete. He is incomplete. And so God, of course, goes to the process there, verse 21, and down, takes his rib, creates woman from the rib of man, and presents her to Adam. And now he is complete. Now he is a help that is adequate, that is fit for him to accomplish what God created him to do. Now come back to 1 Peter I think what's taking place in 1 Peter chapter 7, among other things, God is teaching us husbands, God is instructing us husbands how we are to treat How we are to interact and view and the attitude we're to have to this help that is meet for us that God has given to us and other places in Scripture it's addressed. And so God is showing husbands how to treat their wives, showing them what type of attitude to have. Now he addressed the first six verses. He was talking about the woman, particularly with an unsaved husband. Now he's talking to the husband, assuming this is a saved husband with a saved wife. God is telling husbands, I believe here, he's telling husbands. That responsibility, now get this fellas. I'm preaching to the fellas, but ladies, you listen in, because you'll remind him about a lot of this later, I'm sure. Um he's telling the husbands, listen, the responsibility for a Successful marriage, the responsibility for a marriage to function the way God designed it, is not one-sided Amen? The wife has a responsibility, the husbands have responsibilities. The responsibility is not one-sided. In fact, that's what he's showing all the way through here. Did you catch that He talked about servants being submissive to the masters. If you go over to Ephesians, he talks about the master's responsibility to the servants. The employee, see if you agree with this, the employee has a responsibility to the employer, amen or not. And I hear from the employers griping, I can't get employees that just do their job. But I want to remind you the employer has a responsibility to the employee. Amen? I didn't get as many amens on that one. But it's both ways. Responsibility is not one-sided in any relationship. The master and the servant, the child and the parent. A child's responsibility in the family is very simple. Children, obey your parents. Very simple. Well, what's my job as a kid? Just obey your parents. That's pretty much it. Honor him, obey him. So the child has a responsibility of the parent. And all the parents said, Amen. But the parent has a responsibility of the child also, right? Not provoke them to anger. Train them up in the knowledge and admonition of the Lord. Instruct them in the things of God, discipline them, train them, teach them the things of God and how to live a life, how to be young men and young ladies of character So the parent has a responsibility. In the marriage, the wife has a responsibility. We looked at that. And all the men said, Amen. But he's reminding us here, he's pointing out to us fellows, we're a little knuckle-headish sometimes. That's a new word, knuckle-headish. And he's saying, hey, fellas, you have a serious responsibility in this setup also. In this setup also. So he's telling the responsibility is not one-sided. It goes both ways. There are mutual obligations in all relationships. And there are mutual privileges in all relationships, and marriage is no different. What the Bible instructs Oh, what the Bible is telling the husband to do here. Now let me let me shift gears here a little bit. Now this caught my attention. What the Bible's telling the husband to treat his wife, how he's telling the husband to treat his wife, the attitude to have how to treat her, to respond to her, his responsibility to the wife. This was so foreign in the Roman society at that time, you and I can't even comprehend it. This was like, are you nuts? Now, if you remember, back when we first started chapter 3, I studied chapter 3, we gave some illustrations of what the Roman and the Greek society's attitudes were towards the wise. Anyone remember when we talked about that? A wife in that society was nothing more than what? What did we say? Just merchandise, just a property, just a part of the equipment. And that was the mentality of the world, of the society, unsaved world at that time. And God, through Peter, is written is instructing another place in the New Testament, instructing, hey, that is not the way I designed it. It's not going to work. That is not how this operates. And he's giving something here that is totally foreign To the thinking of the world at that time. Now, let's look at our verse here. Let's go through here. First thing I notice is the first word in verse number seven. Likewise. Now I have that circled and I drew a line down to verse number one. The very first word of verse number one is what? Likewise. So he says to the wife, when he begins the chapter, he's addressing the wives, and he says, likewise, in the same manner, after the same fashion. And he goes back to chapter 2, if you remember, and he says, the same way that a citizen of a country is to submit to the government Likewise, he says the wise, the same way that a servant is submitted to the master, in the same way that Jesus Christ submitted to his Father. He says, likewise, ye wives, submit to your husband. Now he brings the men in on this. And he says, after the same manner, with that same attitude, after that same fashion, That attitude of submission, that attitude of humility, that was, this is what you need to do. I think he's carrying over the sense of submission into the heart and mind of the husband. He is submitting to his responsibilities. In the role that God has given to him as husband in the marriage relationship. Likewise, that's an important word there. So he says likewise, in the same way, with the same attitude, with the same submission as these other issues we address, all right, you husbands, you you enter this with the same same same approach Same approach. Now let me give you, I notice four things here real quickly that he tells the husband to do. Number one, he says you spend time with your wife. You spend time with your wife. Look at verse 7. Likewise, ye husbands, what's the next word? Dwell with them. Dwell with them. He says, listen, you live together. You live there in the same house with her, but it needs to be a whole lot more than that. You need to spend time with her. In fact, let's tell my wife, I got looking at that word dwell, it has the idea of being very, very intimate. Has the idea of being very intimate And what Peter, what God through Peter is telling us husbands, is we need to spend time with our wives. We need to spend intimate times with our wives. In other words, when it's just her and I talking Spending time together, sharing experiences, doing things together, dwell with them. And the word dwell has the idea that this is a continual, ongoing thing It's not once a year on the anniversary, all right, we'll go to w we'll go to Texas Roadhouse He says it ought to be a part of your life. It ought to just be part of your schedule, just part of your life. Is you two spending time together, intimate time, sharing ideas, sharing thoughts, sharing experiences, doing things just together. I'm telling you, we live in a world today where everybody is running doing their own thing, everybody living in their own worlds, everybody doing their own schedule And God says, that's not the way I design marriage to be. You're supposed to leave your father, leave your mother, and what? Cleave to your wife. Spend time with her. You spend time with her. Um, I like God, we were talking the other night, we were talking about Mathematics. Old school mathematics and the new math is called um common core Common Court. Somebody says, I like Common Court. Somebody says, I like old school. They got in a fight. I had to break it up. But um I like God's mat. Here's God's math. One plus one equals one. That's something. The two shall be one. So how's that work? That's God's math. Marriage is one man is a man and a woman becoming one. So he's saying, take time, take time to spend with your wife. I found it's impossible to have a healthy relationship with somebody I never spend time with. You get that? It's impossible to have a healthy relationship with somebody I spend no time with. I found that people that have difficulties in a relationship generally don't spend much time together. Don't spend much time. By the way, that that truth applies to our relationship with the Lord. Spend little or no time with the Lord, you're gonna you're not having much very healthy relationship with the Lord I took some of the teens out. Pastor Matt's gone. I have to work overtime this week. I gotta do everything. I know, I turned the lights on and everything today. I had some of the teens out and I've I I enjoy spending time with the teens and um uh I said, so what'd you guys do today? And one of the girls was talking, they did stuff, went to Walmart and she said this, and boy, this encouraged me. She goes, I had my devotions this afternoon. You know what? Spending time with the Lord develops a healthy relationship with the Lord. And what he's telling us husbands, husbands, You need to spend time continually, not just on rare occasions, I mean on a regular basis, spend intimate time, you and your wife, sharing your lives together. Dwell with them is how God says it. Dwell with them. It's impossible to have a healthy relationship with someone I spend little or no time with. Whether it's the Lord or my wife. One of the big newspapers, this was a number of years ago, so probably a couple of decades ago, uh they did a survey about marriage and they did a survey about how much time husbands and wives spend together, just them together, doing something together, engaged together in some activity. You know what they found out? This was years ago. The average time a husband and wife spend together in a week was 37 minutes a week. Now you tell me how can you have any kind of relationship with somebody you spend 37 minutes a week with doing something Husbands likewise, with the same attitude that of submission, of humility, recognizing my responsibilities before God He says, you spend time with her. You spend time with her. This is pretty important to God. This matter of the husband and wife spending time together, the husband making sure he's spending time with his wife, it's pretty important to God. You know how I know that? Because I found back in Deuteronomy, chapter number 25, uh chapter 24, and verse number 5. God says that if a fellow marries a wife, he is to take a whole year, and he's not to go to war And he's not to get involved in time-consuming things. He's to take one year and spend that with his wife. Anyone remember reading that? Look it up. Deuteronomy 24, verse 5. He says that. Now he's not saying spend your whole life, don't work, don't er, don't fulfill any other responsibilities, just spend time with life. But you know what I think he's saying? I think he's setting a precedent I think he's establishing a pattern of life. Is that you spend time with her? She is your wife. And right from the get-go, God says it's very important. You take a whole year, you guys just spend time together. Now don't pull this stunt. Well, we spent a year together back 25 years ago. We don't have to do it. Don't be don't I don't even want to hear that. I told her I loved her when I married her, and if it changes, I'll tell her again. Nah, that don't work. Amen. Every successful husband sets quality and quantity time to spend with his wife. Intimate time. Just him and her together. And by the way, I added that word quantity. Well, we don't do much together, but when we do, boy, it's great. Well, that's good, but you need to do it a lot You need to do a lot. Dwell. Dwell with her. So my first the first instruction we're given here, I'm talking to us husbands. I are one of you Likewise, ye husbands, dwell with them. So I put down this: spend time with your wife. Number two, I put this one down: study your wife Oh, brother, there's a lifetime job. Likewise, ye husbands, look at this, dwell with them according to what? Knowledge. This can be a little challenging for us men, all right? Ladies, you bear with us. Mike I think, this is my observation, ladies understand their husbands a lot better than husbands understand their wives. Kathy's got me figured out in a lot of ways. I mean she oh yeah this I know exactly I know exactly what he's gonna eat on that I know what he's gonna do. I have no idea what she's gonna do. I'm trying to figure it out, I'm studying He says, understand your wives. That word knowledge there has the word have intelligence about, have understanding about. Usually a wife knows her husband better than a husband knows his wife. Now don't answer this. But I would uh if we did a survey, and I'm not going to, and I don't want to I don't want to hear answers to this, but if we did a survey, I'll bet you the wives would know what their husband favorite husbands' favorite things are better than the husbands know what their wives' favorite things are. Did that make sense? Now that's probably exceptions to the rule, but God's telling us here, he's telling us here, listen, you need to know, you need to know some things about your wife. Husband should make it a high priority to know his wife. A husband who is ignorant of the needs, fears, dreams, characteristics, and vulnerabilities of his wife is in danger. You better know some things about her. You better know the way she thinks a little bit. You better know what her fears are and dreams and what her needs are A husband should make it a high priority to know his wife, to communicate with his wife, to listen to his wife. I tell you one of the rough things about preaching is getting convicted while you're preaching. That has to be a high priority, fellas. And by the way, it's easier to dwell with her according to knowledge if I actually spend time with her. It's going to be hard to know what your wife is like if you're never with her. You never do anything together. So this all fits together. Husbands dwell with them according to knowledge, with understanding, with awareness, with intelligence. About what her weakness are, what the things she likes, what she dreams of, what she enjoys, what she doesn't enjoy. To do that, you have to put self aside. Listen, fellas, we have to put our self aside. Most men are in love with themselves. And we have to put self aside and think about my wife. I can't dwell with her according to knowledge if I don't put myself aside and give some thought. Most men don't think. See see if I I'm put I'm and I'm putting myself in a vulnerable position here. Sometimes I'll be sitting there just kind of looking and Kathy comes up, what are you thinking about? You're thinking about you're you're upset with something you're think I said, no, actually I was thinking about the anchor on the tower, whether that's going to pull up out of the ground or not You're thinking about what they get me for our anniversary. No, actually I was thinking the car needs to be washed. Can I get a witness? And what what he's telling us here is we need to stop and think about our wife and give some attention to their attention to that. Some some I put this down. Some residents don't even think about anything. Number one, spend time with the wife. Number two, study your wife. Number three, salute your wife. You say, oh, for Pete's sake, preacher, you're going too far. I ain't saluting her. Well, look what the Bible says here. Likewise, ye husbands, dwell with them according to knowledge. What's the next two words? Say it. Giving honor unto the wife. That word honor there. means to value highly, to treat with dignity, respect, and consider precious. The word salute means this, to show respect to and to honor. James is military man, when higher rank comes in. Salute that guy, you're showing respect. Am I right? You're showing honor. This man is a position of respect. He's in a position of honor. What God's telling you and I as husbands is that wife is to be honored. Is to be respected, is to be valued and considered precious. Now consider what the mentality of the world was at the time this was given. A wife was a piece of equipment. She was a property owned by the husband. And God's saying, no, that's not the way it is. Your wife is to be highly respected, highly cherished, highly valued. In other words, I put this down. I should treat her like she's a literal princess. A prince, uh what's this gal in the news now from England, this Megan? Uh what what is she? Is she a princess? I don't know what she is. Forget her. I don't know what she is. But you're tr you're if I understand this phrase, giving honor, it has this idea to treat her as royalty As you would a royalty. We're down in New Zealand and there may be some fellows down there watching, they do sometimes Sunday nights. And um if you go in the different community halls and stuff, they have pictures of the Queen up And and they love the queen down there. Man, she is highly regarded and highly respected. That's the Queen of England If I understand what God's telling us here correctly, that wife is the queen of the home. She's to be honored, saluted. Then he says, uh don't pay attention to Ed early, all right, just And notice he says, as the weaker vessel. The weaker vessel, that phrase means fragile and valuable, much like a rare, precious porcelain vase. Now, this is not an insult to the woman. He's not saying, well, she's just a weakling. I tell you, I've known some women over the years that were pretty strong, and I don't mean physically, I've known some that were I wouldn't mess with them, I'll tell you But that's not what I'm talking about. But I've known some women, we have met women in our church that are very strong emotionally, very strong mentally, very strong spiritually, women of God. And so that's not what he's talking about. He's saying they are to be treated with respect, not disrespectfully. But to be cherished, to be treated like a precious porcelain vase. We have a little what do you call that cabinet there in our living room with the little Curio. How many people know what a curio is? I had no idea that's what that was called. I thought it was a cabinet. And inside there there's little what? Nick's. Uh well there's kind of stuff that's heirlooms that were passed down from great-grandmother and and and they're and they're very precious. And they're to be protected. And they're to be cared for. And he says, listen, you respect her, you treat her, you salute her, you treat her with respect and dignity. just like something that is incredibly value and you protect it. One of our jobs as a husband is to be a protector of our wives. Amen. And so salute her. Number one, spend time with your wife. Number two, study your wife. Number three, salute her, treat her with respect. Now let me end with this real quickly. And see your wife as a spiritual equal Look here, look what it says. Giving honor unto the wife as unto the weaker vessel, and as being heirs. What's the next word? Together. Of the grace of God. Heirs together means this: that my wife has the same standing with God that I do. The wife has the same relationship with God that the saved husband has. The same acceptance by God, the same inheritance by God. Now you need to understand, in the context of the day that this was given, that was unheard of. And he's saying, no, the wife is on equal ground as the husband. She's not inferior. She's not less of a person. And she's certainly not less accepted by God than the husband is. We need to maintain that. She has the same standing, relationship, acceptance, and inheritance with God as the husband does. She is just as loved by God as I am. She's just as precious to God as anybody else. I think what he's saying here Though the roles and responsibilities differ with the husband and wife, they have the same standing with God. Are you with me? Our responsibilities aren't the same. Our roles aren't the same. She's a wife, I'm a husband. We have different responsibilities with different roles. But our standing with God is equal. Is equal. Take your Bible real quickly. Now I'm about done. Galatians chapter 3. Come over there real quickly. I want you to see what the Bible says here. Galatians chapter 3, verse 26. Galatians three, twenty six Paul is writing to the church at Galatia there, and he says this in verse 26 of Galatians 3. He says, For ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. It's not saying everybody's children of God. Everybody has faith in Christ. For as many of you have been baptized into Christ, have put on Christ. Now look at verse 28. There is neither Jew nor Greek nor There is neither bond nor free. Now look at this. There is neither what? Male nor female. Now he's not talking this ridiculous stuff going on today. Look what he says. For ye are all one in Christ Jesus. That's what Peter's saying. You're heirs together. You both have the same standing. As God. In other words, don't view her as inferior in any way, spiritually, or any other aspect. To neglect now come now to end with Peter here, what he says, the last phrase. He says, um, let me get back there. As being heirs together of grace, that, so that your prayers be not hindered. This is what I end with: to neglect my God-given responsibility as a husband Is to put a barrier between myself and God. I think the assumption here is husband and wife are praying together To neglect my responsibil, my God given responsibilities as a husband is to put a barrier Between my God and myself, between my Savior and myself, that your prayers be not hindered. Some fellows say, yeah. Wonder why God won't answer my prayers. Maybe we need to stop and look at my fulfilling my responsibilities as a husband. You follow me? Can you imagine? Now this is can you imagine if uh if the ladies, if the wives could get a hold Of the role and responsibility God has given the wives. And if the husbands could get a hold of the role and responsibility God has given to us as husbands, if we could get a hold of that. And fulfill the structure and purpose and design that God has given to each of us in the marriage. Can you imagine What God could and would do in our families, in our children's lives, in our community, in the next coming generation, how that would impact the coming generation. Have a husband and wife fulfilling their God-given responsibilities with the humility and submission that God designed us to do that with. The impact. That that would have. I am absolutely convinced there's nothing more powerful than a humble, godly husband and a humble, godly wife on their knees before the throne of God, seeking God's power and God's leadership. What a powerful thing that is. So us husbands, let's do inventory. Am I spending time with my wife? Some of some husbands, I think, you need to go home tonight and say, wait a minute, we're scheduling in time to spend together. Amen, James. I know you're on board with me on this. Just get home and schedule it. We're going to do this, we're going to do that, we're going to spend time together. Um saluting. And uh and uh and being the husband, God intend to speak. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, Lord, I'm preaching from a husband, the position as a husband, Lord, I need you to help me. And I think I'm speaking for many, if not all, the husbands here tonight. Lord, we we want you to help us. We want to do right We want to be the Christian husbands you intend for us to be. And so, Lord, help us. Convict us. Provocate us. Lead us. Give us wisdom. Help us, Lord. How many husbands say, preacher, I I need I need to give consideration to this. Any like that? Any husbands? I really do. I really do. My hands raised. Let's ask the Lord to help us. Ladies, pray for your husbands. Pray for your husbands, kids, pray for your parents. That God will help. Father, bless our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Let's