Jesus kept the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian, and he led the flock to the backside of the desert, and came to the mountain of God even to Hora. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. And he looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed. And Moses said, I will now turn aside and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt. And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses. And he said, Here am I. And he said, Draw not nigh hither, put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. Moreover, he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God. We're talking about the call of God, God's call on Moses. to go down into Egypt and lead the Hebrews uh people out of Egypt and into the promised land. We parked it here for a good bit of time and I've been deliberately spending a significant amount of time looking at this pretty carefully. Because I think it's very significant in the history of Israel and in in the Bible. The New Testament references some of these things multiple times. And plus there's a lot of good lessons here for us, a lot of application. And so that's why we're s we're we kind of slowed down here a little bit and we're taking a lot of this in. So let's have a word of prayer and uh we'll try and pick up here where we left off. Father in heaven I thank you. Thank you for the Word of God and what a blessing. And Lord, just me personally the last couple days just to hear testimony of uh how the Word of God's going out around the world, the impact it's having And God, we're so grateful to live in a land where we have such freedom and such abundance, spiritual abundance of uh Bibles so available and good churches and radio stations, all of this. And so we're privileged, and we express our gratitude to you night, Lord. Now as we look into your word, I pray that you would take some thoughts from this brief passage here and apply it to our lives that would be helpful to us, that we could grow in our faith and that we could be effective. more effective in our witness for you and for the gospel. I ask that you would please fill me with your Spirit, Lord. I don't want to just stand up here and talk. I pray that your Holy Spirit would take your word and speak through me And help us. So I yield my will to you, present my body, pray with all my heart, Lord, as I said, that you would fill me and use me now in the next few moments. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. We noticed the preparation of Moses for this call at the end of chapter two. Then we looked at the um uh the purpose for this call. Again, at the end of chapter two, Israel's crying out they're under great bondage and uh we looked at that pretty thoroughly. Now we picked up in chapter three these first six verses Again, we've kind of parked here a little bit, but we're looking at the particulars of this call of God. And if you remember, we noted, first of all, first thing God does is he attracts Moses' attention with this burning bush. And I I got looking at it again, I don't think there's anything significant necessarily about the the bush itself. It's just an ordinary desert bush, but God chose it and is uh has this bush that's burning. And uh so we looked at that, we noticed the place and the desert, the angel of the Lord shows up and God uses this fire to get his attention. So God attracts Moses' attention. Then God announces his presence. And we noted the call there in verse number four. He says, Moses, Moses. And so we had this call of Moses, and then we noted God's consecration, and this is where we end it. Notice again verse number five. He says, draw not nigh hither, put off the shoes from off thy feet, for the place wherein thou standest is what? Say it with me, it's what? Holy ground. Now, if you remember, we asked the question last week. What was it about this ground that was so holy? And there was nothing about the ground itself that was holy. What was it that made this holy ground? It's the presence of God here. And that is what made the ground holy. And so he says uh um and he tells him to put off his shoes. Now that's where we stopped. I don't think we talked about these shoes here. Why does he tell him to put off his shoes? Notice he says, draw not nigh. He says, stay back, stand back. Don't come up to this bush You're on holy ground. And he says, take, put off, uh, he put off thy shoes from off thy feet. Now the question is, what's the significance of Moses having to put off his shoes? Why would he have to put off his shoes? Well, well, they were dirty. In fact, that is a key factor. One of the reasons we wear shoes is to protect our feet from harm as part of it, but also from the dirt and decay. Remember when Jesus would show up in a house and the custom was in Jesus' day, and it goes all the way back to these thousand years before, but the custom was when you showed up in someone's house, they would they would always offer to what? Wash your feet. You'd take the sandals off if they were wearing them, and they'd wash their feet. Why would they wash their feet when they come into the house? Because they didn't want to track that dirt into the house And so there's a little bit of significance here. The shoes often represented the dirt of the pathway or wherever they were walking In some cultures, and in this culture, it's very disrespectful to wear your shoes into somebody's house. In the Asian culture, Uh it's uh you take your shoes off when you go in the house. And so I think there's I put down three uh uh three th three th significant reasons why God would say to Moses, put off your shoes. Now we don't read this everywhere in Scripture, but here, in the very presence of God, he points this out. I think first of all, it recognizes God's holiness. He's recognized as God's holiness. As we said, the shoes pick up dirt, mud, and whatnot. Now, at this point in time, what is Moses' occupation He's a shepherd. What do shepherds deal with all day long? Sheep. What do sheep leave behind when they go through an area? Don't bother saying it. So you have the so he's walking around with these sheep out on the mountainside and all of that. And uh so you have shoes on, inevitably you're gonna step in unpleasant stuff, right? Are you with me? Uh we had a guy here years ago who used to say when you go out and you can tell, depending on which way the wind's blowing, when the farmers are spreading manure in their fields You can notice it. And he used to say this, ah, smell that fresh country air, but don't step in it. He used to always say that. So Moses is out with the sheep, his shoes are getting dirty. And now he's in the very presence of God. I mean the pure, blinding holiness of God. And the take off the shoes was a was uh uh kind of a symbolic act, really In recognizing God's holiness, not dragging that dirt into God's presence, not dragging that filth into God's presence. We first time we went down to New Zealand, it's been true every time since, New Zealand is very, very particular about their immigration. You talk about closed borders. They have closed borders. Of course they're an island, so it's a lot easier to do that. But one of the um one thing that's very, very important to them is that they not bring in any harmful parasites or seeds that are uh not indigenous to their that would be invasive species. They're very, very concerned. about invasive species. They have uh numerous animals that have no natural predators, the kiwi, little kiwi. They have no natural predators. So they're very, very careful about coming in. And one of the things they emphasized in immigration was Do not bring shoes that are dirty. And they will inspect them. And uh so I mean it was drilled into us by the travel agent and brother Howe and different ones Said, be very, very careful. Scrub your shoes down before you uh Kathy went with me the first time. We got so paranoid about that, we went out and bought all new shoes. Kathy bought about thirty-two pair, you know, just Why? Because they didn't want that dirt. They didn't want that defilement in coming into their environment, into their um into their uh uh ecosystem Well here you have the holiness of God. And he's telling them to take off his shoes. There's significance here of not bringing di dirt and whatnot. By the way, this is still practiced in a lot of places throughout the world, in the Middle East They go into temples, you take your shoes off. This they would consider it a sacred building, a sacred environment. And so part of recognizing that is to take your shoes off. So one reason God tells him to remove his shoes is he's recognizing God's holiness. But I think there's more to it than that I think there's also, this is also an expression of humility, where God is instructing Moses really to humble himself before the Lord. What does James tell us? God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. I tell you, one of the greatest attributes In the Christian life, and really one of the most necessary attitudes in our relationship with the Lord is that of humility. Is that of humility? Now here's the difficult thing. It's hard to teach people humility. You know, and yet it's so necessary. I cannot have the grace of God, the strength of God, the blessings on God in my life and to live the Christian life if I do not develop humility in my life Our great enemy, of course, the world, the flesh and devil, but our great enemy is pride. And letting that creep in. And God cannot use Moses If he is going to be a proud man and walk around. So here is a very early, and we're going to see this throughout his development into leader. And either even after he becomes the great leader, he he will become. We see this over and over again, these lessons of humility, lessons of humility, these instances where God is trying to instill in the heart and mind of Moses humility. I don't know about you But I want God to use me. Anybody here? Whether you're in a position, official ministry position or not, we want God to use us. God wants to use all his children's And if we're going to be used of God, we've got to develop this attitude of humility. So how in the world, just taking off your shoes How does that indicate humility? What does that have to do with humility? Well, humility, you've got to kind of go back to the culture. The culture was, and this as I understand it, again, looking back at historians and uh books on the culture and stuff like that. Um generally your slaves did not wear shoes Shoes in a lot of cases were somewhat of a luxury for people to have shoes. I'm going to get in trouble on this one, I know it. But you ever notice a lot of times folks from West Virginia don't have their shoes on. That's because they're very humble, Robin. They're just humble, gracious people. But in that culture, generally, if you were taking your shoes off, that was an act of humility, really, and it kind of ties into coming into a person's house I'm coming into someone's house. I'll take my shoes off. I don't want to attract defilement into their house. But on the other, also, along with that I'm humbling myself as their guest. Would you agree with me? A guest doesn't walk into someone's house and start telling them how it is. You come in as a guest, you're submissive to the host, you're gracious to the host. I humble myself in that home. I'm a guest. And so I think there's a little of an expression of humility. And when Moses is taking off his shoes, as he's coming into this, he's standing in the presence of God. It indicates an act of humility on his part. In other words, this is kind of what he's saying. By cooperating with God, he's saying, I'm your servant. I'm your servant. Now it's not a bland expression of that. It's kind of an innuendo though. It's kind of, you know, just implied, I'm your servant. Do you ever notice how many times the great men of God throughout the Bible are referred to as the servants of the Lord? Over and over and over and over and over, servants of the Lord, servants of the Lord, servants of the Lord. And so it really is an act of humility of saying, you're God, I'm not. You're the master, you are Lord, I am the servant. In fact, Paul refers to himself as a bond slave. A bond slave is the lowest of servants. Generally, a bond slave would have been a slave to slaves. Do you know the slaves had slaves? They did. And in those, do you ever see uh old pictures and maybe old movies where they have these uh bit giant ships and they have down underneath they have the rowers Anybody know what I'm talking about? And they'd have these lines of guys and they're all slaves and they're chained to it. Um and then they would have the bottom rowers. Those were the lowest of the lows. They generally didn't live real long And so that's what Paul is referring to when he says, I'm a bond slave. I am the least of the apostles. I am the least of the slaves of Jesus Christ. And with having that attitude, God exalted him. God exalted him. He that humbleth himself shall be Exalted. And so I I think it's uh implies here uh an expression of humility. Just I'm a servant. You're God I'm not. I'll tell you a good way to approach every day is in our devotion time, come the Lord and just remind myself, God is God, I'm not. I'm his servant. I'm his slave, so to speak. He can lead me and direct me. So taking off these shoes, I believe it's recognizing the holiness of God, acknowledging that I don't want to come in with defilement on my feet. It's an expression of humility. But I think here's something else. And this to me is pretty clear here when he says, put off your shoes Moses had a choice. God tells him, put off your shoes. What's his choice now? Either to do it or not to do it, right? Either I'm going to submit to God's instructions to me, or I'm not going to. And here we have right off the bat, as God is going through this kind of elaborate process of extending this call to Moses. to lead his people, and he has all these various aspects of this call to to uh of God And right in it is this, I won't say a test, but here Moses has to make a choice. Am I going to obey God? Or am I not going to obey God? You say, oh, it's just a little thing like that, taking your shoes off. Why why would that be an issue? I tell you If I'm not willing to obey God in the little things, I'm going to have a hard time obeying God in the big things Brother Homershire used to tell the children uh when I worked with him in neighborhood Bible time and I saw him do rallies and I tell ya he was such a unique man. I wish I wish so badly everybody could have met him. It's with the Lord many years now But I loved him dearly. And he used to tell the children, uh, boosters. He always call he never called them children, they're always boosters. Everything's boosters. He used to say to the boosters, listen, if you can't obey your parents, you're never going to obey God. You don't learn to obey your parents, you're never going to learn to obey God. And what was he saying? He was saying, listen, if I'm not willing to take off my shoes at God's instructions, I'm going to have a hard time following his leadership in a significant position. And so there's an indication of a real honest submission here in small issues. And shoes are, and maybe I'm reading a little bit much into this with this idea, but shoes are really representation of my walk. What do you do when you put your shoes on? You walk in them And in the Bible, our walk is our manner of life, how we live our life. Walk by faith. In other words, live by faith. Your life ought to be characterized by faith in God, trusting Him. And the key aspect of faith, Eric and I were talking about this a little bit Sunday night, the key aspect of faith is obedience. If I trust God, I'm going to obey, I'm going to do what he says. And so there's tremendous significance in this. If you would, keep your place here. And I've got a bunch of verses to go to. If you would, come back to Luke chapter number 16. And some of these, I'd like for you to turn to them simply because I'd like for you to see it in your Bible, and maybe you might want to highlight it or some of these verses in your Bible. because I think they're significant. An old Bible is profitable, but some verses just kind of stand out. Luke chapter 16. And if you would, notice with me verse number 10. Luke 16, 10. Now he's talking about the disciples' relationship with money. As a disciple, my attitude towards money and my handling of money. And my relationship with money, and money's relationship with me. And believe it or not, Jesus talked a lot about money Now notice what he says here in that context of dealing with finances, verse 10, Jesus says this: He that is faithful in that which is what least Take your shoes off, is faithful also in much. And he that is unjust in the least is unjust also in much. So what is the Lord saying? He's saying, listen, if you can't be faithful enough and trust me enough and be submissive enough to take your shoes off, how in the world? I'm going to trust you with great responsibility, bigger responsibility. So it seems insignificant just taking your shoes off, but I tell you, when it's God telling you to take your shoes off, it t has a lot of significance, right? If mom says to the kids, take your shoes, kids, get those shoes off. They're all muddy. You've been out in the pasture. Don't bring those shoes in here. Should you obey them? Yes or no? Sure, of course. I mean they should obey us at this point. And so if God says it, it becomes even more significant. So God's consecration, this is holy ground, this is sacred ground God is giving some instructions to Moses. Is he going to humble himself? Is he going to trust God and obey the Lord or not? And he does. He does. I don't know if there's necessarily a test. But I can tell you this, if he'd have said, I ain't taking my shoes off for nobody, you think God would have been able to use them? No. No. Ain't nobody telling me what to do. Listen, you better you better let God tell you what to do Even if it's just taking his shoes off. So we have this God's consecration is what I'm calling it. Then in verse number six, I put it this way, God's clarification God's clarification. This is all in God um uh uh announcing his presence here to Moses. Look at verse 6. So he says, take the shoes from off thy place, for the way shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. So it's implied that Moses does that. He hears God, believes what he says, he trusts him, he does what he says. Now look what God says. Moreover, he said, God, I am the God of thy Father The God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. So God is clarifying who exactly this is that's calling Moses. Question. Can Moses see God? No, no man's seen God at any time. He's a spirit. Jesus repeated, it's all through Scripture And so we don't see God. If any time somebody sees God, it's always Jesus Christ. He is the physical Manifestation of God. He says, You've seen me, you've seen the Father. And so we can't see the Father. And so Moses does it. He hears this voice, he sees this fire, but he doesn't see God. Would you agree with me? If you hear a voice from somebody and you don't see him, it's possible you could misunderstand who it is talking to you. Right? There's a lot of false teaching. There was a lot of false gods going on. And the Midianites, they had kind of mixed in worship of Jehovah along with uh you know all these pagan ideas And so there's all this stuff out there. And what I think God is doing, there's several things I think God is doing here when he says this, he wants to make it very, very clear. He wants to clarify in Moses' mind Who exactly this is that's calling him? Moses needs to understand this. I put it this way. God isn't sending Moses anywhere Until it's clear in Moses' mind exactly who's calling him to go back down to Egypt. I think the two most important issues in life, two most important issues in life Number one is knowing who God is. And, you know, the tragedy is we live in a world that is blinded to spiritual realities. We live in a world that is hard-hearted against, and in a lot of cases, doesn't even want to know spiritual realities But the reality is the most important thing for every man, woman, and child on this planet is to know who God is. My opinion, you know, in light of scripture, my opinion, every newspaper in the world ought to run on headline on front page headlines continually making sure everybody knows who God is. Right? Everybody knows who Elon Musk is Everybody knows President Trump. Everybody knows all these Taylor Swift. Everybody knows all these people, the whole world. You know, they go down to Dominican. They're walking around with t-shirts on and famous people Listen, you can know all about Taylor Swift and die and go to hell. You can know nothing about her, and still, if you know who God is and you know the Savior, you can go to heaven I think going to heaven is more important than anything else. And so if you stop and think about it, reality God created us. He's king of kings. He's Lord of Lords over all this earth. He's here right now. We can't see him. We can't feel him. He is God And yet so much of the world doesn't even know anything about them. And what they do think they know is so distorted. And God is, listen, Moses is going to influence through pages of Scripture, and then directly, he's going to influence the entire nation of Egypt, right? Under his leadership, God is going to work and the entire nation of Egypt is going to be shaken. How many millions of people was that? And then you have all these Hebrews, at least a million Hebrews, and he's going to lead them for 40 years. And incredible things are going to happen, miraculous things are happening. The law of God is going to be given through Moses. He better know who God is If he's going to be used at this extent. And again, I say the most important to me, two most important issues in life. Number one is knowing who God is. Everybody ought to know that. And number two is having a right relationship with God. If I don't have a right relationship with God, can I just put it this way? I'm cooked. If I don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, if I'm not if I'm not been born again and I have a uh relationship with God as my Father and I'm His child through the new birth, trusting Christ, if I don't have that I don't have nothing. And again, the whole world is so ignorant of this. I mean, here we are talking about God, trying to learn who God is, and we got You know, a little crowd. You go down to the ball field, you've got thousands of people. And I don't know about you, but knowing that my sins are again, when I die, go to heaven and go to hell, is more important than kicking a ball through a basket or a hoop or something. And you name it, anything else out there. And so the uh to me I'm studying this and I'm thinking about the world The importance of Moses knowing who God is, the importance of you and I knowing who God is, and then having a relationship with him, of course, through faith in Jesus Christ There's nothing comes even close to importance, yet the whole world just disregards it. A handful of people out of the world really get to know who God is and trust them. And so, um, you know, I see missions in this. Our role, and and I'm stirred up from the last two days with Brother Hummel, the big meeting. and just getting information out to the world to know who God is. NBC, ABC, CBS, CNN, Fox, and you name all the others, News, Max, whatever They're not going to do it. It's the church's job. Make sure the world knows who God is and how to have a relationship with him And so what God is doing here is profoundly significant, not just for Moses, but for all of us. And so knowing who God is and having a right relationship with God is number one top priority. Too often, I've kind of been saying this, but too often people treat these two issues as if they're optional. What do we mean if we say something is optional? May it not be, you can choose, ah it's up to you. Uh yeah, whatever you think is fine, whether it You know God or not. Yeah, it's optional. You know, you're living your life, you get to know God. Wonderful. But you know, it's not no no no. It is the number one top priority And so, as I said, the world views it as optional. Fine. Yeah, it's fine to know God, have a relationship. Yeah, you Baptists talk about that. You Christians talk about that But um that's not a high priority in our book. And you can tell the attitude when they say stuff like this, oh yeah, that man upstairs Huh? When God approaches Moses, he doesn't say to him, Oh, by the way, Moses, I'm the man upstairs. No, he doesn't say that at all. And so, uh priority. Moses is not going to be able to lead the Hebrews to follow God's direction if he has no idea, if he doesn't know anything about God. How's he going to lead them to him? He's not going to be able to help Israel establish a relationship, a daily, vibrant, living relationship with a living God. He's not going to be able to do it if he doesn't have it I can't lead people somewhere where I'm not at. Amen. I've used this before in our soul winning, this illustration, but it It's it's so clarifies it in my mind so much. But when you get on the airplane you're gonna fly somewhere and you get on the airplane you always go through that little spiel, you know uh Buckle your seat belts and have seats in your up tray in case of emergency the uh the um uh the little life uh What am I trying to say? The little you if you're in the unlikely event we crash in water. You know I'm flying over Kansas. Uh if we flash in crash in water uh yeah l uh life preservers. They're under your seat. You know they go everybody know what I'm talking about. They go through all that spiel. And then they always say this. In the unlikely event that we lose cabin pressure, oxygen um uh I think they call them doojiggers, uh will fall down from the ceiling and they say, just strap it on there and breathe naturally, breathe normally and do that. But then they always say this They say if you have a small child or somebody dependent next to you, always do what first? Put yours on first. And then once yours is in place, then you can help them. And the whole idea is this, I'm going to have a hard time helping them breathe if I can't breathe. And I think that that concept applies in the Christian life. If I'm going to help others spiritually, I need to be where I should be spiritually, right or wrong. And soul winning. I can't lead someone to have assurance of their salvation if I don't have it. I can't help someone have victory over sin if I don't have it. I've got to get that oxygen mask on me first so that I can help them. And by the way, parents, you're not going to be able to help your children be spiritual if you're not. And boldness isn't going to help Israel be what they should be in their relationship with God and understand who God is and what he is. They're not gonna he's not gonna be able to Help them in that if he doesn't isn't there first. So the very one of the very first things God does, He establishes His holiness. So Moses, God is holy And he needs to be treated that way. God gives him instruction. God is to be trusted and obeyed. He's learning this stuff about our God. And who he is and what he's like and how to respond. And then God says to him, I am the God of thy father. I think God's clarifying to Moses a few things about himself here again. One, I think he's showing here, he's revealing to Moses, clarifying to Moses that God is a personal God He's not just some impersonal force out there, some perfectly, immutably holy God that can't be approached unless you come humbly and submissively in faith. And he's some cold, hard, dark God. You follow what I'm trying to describe him? And I think God wants to make sure that He is holy and He and He is in in many respects unapproachable. He needs to become in a proper way. humility and faith and obedience and and clean. But he wants Moses to know but I'm also a personal God. You can know me. He says, I am the God of thy father. I am the God of thy father. Personal God. His father was Amran. It's not some unknown, as I just tried to describe, a hard unknown God. Now I don't know. I'm going back and imagining You go back when Moses was small, and Moses saw his daddy's relationship with God. I think that's why God is saying, Moses, I'm the God That your father worship. I'm the God of Amram, your daddy. And of course it's not all expressed, but I'm thinking in Moses' mind he's going back and He's remembering his daddy when he lived at home for 12 years before he was shipped off to the palace. He's remembering his daddy leading in family devotions and praying to God. And he saw the faith of his daddy. And we know his daddy had great faith because Hebrews chapter 11 tells us he did. And so God says, I'm the God that your daddy trusted. I'm the God that your daddy worshipped. I'm the God that your father obeyed and trusted me with your very life. When he put you in the ark and put you out in the Nile, I'm the God that your daddy was trusting. And it's becoming personal. Moses saw how great his father's faith in God was. He saw how his daddy trusted God and followed his leadership. He saw that his daddy loved God. And then on the other side of that, he saw how God honored his daddy's faith. Moses would be dead. If it wasn't for God honoring his father's faith, his father's faith, and then God responding to it. And so there's there's tremendous amount of revelation, clarification about this God in Moses' mind when he just says, I'm the God of your father. I tell you Those of us that were blessed of God had the privilege of having a godly father, we have a real blessing in that. We can thank God for that. We can see how God worked in their lives, and it sets a pattern for us, a model for us to follow that He says, I'm the God of your father. He saw how God, how his father had trusted God, and God had honored that trust. I think God's assuring Moses in that one little phrase, I think he's assuring Moses That the same God his father loved and trusted, the same God that took care of his father, is the same God that he can trust. And God will take care of him also. He would do the same for him. Moses needed to know that he had a personal relationship with God, the same God his father had. And then he goes on. Look, he says, I am the God of thy father. He doesn't stop there. He could have, he doesn't, the God of Abraham. The God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. He mentions these three men. My thinking is at this point, now there's not a lot in the family of God up as far as the nation of Israel, as far as Hebrews are concerned. They're not really a nation quite yet at this point, I don't think. But these are three key figures in the history of Israel. Right? These are key men in the development of the nation of Israel. And he mentions these three men. And my question is, in my mind, is why does he sing single out these three men. And by the way, there's one fellow conspicuously absent from this list that in my mind would be included in this list. Anybody want to take a guess who the Esau would be one. I'm thinking of someone else. Joseph, man alive, the history of Egypt You know, the Hebrews history in Egypt, Joseph is, would you agree with me? Pretty key figure. So I got thinking, Joseph is left out, but he got Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. What are these three gods? And it's really not difficult once you go back and looking at them. There's something, there's a common denominator between these three men That I believe God is singling them out to say, I'm Abraham's God, Moses, I'm Abraham's God, I'm uh Isaac's God, I'm Jacob's God Why'd he pick those three? I think the common denominator is this. Every one of those three men, God made a covenant with each of those three about the future of Israel. He didn't make a covenant with Joseph about the future of Israel. He didn't make a covenant with Ishmael with the about the future of Israel. It's just these three men, and we take time we could go back and look at all three of them All three of the covenants are almost identical. He gave it to Abraham, he reconfirmed it with Isaac, and he reconfirmed it again with Jacob. He's talking about the future of Israel, and he singles these guys out, and he says, I think this is what he's saying. Again, maybe I'm reading more into this than what it is, but I don't think so. I think he's saying, Abraham, not only am I a personal God, the God of your father, but I am a God that keeps my promises. When Moses heard Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, no doubt first thing came to his mind was the covenants God had made with them. Well, you could go back into Genesis. God promised Abraham that he Israel, that his offspring, his descendants, would go into Egypt for 400 years, and God would bring them out with a great hand. And he's saying, Moses, I keep my promise. And I said that same thing to Isaac, and I said that same thing to Jacob. I think implied here at least, God is saying, Moses, I'm the God that you can trust. If I promise something, I'm going to do it. And I'm going to remind us here tonight, whether we have the biggest crowd or the smallest crowd, I want to remind us tonight: God keeps his promises. He's the God of Abraham, he promised it, he kept it. He's the God of Isaac, he promised this covenant, he kept it. The God of Jacob, he gave this promise, he kept it. This covenant involved three things. The land of Canaan. That's where they're going to lead them. The descendants are going to be like the stars of the sky, the sand of the sea. We can see that through history. And the blessings of God, he says, I'll bless them that bless you, I'll curse them that curse you. And by the way, this just came to mind, this is off topic, that promise is still in effect today. The people of Israel are God's people in a very unique way. And God has promised. He repeats this throughout scripture. I'll bless them that bless you, I'll curse them that curse you. That doesn't mean we have to say everything they do is perfect. They're not. But nevertheless, they're God's people. And there's a and I'll just Say this, there's a little movement within the conservative movement in America that is getting very, very critical of Israel, and I'm saying they need to be very, very careful about that My loyalty is God and his people, not to a political party. And we have to be very, very careful. So these are three men that nobody else in Scripture was given this covenant concerning the land. the descendants and the blessings of God on the people of Israel. And so God pulls them out. And he says, I'm a God that keeps my promises. So he's a personal God. He's a promise-keeping God. And so when God is approaching Abraham and he's saying, Abraham, hebraham, Moses He's saying, Moses, Moses, he says, put off the shoes off your feet. Trust me, do what I say. I'm holy. I'm the God of your father. I'm a personal God. We have a personal relationship. You saw what I did for your daddy. I'm a promise-keeping God. I told Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob that I would give them the land and I would bless them. And I'm keeping my promise. God's indicating, I think, that this call to Moses is a whole lot more involved than just getting a bunch of slaves out of a country, liberating some slaves. This is the beginning of a process of establishing them as a chosen nation that's going to last into the end of the world, through the millennium. So Moses needs to know he has a personal relationship with the Lord. Number two, he needs to know that God keeps his promises. And I got a little bit of time left. Let me just throw you this last one out. He's a personal God, he's a promise-keeping God, but I put this down, he's a perpetual God. If something's perpetual, what does that mean? It just goes on and on and on. Just goes on. God is perpetual. He says, I am The God of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, I am, I am, I am. That's a statement of self-existence I am. He doesn't say I was the God of them. Doesn't say I will be. He doesn't use past tense, doesn't use future tense. He uses present tense. I am. God is eternal. Here's the thing. God, we can't see him. He's here just as real. He hears everything I'm saying. I'm convinced he's paying attention to what I'm saying. He's paying attention to everything we're thinking. He's here right now This God that we are in the presence of right now, that's conscious, watching, seeing, knowing, He always has been, and He always will be. Psalms two, Psalm 90, verse 2 says this: from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. He transcends generations. Sometimes we think, oh, a great leader, you know, great pastor, Dr. Lee Robertson for me. Some great man, they pass away and they say, oh, woe is me, oh no. And we act like God's dead. God didn't die with them. God didn't die when Abraham died. God didn't die when Isaac died. God didn't die when Jacob died. He's still God. He's eternal. Remember, lasting to everlasting. And Moses needs to understand this. Not I was the God. No, no, no, I am. I am. So one, he's eternal. I put this down. I think he's implying here that he's immutable. What do we mean by immutable? If something is immutable, what does that mean? Doesn't ever change. It's unchanging. People change, right or wrong. Times change, cultures change, generations change, nations change, people change. Abraham changed, he died. They buried him. But God's immutable. Malachi, we're going to get to this in Sunday school lesson eventually, but Malachi 3:6 says, I am the Lord thy God, I change not. And I think he's telling, reminding Moses, I'm the same for you as I was for Abraham. I took care of him, I could meet all his needs, I forgave his sins, I'm not changed one I ode him. I'm the same as I was with Isaac. I'm the same as uh with uh uh Jacob. He's immutable, he's unchanging, he's unchanging. And then I kind of pulled this out of that statement. I am the God of Isaac, Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob. I kind of pulled this out. One, he's eternal. Two, he's immutable. Oh, by the way, Hebrews 13, 8 says, Jesus Christ the same. Yesterday, today, and what? Forever. He's unchanging. Anything he was 5,000 years ago, he still is now. What God was when he spoke this universe into existence, he still is now. That's the God that we talk to when we pray. That's the God that's speaking to us when we read his word. Same God, unchanging. And then again, I kind of pulled this out. His people live eternally. I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob. And again, I'm out of time. I wish we had time. But if we went to Matthew chapter 22, verse 31 and 32, we would find Jesus quoting this statement right here. Jesus is in a fuss with the Sadducees, I think it is, and maybe the scribes are involved. They're in a fuss over the resurrection from the dead. The Sadducees denied miracles, they denied there's any miracles, they denied there's any resurrection, they denied all of this stuff. That's why they were sad, you see And so Jesus is refuting their unbelief. And he goes back to this passage and he says God is the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Jesus makes this statement. Again, we don't have time to get there, but he makes this statement. He says, God is the God, God is not the God of the dead. But of the what? The living. And what he was saying was, Abraham is still alive. His body died, he was buried, it's dust. Isaac died, they buried him, it's dust, Jacob, they had the big procession. Big ceremony, buried Jacob, he's dead, he's decayed, it's 400 years later, he's dust. But Jesus said, He's living. He's living, he's living. I think it was D. L. Moody, one of those guys, made the statement. I think somebody quoted just recently, but he made the statement, you hear, someday you're going to hear that D. L. Moody's dead. Don't you believe it, I'll be more alive than I've ever been before. When God says, I'm the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, he's saying, listen, these guys ain't dead. They're still living. Their bodies are buried and decayed. But they're alive. We have to remember, I am not, this body is not me. It's my tent. I live in it. I indwell with it. It's called my tabernacle in Scripture. I am a spiritual being. I am a soul. And when this body decays, because of my faith in Christ, I'm going to live forever. And I give unto them eternal life. And they shall never die. They, what we are, not our bodies will, but I'm not my body. And so he's pointing out here, God's people, those that know the Lord through faith in Jesus Christ, live eternally, live eternally. Most important relationship we have, just to restate, is our relationship with the Lord. More important than my relationship with my wife. More important than my relationship with my children, my family, more important than my relationship with the church as pastor is my relationship with my God. Most important relationship. And the most important aspect of Christian service, whether it's behind a pulpit or in a Sunday school class or on a bus or on a on a choir or sitting on a pew praying. is knowing God, knowing God, who he is and what he's capable of, what he's like. And God's revealing himself to Moses here in profound ways. And we need to understand that. I taught a class Saturday at the men's rally. I really enjoyed that. And they had a class for young preacher boys. If any boys felt like they were called to preach or were thinking of that, felt maybe the Lord was leading that way, come down and did a class on how to prepare sermons. And I talked to him a lot about just being prepared personally for the ministry And um uh and there was great turnout. I think I mentioned this Sunday. I first class I had 15 plus boys, and the second one I had twenty-five or thirty, it was packed. That encouraged my heart But I told him, I said, one of the most difficult things, I I I said, the most difficult thing in if you give yourself to the ministry and serve the Lord with your life, you give your life to the gospel One of the most difficult things you're going to do is not preparing sermons, but it's going to be maintaining your personal walk with God in a healthy, strong way. You can be the greatest sermon preparer in the world. If your heart's not in tune with the Lord, you're ineffective in my service, Lord. And what's true for pastors is true across the board. And that's what God's trying to do to Moses. Know me, know who I am, trust me, do what I say. And simple little things, but they're so profound. They're so profound. Jesus said God called Moses to himself before he sent him out. That Jesus said this, follow me And I will make you fishers of men. Get to know me. Walk with me. Trust me. Know me. And then I'll make you a fisher of men. Right? Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now and help us. To walk with you, know you, and trust you, and submit to you. I pray you'd help us, Lord, to develop in our humble mindset. And Lord, just uh to let you use us and work through us. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed.