And chapter four I got an email today from the Renema family over in Holland. Of course they're the um they're at the our European headquarters. And um she wrote, uh Mrs. Ranema Elizabeth wrote Dear Pastor Leatherman, happy birthday to you. By the way, today happens to be my happy birthday. Happy birthday. Thank you. But here's the thing, everybody's been saying, uh, how old are you? I say, I'm forty nine. They go, Yeah, right And one guy I said, yeah, I'm forty nine. He said, Yeah, again, right? How many times has that been? I yeah, I'm forty nine. How old do I look? Yeah, shut up. Anyway She says since listen to this. She says, since last Easter, we attend your Sunday morning service as our evening service through the webcast because of the time difference. It seems like I'm awfully loud. Am I really loud? Yes, no? Fine? Okay. Um since last Easter we attend your Sunday morning service as our evening service through the webcast because of the time difference. It is a bit early for our evening service, but we enjoy it so much, though it's funny to hear only noise when people are greeting each other. The two of us just sit here and shake hands and wait till the singing starts again. And um then she asks, what hymn book do we use? They want to get the hymn book so that they can sing along with us when we say turn to that number, they're going to turn to the number. And isn't that amazing? So uh please pray for us. Um and their one daughter, she has prayers, having some health problems, and uh their uh the kids are both in Pensacola and they're coming home for the summer. So but I thought that was really exciting that they're listening in on Sunday evenings over there and following right along and and doing everything we're doing. And um that is pretty neat out. Now don't get any ideas. That doesn't mean you can buy a computer and stay home and say. Ephesians 4. 32 I'll start reading verse thirty, Ephesians chapter four. Grieve not, and grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. Now here's verse 32. Very familiar passage But I want us to zero in on one phrase in this verse. And be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted. Forgiving one another. Now that's our subject. That's what we've been looking at. Forgiving one another. Then he says this. Even as God, what's the next three words? For Christ's sake hath forgiven you. He doesn't say that God has forgiven us for our sake. But God has forgiven us for Christ's sake. And so tonight I want to talk about the place of forgiveness, the place you go. to deal with forgiveness. Let's pray. Father, bless our study in your word tonight. And I ask, Lord, that this this vitally important subject, this practice of Christianity would become very real and a very integral part of our lives. Give us victory, Lord, where we struggle with this. And Lord, I have no doubt that some of us, even here tonight, this is a very difficult area, and this is a very steep mountain to climb. So I pray for victory. I yield myself to you, Lord. I present my body anew, and I ask, God, with all my heart, that you would fill me with your Spirit, that you would speak through me and help us to be a forgiving people To be a forgiving church, and we could see your blessings on us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Study your Bible at all, you come abundantly clear that forgiveness is the foundation of God's relationship with us All of the interaction between us and our Lord. And by the way, Christianity is a relationship with a living being A living Lord. And so there's interaction between us and the Lord. How many people here ever had the Lord speak to your heart? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Anybody here ever speak to the Lord? And you knew And your heart. You just knew I'm talking to God. Anybody here know what I'm talking about? That's interaction. And all of the interaction between the Lord and us, and us and the Lord, is based upon The Lord's forgiveness for us. All of God's blessings that God pours out on us is based Upon his forgiveness for us. If we are not forgiven by God, then we do not get the blessings of God. We have no interaction with God We're separated from them. So forgiveness is the foundation of all of God's relationship with us. The moment God forgave us Now let me ask this question. How many folks here tonight? You may not know the date, but you can go back in your mind and you remember the moment that you trusted Christ. You can go back and say, I remember that moment when I trusted Christ. How many folks here are like that? That's an important thing. That moment that God forgave us. is really a sacred moment. For me, now again, you may not have the date down, the exact time and all that, and that's okay. But you need to be sure there was a moment. Amen? For me, it was May 7, 1979, 1030 at night. And that moment was a very sacred time. It'll be tomorrow night at 10:30. 30 years ago, Christ forgave me. my sin. And it began the relationship with him. I think we need to be very careful. This matter of forgiveness, that we not be casual about it, and we not be flippant about this matter of either extending forgiveness or receiving forgiveness. If somebody has done us wrong, and you understand in this series, we're talking about grievous sins, life-changing, altering things. Somebody has done something that's hurt us deeply. And we extend forgiveness to them. That ought not to be something that is done very flippantly, just off the cup ass, nothing. It's actually genuine forgiveness is a very sacred Moment when I am engaging in a deeply spiritual activity and receiving forgiveness Ought not to be taken flippantly or casually. If I have said or done something that has hurt someone deeply, maybe altered their life. And they extend to me forgiveness. I ought not to be flippant about that. I ought not to be casual. I ought to understand that is a very that is a very precious thing they are extending to me. And I need to value and understand the sacredness of what they are doing when they are forgiving me. Just as God's forgiveness to us is very precious, and I assume that God forgiving you is very precious to you. Is that a safe assumption? So our exchange of forgiveness to one another should be very sacred and very precious. That person has forgiven me. I hurt them. And they forgave me. That's a precious thing. It's a valuable thing that they would do that for me. That person there said it did something, they hurt me, and I forgive them. And that's a sacred thing. Now where do you go? And you'll understand what I mean by this question in a moment. Where do you go? What is the place you go to extend forgiveness to someone Do I go into the presence of the one who offended me? Is that where I go to extend to them forgiveness? So, well, if I'm going to forgive them, I need to go to them. And I need to face to face extend to them forgiveness for whatever it is they did or didn't do that hurt me. But that's not biblical If I'm going to extend forgiveness to a person, I, first of all, I do not go to that person. That's not the place to begin. The place to begin in forgiving someone is going into the presence of the Lord. I go before the Lord, and before the Lord, I forgive them. Look with me here at Ephesians 4 and verse 32. And I pointed out where I was going with this. And be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, and here it is, even as God For Christ's sake hath forgiven you. Again, he doesn't say for your sake God has forgiven you. For Christ's sake he hath forgiven you. Now think about what he's saying here He is telling us that God's forgiveness towards me, the forgiveness I received on May 7, 1979. 10:30 at night. That forgiveness I received from God was the result of a transaction that took place between Jesus Christ and God. Follow what I'm saying. Jesus Christ on the cross, he said, it is what? Finished. It is finished. The price paid for me to be able to be forgiven was paid between Jesus Christ and God the Father. So God's forgiveness for me and salvation, the forgiveness I received from God didn't take place necessarily in my presence. It was a transaction between Jesus Christ and God. And then when I received it, then it became real in my life. Let me give you another verse supporting this. 2 Corinthians chapter 2. A few verses back here, and we're going to look at a number of verses, so I hope you'll have your Bibles handy. 2 Corinthians chapter 2. And we actually had looked at this passage earlier in the series Where in 1 Corinthians there was a fellow living in wicked sin. He was living uh in a really an adulterous relationship with his mother-in-law of all people. And he was rebuked by Paul, and the church was rebuked for tolerating it, and Paul instructed them to rebuke this man, and if he didn't make things right to exercise church discipline Well, you get to 2 Corinthians chapter 2, and you find that this the church at Corinth did what Paul told them to do. They confronted the man about his sin, they whether they actually practiced, uh carried out discipline or not, uh the case, uh whatever the case, the man repented of his sins and made things right And but now the church was before they were proud that they were tolerating it, then they said, Well, we're wrong. Then they went overboard and they wouldn't take the guy back in after he made things right. And Paul rebukes them for that. But notice in verse 10. Paul's telling them, listen, you need to forgive this guy. Verse 10, look what he says. To whom ye forgive anything, I forgive also. For if I forgive anything, to whom I forgave it, for your sakes forgave I it. Now look at this last phrase, in the person of Christ. Paul's telling them, listen, if this guy, you know, this guy's coming back, you need to forgive him. And if you forgive him, you know, I forgive him also. But Paul says, I'm forgiving him in the person of Christ. What does he mean by that? He's saying this. Are you with me? He's saying this. He's saying Paul's miles away. It's impossible for Paul to go in the presence of this man and say, listen, you were doing wrong, you hurt the church badly, the testimony was terrible, you did wrong, but you made it. I forgive you. He couldn't do that. He was miles away. And what Paul was saying when he says, I forgive him in the person of Christ, he's saying, I extended the forgiveness I have for him. I went to Christ about it. And basically, he's saying this: before Christ, I told Christ, I forgive this man. Before the Lord, I made that decision. And my forgiveness extended to him is from the presence of Christ. In the person of Christ, I forgive him. If we're going to offend uh forgive an offender, we must begin in the presence of God. Somebody told a lie at your job about you The boss, the foreman, whoever, the authority, believed the lie and not you. And you lost the opportunity for promotion. Maybe you actually got demoted and your salary was decreased because of another man's sin. It hurt you. It hurts your testimony, it hurts your reputation, and it sets you back, affected your family. This is a serious crime. This is a serious sin. And you can come up with any number of scenarios. You're a Christian, you say, Man, God tells me to forgive this guy. How do I do that? Do I go to him? Well, he may have been transferred and be out in California. How do I go to him? Um you I tend to find myself using the same illustrations over and over, but just to give an idea, it's a uh a family member does unthinkable things to one of your children By the time you find out they're in a nursing home, maybe mentally out of it, or they've even passed away. And you're bitter in your heart, and you you're so angry. And you your preacher preaches a series on forgiveness. Or you're studying the Bible, you read a book, you heard a sermon or whatever, and you say, man, God wants me to forgive. How do I go to that person? I can't, they're dead Maybe even if I did, their mind is gone and they would never comprehend what I'm saying. The place to forgive, where you begin. Now there is a place to approach the person. We'll talk about that But where you begin forgiveness is in the presence of God. You go to God. I think all of, not all of us, most of us, no doubt, have at some time or another had to forgive someone for something grievous. Some point or another. I have the place to begin is you go to God And you do business with God first. Now let me give a few thoughts on that. That's the point of the message. Maybe you want to jot some of these down. Why do I go to God first? Number one. Because God was there and witnessed the offense. God saw it. When that person did whatever they did against you or I, God was there. He was a witness of what they were doing. He heard what they said. He knows the truth behind the whole situation. He was there. Hebrews, if you would, turn to Hebrews. And again, we're going to jump around a bunch of verses. From Hebrews, we're going to go back to Psalms here in just a moment. Look at Hebrews chapter 4. And boy, this is a good verse to get a hold of Hebrews chapter four. And notice with me verse thirteen. Hebrews chapter four and verse thirteen. Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight. But what's the next two words? All things are naked and open unto the eyes of him of whom we have to do. That's a powerful verse. God is saying here, God is telling us that He sees it. It is wide open. That lie that was told on the job that caused the man or the woman to lose their position and lose the promotion and maybe get a demotion and had to live in a smaller house and affected their entire family, their entire life. God heard that lie. God knew the truth. Whatever the case may be, abuse, adultery, a lie, a false accusation, whatever that may be, God was there. God is involved in that offense that has taken place. It wasn't hidden to God In fact, if you'll come back to Psalm 51 with me real quickly, David's famous sin. When David committed adultery with Bathsheba, human-wise, just on the human end of it, who all did he sin against? Who did he sin against? Alright, against Bathsheba. Now she was engaged in it. She could have said no. She could have screamed. But that's not the point. So he sinned against Bathsheba. He sinned against, primarily humanly, he sinned against Uriah. Do you agree with me? And not only did he take Uriah's wife, commit adultery with Uriah's wife, he had Uriah what? He had him killed. Now, a year goes by, and David's confronted with this, and finally, David wants to make things right. Could he go to Uriah and seek forgiveness? No. Uriah's dead. He's been dead a year. Uriah's dead. Uriah, nothing he can do about forgiving. He was dead before he even knew what happened. I have a sneaking suspicion Uriah knew. And that's another study. Some things that Uriah did. But where does look what David says in Psalm 51? Let me get there. I got preaching and didn't turn my Bible. Look at verse 1 of Psalm 51. Have mercy upon me, O God. Now this is the receiving end of forgiveness, but there's some insight here. Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving-kindness, according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgression. Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity and cleanse me from my sin, for I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is ever before thee. Now look at verse 4. Against thee, and thee only have I what? Sin. And done this evil. Next three words. In thy sight. David said, This was open and manifest. This was naked before you, God. You saw this. You knew the lies I was telling Uriah. You knew the lies and the phony uh uh uh facade that I put up for the people of Israel made it look like everything was legit. God, you knew all of that. And he says, Against thee and thee only have I sinned. When we are sinning against somebody, we are ultimately sinning against God. And when we are extending forgiveness to someone, we begin in the presence of God, who the sin was ultimately against. Follow the logic here? When confessing, I first go to God, the one who was offended, ultimately. I go to the eyewitness, God. I go to the ultimate authority and I say, God From my heart, and not with these words necessarily, but I express to God from my heart I am making a conscious decision To forgive this one who has sinned against me. God, I am making that decision I am forgiving them. God, before you, the ultimate authority, the one who is ultimately sinned against, I am forgiving this one. I'll talk about this not next week's message because we're in the missions conference, but the following week. And I'm getting a little mm getting into that message a little, but When we go to God, I believe it's a good thing to get alone on our knees before God and say, God, I am forgiving. So-and-so. That's where it starts. Now, when confessing sin, let's say I'm the one That told the lie, that hurt this person, got them demoted or fired, affected their whole life, had a cell house, downsized everything because of my greed and my selfishness and my lie. I hurt them And I get convicted about it, and I want to make things right. Who do I confess my sin to first? I go to God first. Um Then I go to the one offended. Now I'll qualify that a little bit. I don't know that the order is so much important in confessing. Maybe you need to go to the one offender and say, I was wrong, I hurt you, I know that I am sorry. Then maybe I need to go to God. But whatever the order, the point I'm trying to make is this. They must both be in place If I'm confessing sin. Being in the ministry is tremendously fulfilling. I love it. I don't know what else I would do. I believe with all my heart on my 49th birthday, I believe with all my heart I am alive. God created me to do what I'm doing. I really believe that And I find fulfillment in what I'm doing. So there's tremendous fulfillment in the ministry and serving God in whatever capacity. I think you'll agree with me. There's tremendous fulfillment on that. And hang around when the soul winners come back in after they've been out talking to people. Talk about fulfilled, rejoicing people. Whether anybody gets saved or not. There's joy in serving God. But There's also tremendous pain, and there's hurt. And There have been times when things were said, or things were done that to be very honest with you, and I'm not trying to get pity from anyone, although if you want to pity me, you can But I'm saying this, there have been times over the years, 1985 I started the ministry, so 24 years, that people have said and done things that have hurt me deeply. So what do you do? You gotta go to God, and you bring it to the Lord. Number two, God genuinely cares and promises to respond to our forgiveness. I've been sinned against, I've been hurt, I go to the Lord, I say God before God, I express to Him, I am forgiving this person, I'm making a conscious decision, I'm assuming the debt, I'm taking the heat, I'm taking the punch I I'm I'm forgiving them of the debt. I'm holding not I'm not holding against them. They're they're set free, they're loose. God, I'm doing that from my heart before you. I am making that decision. I need to understand number two that God genuinely cares and promises to respond. When you've been, this is what I was getting at in my illustration here a little bit ago, when you've been sinned against It can be awfully lonely. Right? And a lot of the sins that people commit against us, you boil it down, it comes down to a disloyalty. They weren't loyal to me, a friend. They weren't loyal. They said or did something that hurt me for their own benefit. And when you're sinned against, and I'm not talking about the little piddly things that happen all the time, I'm talking about the deep sins. It can be very lonely. Am I right or wrong? You can feel like, man, nobody understands. Man, this hurt. When you're sinned against, it can seem like no one even cares. Paul felt that way. Look at 2 Timothy chapter 4. Come back there. 2 Timothy chapter 4. Paul was in the ministry, and Paul was hurt deeply, repeatedly. And in chapter, 2 Timothy chapter 4, it's at the end of Paul's life. And I don't know that Paul necessarily held grudges, but you read what he says, and he remembers the folks that have hurt him. Did you pick that up? Alexander, he did me much evil. I don't think he was holding a grudge against it, but he remembered it. Follow what I'm saying? Look what he says in 2 Timothy chapter 4 and look with me at verse 16. At the end of the last book that we know of that he writes before he goes to be with the Lord. And my first answer: no man stood with me, but all men forsook me. Now he had Luke, he had Barnabas, he had a bunch of good guys close to him. And he says, every one of those guys was disloyal to me. Every one of them forsook me. Now look what he says. I pray God that he will strike them dead. Is that what he says? No. What's he doing? The last phrase. What is Paul saying? He's saying, I'm forgiving them. I pray God. Now remember, he goes to God, that he lays it not to their charge. He's saying, Listen, before God, I'm forgiving them. But he doesn't stop there. Look at the next verse. Notwithstanding, they all forsook me. No one was disloyal. Man, I was so alone. I forgave them before God. I pray it'd not be laid to their charge. Notwithstanding, look at this next phrase: isn't this great? The Lord stood with me. And what? Strengthened me. I can I don't know if you can see this. I can hear it in Paul's voice, in my imagination. Paul's hurt. Man, this hurt me. Nobody stood with me. I'm trying to serve God. I'm trying to do right. I'm not perfect, but man Those guys left me, they betrayed me, they hurt me. Before God, I forgave them, and he says, you know what happened? God stood with me. God strengthened me. God cared about me. God helped me. He responded. When I forgave them, God stepped in. You know? I get the feeling that if Paul had not forgiven them in verse 16, he could not have said what he said in verse 17. If he would have held a grudge and says, I'm praying God kills them, I'll never forgive them for that. I'll never let go of that. He couldn't have said the Lord stood with me. He couldn't have said the Lord strengthened me, but when he forgave, then God came down. God stepped in. A forgiving spirit is a kindred spirit with God's spirit. You know what I mean? Like Kindred Spirit? Did you ever see, what is it, Anne of Green Gables? I hate that movie. Um But Kindred spirit. You know what? Dr. Lee R Dr. Uh Pat Creed likes that. He's weird. But anyway Um in there they talk about people having a kindred spirit. And you know what I'm talking about? Anybody know what I'm talking about? You all look like you're got swine flu or something. I don't know When I'm forgiving someone, I am sharing in the same spirit that God has. And boy, God is attracted to those that share his spirit, that have a kindred spirit with him. And we have his presence. Others may not seem to care. You say, man, everyone at work thinks I did this. This guy lied. And I'm looking like a criminal. I look like a crooked. You go to work and you sit alone at lunch and you sit alone at the desk or whatever the situation is and you feel like no one cares. But listen, if we extend forgiveness before God, God says, I'll come down. I'll be there. I'll strengthen you. I'll stand with you. Then I've got to move on quickly. Number three. We go to God. That's the place we go to begin forgiveness. God will judge the offender When I forgive, what I'm doing is trusting God to deal with the one who's offended me. And God deals with them in perfect Wisdom. Come with me if you would to Luke 17, real quickly, and I'm I'm going to crank this up here a little bit and get done. Luke 17 Boy, this is this is an incredible statement the Lord says here. Luke 17. You got your Bible? Look at verse 1 of Luke 17. Jesus speaking. Then said he unto the disciples, and we referred to this in previous messages, it is impossible, but that the offenses will come. Alright, listen, you're going to be sinned against. It's impossible. It's going to happen. But look at this next phrase. And again, we touched on this in an earlier message. But woe unto him through whom they come. It's better for him that a mill stammer hang around his head. What he's saying here is this, in so many words, it's better to be sinned against than to sin against someone. It's better to be the receiver of an offense than the Giver of the offense. And he makes a statement about the one who is committing the offense. Woe. Now I looked up that word woe, and in the New Testament it's used 36 times. The overwhelming majority came from the lips of the Lord Jesus Christ. And the overwhelming majority of the phrase woe Has to do with God's judgment on a person. Jesus faced the Pharisees. He says, Woe unto you, hypocrites! You f you uh uh uh blind leaders of the blind. And he's calling down God's judgment on them. Thirty-six times the Lord uses the phrase woe, and the word itself means misery and sorrow. And when I go to God, I've been sinned against, hurt deeply, and I go to God and I make a conscious decision. To let that go, to forgive it, to uh not seek revenge. I'm putting it in God's hands, and God says, I will judge the offender Now God judges in his wisdom, and God deals with it in the way he knows is best. But I let it go, I put it in God's hands. And God says, I'll take care of it. I'll take care of it. Don't you worry. Maybe not in your timing, maybe not the way you think it should be, but I will deal with it. Now, that is not to mean I am to be cheering on God's judgment God, I forgive them. I'm committing my judgment on what they did, I'm committing in your hands. Now go get them. You know, it's not the idea It's not, yes, get him. It's, Lord, I'm just trusting you. Remember our first message on forgiveness, we said forgiveness is an act of what? Faith. I'm just trusting God. God's going to deal with that. Anybody here have somebody say or do something and you want it to wring their neck? Come on now, be a silly. Y'all so pious. Oh no, not me. In fact, just today. No, I'm kidding. Let God do the ringing. Amen. He he he can do it better than you and I. He can do it in the way that's best. So don't you don't got a cheer 'em on. It'll be fine. God will take care of it. Last of all We go to God for forgiveness. That's the place. Go before God. Why? Because I can trust God to bring good out of the whole situation. Romans 8. 28, we studied in Sunday school, for we know and we know that all things work together for Good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. If I trust the Lord, I know the Lord, I love him, I do what he says, I forgive, God will work that thing out God will work all that part of my growing as a Christian, my sanctification. God works all that out. Now let me give you a classic example of it in Genesis chapter 50. Y'all look like you're getting old. Genesis chapter 50. Real quickly, come back here. This is better preaching than you guys are listening, I think. Genesis 50, verse 15. We know the story of Joseph, right? Brothers threw him in a pit, cut his coat up, poured blood on it. Joseph's dead. Jacob, oh no, my youngest son. And um they then before they can kill him, uh who is it, Reuben? Which one of the guys? Judah. Uh I think it was Reuben, right? My wife prepares all this for me. Uh Reuben sold them to the merchants, go down to Egypt down there. He uh he sold to Potiphar, remember? He tried to rape me. No I didn't. Throw him in prison. Forgotten about in prison. Finally, Pharaoh has a dream. Joseph interprets it. Boom. He's number two in all of Egypt. Most powerful nation in the world at that time. He's number two guy. And his brothers come down, and he messes with them for a while. I think he was struggling with unforgiveness. Finally he gets that settled. Now look at verse 15. And when Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, Jacob died then in the meantime. And they said, Joseph will peradventure hate us And will certainly requite us all the evil that we did unto him. They were saying Joseph's going to do what? Get revenge. You know why they said that? Because that's what they would have done. And they sent a messenger unto Joseph, saying, Thy father did command before he died, saying, So shall you say unto Joseph, Forgive, I pray thee, now the trespass of thy brethren, their sin? For they did unto thee evil, but now we pray thee forgive the trespass of the servants of God thy father. I put in the margin of my Bible a big fat lie. Daddy never said that What did Joseph do? He said, You idiots. No, he didn't. Joseph wept when they spake to him. You know why Joseph wept? Because he had already forgiven them before God. They were asking for something that he had already asking him to do something he had already done. And his brethren also wept and fell down before his face, and they said, Behold, we be thy servants. They're broken. When Joseph wept, it broke him. And Joseph said unto them, Fear not, for am I in the place of God? When we withhold forgiveness, we're putting ourselves in the place of God. I'll deal with this. God, I'll take care of this. He sinned against me. I'll take Joseph says, I'm not in a place of God Verse 20, but as for you, you thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good. To bring to pass, it is this day, to save much people alive. Rather than seeking revenge, Joseph forgave and saw God's hand Serving and living for God, as I said previously, is tremendously rewarding. But serving and living for God can be very painful. People don't understand. They get in the flesh. They say and do things that hurt. Disloyalty is incredibly painful. Forgiving another person's sin is deeply personal. It is a deeply spiritual transaction between God and I. And that's the place I begin. I've been sinned against deeply. I've got to forgive. God says, the place I go is to God. God before you You are the ultimate authority. You are ultimately the one who sinned against God. I am forgiving them. It is in your hands to deal with this. I'm letting it go. That's a spiritual thing. That's a deeply personal thing. It's not always easy, but it's the right thing. We won't take time. But Acts chapter 7 and verse 60. Remember Stephen? Preach that sermon, the Pharisees gnashed their teeth against him, and they're stoning him. And he says, Father, I pray that you lay not this sin to their charge. He didn't go to them and dodging the stones, hey guys, I'm forgiving you. He didn't do that. Where'd he go? He went to God. Question. Those Pharisees throwing the stones, were they repentant? No, man, they're throwing rocks at them. But he goes to God and he forgives them. And that's the place where we forgive. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. We can't help it, but these offenses are going to come. Lord, I pray you'd help us to be sure we're not the ones committing the offenses. But Lord, when they come, help us to go to the right place, to go to you, and to forgive and let go and let you take care of it. For then we know things can work out for the good. I wonder if there's some here say, Preacher, I've got some things in my heart. I've got some issues, some struggles, and I need to bring them to God. Whether it's an offense of someone, a betrayal, maybe it's some other, who knows, whatever the Holy Spirit would how it apply this, but you say that I've got some issues in my life. And I need to bring them to God. I need to let go. I need to come to God. Let God take care of them. Is there any like that by the left of the hand? Preacher, pray for me. I got some Mary's in my life. I just need to To bring it to God and let God take care of that. God bless you, a number of hands. Any others, preacher? I got some issues, some struggles. Whatever it may be, you say I'm gonna bring it to God. I want to see God's hand in all this, like Joseph. I'm going to let the Lord work it out however he sees best. Any others, preacher, pray for me. How about it? Any others? God bless you. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Lord spoke to your heart this evening, whatever it may be. May not even be a matter of forgiveness. It may just be a matter of Struggle or some area the Lord's dealing with your heart. God says, bring that thing to me. This is the place to start in every area of the Christian life. This is the place to start Why don't you come home? Put that thing on the altar. Casting all our care on him, casting all our offenses on him, letting him take care of it. Oh then