I don't know why I thought of this while Brother Mark was singing. There was a fella that attended our church, got saved here years ago And it very, very faithfully. Does anybody remember Joe Urban? Does anybody remember old Joe Urban? Used to sat right down here three re pews back. That was his pew. Don't you dare sit in Joe's seat That was his seat. And old Joe was lived in a nursing home for years. He wasn't that old, but uh lived in a w nursing home for years. And uh wouldn't say much, kind of quiet. Anybody remember that? He was real quiet. But I tell you what, when we would sing hymns, old brother Joe would belt it out. He just sang out He couldn't sing his way out of a bucket, but uh he was making a joyful noise to the Lord. He got saved in a in a Don Williams chalk drawing thing. And Joe was a Vietnam vet. And I don't know why, but we were sitting here. I just got thinking about Joe Irvin. He's been with the Lord many years. uh had the funeral down in uh his funeral was down in um kittsmiller and they buried him in lead mine anybody know where lead mine is way back in the hills back up there And uh little graveyard up on the side of the hill. We needed four-wheelers to get up there and and uh I just thought of Joe, good old veteran And uh love the Lord. Psalms 107. I thought of another fella very years ago, uh, Isaac Brown was in the nursing home here at Dennett Road And uh no, he he was over, he might have been a couple of weeks, but anyway, Isaac Brown was up here, and uh I was asked to go visit him. He didn't have pastor, he was uh given a few months to live And I got to talking to him. He was a veteran, I think he was an army veteran, but got talking to him. Isaac Brown got saved. He wouldn't say five words. I'd visit with him and he'd say, yup, nope, he'd answer my questions And uh one day I was visiting with Isaac Brown and um trying to make conversation. He had trusted the Lord. I would read scripture with him, and uh he didn't have long to live. And I said, Isaac! I said, You got any kids? He said, Nope. But I got two children. I said, Oh. So I don't know why I thought of these guys. I just thought of them. Psalm 107, so don't ask somebody if they have kids. Unless they're a farmer, I guess. Psalm 107 and verse number one. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good. For the Lord is good. For his mercy endureth forever. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy And gathered them out of the lands from the east and from the west, from the north, and from the south. They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary place. They found no city to dwell in, hungry and thirsty. Their soul fainted in them. Then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their distresses. And he led them forth by the right way that they might go to a city of habitation. Oh, that men would praise the Lord for his Goodness for his wonderful works to the children of men. For he satisfieth the longing soul. He filleth the hungry soul with goodness. Such as sit in darkness in the shadow of death, being bound in affliction and iron, because they rebelled, because they rebelled against the words of God and contemned the counsel of the Most High. Therefore he brought down their heart with labor. They fell down, there was none. Then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble. He saved them out of their distresses. Now if you would come back to Psalm 145 Where Brother Matt read a few moments ago, Psalm 145. And I would like for us to read together in unison verse number 8 and verse number 9. Psalm 145. Verse number eight. You got it there? Let's read that together. Ready? Here we go. The Lord is gracious and full of compassion. Slow to anger and of great mercy. Look at this next statement. Read it with me. The Lord is good to all, and his tender mercies over all his works. I want to speak this morning on this subject. The Lord is good. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for our time that we can assemble together in your name as the church. And I pray that your presence would be here in a very real and evident way. I pray, Father, that you would use your word to challenge us and help, encourage. I pray, Lord, for conviction of sin where that is needed. I pray, Lord, for encouragement of heart and soul where that is needed. I pray you give us direction and and uh and ed and edify your your body, I pray, Lord, through the Word of God. So Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. With all my heart, I plead with you, Lord, that you fill me with your Holy Spirit, dear Lord. And you speak through me and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. This morning I want to speak about God. What a subject, huh? About God. Everything we know about God is found in this old book, the Bible, right here. This is God's word for you and I. In the Bible, we learn what God's names are. Do you know God has more than one name He reveals himself as you begin reading in Genesis and through the Bible. God begins to reveal himself with his names, various different names. And each name has meaning and every one of those meetings is very significant in revealing to us and teaching us a little bit of the character of God and who he is and what he's like I believe God's personal name, and studying scripture, I've come to the conclusion God's personal name is Jehovah. And he reveals many other names. So. It's in God's Word, not in creation, not out here in the stars. We don't find the name of God. We look at the heavens, we see this massive universe, incomprehensible millions and billions of galaxies the m the the the how massive and immense this universe is but we don't find the name of God We see his handiwork. We look in creation and we see design and complexity and purpose and we look around and we say, and uh, we have to come to this conclusion. This could not have just happened. God created this, but we don't find his name. We don't know who this God is. It's interesting to me every society, every culture that is that has existed on planet Earth, regardless of how remote they may have been, some South Pacific Island or some uh remote part of the Arctic Every society has worshipped a God of some sort. They looked around and they would say, this could not have just happened. There has to be a God. And they're correct. But we don't find the name of God. But we come to the Bible and we find out who God is, what his name is Well, in the Bible, we are told what God's characteristics are. We are told about God, what he is like. His term we like to use for that is his attributes. What is this God that created, that spoke this universe into existence? This invisible God we can't see, we can't feel him. We know he's there. What is he like? This Jehovah. What's he like? The Bible tells us. The Bible tells us God is first and foremost. He is a holy God. He is holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. The Bible tells us that this God, who by the way, we are in His presence right here and now Bible tells us that he is what the term we use in preaching theological term is he is omnipresent. This God is everywhere all the time. Years ago, uh during um uh when we're first starting space declaration, uh one of the Russian cosmonauts, and I don't have his name offhand, I think it might be Ivan, I'm not sure. But um one of the Russian cosmonauts, he looked out and he says, we're here in space and we see that, and he says, I don't see any God up here Somebody commented, step outside that little tin can, you'll see them real quick He's omnipresent. Nehemiah said, if I go to the farthest stars, he didn't word it exactly this way, I can go to the farthest reaches of the universe, and thou art there. And go to the farthest depths of hell. Thou art there. There's no place, excuse the, excuse the English, there's no place where God ain't. He's omnipresent. That means you and I cannot escape his presence. The Bible says, the Bible tells us that this God created all of this, this God that gave us our life, our source of our life is from God Himself He's invisible. He says his name is Jehovah, along with other names. He is holy. He is omnipresent. He's everywhere. He's omnipotent, all powerful. Again, excuse the English, but there ain't nothing God can't do. Say, oh, my situation, there's no hope. As long as God is alive and He is eternal, there is hope. There is hope. So we look in the Bible and we find out what God's name is, his names. We look in the Bible and we see these characteristics, and we could take a years of series of studies of the characteristics of God. We look in the Bible, we find his instructions for us. Well, what is this God that gave me my life? This God that created everything that is? What does he want from me? Why did he make me? What does he expect? What does he demand? We don't find those answers in creation. We don't find those answers in the microscope. We don't find those answers in the telescope. We find those answers in the Word of God. God's word to us, our purpose in life, to bring glory to Him, to trust Him Follow his instructions. He tells us things that we should do, be sure we have in place in our life. He tells us things to watch out for and avoid and warns us of the consequences of certain behavior He gives us promises that if we will trust him and simply follow his leadership and do what he says, that these promises. And he tells us of a Savior. He tells us in the book how he became man years ago and took your sin and my sin upon himself and suffered hell on that old rugged cross for you and me. Was buried, rose again. And he makes this promise, whosoever shall turn from their sin, trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, that he'll forgive them. Give them eternal life, have a home in heaven and hell. I tell you what a book that old book is. How important is the Bible? I want to suggest to you it's the most important document that has ever existed. The Word of God. The Word of God. It explains everything. Who we are, where we came from, what this is, who God is, what his name is, what he's like. I tell you, one of the characteristics the Bible makes very, very clear about our God is this God is good, this God, this invisible, incomprehensible God He is good. He is good. Did you ever hear that? You ever hear a Christian say this? Boy, God is good. Anybody ever hear that saying? Anybody here ever say that? Oh, God's good. God's good Deborah's here, her daddy, uh Lewis Howe, been able to spend time with him over the years, and uh he had a little saying, often he'll finish a letter, he'll make this statement. He says, God is good all the time. And if you just pause a moment, then he'll say this all the time, God is good. Isn't that something? That is a true statement. God is good all the time, and all the time God is good. From cover to cover, from Genesis to Revelation, this Bible declares to us that God is good. You say, all right, big deal, preacher. God's good. What's I'll tell you what, that is vitally important that you and I understand that. Because the understanding of the fact that God is good is going to profoundly affect our outlook on life. The understanding, when I get in my head and I grasp the truth that God, that is in control, that is all powerful, that is sovereign, that is wise God is good. That will profoundly affect how I view my circumstances. Years ago, I mentioned this occasionally, years ago, and I have no idea what the book is about or who wrote it. I don't know anything about it, but there's a book I saw for sale. It said, if God loves me, why can't I open my locker? Well, God does love you. And if we understand that God is a good God Then help me deal with my locker I can't open, or that flat tire. The book of Job is a fascinating book. If you've never read the book, you really should. You say, oh, that's kind of morbid, isn't it all this terrible stuff happened to Job? Yeah, there's it's a tragic, it's a tragedy in a sense, but it ends in tremendous victory. And I tell you, I look forward to the day when maybe in heaven I have the opportunity to meet Job and talk to him. In Job chapter number, and we won't turn there, in Job chapter 13 and verse number 15, Job made a profound statement. Now, if you're not familiar with Job's experience, Job was a just man. In fact, God said he was perfect in all his ways. He was probably, my understanding, if not thee, one of the most righteous men that has ever lived on this planet. The highest praises God has ever made about any man, he made about Job. In fact, God confronted Satan. About Job. And God says to Satan, have you considered my servant Job? And Satan, of course, as he does, he throws accusations back about Job I don't think Satan, I don't think Satan can say any positive thing about anybody, especially God's children. It's always accusing, accusing, accusing, accusing, accusing. And Satan throws back in God's face, ha! You've hedged him about. He's got a good family, he's prosperous, he has cattle and land. You take that away from him, he'll curse you to your face. Get this. God had faith in a man. And God said, How about it? I'll remove my head. You can't touch his body. You can do whatever you want. And Satan took his family, destroyed his property, and absolutely wreaked havoc. In that sorrow and heartache and loss overwhelming you and I can't imagine. Job trusted God. He said, Naked came I out of the womb, naked shall I return. Blessed be the name of the Lord. So then God confronts Satan again. Hey, consider my servant Job. You've moved me against me. You did all this stuff, he still. And Job again throws accusations. You touch skin for skin, yea, all that a man hath. You let me touch his body and he'll curse you to your face. God says you can touch his body, but don't you kill him This is a little aside. I'm glad Satan can't do nothing that God don't allow. God puts restrictions. God limits what Satan can and can't do. He lets them wreak havoc, but it's all within control. So Now he's covered with boils, unbelievable, unimaginable pain, unbelievable, unimaginable heartache, lost all his children. Most all his property. His friends turn against him. His wife turns against him. It's interesting. His wife says to him, Why don't you curse God and die? That's the exact same thing Satan's trying to get him to do. Curse God. And Job retained his integrity. In chapter 13 and verse number 15, Job makes this profound statement. Listen to this. In the midst of all of that that I just described, he makes this statement: Though he, God, though he slay me. Yet will I trust him. Wow. God allowed all of this But I trust him. You know what I believe Job understood? Profoundly understood. Job understood the goodness of God. In spite of all circumstances, in spite of all situation, in his mind it was settled, in his heart it was settled, though he slay me, God is good. And I trust him. And my point I'm trying to make this morning is this: when we understand the goodness of God We understand that God is good. It'll affect our view, it'll affect our perspective, and everything that God allows in our lives The Lord is good. God is good. I'm going to ask you a couple questions. I'm going to ask these here again in a few minutes. Let me ask you this. Are you aware of the fact, and you can respond however you want, you don't have to, but are you aware of the fact that God is good? Are you aware of the fact the Bible teaches that? Oh, yes, preacher, I know that. My little kids know that. Alright, let me ask you this: Do you believe it? Oh, sure, I believe it. I believe the Bible. Who doesn't believe the Bible? Of course, God's good. I believe that. Alright. Good. Let me ask you this. Does it govern your outlook on life? We bitter? Are we angry? Are we mad? Frustrated? Discouraged? Disappointed? When we understand, not just know that the Bible says God is good, and not just believe with our head that God is good, but we get to the point. Where we fully grasp this, that the God that controls everything, the God that created me, the God that is, He is a perfectly, infinitely good God. I view everything else from a completely different perspective. I have a whole different outlook on all of life. Psalm 145, if you'll notice the title, it's penned. By David, King David, as many of the Psalms are. Now we say this. It's penned by David, but it's authored by God. It's God's Word. God inspired when David recorded this, he inspired this recording. And so it's penned by David, but it's anchored, it's altered by God. It's the final psalm in the book of Psalms that's attributed to David. From here on out, there's no names given and who the authors are. This is the last one that is attributed to David. We don't know anything about the background of this psalm. We don't know anything about the circumstances or what may have humanly prompted him to write this. The interesting thing is, if you would look at the title of Psalm 145, it said David's Psalm of Praise. That is the only time that title is used in the Bible. Do you notice others will say a psalm of David, a psalm of David, a psalm of David when he was in the cave of Adoleman, Psalm of David when he was this, a psalm of David Fid one is son Absalom Be a lot of that. But this one is the only one that is titled David's Psalm of Praise. Now you say, well, what's the significance of that? I think there is some significance to that. I think it implies that this is David's personal psalm. We might use the vernacular of the day, terms people might use today say David owned this psalm. This was his. David's Psalm of Praise. The implication being this came out of the heart of David. This, and I'm sure the others did also, but this one in a unique way, in a particular way, David owns this psalm. David, this comes from his heart, this comes from his experience. A very personal Psalm of David's. Very particular Psalm of David's. And I got thinking about that And if anybody understood the heart of God, if anybody understood the heart of God, it was King David. Twice it is said of David that he was a man after God's own heart. Now we studied this on Wednesday nights in our study of the life of David, and we noted that that phrase had this idea. David understood God's heart. David shared The heart of God. The heartbeat of God was the heartbeat of David. He knew God. My prayer in the last several months, I told Sunday school class, one of my prayers last couple months has been, Lord, strengthen my faith, increase my faith. I tell you, you want to have some trials, start praying that Another prayer in the last probably month, Lord, just pressed on my heart, has been this, Lord, help me to know you. And the power of your resurrection. God, I want to get beyond just knowing about you. I want to know you. I want to know your heart. I want to share your heart. And if anybody knew the heart of God, if anybody knew the characteristics of God, what God was like, it was King David. He was a man after God's own heart. And so we come to Psalms 145, a unique psalm of all the psalms, 150 psalms, of all of them. This one is unique. In the sense it is coming from David's heart. It's David's Psalm of Praise. You could break this chapter down, and I've broken it down into five headings, four headings. The first one, verses 1 through 6, I notice God's greatness. And David states over and over in those verses that God is great, the greatness of God. And I want to say this morning: our God is a great God. And David knew that, and David understood that. Then in verses 7 through 10, he references God's goodness. And he says repeatedly in various ways: God is good. God is good. Then in verses number 11 through 13, he speaks of God's glory. Our God is a glorious God. What do you think is going to happen when we first step into the immediate presence of God? Those of us that know the Lord as Savior, we step into the immediate presence of God and we see his glory. Unfiltered. What do you think our response will be? Woo, I'm something. Now, you know what I think our response will be? I think we'll fall on our face. Say what a glorious, glorious God you are. David understood that. He saw that. He knew and grasped the glory of our God. And then verses 14 through 21, and this is interesting, he references the generosity of God. He says God is generous. He gives and he gives and he gives and he gives I tell you what, you could stop right there, give an invitation, and great conviction could fall if we understand how ungrateful and how selfish and how little we understand what our God is. Amen or not? We gripe and complain, we're mad, unforgiving, judging, condemning, accusing And all the while, there is our glorious, generous, great, good God. God is good. God is good. Verse 9, the first part says, the Lord is good to all. I think God's goodness is evident in various ways. God's goodness is evident in His name. I've got looking at this, and the English word for God Let me back up. The word God sounds awfully close to what word? Good I don't just remove an O. You go from good to God. In fact, the English word God comes from the Anglo-Saxon word good. The idea was that this God, this creator God, this holy God, he is in his very core a good being God's word declares that he is good. The Bible tells us that God is perfectly good. Say, oh, there's no one perfect. God is. When we say that God is perfect in his goodness, it means that he is as good as it is possible to be. There is nothing lacking. There is nothing short. There is no missing areas of his goodness. He is perfectly good. He cannot be more good than what he is. He cannot be less good than what he is. The Bible tells us that God is eternally good. In other words, he has always been good. He will always be perfectly good. Oh, there was a day when God was good to me. Yeah, and that day is still today. Circumstances may have changed it. Your perspective on things may have changed, but God has not changed. God is good, perfectly good, eternally good. In fact, the Bible declares God is exclusively good. Now, what do I mean when I say God is exclusively good? It means that there is none other good except God. Turn with your Bibles. Now keep your place here, and I'm not going to get through this message, so you all relax. Luke chapter eighteen And verse number 19, Jesus is speaking. And of course, Jesus being God in the flesh, the Son of God, he knows what he's talking about. Luke chapter 18. I want to begin reading in verse 18. I'm not going to read this whole event that's recorded here. I just want to get to a statement that the Lord Jesus made in verse 18. And a certain ruler asked him, Jesus. Saying, look at the term this certain ruler uses. He asked him, saying, Good master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? Why are you using that term? When referring to me. Then look at his next statement. Why callest thou me good? None is good save one, and that is who? God. Now, just to say this, I believe what Jesus was trying to do is point out to this certain ruler that Jesus is God. That he was right in referring to Jesus as good, but only God is good. And Jesus being good, being God Would certainly fit that description. So the Bible says very clearly, Jesus told us that only God is good. Now, what does that mean? What does he mean by that? Well, it means what it says, but I think it also would suggest this: God is the standard of goodness. Anything that we want to consider to be good, or someone we want to consider to be good, we have to compare it to the standard of goodness, which is God. Because he's the model, he's the standard. The world and the society, our world we live in, our society we live in, our government, the media. Certain parts of entertainment world, they like to try and establish for you and I what is good and what is not good And so the media wants to tell America and the world and particularly they like to particularly zero in on Christians And they want to dictate to us, and they want to suggest, and they want to tell us well, this is good, and this is not good. Sometimes we do that in our own reasoning. We look at someone, we look at some situation, and in our reasoning and our understanding, we come to a conclusion, well, this is good and this is not good. But the fact of the matter is the politicians of the world and the media of the world and the Hollywood entertainers and musicians of the world, and even our own sinful understanding, that is not the standard by which we determine what is good and what is not good. God is the standard of that. Years ago I read a little illustration of a boy who's six years old or so, just a little boy. He was out playing. He came home, dad came home for supper, and they're sitting at the table and The little boy put his shoulders back and he said, Daddy, I learned something today. The dad said, Well, that's wonderful, son. What did you learn today? He says, I learned that I'm six and a half feet tall. Dad said, really? Yeah. And he chuckled a little bit, and the little boy said, No, daddy, I'm serious. And he said, son, you're not six and a half feet tall. You're three and a half at the most. Your kid, you're six. How old are six year olds? I mean how tall are six how old are six year olds? How tall are six year olds? Four foot the most, maybe. He says, Son, you're not six and a half feet tall. He says, Dad, I am. No, you ain't. Yes, I am. No, you ain't. Yes, I am. No, you ain't. Yes, I He goes, what makes you think you're six and a half feet tall? He says, I'll prove it to you. He ran over and he had found this stick out in the yard, and he determined that that stick was one foot. So he measured himself with this little stick, and according to that stick, according to his standard, he was six and a half feet tall. And Dad said, son, you've got a flawed standard. That's not a foot. And what this world does and what you and I do, we operate by a flawed standard of what is good. Welp I ask folks, I say, knocking over it, hey, nice to meet you. I'm Pastor Lutherman. Like to might you have church here to church? Uh sometimes. Uh where you go, I don't remember. Um Well, church is important, but more important than that is knowing for sure that when we die our sins are forgiven. We go to heaven, not to hell. Did you ever think about that? Yeah, yeah, I think about that a lot lately And so let me ask you this. Do you know for sure that when you die you go to heaven, not to hell? Every now and then I'll get this. Yeah, preacher, I'm I'm sure I'd go to heaven. Really? I said, how do you know? What makes you sure? What gives you that confidence that when you die you go to heaven? They'll say this, I've been pretty good. I've been pretty good. That's a flawed standard of goodness. Now compared to the guy across the street He drinks, smokes dope, beats his wife, runs around, cheats, lies, steals from his boss. Well, I'm I'm good. That guy's doing all that. I'm not doing that, so I'm good. The problem is that's a flawed standard. The standard of goodness is not being better than the guy across the street. The standard of goodness is being as good as God. And a holy, perfectly good God is the standard by which we measure ourselves. And you know what the Bible says? And in our hearts we know to be true? We fall short. Of God's goodness. Romans 3. 23 puts it this way, for all sin and come short of the glory of God. We've not lived up to that standard of acceptability. We've not lived up to that standard of righteousness. Oh, I'm pretty good. Yeah, by the flawed standard, but you go by God's standard. I mean, just compare ourselves to the Ten Commandments. We fall short. Who here? I want you to raise your hand if you've never lied in your life. I'm looking for liars. I don't respond to this, but how many of us can honestly say we've never taken God's name in vain? I can't say that. Wonder how many of us could say I've never coveted something. Or how many could say I've honored my parents without flaw. And just go down the list. We are not good. We're sinners. And as sinners, we're under the judgment of God, a holy God. And if we die in our sins and we die unforgiven, God's holiness demands eternal separation from him in hell, the lake of fire. ETEL! This isn't popular, and the world wants to mock the idea of heaven and hell, but I'm here to tell you it's true. God in his goodness says, I'll suffer hell for you I'll show mercy and grace, and I'll take the judgment for your sin upon myself on the cross. And I'll suffer the eternal judgment of God in your place, buried and rose again. And I offer that forgiveness, that eternal life. I offer it to you by grace. By faith, receive it. I'm telling you, God is good. And He's good to us sinners. We fight We throw accusations at our spouses, we say hateful things, we think horrible things. Our hearts are so deceitful and desperately wicked. Yet the God that made us is so good. Loves us and wants to save us. And then he teaches us how to live and he shows us the right things to do and the right way to operate. What a good God we have. God is morally good. He is morally good. God cannot sin And God doesn't tempt us to sin. He is perfectly good morally. I think it's interesting In Genesis, when Satan approached Eve. Remember that? I don't mean you were there, but you remember reading about that. Think about that. Now I think most of us are familiar with what you know Satan approached. Yeah, yes, God said you can't eat of any of the fruit of the Garden Eden. And got and Mary and Mary. Eve said, No, just we can eat all any of the fruits. We can eat anything. God said we can eat anything, just uh one tree. He said and Satan, I'm putting this in my own words, Satan says, huh. You know why he didn't want you to eat that tree? Why? Because he knows the day you eat thereof, you'll be as God. You'll know good and evil. You'll be just like God. You know what Satan was suggesting to Eve? That God is not good. God was good. He'd let you eat that. He doesn't have your best interest in mind He's not being good to you. And our sin, mankind's sin, was conceived in the concept that God is not good. He can't be trusted. He doesn't have our best interest in mind. And every time you and I sin against God, we are sinning against the goodness of God. I know better. God says, do this and don't do that. I don't care. He's not being good. I know what's good. I know what's best for me. And we fall into Satan's lie. I thought it was interesting. Satan didn't assault the omnipotence of God. He didn't come and say God's not all powerful. He didn't suggest that. He never brought that up. He didn't suggest that God wasn't omniscient. Well, God doesn't know. He just doesn't know. In fact, he said he know it. Satan didn't assault any other characteristic or attribute of God than the goodness of God. The goodness of God. And when Eve got in her head that God was not being good in this circumstance, sin conceived and was born. The goodness of God. When God tells me, when He warns me of a sin, when God warns me of a particular behavior, and He says, Do not do that, thou shalt not. You know what he's being? He's being very, very good to you and I. Help us when God says, Thou shalt! And he gives us these instructions. You know what he's doing? He's being very good. Very, very good. You know what the good parent says? The good parent says to their child, no, you you're not going to do that. You're not going to play out in the street. You're not going to take a knife and run around with a knife. You know what we got? We got a world full of humanity running around with spiritual knives, playing in spiritual streets. It's killing us. Because we don't believe God's good. If my parents loved me, they'd let me have a rattlesnake for a pet. I tell you anybody who brings a snake in their house is a crackpot. Now if you have a snake in your house, you're the exception, alright? I mean I don't want anybody sticking a snake on me. I don't like snakes. But God's good and He gave them to us, so praise the Lord. God's good. God's good. He's morally good. Um, I gotta land this plane here God is mercifully good. Remember the woman taken in adultery? The very act? And publicly brought, caught in the very act, brought out in public before Jesus. They said, Jesus, the law says we need a stoner. What do you say? God's good. He doesn't say anything. Throlls in the sand. Well, what do you say? Well, tell you what, you that are without sin, go ahead, cast the first stone What'd they do? They walked off, beginning at the oldest. They walked off. No woman was left standing there Shame? Can you imagine the humiliation? Can you imagine the shame before Jesus, who everybody recognized as a good teacher, a man sent from God Here I am in the very act. I think it's interesting. She doesn't run away from him She doesn't say, I gotta get out of here. She stays there. Everybody's gone. She keeps standing before him. What a profound statement, or good God said to her. Neither where are your con where are your accusers? I have none, Lord. Neither do I condemn thee. Now go, sin no more. Stop it. I'm not condemned. You know what that's called? It's called mercy. Being God, he could have said, You're right, stoner. They were just as guilty. All have sinned. Short, who art thou that thinkest thou can judge another God showed in his goodness he showed mercy. You know why you and I aren't burned in hell right now? Our God is good and merciful to us. He is morally good. He is mercifully good. And I am with this. He is magnificently good. In verse number 9, it says he is good to all. He is good to all. The most self-righteous, hard-hearted Pharisee, God's good to him. The most wicked, perverse, lowlife sinner, God is good to him. And whosoever will can call upon the name of the Lord and find forgiveness and find new life and find eternal life and be made clean and pure and right. Why? Because God is good. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever Leaveth on him should not perish, have everlasting life. You know what that is? That is the goodness of God. All mankind Are you saved this morning? Do you know for sure your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven? If not, there's a our God is awfully good and He'll forgive you and save you if you'll just turn to Him, trust Him. Are you saved this morning? Say, yes, I know, I've trusted Christ. He's forgiven my sins. He's changed my life. I have eternal life. I know, based on the scripture, I know I'll go to heaven. Not because I'm good. I'm not Because Christ saved me, I've trusted him. Let me ask you this. Is it ingrained in your mind that God is good? Or do you look at the world based upon what I determine is great and this is good for me, that's me, and we end up griping and complaining and mad and miserable? Because we don't grasp the fact that God is good. And even in the midst of Job's trials, he could say, I trust him, because I know he's good. I plead with you this morning, myself included, let's remember God is good and trust Him. Follow His instructions. Let Him lead us. He'll be glorified. He'll bless us. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless us now and help us to understand and grasp in this day and age, in our circumstances, Your goodness, your perfect goodness. Help us, Lord, to turn from sin To trust you and live our lives in submission to your will and your word and be pure Lord, if there's any that are unsaved, God, that don't have assurance of eternal life, I pray today that He would come to you as a good God. And in repentance and faith find forgiveness and new life. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say this morning, Preacher, I know I'm saved, there's no doubt about it, but I keep catching myself griping and complaining. I keep catching myself getting involved in sin, things I know it's not right. I need God to help me get settled in my mind that He is good and I can trust Him. I need to live for him. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me, that this would get a hold of me. God bless you. Hands all around. How about it? Others, come on. We're living our lives according to our understanding and our leaning. What we need to do is just come and say, Lord, you're good. I cast myself on you. I trust you. You lead me. You direct me. Help me. Give me victory. Your glory. So some of you this morning say, Preacher, I'll know for sure my sins are going to go to heaven when I die. I mean I try to be good, I try to do right, but Say, I know I'm not living up to God's standard, and I need Jesus to save me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Say, preacher, pray for me. I need to get this settled. Where am I going to spend eternity? But I know my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. Any at all like that? Is there some here that know someone? You say, Preacher, my heart's burden for someone. They're unsaved. I want them to know this good God. I want them to know him and what his life he what life he can give them. Ain't like that, preacher, I'm burdened for someone. God bless you. We all know folks. And he needs us to have the right perspective, to be a witness to them that God is good. When we gripe and complain and criticize and accuse, we're conveying the exact opposite message. So ask the Lord to help us. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand up.