Alrighty, my one? Yep. Let's try this now. Oh no. Okay, good. All right. Well let me first off just say that it's been a blessing and honor to be working here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. these last few weeks. I haven't even been here just a few weeks and I already got to see what a blessing it's been to be serving the Lord. I found that in the number of years I've been saved, actually be twelve thirteen years this July. So a number of years I've been saved, the Lord never stops working in my life. And He's been doing such a great work in my heart here serving at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And I really appreciate it I was shocked and startled that this morning's message just spoke to my heart so much I was like, wow, what a great message, and then I get to preach tonight I was like, oh well, I don't know if I'll be able to follow that up. But the Lord's laid something on my heart, and I hope it speaks to your heart as well. If you have your Bibles with you, turn to Isaiah chapter number nine. Isaiah chapter number nine Hasn't slipped my mind. Today's Memorial Day. Normally when I think of this day, I think of my grandfather. He's one of my few family members that I know of who served in our military for a number of years. And it just helps me to remember and think back on the times that, you know, I'm so thankful that and still today so thankful that we have men and women who's willing to give their lives for our nation, that we can have this freedom Something that should we shouldn't, something that I even shouldn't take lightly, a freedom that could so easily be taken away from us, but yet God gives it to us. freely each and every day. A freedom that we can serve him. I thank the Lord for that. A freedom that we should enjoy. But yet this passage here, as I get into this passage and look at it, I think of these people who are about to lose their freedom. This passage is written to the Israelites. Isaiah spoke to them as well as other nations as well. I think of chapter number one of Isaiah, where Isaiah just pours his heart out to these Israelites, begging and pleading with them to get away from sin. Asking them over and over, you know what you're doing is wrong. It's against God's will. You need to get right. And sadly, Israel rejects this offer. We must never reel or forget the danger of sin. In fact, Isaiah tells them just previous to this chapter that because of their sin, judgment is going to take place. In fact, we find throughout the book of Isaiah a number of nations which are told about judgment which is going to take place. All because of the sin that was in their lives. We must never forget the danger of sin. And can I say to you that sin destroys people's lives? We shouldn't treat it as the pet, but should treat it as the poison it is. We see people today enjoying and loving sin. Well, what a tragedy it is when we see what it does to others' lives. And Isaiah could see that coming for Israel. But Isaiah here, as he's telling the Israelites about their upcoming judgment, seeing his love for this nation, tells them about hope. We see chapter 9 start with the word, nevertheless. He has just told of this upcoming judgment that is going to come upon them. These trials, this tribulation that's going to they're going to go through because of their sin But he adds this input in here, nevertheless, and he gives them a comfort, a hope. He reminds them of somebody that can give them peace And true joy. We see this person as the Lord Jesus Christ. Here in this passage in Isaiah chapter number 9, I want to look at verses 6 and 7 here, and then we'll get into the message. Isaiah 9:6 says, For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called wonderful. Counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order it, and to establish it with judgment and with justice, from henceforth even Forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. I just simply entitled this message The Comforting Savior. The Comforting Savior. Let's bow our hearts as we pray for the sermon. Father in heaven, I love you and thank you so much for an opportunity again to serve you. Father Lord, I just think it is an honor, Lord, to be able to serve you in your house. And Lord, I thank you so much for that. And Lord, I'm asking tonight that your word be spoken through me. Your word would use me to speak its message. Father, I pray that you would just speak to your people how you've spoken to me in my heart. Lord, help us not take this matter lightly But Lord, we have an opportunity right in front of our eyes, and I pray that we wouldn't reject it. Father, I pray if there's any under the sound of my voice who needs to know Christ, Lord, that they would accept Christ as their Savior. Father, please help me now as I speak. In Christ's name. Amen. Isaiah chapter number 9, verse 6 and 7. We read this passage and we see Christ in his millennial kingdom one day By the way, this is a real literal kingdom that one day we'll be a part of in the future. But Isaiah gives them this little bit of hope that we can see. You know, Israel, right now you're going to go into captivity. You're going to go into captivity. As we find out in Daniel, we see that they are taking captivity by the Babylonians. But idea gives them this bit of hope one day your Christ will rule over you again. One day you will have your Messiah as your ruler. God has not forgotten him completely. In fact, He has not forgotten them Though they have sinned, though they have that broken fellowship, God wants to restore them. And today, as I look at this passage and how it applies to our lives, that Christ wants to have a relationship with you. Ever since the beginning of the Bible in the book of Genesis, God created man. Why? I look at the passage in Ecclesiastes where Solomon said, What is the purpose of man? To fear God and to keep his commandments. God created us so we can have a relationship with him. And here in this passage, Isaiah reminds them Christ still loved them and wanted a relationship with them. If you're under the sound of my voice and you do not know Jesus Christ as your Savior, you can know Him today. You may find pleasures and joy which you could try to fulfill your life But if that's all you find, you're going to have that void and emptiness in your life. Because Christ has given us that void for Him to have that spot. Christ wants a relationship with us. That's what He created us for. So you may be here today and you say, I'm saved. I have Christ in my life. But never forget that and never destroy that relationship with him I'm just curious, and let me ask you this question and let it sink in your hearts. What is your relationship with Christ like right now? If we were to, if somebody was to ask you to describe your relationship with Christ, what would you be able to say? How's your Bible reading How is your prayer life? Your walk with Him daily? Are you growing as a Christian? You know, we have an opportunity as a Christian that many Christians throw away today. Many see it today as just a ticket to heaven, but Christ is so much more than that. In fact, I wanted to share with you this. If you have your Bibles, go ahead and turn to Ephesians Chapter number two. We'll become back to Isaiah here in a little bit. But go ahead and turn to Ephesians chapter number two. Ephesians chapter number two Paul writing here under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit in Ephesians chapter number two. And verses 8 and 9, familiar verses. So it says I can hear Paul urgingly saying this with as he writes this. For by grace are ye saved through faith, and that not of yourselves is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. That is our salvation. We know that. We are saved through faith in Jesus Christ and Him alone. There's no other way to heaven. The world offers ways to heaven. I see it all the time. I mean When we go out witnessing down in Pensacola, we see it on the streets. Today on the visitation to other places, you know, we have people have their way of living life. But there is only one way to heaven, that's through the Lord Jesus Christ. And through his finished work on the cross. So those verses are true to us. Many of us know that. But I like how Paul didn't stop there. He kept on writing. Look at verse number 10. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. Even before we came to know Jesus Christ as Savior, God had a plan for you. Now I'm not talking about the fact that God picks people to heaven and picks people to hell. God is not willing that any should perish, as Peter tells us. But God has a plan for you. Once you get saved, how you should live by God's principles, God's laws Sadly, many Christians reject that. Many Christians take this and throw it aside, a better life for them. I find it interesting to note that when the Bible talks about sin and the person's relationship with sin, it mentions that the person is a slave to sin. But yet when it talks about Christ and a new life in Christ, it talks about life, an opportunity of service for him. It's something that is freedom. I think of our freedom here in the nation, and I'm glad that we have that freedom, but there is much more freedom we can have in Christ. And today I want to look at that freedom That freedom that we can have in Christ and that comfort that we can find in him in Isaiah chapter number six. So go ahead and turn back there. We'll take a look at that in Isaiah chapter number six. Isaiah 6 describes our Savior when he's going to be here in the millennial kingdom. Now that doesn't mean we can't apply it to our lives today. In fact, I believe Isaiah wrote this This passage to remind Israel to let it be a help to them when they were in act uh in captivity. Don't worry about that. But I just want to look at those five names of Christ. And I want us to see the idea of this comforting Savior. The first name we find in Isaiah 9. 6 is the name Wonderful. Wonderful. This word behind wonderful is translated elsewhere in scriptures as wonders or marvelous, wonderful things Now I don't have to stand here all night and tell us we have things in our lives that are wonderful. You can stand here and tell me things that are wonderful to you. I can stand here and tell you things that are wonderful to me I think of this past Monday when I went over to Katewood with my brothers and had a great time. It was a wonderful time. I enjoyed it. I think of mealtime. I had today a piece of cheesecake. I love cheesecake. There's nothing in this world like cheesecake. I was talking to my friends down in Pensacola and he said I swear when you get married, you're gonna be married in a cheesecake factory. I don't get where he got that idea from. But I love cheesecake. It's something I think is a wonderful dish. We can think of things all day long. What is wonderful to us? But you know, when we come to this word wonderful here, this is a wonder that only God can do. This word is used in Exodus 15, verse 11, when Moses described that God did marvelous things for them when they crossed the Red Sea. This is a wonder only God can do. I think of a father and a mother holding a brand new baby in their hands, this new life. I think of a doctor saying to somebody, I don't know how it's possible, but your cancer is gone. Things that we as human beings can't comprehend that we cannot do, but that's our God. I think of illustrations throughout the Bible, even with the idea of creation. I like the one illustration that someone once used, I believe Pastor used it before, with the atheist and God, and the atheist telling God, you know what? I can you know we can make man nowadays. We don't need And God's like, okay, make man, and the atheist went to take some dirt and God's like, oh no, no, no, you make your own dirt. We look at this and we laugh. But look at what our God has done. I think of the story of Job. The teenagers with Pat was studying through the book of Job. And when Job was questioned of God, These questions that God asks, and only some of them God can answer. What our God is capable of? He's wonderful, doing great and wonders. How does that apply to us today? You know you have a Christ that can do marvelous things. By the way, who are we talking about here? We're talking about the Christ that's in your lives and my life. He can do wonders, he can do marvelous things through us. Don't reject that opportunity. We see a wonderful Savior. I also see a counselor in this verse, a counselor. Now, many scholars and people that study the Bible like to debate, you know, this wonderful goes with this counselor. It's a wonderful counselor. These two should never be separated. Well, as I study it and I study it look at it, I see it as five different names. But whether you see it as five different names or just these two as go together, it doesn't really matter in the context of this passage. The wonderful counselor would be describing a counselor that only God can be, and that's the idea of this counselor here. I like how one Arthur stated it. He states that this word denotes one of honorable rank One is who is suited to stand near princes and kings as their advisor. Now think about that for a minute. Would you be considered somebody that can stand next to a king and advise a king? How would you like to be a person who advised the president for a day Now some of you would love that job right now, I know. But imagine that. This is our Christ. He's worthy of doing that. I can't imagine that in my life. That God is not only able to counsel us, but that he's worthy to counsel us. We look at the Bible, we like to go through the Bible and we pick through and say, you know what God, this makes sense to me, this makes sense to me, and we get to a passage that says that just doesn't make sense. We want to throw it out Because you know it's not us. It doesn't match our lifestyle. I used this illustration with the teens this morning. I like using again. I heard a preacher once say to us as preacher boys, he said, you know, you guys do not use the Bible to preach your message But you use the Bible uses you to preach its message. And I think that applies not just to preacher boys, but to each and every one of us in here You know, we don't use the Bible to alter we don't use it to make we don't make it into what our life is, but the Bible makes it into what it is. It conforms us to the image of Christ That's what it needs to be. When Christ is our counselor, He's worthy to tell us what to do. We don't question Him, but we listen to what He has to say. He's a counselor, He's wonderful. I also see the mighty God Here, this word mighty has the idea of powerful, warrior, champion, and it doesn't take a rocket as a scientist to figure out what a mighty God we have. He's all powerful. Now this gives credibility back to his wonders, his counselor. He has the ability to do it. I think of the illustration with Abraham. You know, he was a hundred years old, and his wife, ninety, I believe it was, and they were told that they're going to have a baby. And you know, Sarah laughed at that, but the angel said something that should catch each and every one of us our attentions. You know, is anything too hard for God? Is there anything too hard for our God, I ask? There is nothing that we can bring to our God that we can take and lay before his feet and say, you know, here, deal with this. And he can't deal with it. We have a Savior. We can take all our problems. That's why He says casting all your care upon Him for He cares for you. And He's got the ability to be able to do that. As I mentioned, I was talking with somebody in the nursing home today, and she was telling me about the sins that she committed. And you know that God, there's no way that she could Forgive you. Praise God are they able to share with their sec first or First John two two that tells us that God died for our sins, not just for ours, but also the sins of the world. We have a God that's able to forgive all sins, cleanse us from all unrighteousness, as 1 John 1. 9 states. We have a God that's capable of doing all things. He's the Almighty God. I think it's Jeremiah 32 as well that emphasize this. And again I mentioned Job. So we see wonderful, we see counselor, we see the mighty God. Now let's take a look at this everlasting Father, this everlasting Father. Now we can stand here and we can tell about the Trinity and all that. Now if you study your Bible long enough and you look at the scripture, I believe it points out very clearly the idea of the Trinity. That our God is one in three persons. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. I can't stand here today and explain how all that's possible. That's why He's the Almighty God. But His scripture says it's so, and we can count on it to be so. The everlasting Father, the Trinity. But I believe there's much more to it in this passage about Christ being the everlasting Father than just mentioning that he's part of the Trinity. I think of the illustration of the fact that we all in here have a father. I think of my life as well. I think of times that I've done things that I shouldn't have, and my father didn't reject me as his child. He still loved me, he still cared for me, he still met my needs. That's our Christ. We have done things that we are not even worthy of heaven. But Christ loved you so much. He came to this earth, lived the perfect life. He died on Calvary Even while we were yet sinners, he died on Calvary. When we have just completely rejected him, he died for us and for the sins of the whole world. That's our Christ. That's our love of our Christ. And by the way, it says he's the everlasting Father. This love is not just for today. This love is for all eternity. No matter what we do with our lives, God still loves us. You may say, I fallen, there's no way I can get back up. There's a God that's willing and able to forgive you. He wants to use you. He wants that relationship with you that freedom you can have in that relationship with Christ. Don't reject that opportunity that you have there. The everlasting Father And then this last name, I really like this one, the Prince of Peace. We read in verse 7, the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end. Aren't you glad there's coming a time when Christ is going to rule and reign and there's going to be peace on this earth? We may complain about the times that we have now, but one day there's going to be a Christ here who is going to rule and reign, and we're going to be under that reign. with him. But right now he promises peace to us. I like Isaiah 26. 3. So thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is say on thee, because he trusteth in thee. You look at this in the original language, in the Hebrew language, what it says is not perfect peace, but it says peace, peace, peace. Now if we said that in our language, people just look at us like, what's wrong with you? You sound like a broken reticord. But what they're trying to communicate is the same idea that's found in Isaiah 6, where the angels or seraphim are crying out to God, holy, holy, holy, a perfect holiness of our God. And God says, I give those who keep their mind on me a perfect peace. You know, this world tries to offer things for peace, and Pastor mentioned that this morning. You know, it tries to offer as alcohol, it tries to offer It struggles. God had in there it tries to offer his religion. It tries to offer its good works and try to do all these deeds And you know, if you try any of those things and put that in your life, whether it be the sins of this world, it's just or it's just a religion, it's just a show, if that's all you're doing, then all it is is just going to give you emptiness and void The reason being because true peace cannot be found in things, but it's found in a person. And that person is the Lord Jesus Christ, our Savior. What a savior we have. What a comforting savior. So we've seen these five names. Went through them very quickly. Now I want to get to this. If you miss anything else in this passage, or listen to this. We've seen these five names. We've seen how he can be a comfort to us. Now let's look at who this message is to, the Israelites. They are told of this coming Messiah that's going to be one day be ruling the reign. They can have that Messiah for themselves and can give them true peace. It can give them true joy, it can give them true comfort. But you study your Bible, now there's some exceptions. I think of Daniel who listened to the law, who listened to this verse and applied it to his life, I believe. But you look out throughout history, especially when Christ shows up on the scene, many of the Israelites rejected this verse. They saw Christ come, but they're like, are you the one that should come? They totally missed this wonderful counselor, the mighty God, everlasting Father, this Prince of Peace In fact, the only time you see them actually maybe coming to accept him is this time they want to make him king. Okay, fine. Hey, the literal kingdoms here, fine. Let's set you up. Let's make you a king. They didn't want to make him part of their life, that relationship we're talking about. And they cast him aside. Don't let that be you. Do not reject that Savior you have in your life, but accept this offer he has for you. I again ask of you this relationship that you have with this Christ, what is it like Has it been broken? Is there any fellowship there? Or are you just farther away from him than you were before? I encourage you, if it's not where you should be, get back in that relationship with Christ. I encourage you to get in the Word of God. I love what one author said. Every time he looks in the book, you could see Christ there. You could see God there because that's who is the focus of this book. Be in the Word of God. Communicate with the Word of God. And don't give up that freedom that you have. We have that freedom in our nation, a freedom that we're free, but don't give up the freedom of being free from sin. Let Christ rule and reign in your hearts tonight, and let Him rule and reign for eternity. Let's go ahead and close in prayer. Father in heaven, we love you and thank you so much for Christ, how he died on Calvary to pay for our sins. And Father, he didn't just die to remove our sins, but he wanted to restore a fellowship with the Almighty God. Lord, I pray that each and every one of us in here would not reject that opportunity, but Lord, we would accept it. Lord, that we would keep that fellowship with you strong. Lord, that we want to be servants of you. Lord, you've offered to us a great life in serving you. And Father, I pray that we wouldn't overlook that. But Father, we would put you on the heart or throne of our hearts. With heads bowed and eyes closed, any here may say, Brother James This message has spoken to me in some sort of way. Maybe it's the fact that you want to let God rule and reign in your heart. Maybe it's the fact that you want to be serving him. Maybe it's that you want to let him be that comforting savior in your life You say, Brother James, the message has spoken to my heart. Would you just pray with me in that final prayer? That's you this evening. Would you raise your hand? I want to pray for you in this final prayer. God bless you. I see those hands. God bless you. Now one more question I want to ask. This Christ, who offers comfort to all, can offer comfort even to the heart that is so burdened down with sin. He wants to be your Savior. If you're here tonight and you are not 100% sure that heaven is your home, but you want to know that, is there any here that would say, Brother James, I do not know heaven is my home? But I want to. If that's you this evening, I want to just have a prayer for you as well in the closing of prayer. If that's you this evening you say I do not know heaven's my home, but I would like to Would you raise your hand? Anybody that says that? Anybody at all? Father, we love you. I thank you so much for tonight. I thank you for the uh message, Lord, that you spoke in my heart. I pray that you've spoken to others as well. Father, I pray that you be with the invitation. Lord, that hearts would be speaking to you. Lord, I pray that our hearts would be close to you and that we have a strong relationship with you in Christ's name. Let's stand together as we have the invitation.