Psalm 126 and verse number three. The Bible says, The Lord hath done great things for us, whereof we are glad. How many people can say amen to that? Man, what a great verse Then he says, turn again our captivity. Of course, this is the Israelites in Babylon in captivity because of their idolatry primarily, their disobedience to God. He says, turn again our captivity, O Lord, as the streams in the south. Then verse 5 and 6, he makes a tremendous statement here. He says, they that sow in tears shall reap in what? Joy He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. And people are familiar with that verse. You've probably heard we sing about it, bringing in the sheaths. We've heard preachers preach about it, but I've been thinking about this. And I want to talk tonight just for a little bit. I've got a list of six things I want just want to give you. But this is my thought tonight. The joy of track month. The joy of track month. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. And uh I don't know how others feel, Lord, but my heart is just so blessed. Two years Lord, we didn't have track month. We got tracks out. We visited, Lord, we did our best. But um, Lord, just the joy to be able to get out in the neighborhoods in the community and saturate it with the Word of God And I can't help but think, Lord, even as I'm praying here now, some tracts are laying on dressers and on kitchen counters or in glove box or in a lady's purse. And Lord, I'm convinced that number of tracts they'll be fruit borne from them in months, maybe years to come. And so I ask, dear Lord, that you would um bless our efforts. And now tonight, as we just kind of stop and rejoice in this a little bit, I pray you'd meet with us and your presence would be here and you'd stir us to make this part of our lives. Part of our daily Christian life is sharing the gospel. And so fill me with your spirit is my prayer. I yield my will, present my body, and ask, Lord, you'd speak through me again tonight, as always. In Jesus' name. Amen. John R. Rice, great evangelist from back in the mid-1900s, he said this. He said, the Christian who wins souls. Or in our context, the Christian that gives out gospel tracts, trying to get people saved, the Christian who wins souls has special blessings Which those who do not win souls never have. Never have. I believe that. I've experienced that. I thought about the first uh fellow that I ever was able to lead to the Lord directly, personally, uh down in Chattanooga. You've heard me tell the story, no doubt, many times, Mr. Hogue in a wheelchair uh down lived right beside a big trucking terminal, south southeast trucking terminal. And he had a little just a little cinder block house there. A lady from the college and I were we had a big group of us were out witnessing and knocking on doors and we came by and I tell you that old that dear man older man in a wheelchair And prayed with me to call on the Lord to be his Savior. And I'm telling you, if you've ever won anyone to Christ, you know exactly what I'm talking about. The thrill in your heart and soul. To have God use you to bring someone out of the judgment of God, into the acceptance of God, out of doom to hell, to reserve seats in heaven. And God used me. To bring that person. I tell you, I walked out of there, and here's a neat thing he did, and you've heard me say this, but as we were going out, he had a big rose bush right there by his door. He's in his wheelchair And he reached back, got some scissors, and he cut off a rose for each of us, and he said, in tears, he said, Thank you for coming by. Thank you so much. I tell you, the person that wins souls has the blessings of God. That those who do not win souls have never experienced, have never experienced. I believe God blesses those who uh who invest themselves In trying to get other people saved. I believe God's blessings is on that. Whether it's given out personally, giving out gospel tracts. or whether it's witnessing to a friend or a co-worker, maybe take them out to lunch and sit down, share the gospel with them if it's supporting missions. How about last Sunday, $170,000 promised this coming year to missions? Wow. I believe God blesses churches and individuals. Who invest themselves in others and reaching others and bringing them to Christ. I can't help but think of the one disciple, Andrew. And every time you read about Andrew in the Bible, now he wasn't outspoken like Peter, and he wasn't real emotional, sentimental guy like John. And uh he wasn't a technical uh educated uh uh nerd like Matthew. He's just a guy. But every time you read about Andrew, you know what he was doing? Every time he's referenced in the Bible, you know what he's doing? He's bringing someone to Jesus. He's bringing some Greeks. He's bringing Peter. He's bringing someone to Jesus Christ. I want to be like Andrew And God's special blessing, I'm convinced God's special blessing is on those who invest themselves in bringing others to Christ. I think all through Scripture, God gives us promises and examples All through Scripture of His blessing people who will witness and share the gospel and invest to bring others to Christ. Let me give them to you real quick And I'm telling you, this is probably going to be the a record short sermon tonight. I'm telling you right now, probably uh will be, maybe. Everything I'm I mean that when I say that, and I know how it hap works out. So Nobody else believes me, but I when I say it I think it's true Number one. The joy of track month. Number one, some of these blessings. God gives us the promise of joy. The promise of joy. Look at verse 5 and 6 there. Says they that sow in what tears shall reap in joy. So they start out. How do they start out? They're sewing in here. So they're starting out what? Very sad. They're starting out unhappy. They're starting out grieved over something. But when they're done Then they reap in what? Joy. Look at the next verse. He that goeth forth, he's gone out, weeping, he that goeth forth and weepeth. Bearing precious seed. Would you agree with me? The gospel is precious seed. Shall doubtless come again. Now when God says, when I say this sermon is doubtless going to be short. You don't put a whole lot of stock in that, do you? Wilbur's up there, no. But when God says something is doubtless, you mark it down, it's doubtless. Don't doubt what God says is doubtless. So he says, He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with what? Rejoicing. Rejoicing. You know what he's telling us? He's telling us that if we go out with the precious seed, and in our case, we're talking about the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he that goeth out weep. He, uh, what's it say there in five? He says, he that goeth, they that show in tears. Sowing the gospel. Would you agree? Probably that would include track month, going in neighborhoods, going in towns, riding on a bus, giving out tracks, sowing the seed They that sow in tears shall reap in joy. He that goes forth weepeth, bearing precious seed. Now here's how we usually interpret. This is how we usually apply that tears part and the weepeth part We usually say, oh, they're so burdened for the lost. Oh, they're weeping over the lost. And um uh sowing in tears. Oh they have tears. They're crying for the lost. I tell you, we could use some more tears and weeping over lost souls. Back in the old days, in the old time revivals they would have, and old time big meetings, they'd preach on hell, and they'd preach on loved ones, and uh uh man, those altars were filled with people, not just Sitting there praying for a minute or two, but weeping, weeping, sobbing over lost ones going to hell. What's the song? Um Brethren, we have met to worship. See your mothers and your brothers sinking down Can you bear to see them? And uh weeping, weeping, weeping. And uh so that's the way we normally interpret that, but I think there's uh that's normally way how we apply it But I think there's another application, and that is this. I think he includes in this going out and sowing, sharing the gospel, investing in others Helping others come to Christ, helping them, even when my heart is broken over stuff going on in my life. He that sow in tears, not necessarily just tears, oh that person's lost or on the way to hell. Not just weeping over that, but man, my heart is broken. I've got all these problems, I've got all this situation But I'm still going to invest in others. I'm still going to help others. I'm still going to share the gospel. Even though I've got a gazillion problems of my own. I've got a heartache and maybe someone's hurt you deeply. And you say, but I'm still going to sow, I'm still going to give. And God says, when we do that, come back rejoicing. Come back in joy. I think one of the best cures for a broken heart is to invest yourself in helping someone else with a broken heart and give yourself to them and then God blesses us. You follow what I'm saying? I just give myself, here's, oh my word, I can't pay my car payment. What am I going to do? And here's a person dying going to hell and say, I'm not going to, I can't witness to them. I got a car payment Give me a break. Which is worse, having a car payment or on the edge of dying and going to hell? And the person that sees that and they invest in others, even when their own heart is broken, even when they got their own Yet they give to others, give to others. And I think God helps us. I think that's what he talks about in Colossians when he says, put off these things and put on charity You know what we tend to do when we're weeping and uh and when we're sorrowing, who do we tend to think of the most ourselves. We see our broken heart. We see you know the old thing, misery loves company. You know why? Because they want to talk to somebody about how miserable they are. You know, I found out that never brings joy. That never brings blessing. It might relieve a little, blow off steam a little bit. But I tell you what I found brings joy is when having a hard time and you're down, discouraged, get up. This is what I would suggest, get up and go to the nursing home, visit some folks, pray and sing with them Invest in them. Go forth in tears and come back with rejoicing. I've seen it on Thursday Night Soul Winning so many times. And all these years, somebody comes to shows up, we have it at 6. 30, they show up about 6. 35, they're all grouchy, all mad, you know. Uh something happened at work, they had a flat tire, and they so and so I'm thinking, alright, I'm gonna send them to somebody that has no idea who we are, you know, because they're all grouchy and mad and I don't want that Did anybody follow get what I'm saying? I thought it was funnier than that, but uh And then they go out and lo and behold half hour 45 minutes hour later they come back guess what they're doing Smiling and happy, oh, this is a blessing. That's going forth in tears and reaping in joy Going forth in sorrow. And we and coming return rejoicing. Rejoicing. Luke chapter 2 and verse number 10. Here's what I want to say. Everything about the gospel is joyful. Everything about the gospel of Jesus Christ is joyful. Now there's one aspect where I want to get put a little disclaimer There's one aspect of the gospel that isn't joyful, and that is the condition of the unsaved. No Christian is ever happy that somebody is unsaved. Right? That's not a joyful condition to be in. And when an unsaved person, an unbeliever, hears the gospel and they reject it, there's nothing to rejoice in that. That's a heartache. That's a grief that someone would say no to Jesus. In fact, Jesus looked over Jerusalem and grieved because he wanted them to come to him and they would not. So that aspect where an unbeliever's condition and uh and when the uh an unbeliever rejects the gospel, there's nothing joyful about that. But the gospel itself, that Jesus Christ came to give himself, to die for our sins, be buried and rose again, so that anyone and everyone who will turn to him can be saved. That is a joyful message In Luke chapter 2, when the angels showed up to the shepherds, announcing the arrival of the Savior, of the Savior. Who came to save people from their sins? They said, this is how the angels described it. We bring you good tidings of great joy. The very announcement of the arrival of the Savior was saturated in joy. In Acts chapter 8, verse 8, they had gone into a city that the apostles did, and the disciples, and they preached, and many were saved. And listen what it says: it says, there was great joy in that city. Acts chapter 15 and verse number 3, the believers heard that the Gentiles had received the message of the gospel. Gentiles got saved. And it says there was great joy when they heard of the Gentile's salvation. Everything about the gospel is joy. You want some joy in your life? Start helping other people come to Christ. Invest yourself in others. Invest in being a blessed. You say, preacher, you don't know the heartache. You don't know the frustration. You don't know the battles going on in my heart and life. You're right, I don't. God does, but I know this. He says, doubtless. If we'll go, God says if we'll go, and we'll invest in others, and even in the midst of tears and sorrowing, and yet still share with others this great message. That we can come back joy and rejoicing. I think one of the greatest cures for sorrow and tears is showing the love of God into the lives of others So number one, the joy of track month, the promise of joy. I think my experience has been some of the happiest Christians I ever met were Christians who wanted to see other people saved, trying to get other people saved. Happiest churches I know of, nobody sings, nobody gets up and testifies, praise the Lord, we haven't had anybody saved in a year. Nobody says that. Nobody says we haven't baptized in four years. Praise the Lord. Who would say that? I'll tell you the churches that are happy and exciting. Uh churches that are rejoicing and have the joy of the Lord. Man, we got twenty-three thousand gospel attracts out. We got eighty-four missionaries, you know, we're getting out there, we're seeing people saved and seeing people Man, that's where the joy is. Now don't misunderstand, it's not us, it's the Lord using us when we are willing to be used. And that's where the joy bubbles up. That's where the joy comes in. We sit at home and suck our thumbs, say, woe is me, everything's terrible, and we don't want to invest in anybody else. There's no joy there. Number two I'm making good time. We have the promise of joy. And another reason, there's the joy of track mind. I put this down, we have the special presence of Christ. Matthew 28, verse 20 says, Go ye therefore and teach all nations, verse 19, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things. And then he made this statement, and love. I am what? With you always. With you always. He put a condition on that promise of his presence. Now hold it, stop. Jesus is omniscient. I mean, he's omnipresent is the word. He's also omniscient, but he's omnipresent. What does omnipresent mean? He's everywhere present. You cannot escape the presence of God. Nehemiah said, if I go to the farthest star, you're there. If I go to the deepest hell, you're there. I can't escape your presence. So everybody Everybody has the presence of God to some extent. But Jesus said, if you'll go and teach all nations my gospel, that's what he's talking about, the gospel. And you'll baptize those that believe it, and then you'll teach those who got baptized to live for God and tell people, He says, you've got my special presence with you. I don't know how this affects you, but um you know when we're at when I'm out there knocking on a door, I don't know who's going to answer that door, I don't know what's going to happen, but I know this. God has promised me he's right there with me. Jesus is We take a busload to Cumberland and we're going around giving out tracks and you know some of those neighborhoods we get in are a little sketchy. We just go through there, we give out tracks and Lo, I am with you always. I'm with you always. I'm with you always. Down in Chattanooga when I was bus captain and a director of the F one afternoon semi, uh we always in the inner city projects, I mean Scary stuff. They said always carry a Bible so they know you're not with the narcotics police division And so I put wingtips, shoes on, I wore a suit, and I had the biggest black Bible you could buy all day around. And he says, uh, lo, I'm with you always So we have the special presence of God whenever we take the gospel to the unsaved. These missionaries, after you think, oh, our missionary there and Central Asia. You think, man, it's just him and his wife there so far from home in a hard place and antagonistic to the gospel. Oh, there's so oh no, they've got the Lord right there with them They got the Lord right there with them. And um uh brother uh Howard going out there to Utah in the in the Mormons, you know, and he's gonna be outnumbered and they're pretty aggressive And oh, poor how we've got the Lord right there with them. Right there with them. So the special presence of Christ. Number three, write this one down Number one, we said the promise of joy. Number two, the special presence of Christ. Number three, I put this down, the promotion of wisdom. You say, what in the world? Turn with me to Proverbs chapter 11. Proverbs chapter 11. Proverbs is right after Psalms. Chapter eleven is right after chapter ten. And all the way towards the end, second last verse, Proverbs 11, anybody want to guess what verse? 30 Proverbs 1130. Look what this verse says. This is a good verse to memorize or underline in your Bible. The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and we could talk about that statement. But the second the last half of this verse is what I want us to look at. And he that winneth souls is what? Wise. God says that he that invests in the spiritual well-being of others, he that tries to get others to come to Christ and And help them and their Christian life gives us like that. He says that person is wise. It is never foolish to share the gospel with unsaved people. It is wise. Here's a here I think I think he implies here at least this. If I'll invest myself in the spiritual well-being of others And I'll give my life. Now I say invest myself, I'm talking about my whole self. Give myself to getting other people to come to Christ. Help them come to Christ. I think that does something for you. You know what I think that does for us? That helps us see things, see people and this world from an eternal perspective. Rather than a temporal, material perspective. You follow what I'm saying? If I've got the mindset that, man, every person I meet is either going to end up in heaven or hell. That this life is not all there is. It's very temporal. How many people agree with me? This life supplies by. And the next thing we know, we're out in eternity. And if I'm have the mindset and I've given myself to see people from that perspective and see this world from that perspective. I'm going to have a whole different worldview than the person that never sees anything eternal. They never think of heaven. They never think of hell. They never think of anything above the sun And all they see is what is here and now. And everything, all their values and all their perspective, and all their priorities is what is here and now I'd say that i if heaven and hell and eternity and all of that is true, and it is, would you agree with me? It's awfully foolish to live my whole life for just here and now. It's like the kid that spent all his money on the trip to King's Island. Then he got to King's Island. He didn't have anything when he got there because he spent it all on the trip. So many of us invest all our time and effort and our abilities on the trip that we're passing through here, and then we get to heaven, we have nothing. They're nothing. But he that went his souls, they say, hey, wait a minute. This isn't all there is. It's not just eat, drink, and be merry, tomorrow I die, it's all over with. No, no, no. And he says, he that winneth souls is what? And I think part of that reason that he says they're wise is they see things as they really are. They see beyond the temporal. They see beyond the material. That person we see, that person we come across, that's more than just a physical body that is able to be alive and function. That's a spiritual person. And eternal is going to last forever somewhere, every single person. There's only two options. And so Jesus, the Bible says, God says, He that wineth souls is life. Number four. Number one, promise of joy, the special presence of Christ, the promotion of wisdom. I put this one down. Number four, personal fulfillment and satisfaction. Come with me if you would to Philippians in the New Testament, Philippians chapter 4. Everybody all right out there? See here's the problem. You all eat all that spaghetti. Then you sit in here, it's a little warm, and you want to take a nap. Philippians chapter 4, look at verse 1. Pay attention when you're reading through your Bible, when you read through the epistles in the New Testament, pay attention to what Paul says about other people. Pay attention to Paul's relationships with other people. He mentions a lot of them. Look at chapter 4 and verse number 1. Therefore, my brethren, dearly beloved, and he's talking to the church there at Philippi, the church members. Dearly beloved and longed for. You think Paul loved those dear folks there? Man, listen to what he's saying. Then he says this He's talking about the members there that make up the body of Christ in Philippi. My joy and crown. You know what he was saying? He was saying now here's let me back up. Who won those church members to Christ at the church there in Philippi? How'd they come to Christ? Through Paul. Read Acts 16. He won those people to Christ. He introduced them to the gospel. And they got saved. Acts 16 is a phenomenal chapter. Lydia. And then the remember the Philippian jailer? What must I do to be saved? And he gets saved, his whole household, they get baptized. And a church is established. And Paul is writing back to these people that he had introduced to the gospel, that he had invested so much of himself in for their spiritual well-being and their relationship with their God, with the Creator. And then he writes back and he says, You are my joy, and you are my rejoicing, my crown. You know what he was saying? He was saying this, I believe. He was saying, you don't know How much fulfillment and satisfaction there is in my heart and soul to see what God has done in your life. Through me. And I'm telling you, we give out the word of God. Now we may not see it all now But we invest ourselves in the well-being others, whether it's a Sunday school class, giving out tracts, witnessing, whatever capacity. running a bus route, whatever capacity. We invest in others, and then we see God working their life. I'm telling you, there is fulfillment and satisfaction, personal fulfillment and satisfaction in that. It is a thrill. Come over to Thessalonians. In chapter 2. You say, preacher, I've given out thousands and thousands of tracts and I don't see anybody's life change. I don't see anybody saved. Oh, it ain't over yet. Wait till you get Some of us might have to wait until we get the judgment seat of Christ. And you know what? Some folks that get no recognition down here may have tremendous up there. And so we rejoice, we find fulfillment in the potential. Do you ever think of this? I wonder how many years have we been doing track month? Fifteen? Twenty maybe? I don't know if it's twenty or not. It's a long time. That's hundreds, that's hundreds of thousands of tracks. Do you ever think this? There's a very real possibility that there are some preachers standing behind pulpits preaching the word of God that got saved through a tract we give out that we won't know anything about it till we get to heaven There may be some missionaries on the fields. There may be some single mothers. There may have been some single lady expecting a child, maybe going to get an abortion, and read a gospel tract, got saved, may have changed her whole life. From drug addicts. Who knows? You say, oh preacher, how in the world do you know? That's my point. You don't know it didn't happen. I know the gospel is the power of God unto salvation And so there's tremendous fulfillment, and there's personal fulfillment and satisfaction in giving to others And then God doing a work in the life. Look at what did I say? Thessalonians. Come over 1 Thessalonians. Look at chapter 2 and verse 19. Look what he says. Now he had won these folks to the Lord, Paul did. He says, for what is our hope and our joy or our crown of rejoicing? There's that joy factor. Look what he says. Are not even who? Ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming. For ye are our glory and what? Joy. He says, one of these days Jesus comes back and we're going to see everything that God did. And he says, man, that brings tremendous joy to my heart and life. Tremendous joy. So personal fulfillment and satisfaction. Number five Uh the joy of track month number five, partnering, partnering, partnering partnering. Partnering with the body of Christ. I'll explain what I mean. There's great joy in working together with my brothers and sisters and bringing other people to Christ. Bringing other people to Christ. Now I I like I like picnics. Anybody here like picnics? I can't wait. I like hot dog roast after Sunday night church down by the barn. How many people like hot dog roasts Sunday night, three people. Um, I like 'em. Uh I like having ice cream socials. How many people like ice cream socials? Yeah. And they're fun. I like having picnics. I like having uh going to black bears ball games. I like doing all that stuff. It's fun. But I'm telling you, there is something about working together for the gospel that is on such a deeper level than playing dominoes on midnight on New Year's Eve. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I mean that's fun. I'm all for it. But there's something there's something at a whole deeper level of joy when I'm working with a brother or sister We're in a bus route together. There's a spiritual connection that takes place. Actually, fingerprints Getting together and putting together the word of God that's going to be sent to Central America, who knows what fruit that's going to bear. But we're working together and we're and uh we get silly. Some uh I don't, but some others get silly sometimes, you know, and we joke around and laugh. But I tell you, inevitably we end up singing some gospel hymns And we talk about the Lord, and we talk about what God's doing, and we gossip a little No, we don't gossip. But uh But I'm telling you, there's a connection. Anyone know what I'm talking about? That doesn't take place playing dominoes. And dominance is fun, it's great. But serving God together, investing in others, is a whole nother level Some of the dearest, deepest friends I have in my heart and soul for years are folks that we serve God together with maybe on Bible time. In the bus ministry down at Highland Park. And people in the church here. We've served together and we've invested and we've sweat and worked hard to try and get people saved. I tell you, there's a spiritual connection there partnering with the go with uh with the body of Christ. Go over to uh come back to Philippians just real quick And look at verse chapter one and verse twenty-seven. Look what Paul says. Philippians 1 27. Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ. It's all about the gospel. That whether I come and see you or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs. That you stand fast, all standing together, stand fast in one spirit, in one mind. What are they doing? They're all connected. They're all partnered together. One spirit, one mind. What are they doing? striving together for the faith of the what? Gospel. Is man. You guys are connecting, you're parting, you're of one mind, and you're working together as a body. To reach this whole world with the gospel for Christ. And so, partnering with the body of Christ. And last, number six, you have never heard me preach six-point message this quick before in your life. Right or wrong. Praise in heaven. Praise in heaven. Luke 15, verse 10 says this. Jesus said this. He says, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God in heaven over one sinner that repenteth. Now, we won't take time to turn there because I don't want to break my record. But it's important to notice what he doesn't say. He doesn't say there is joy with the angels He says, in the presence of the angels. You know, angels can't figure this salvation thing out. They don't go, what in the world? God would die for these people? Are you kidding me? I'm stretching it a little bit there. But in the presence of the angels, there's only other one other beings in heaven that I'm aware of that would be in the presence of angels. Who is that? That'd be believers that have gone on ahead of us. That'd be Don and Bernice Williams. That'd be Ralph Layton. Some of y'all remember Ralph. George Futch. Terry Jones. You can just go through the list. Paul and Mildred. They're up there in the presence of angels. And Jesus, hey, Jesus said this, not some commentator. Jesus said there is joy in the presence of the angels, those who have gone ahead of us, over one sinner that repenteth. Paul signs, he's a great soul winner. You know what those things they find I don't know how it all works out. I don't know. But somehow they know when people down here get saved And Jesus says they get fired up about it. They're excited. It brings joy. When we win souls. The praise in heaven. Now not only that, very quickly, I got one more verse on this thought. Come back to Daniel. Old Testament. Ezekiel Daniel. Isaiah, Jeremiah, Lamentations, Ezekiel, Daniel. Right after Ezekiel. If you find Ezekiel, go to the end of it, you'll find Daniel. When you get to Daniel, go to the end of Daniel, chapter twelve, and he and God Tells us something here that's pretty interesting. Daniel chapter 12, very short chapter. I just read this in my devotions a couple, three days ago. Actually, one day ago Daniel chapter twelve and verse three. Look what it says. And they that be wise Shall shine as the brightness of the firmament. And they, look at this next segment. And they that turn many to righteousness. What is turning people to righteousness? What would that include? Getting them saved, winning them to Christ, introducing the gospel, and they trust Christ as a result of that. And they that turn many to righteousness, look at this. Shall shine as the stars forever and ever. Now, I don't know about Hollywood stars, but in heaven, people that win others to Christ are stars. Man, God says you'll shine as the stars forever and ever. That tells me that I don't again I don't know how all this plays out, but that tells me when we invest ourselves in the spiritual well-being of others. We turn them to Christ. We help them in their spiritual life to know their creator and their Savior. We invest to help them do that, our time and effort. Our love, our compassion, our forgiveness, we invest all that in them. Turn on the righteous We get to heaven, and I would imagine maybe it's something like this, and we get to heaven, it's like, yay, shine as the stars. Forever and ever. And that's something. Just to anticipate that is enough to keep us fired up and keep going. Just keep going, keep going, keep going. One year I used to go out when Bible time was training was in Boulder, which would have been right this about this time of year pretty soon. Brother Holmeshire, the director, was still alive, and he'd have me come out the first week of training every year for years. And we would take some time that week just to get these guys loosened up. We'd take them downtown Boulder, Colorado Pretty big city. I think it was eighty thousand, something like that, hundred thousand, somewhere around there. They had the big University of Colorado there, the main campus. And so we go down on Pearl Street. Pearl Street was what's the street down in Cumberland? They have it blocked off and you can shop and there's little people play ukuleles and stuff. Anybody what's the name of that? Anybody know have any idea what I'm talking about? Yeah, just whatever it is. Well they had that in Boulder, except it was much bigger. And it was packed a Saturday night, it'd be packed. And so we'd take all these evangelists down there and we'd set up shop and uh they'd sing, you know, and some get up and preach and we'd give out tracts and it caused quite a stir. And uh we just had a big time And one time I was kind of directing it and there was a couple guys here on a on a standing on a bench and he's preaching and some people saying then we had some other guys a couple blocks up there there doing the same thing. So I'm kind of going back and forth between And um so I got the one right when he's given us sort of an imitation, and there's a fellow there, a college student, standing there. So I went up to him and I said, um, what do you think? He goes, it's making me think. And so we got talking. And I got my Bible out and I started sharing the gospel with him, talking a little bit And I don't know why I asked them this, just in the it was a very informal conversation, very relaxed. And I said to him, I said, um, where are you from? He said, Iowa I said, what about your family? Is it Christian family back home? Boy, he put his head down. He said, I got a Christian mama back home and she's been praying for me. She's been praying I get saved. I said, well how about it? Because I know. We talked a little bit. I showed him some verses. One long. The old boy bowed his head. And he prayed and asked Jesus, come in his heart and life and be his Savior. He was so happy. We talked and I prayed with him. I wrote his name back then. I don't have that Bible anymore, I'm sure. I wrote his name in there. I said, I'm going to pray for you. I said, I'll tell you what you need to do. Because I know what I'm gonna do. What do you think? I'm going home calling Mama. Tell her I got saved I thought I was thinking of track month. I wonder how many tracts got in the hand of somebody that has a mama somewhere praying they'll get saved. A grandpa, someone somewhere praying, oh God, send somebody by. God send somebody by my son Send somebody by my granddaughter that would tell them of Christ. I wonder how many times we have been the answer to somebody's prayers. Hey, just that thought will keep you going, huh? Track month's over, missions conference over. How about we just stay at this thing? Just maybe not that intensity, but just keep some tracks in the pocket. Look for opportunities, and when I have the chance, maybe get involved in a weekly ministry. And just give the invest ourselves and see if God doesn't bless us in some special ways. Father in heaven, I ask you to stir our hearts. Lord, it's been these last two months of just Last month, really. Lord has just blessed my heart, the revival and the push to get out tracks and missions. Lord, my heart is stirred I pray you'd stir our church that we would just keep our eyes on Jesus and just invest our time and efforts. everything into uh the spiritual well-being of the people around us and around the world. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many folks would say, you know, I'd like to make that just part of my life Helping others know the Lord, helping others grow in their faith. I just like for God to use me, not as a one-hour thing every Sunday morning, but just my life. Use of God. Anybody like that? My hands raised. You don't have to be in a ministry for that. Just wherever you are. We're all in the ministry God will use us. Father, bless the imitation now. Help us as we give ourselves in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Catherine's praying uh gossip uh playing the imitation