Thank you, Pastor. Thank you very, very much. Take your Bible, please. That is, if you've got a one hundred percent Bible. You don't have a one hundred percent Bible, uh Get on swordthelord. com, we'll sell you one. Amen. But uh it's uh it's a delight to get to come to uh Garrett County about this time of year. And this is sixteen consecutive years we've done this, preaching. Sixteen consecutive years. And uh, you know, uh What can I say? The Lord's been good. We've uh we've had a lot of good meetings and uh and this one has been a case in point And uh when we get together, uh, you know, we we build our friendship, we build our fellowship, we build what we do together. Not on the fact that somebody's tall or short or that they're nice or not nice or whatever, but we but we build who we are based upon this 100% Bible And uh we build around that. If we don't build around that, we get in trouble. And uh so I'm grateful that uh we've been able to do that through all these years. And I appreciate it so much. Always a delight to be here and love coming. And um I appreciate so much again the uh generosity that you've given as a church to the sword and undergirding what we do, helping us buy paper and other things like that that will keep us uh uh going forward nationally and internationally as well. Now tonight um I'm going to read a text that you'll know very, very well. And I'm going to, with the Lord's help, I'm going to do a message that I think there are three people in this room heard me do somewhere else. And I I thought about apologizing to them up front, but I remember when I preached it in their hearing before, and I was pretty sure when I got finished they didn't get it all And so I don't know about the rest of you folks, but I'm gonna do it over just for those three people and try to help them to get it this time. But uh but uh you know uh sometimes uh uh a meeting even three or four or five hundred miles away. Uh there'll be somebody show up in another one just whenever I feel impressed to repeat something and tonight is a case in point. So For those three people, God bless you. Stay awake. I've got plenty of song books and other things I'll throw at you if you go to sleep. Amen. All right. I want you to turn to Psalm 23. Psalm 23. When I was still pastor in Westminster, along in the early nineties. And honestly, I've forgotten whether it was 91 or 92, somewhere along in there. The early part of the summer I announced that I was going to preach a series of messages From Psalm 23. And I, in fact, I announced to them there would be 12 messages, and I gave them the titles and everything all at one time in the bulletin And I told them that I would preach them Sunday morning, Sunday night, Sunday morning, Sunday night for six weeks. And um and I did that. And in the process of preaching those twelve messages, I discovered another one. And then I discovered another one. And so I plugged in another one along in the fall, and then sometime along in the spring of the year I found a Sunday night or something where I could do it and I added another one And I ultimately preached 23 separate messages from these six verses. And then I made a mistake. And the mistake I made was I thought I had preached everything that was in it. And a few months ago I was reading down through this neighborhood in the Bible, and I came to this And what I want to give you tonight, which is for me message number 24, literally jumped off the page at me, and it was there all the time. But I had not seen it. And I trust what I will give you tonight will be a blessing and a help to you indeed. Here's what the passage says. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures He leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. For thou art with me, thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. Thou anointest my head with oil. My cup runneth over. Surely, goodness and mercy. Shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Now, if you look at those verses, there is one word that appears nine times in the chapter. Nine times it's there. In fact, it's the very first word of the first verse. It's the little definite article, the Now, before you think that I have lost my bearings, let me remind you that the Bible tells us that every word of God is pure. And that all scripture is given by inspiration of God. So every little dotted I and every little cross T is there for a defining purpose and for a reason. You may be aware, and if not, I will try to make you aware that in English we we divide our language up into nouns and pronouns and adjectives and adverbs and prepositions and conjunctions, etc. And the little word the is in the adjective family. It describes things. But even more pointedly than that, it is specifically not just an adjective, but it is an article And we have only three articles in the English language. A and N, A-N, and the two of them are indefinite articles The word the is a definite article. Let me illustrate. If I say to you, a dog, that's an indefinite article, a dog. Chased a cat through a yard, then you would have no idea which dog, which cat, or which yard But if I say, the dog, chase the cat through the yard, then without me naming them, you would know that Fido was chasing Fluffy through a yard that you know about. Because I used the definite article. And it pinpoints exactly what is intended because of the definiteness of it. And there are these definite articles in this psalm, and every single one of them do something for us to help us and to enable us. For example, in verse number one, the first one says, the Lord. By the way, I call this message the articles of our faith. The articles of our faith. And this first article identifies deity for us. We find out who God is with this first article. Now a lot of folks talk about God and they don't have a clue who they're talking about. I mean we have folks who talk about Buddha and Bubba and whoever else. I mean they come up with something. And when I'm talking about the Lord, I'm not talking about some pot-bellied Buddha And I'm not talking about some moon goddess named Allah. I'm talking about the Lord, who is the God, the Creator, the Almighty God, Jehovah God it is, that we're talking about whenever we uh say the Lord. A lot of folks talk about God and gods and a god and stuff. Well hey listen You can find all over the world people who take their hands and they carve out of wood or or clay or they mold out of brass or gold or silver, something that they call a God But whenever we're talking about the God who is God, we're not talking about a man-made God. We're talking about the God who made man. And there's a world of difference And you and I need to understand that the God who is God is omnipotent, that he is so altogether powerful. That one day he looked out in space and he said, I want Mercury right there, and Mars right there, and Earth right there, and Saturn right there, and Uranus right there and and and others along the way. And by his spoken word, worlds appeared. Just by his spoken word. And the God who is the Lord is all powerful. Not only that, but he's all-knowing, omniscient. Ever occurred to you that God doesn't need a subscription to Google? The reason he does not need a subscription to Google is because he knows everything already. That's why that you'll not be getting some flash from heaven this Thursday afternoon telling you that God has sent something down to update the Bible for you. No sorree. He got it right when he sent it the first trip. So you're not beginning any flashes saying, well, we've had to upgrade it. No, God is all knowing and he's all powerful. And not only that, but he is omnipresent, meaning he is present everywhere. That's why whenever you hit some terrible thing in your life And it is as though that you're tumbling end over end, falling endlessly downward into what appears to be a bottomless pit. I promise you, when you Hit the bottom with the thud, you'll find that God is already there to encircle you with His ever-loving and everlasting arms. He's omnipresent. Dear Jonah learned that, paid the fare, and got on a ship, and thought he would flee the presence of the Lord and go down to Tarshus. Well, I remind you that if you ever get to Tarshus, which Jonah didn't, but if you ever get to such a place, you'll find that the Lord is right there on the pier when you step off the boat. The likelihood is, in the process, of your doing and your going and trying to run from God that you too will run into a storm and you too may wind up floundering in the sea and you too may wind up in whale university and learn a few things. Amen. Fact of the matter is God will be there. And so whenever this passage talks about the Lord, it identifies for us who God is. Notice the second one of these in verse number two. It says, the still waters. Earlier in the verse, it talks about green pastures, without using the definite article, but nonetheless the two of them are linked together in the verse: green pastures and still waters. You'll remember that Jesus said in John 10, 10, I'm come that you might have life, and that you might have it more abundantly. That's talking about the here and now. The fact is, the green pastures. And the picture that I have of green pastures is a absolutely full, ripe Field ready to be harvested. I mean pastures that are lush, verdant, green, I mean to the full, everything And the still waters that he talks about here, this is not some raging torrent. This is not some stream that is flooding and spilling over its banks. But this is a quiet, serene, placid uh lake or body of water, something that is so still, so precious, so good. that you can drink out of it. You can draw from it when you need water. You can take your little family on a little tour in a with a little boat and go around about it and come back And still be safe and snug and secure whenever you get back from there. Because it's the place where the water is still It's the place of God's provision. Water and green pastures. This is a stimulus package of sorts By the way, it's the kind of a stimulus package that won't bankrupt heaven when you draw from it. It won't so overdraw that angels and everybody else on God's creation will be paying for it a hundred years from now. Not on your life. You say, are you trying to tell us something in that? You take it any way you like to. This is not a stimulus package. It won't bust the budget. It won't overtax everybody It is a sustenance package that is full supply and totally sufficient for everything that we need in these days. It's the article of abundant provision, this one. There's a third one in verse number three. This one talks about the paths, the paths of righteousness. This is what I call the Article of Moral Codes and Values. The paths of righteousness. Fact is, God wants to lead us Verse 3 says he restores our soul. Then he wants to lead us in certain paths for his name's sake. These are paths of righteousness. It's not for me to decide where I shall walk and how I shall walk, but instead God has laid out a game plan, and God wants me to put my feet on certain paths. Now, I I'm I'm not a fisherman and I'm not a hunter. I I I remember doing some of that, especially hunting. I haven't done any hunting since Since I've been grown, but but I remember doing some of that as a teenager growing up on a little farm down in western Kentucky Uh dad had a 22 rifle and he had a 410-22 over and under that he taught me to use and let me use uh as a boy growing up And I would walk out across the farm a lot of afternoons when I had time to do it. I would walk out across the farm, maybe looking for a rabbit, looking for a squirrel, whatever. And across the pasture field as you would walk across, and we had about six or eight acres back on the back side that was wooded And I noticed in some other circumstances, every single time I've ever gone across an open field like that, walking toward a forested area Every single one of them that I've ever been to. You walk and get maybe as close as you can to that wall, and you stop and you look in any direction, and what you'll discover is in every last one of them there are already little paths cut Through the wooded area. Sometimes it's a rabbit trail, sometimes it's been cut by the deer because they go through and hit the same place over and over again. Sometimes a farmer has taken a blade, a bulldozer, and cut a path through the woods And I'm telling you, if you're out hunting or you're just out walking and you're going to go through some of those areas, you'll do well to keep yourself on the path. There'll be a whole lot less briars in your clothes when night comes You'll have a whole lot less scratches and scars and scrapes and a whole lot less blood be drawn if you'll stay on the path. But you get off the path that God's laid out. Right. And you're going to get hurt. You're going to come up with some scratches. You say, what kind of paths has God laid out? It's the paths of righteousness. That's where the Ten Commandments are hung. That's where the book of Proverbs is laid out. That's where the Sermon on the Mount is. These uh silly willy evangelicals, soft, soap and compromising crowd. They always talk about how much they liked the Sermon on the Mount. I'm telling you, Brother Fox, they haven't read it. The Sermon on the Mount is not easy come, easy go. There is some tough, strong, powerful things said in the Sermon on the Mount. And whenever you read it, it'll give you direction about where to put your feet. The epistles. Likewise, that's not the wives of the apostles we're talking about, the epistles. Lot of good stuff in those that'll help you to know where to go, what to do, and how to do it. And what he says is he will lead us in the paths of righteousness. This is the article of moral codes and values. Well, I'm sick, I'm sick to my stomach of hearing naive folks. So, you know, I'm a Christian, sure, but I'm just so tired of the rules. You better get used to it. You better get used to it. Well I I I I'm just free. I got liberated. You got liberated so you could have the rules that God's laid down. You got liberated from your own stinking self. Amen. So that you can follow God's directions, paths of righteousness Notice number four in verse four. Here we have two of these articles hooked together in tandem where he says, in the valley of the shadow of death. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. I call this one the article of sustaining grace. Sustaining grace. There's no doubt many of you who have already seen the Valley of the Shadow. It has come to you. You've had family members, you've had people close to you Who have expired. They have left this life. And you have been left with your hurt and your grief and your sorrow. I um Sent my daddy to heaven a year ago, July, in his 87th year, and I loved him dearly And I'll be very candid to tell you that having I've preached family members' funerals before, my grandparents and others But my dad's death, it cut me deeper. It cut me deeper than a lot of things that I've been through. And then just this very last week, dear precious associate Dr. Larry Stainer just dropped dead. I mean, one moment very much alive and fell forward and was dead. And we buried him on Thursday this week. And uh worked with Larry for 23 years. a close associate. And I'm going to tell you, I it cut me again. It cut me deep. My heart has been heavy in all of that. But I want to tell you something now. Whenever the the flag of death drops close to you. I'm telling you, there is a God who is God. Point number one. There is a God who is the Lord. Verse 1. And he will, in your time of hunger and hurt, and heartache He will walk you through the lush green pastures, and he will take you to draw and to satisfy and quench your thirst at his still waters. And he will provide grace that will uphold you and sustain you and give you what you need in that hour when grief comes. In the valley of the shadow, I will fear no evil Some of you know I have some allergies, some food allergies. And uh Uh that are serious. They create that when I eat the wrong things I have anaphylactic shock. And over the years, I've lost track of how many times, but there have been uh maybe two dozen or more times that I've had to make quick trips to the emergency room. I carry, you'll see me carrying a little bag around here all the time. I never get far from those needles The the epipins. That'll theoretically buy you a little time till the till the guys with the paddy wagon can come that's got more stuff to work with And there have been some times when I've gone to that emergency room when my breath was laborious, when I was barely able to breathe. Uh and uh time or two when they met me outside and threw me on a gurney on the parking lot, slapping needles into my arms, and uh and the doctor saying, do your best relax, we're gonna get you through this, we're gonna get you through this. Now, I'll be very honest with you. If I don't ever have to do that again, I'll be just as happy Doesn't do me any good at all to get into something that throws me into that crisis. But I'm going to tell you sometimes when you breathe and you're not sure whether you'll breathe again or not. Having grace to sustain you is absolutely comforting. I want you to know that God promises in the time when the shadow falls and you walk through that valley. Remember, thou art with me. The rod and the staff of God shall comfort me. This is the article of sustaining grace. Look at number five, verse five. Where it says, in the presence of mine enemies I have an entire message, and I think I preached it here once, from this part of it, that I prepared a table before me in the presence of my enemies. I call that message banquet tables and battlefields. The fact of the matter is, God has provided exactly what we need to enable us in the time when the enemy is present. And we are, listen, believe me, we live in a world where crazy is showing up real regular. And this one I call the article of militancy. A table is prepared for us so that we are able to handle what comes in the presence of the enemy. You know, it hasn't been all that long ago in fundamental circles the word militant was a good word. Some of us Are old enough to remember when we talked about being militant fundamentalists. Not milkedose fundamentalists, but militant fundamentalist. I tell you, I'm a little weary of hearing guys who say they're called of God and they want to be used of God. I'm a little weary with hearing guys say, but you know, I'm just not a fighter I'll have you know I'm not a fighter either. But I'm telling you this, you you try to you you sneak around to the back of my house in the dark of the night and start cricking out Brendas And I promise you, you're going to find that that this little guy's got some fight in him. My family's worth a fight, my church is worth a fight, and my country is worth a fight. Fellow down in Florida came up to me after a service just a few weeks ago, and he said, I heard everything you said, and he said, I appreciate your heart and your spirit, but he said, It's too late, it's too late It's too late. He said, We've lost it. Our country's done and we're done. He said, We might as well go to the beach and prop our feet up and just see it out to the end because it's over And I said to him, sir, there is a God in heaven. The Bible is still true. The gospel still works. Sometimes our folks will come and they'll say, but you know, I hear what you say, but you know the battle is the Lord's Well, the Bible does say that, and there's no question about it. The conflict is between God and Satan, but do you know the Lord has put us here to be his foot soldiers? And we are to endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. And for us to cower down behind The desk, cower down in cowardice and say, Well, we'll just let the Lord fight the battle. We're going to stay off of him. We're not going to take a stand on anything. God forgive us. Amen. We're going to need his forgiveness when we stand before him. This is the article of militancy in the presence of mine enemies. Telling you the devil walks into town wanting to set up all kinds of stuff, and most of the time, in most places, he does it, and nobody raises even a whimper to object. I appeared before the liquor board in Carroll County over here across the mountains. I appeared before the liquor board over and over again when I was the only guy there to testify. Some person come in and want to get a new liquor license. And I went a number of times knowing that they had already decided to give it to them, and I went and testified anyway. I mean you could hear them saying, there he is again. They knew my speech as well as I did. But I stood up over and over again. The article of militancy. Look at number six. This one's down in verse six. The early part of the verse where it says, all the days of my life. This one I call the Article of Faith and Resolve. We start things, we get it kicked in, and somewhere along the way, we fizzle. This says all the days. We can count on the goodness and grace and mercy of God to follow us every day of our life. Says to me that this whole business is a 24-7 deal, it's 365 days plus one on leap year. And there's no retreat and no turning back, you and I should be immovable, always impounding, just determining by the grace of God there'll be no sidetracks and no detours in our Christian life and our ministry But we're going to be up and running. I mean Labor Day weekend when half the crowd's gone, we're going to be up and running anyway. The last Sunday of December, when everybody's gone to see Grandma, we still are going to be up and running. We're going to be at it. Faith and resolve. Those of you that have read the sword for a number of years recognize the name of Viola Walden. Maola went to heaven three years ago, this past April. She was almost 93. I found her, I found her dead on Sunday morning. She didn't show up for Sunday school. Happened to be a Sunday that some backslidden preacher had canceled me. And that's the way it is. God cancels you, he's backslidden. Yeah. I'm kidding. But I had had a cancellation and I told Betty, I said, I said, I've been gone for months on end, and I said, don't tell anybody I've got that Sunday hanging open. I'm staying home And Viola died early that morning. And when we stepped in for Sunday school, one of my workers came and said, I've been trying to call Viola all morning. She didn't answer her phone. I said, I'll go see about it right now. That was off the norm. And I went racing that two miles from the church back over to the sword property. Lived in a little house there. One of our houses. Couldn't get an answer, so I called 911. We broke the door down. Went in and found her. That was Sunday morning. She worked all day Friday People have said to me, oh, I guess when Viola got a little old, you know, she'd just come in late. I'll tell you how late she came in. About 6 a. m. every morning 6 a. m. I don't mean 6. 05. I mean by 6 a. m. she was in, light was on, she was at work in her office every morning And she was there all day. She'd leave about three and carry work home with her. Sit and watch the Atlanta Braves at night. I kept telling her they don't have a team in Atlanta. But she was a big Braves fan. We joked around with her about that a lot. But she'd watch the Braves and work on projects, have it ready when she got back in the next morning. Last day she worked on Friday. She made that walk from her office on the second floor of the editorial building. It's about 140 feet down to my office on the other end. She came down, she said, Dr. Smith, she said, she mentioned a certain project. We had it ready to go to press But we hadn't sent it to press. And she said, When are we going to get that off the press? And I said, Well, I've got to have about six thousand dollars to do that. And I said, Six thousand I don't have. And I said, I've been praying, asking the Lord, when the six thousand is there, we'll do it And she said, well, what if I gave you 3,000 of it? I said, wait a minute, I said, no, no, no. Now, understand, she has worked at the sword. Did I tell you 72 years and eight months? She was with Dr. John when he started the sword on this day, September 28, 1934. The days of the sword's birthday, 76 years. She worked at the sword 72 years and eight months and worked for modest wages. We don't pay humongous wages at the sword, modest wages. She'd been there all the years, and because Ben and I were close to her, I knew as much about her business as she did, and I could have told you within ten dollars how much she had in the bank. And I knew she didn't have a lot of money. And I said, No, no, no, Bowl, I don't want you to do that. I don't want you to pay. I don't want you to do that. I said, the Lord will provide it, it's going to come, I know it's going to come, but I don't want you to do it. She said, It's my money. I guess I can give it if I want to, can I? I said yes, Viola, if if you want to give it, you can, but I want you to know that's not what I want you to do She turned around, went back down the hall, wrote the check. About ten minutes later, she came back, dropped it on my desk, turned around, walked out. Never said another word, just walked out Before the bank cleared the check. She'd already cleared earth for glory. Not surprise you what the text was that I chose for her funeral message. All the days of my life. Right here Now, here's what I'm saying to you. Some of us have started some things. Sure would be nice if we'd finish it. Amen? Be nice if some of us would just say, I will resolve, I will put my faith and my trust, whether up on the mountain or down in the valley, I will trust the Lord. I'll walk with him, and I will do what I'm supposed to do. Until the finish. One more. Last part of verse six. And here again we have two of them hooked together in tandem where it says, And I will dwell in the house Of the Lord forever. I call these two the articles of everlasting promise. Dwelling in the house of the Lord forever. I don't know what you live in now. You may have three bedrooms or four bedrooms or Two and a half baths, a nice kitchen, dining room, or or you may be living in a little apartment somewhere, or you may be living in a trailer. I I don't know what you're living in I mean there may be some of you who live in something that is absolutely palatial, but I want you to know whatever it is you got You ain't got nothing compared to what you're going to get if you're saved. The home that is prepared for us in heaven is so extraordinary that the Bible calls it a mansion. And by the way, when it comes your time to go, you won't need a GPS to get you there. Amen? God will get you there safe, sound, and secure if you are saved. He will get you there without incident. It is the article of everlasting promise. You and I have every reason. Point number six, we have every reason to resolve and to be faithful and to stay true and do what we ought to do because of his everlasting promise of a home and glory. That we anticipate someday. I call this message the articles of our faith. Definite articles They lay out a perspective on things that absolutely cause us to drill our to drill our roots down deep and to anchor ourselves and to know That we know, that we know, that we know. Did you notice that this psalm starts with the Lord? And the last one of them is the Lord? Hey, that's the way it ought to be. Everything ought to start and stop with him. I'm Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last. Hey, listen, everything ought to get rolling with him. And it ought to finish with him. The articles of our faith bring us to victory. Let's stand up and we'll pray. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He restoreth my soul. Takes me through the valley of the shadow. Prepares for us an everlasting home. There may be somebody in this room tonight that's not saved. Not a single thing I've said tonight is something to which you have title deed. You have no possession of it, no claim to it, because you've not received the Savior Nothing in the Bible. Nothing in the Bible about our eternal home. Nothing of that. There's no hope, no promise, not even the nothing not even a wisp or a hint. Of hope, unless we have the Savior. If somebody's in this room and not saved, I sure would like to help you to get that settled today tonight. And for many of us who are saved, and maybe not maybe not up running like we ought to be, not as faithful as we ought to be, not as Condensed as we ought to be, not as excited as we ought to be. Ah, these conferences are about getting us on track and getting us stirred and motivated and Committed to doing what we're supposed to do. Sometimes when we come into these altars, we bend our knees and we lift our eyes up to heaven. Acknowledge our need and our vulnerability in all of those things to the Lord. Just surrender it all to Him. Start counting on His promise. Makes a difference and it becomes a turning point in our life. Some of us that have family and friends that we need to be going after. Their life's going to run out one day Sometimes, as we've learned this last week, it can be very, very sudden. I'm going to ask you tonight to listen to God's prompting, whatever you heard from the Lord when Dr. Green was up, and whatever you've heard from the Lord while I've been standing here. I'm going to ask you to do God's bidding and God's business. Brother Fox, would you pick something and just sing it for us? And as he begins to sing the invitation hymn momentarily, the altar's open. How many of you just would say, God has spoken to my heart in these days? Pray for me. You'd slip your hand up. Dear Father, I pray for every one of these, my brothers and sisters