Proverbs chapter eleven. Proverbs eleven, while you're turning there, we have our uh report from the month of May. I don't believe I gave this on uh our website and um uh how it's being used around the world. We had 960 sermons downloaded off the website in the month of May. 960, just under a thousand The number one sermon was a sermon by Sam Davison last year when he was with us. It was downloaded 43 times And then the straight gate and the wide gate, the two, there's a two-part message, that both of those were next and down through there. Anyone want to guess the number one state? You'll never guess it. Delaware. 128 sermons downloaded into Delaware. What was that about? There's a revival breaking out in Delaware, I guess. Connecticut, New Jersey. Um there was 36 states that downloaded sermons off our website. And then the number one country, what do you think? Germany. Thirty sermons into Germany. I tell you they need it over there. Um Australia Brother Who? Yeah, he's down Italy. Yeah, Brother Passeros in German Uh Australia, New Zealand. Did I tell you about the fellow Lou uh Lewis Howe called me. It's been oh a month ago maybe. Did I tell you about the fellow down there? Um He came to the soul winning revival that was down two years ago, three years ago. He came out to that and um he doesn't attend church anywhere. He drove several hours, he came out God stirred his heart. He went back and started, I didn't know this. He went back to where we lived, started listening to the sermons from our pulpit here through the year. That he missed the year then uh I guess it was two years ago and then last this past year when I wasn't down they had the soul revival he showed up again Pulled Brother Howe aside and he says, God's really been working on my heart. I need to get back to church and get living for God. He said I'd gotten saved years ago. He said, I've been listening to every sermon from Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church all these years down there. And uh he said, really pray for him. The guy the Lord's working in his heart. So uh just amazing thing. That stirs my heart. Proverbs chapter eleven And uh verse number 30, a very familiar passage. It's the first Wednesday of the month, so I want to take a few moments, and I just want to go through some uh tips for personal soul winning, how to witness and share the gospel. with other people. I'm going to try and just kind of go through this quickly so we can leave a good amount of time for our prayer time, but we also want to get back and get started on our fingerprints. Anybody notice anything different about the communion table. We have uh a bumper uh bumper sticker a license plate from Panama, brother Uh Ken got this and uh mounted on there and that's where all our scriptures were assembling, the Romans booklets are going to Panama. So we're gonna we're decorating. You want to go back there. He's got a nice chart up information about Panama The chart that we're gonna uh uh record our progress as we assemble these things the next few days. So we want to get a little head start tonight if you're able to stay after for a bit and uh help us get this thing rolling. We've got 20,000 we've got to put together. I'd like to get them done by uh Friday night. So I'm gonna just share a few thoughts with you. We'll spend good time in prayer And then as we finish praying, if you would come on back and help us get started, everything's up and ready to roll. Proverbs 1130, the Bible says this, the fruit of the righteous is the tree of life. Now here's the here's the statement. And he that winneth souls is what? Wise. He that winneth souls is wise. Now I wanted to talk about the Romans Road and giving assurance to folks as I developed it. We're going to get to the particularly the assurance I want to get to, but I want to give you some important components of personal soul winning, some things that really need to be in place if we're going to effectively share the gospel with others and see people saved. So let's pray. And uh maybe on the back of your prayer list there's a place for notes. You might want to jot these down. I really believe they'll be helpful for us. Let's pray. Father, bless now our thoughts as we think about sharing the message of Christ with unsaved people around us. And so we I ask that you would use these thoughts to stir our hearts, that we would not only be burdened about witnessing and winning souls, but we would be active about it also. and uh not just sing and talk and preach about it, but actually uh get out there, engage people with the gospel. So stir our hearts and fill me with your spirit, I pray, Lord, and maybe use some of these to help us um uh take that step. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen. There's two important, there's two factors in a person getting saved. Now I want you to think about your own salvation. I know there's two things true about your salvation. Number one, the Bible was involved in some way, right or wrong, the word of God. Nobody gets saved apart from the Word of God We're born again by incorruptible seed, by the word of God. And so I know the Bible was involved to some extent. Somebody opened the Bible and showed it to you. Somebody was preaching the Bible. You were reading the Bible. So you had a track And it had Bible verses in it. Somehow the Word of God was involved in that. And the second thing I know about everybody's salvation, there was another person involved in you coming to Christ. Either directly or indirectly. Somebody made that tract available to you. Somebody was standing up behind a pulpit and preaching the word of God. Somebody came by your house and opened the Bible. Somebody This is it with you or what? Am I right or wrong? How many people are thinking of a person that was a key factor in your salvation? You're thinking of that person. Sure So two things involved in everybody getting saved. Number one, the Bible, the Word of God. And number two, God uses people to bring people to Christ. And so that's a factor. Now we want to look at the primarily the person. factor me as the person that's going to be an influence in somebody else coming to Christ. And so I put it this way important components In personal soul winning. That have to be true in my life and in the process of winning someone to Christ. Write this one down. Number one, an important component here is my own spiritual condition If I'm going to effectively bring others to Christ, be a soul winner, win others to trust Jesus Christ as Savior, it begins with my own personal uh my own spiritual condition Obviously, if I'm going to effectively win others to Christ, I've got to be what myself. I've got to be saved myself. I've got to know Christ myself. Can God use an unsaved person to bring another person to Christ? Sure. God can use donkeys to correct wayward prophets. So God can and sometimes does use an unsafe person. But I'm talking about somebody that's on a consistent basis effectively Is winning other people to Christ, seeing other people saved. I need to be sure I'm saved myself. But also, under that point, uh jot this down. I must be filled with the Holy Spirit. Salvation is a work of God. A soul getting saved, a work of God. It has to be God working through me. I've mentioned this many, many times, and much of what I'm going to share tonight is review for a lot of us. But the truth of the matter is when I learned that I don't have to save this person, that took a lot of pressure off me I took a lot of fear away. It's not me convincing that person. It's not me converting that person. It's the Holy Spirit of God converting that person through me. And so what I need to do is get me out of the way and have me filled with the Holy Spirit. So whenever we're going to witness, and I think on a daily basis, because we never know when opportunity is going to come up We need to be sure that we're filled with the Holy Spirit. That ought to be a uh a daily um endeavor on my part And our part to be filled with the Spirit so that God can speak through me, work through me, and when I share the gospel to others. Alright, so number one, have that written down, my own spiritual condition. Number two, jot this one down Now this is an important time. And I'll explain what I mean after I make the statement. The transition conversation From temporal things to eternal things. I'll explain what I mean by that. The transitional conversation from things under the sun To the things of eternal significance. Now, does anybody know what I'm talking about? Anyone know what I'm talking about? What I'm talking about is this. Generally, you don't just walk up to somebody and start sharing the gospel with them. There's usually a little conversation that takes place initially, especially a total stranger, but even somebody that you have an appointment. Say I want to have lunch with you, and maybe you set it up and tell them ahead of time I want to talk to you about the things of the Lord, and maybe they're fine with that Get in there, you don't immediately go in there with an open Bible and start shooting verses at them. There's always a chit-chat time or a folksy time or a breaking the ice. Maybe you come across somebody and you know and you really need to witness that. Maybe you come out Thursday night and they send you out and you knock on the door or whatever and folks invite you in. You talk about folksy things. And that's good and that's right and that's appropriate. But here's where the challenge is. Get turning that conversation from just everyday stuff, whether sports, you know, shopping, whatever it might be, turning that conversation to things about the Lord. That is where the challenge is. And it's very easy to get out and just talk and talk and talk about stuff and say, well, you know, we just want to come by and see you, leave a gospel track and go on your way. Now that's better than nothing. But if I'm going to win people to Christ, I have to be able to turn the conversation to spiritual things. I have to address that. What's Mark? Excuse me. What's Mark 16, 15 say? Go into all the world and what? Preach the gospel. I've got to be able to get to the point in the conversation with people. where I am actually sharing with them the gospel of Jesus Christ, the plan of salvation. And so that transition time is very important. And we talked about that at other times, so I'm not going to rehash that, but I do want to make these statements I am convinced, I am absolutely convinced from experience, that most people are willing to discuss spiritual things. I think most people are willing to talk about the Lord, talk about the Bible, talk about heaven and hell. Most people are willing to if I approach it tactfully and wisely If I come in as a know-it-all, I come in, I'm going to tell you what it is, and I'm going to tell you how it is, they don't want to hear about it. They don't want to talk about it. But if I come in very friendly, very open, I'm willing to listen to them, and I can turn that conversation in a wise, tactful way, I found that people are full of questions. Pastor Brett was telling me, and he's got a little thing going on for the seniors tonight. and their own little session, so that's why he's not in here. But um he was telling me last Wednesday night they had a band load of teens. And they got talking about things the Lord and he said he sat there at the one house uh for I forget what he said, a half hour or so, those kids were talking about heaven and hell, about uh devils influence being lost. And he ended up leading a young man to Christ because of their interest in the things of God. You say, oh, teenagers don't care about that. Ah, contraire, I take issue with that. I think they do. I think our approach, we approach it wrong. And so making that transition, I believe most people are eager and willing to talk about spiritual things if If we are willing and if we're able to do that wisely and approach it, I think most people have serious questions. About eternity, about God, about heaven and hell. But we have to be able to wisely turn the conversation in this way. I think people think on these things. One little thing I like to do when witnessing to folks, especially cold turkey, I'll ask them something like this. After we're talking about the gospel, I'll say something, do you ever think about heaven and hell where you spend eternity You'd be amazed at how many people, I would say this, the overwhelming majority of people, when I ask them that question, they say, yeah, I think about it a lot. You ever think about God and heaven and hell and what happens? Yeah, I think about that a lot. And so it's on people's minds. They have opinions about it, they have questions about it. So We talk about the weather, we talk about Garrett County, we talk about local politics or whatever. And to transition that conversation over to the important things, the eternal things, sometimes that's where a challenge is. And if we don't do that properly, if we don't do that wisely, we lose the opportunity, or if we don't do it at all, then we never share the gospel. So that that is an important part. Then put this down. Number three, another important component. Thoroughly explaining the gospel. Thoroughly explaining the gospel. And I use the word thoroughly on purpose. When we're showing someone how to be saved, we cannot cut corners. We cannot, we cannot leave important things out. We must be thorough. A person how many people here if you were having a major surgery, let's say you're having bypass surgery And the doctor said, listen, I'm I'm in a little hurry. I'm just gonna cut some corners here. How many people be all right with that? No, I don't think so. Well listen, leading a soul to Christ is important. Vitally important. And we need to make sure we go through very, very thoroughly. Now I'm not now I want to back up here a little bit. I want to throw a disclaimer on that. That doesn't mean we have to be Bible scholars to win other people to Christ. I will often use this and I often think of this. The woman at the well, she was saved, what, 20 minutes maybe at the most And she's back in town telling people what Christ did, and a ton of people get saved. And so I say that, but if I'm going to be on a consistent pay basis, I'm going to be an effective soul winner I have to be able to explain the gospel in a thorough way. I can give my testimony, you know, and other things, but I've got to be able to do that. So we've got to work on that. And understand the gospel, you're able to explain it. And clearly, clearly, there is so much to the gospel. You can spend hours just throwing stuff about the gospel at people and you'll lose them. Five minutes into it. So I gotta be thorough, but it has to be clear. It has to be simple. Thorough, but simple And I think one of the best ways to do that, and this is what I want you to jot down under this, one of the best ways to do that is by using what we call the Roman's robe. How many people are familiar with the Romans Road? Most of us around here, we've been over it at the time. There's a lot of different um, there's various uh plans or um uh uh processes people use to lead people to Christ, steps to go through from the Bible. I found that the Romans Road is one of the uh uh simplest and clearest there is. And I want to give you the references. For some of you again this is going to be review, but uh I want to give the references to those if you don't have them, you ought to jot these down. Romans Road goes like this. The first point under it is this. We must understand that we've all sinned against God. That's where you have to begin. And the verses you want to use for that, jot these down, is Romans chapter 3. Verse 10 and verse 23. There's none righteous, no not one. Romans 323, we all know that one. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God Actually that whole section there from about Romans 3. 9 all the way through 23, it gets a little bugged down in there, uh a little bit technical, but um You use Romans 3. 23. You can explain to people from that passage how that we're all sinners. There's other places you can go to. But if you have it one place, you can go to that verse and do that. And then the second point is we need to understand that there's consequences for our sin. There's a punishment for sin. God is a holy God. There's consequences. And that is Romans 6. 23. For the wages of sin is what? Death. The wages of sin is death. And so you explain that. You can go, if you want to jot this down, and I'm taking more time on this than I really want to, but you can put Romans 5. 8. Where did sin come from? Not Romans 5. 8, Romans 5. 12. Where did sin come from? For by one man sin entered the world, and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. So you can work that in there. Generally, I'll just use Romans 6. 23, for the wages of sin is death. And the death there is not physical death, it's spiritual death, separation from God for all eternity in hell. So I want to, number one, I want to show them if I'm using the Romans Road, which I highly recommend. It's very thorough, it's very clear, it's very simple For all have sinned they come short of the glory of God. Then number two, there's a consequence of sin. Romans 6. 23, for the wages of sin is death. Then from there, once I explain that, I want to go to the fact that Jesus suffered that wages for me. He paid those wages for me. The rest of verse 23 of Romans 6, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. And so God says eternal life is a gift. Salvation is a gift. It's freely offered to us. But it was paid through Jesus Christ. He paid that. Write this verse down also under that thought, Romans 5. 8. But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died what? For us, in our place, on our behalf. And so one, we're all sinners. For all sin that comes to the Lord of God. Consequence of sin is death, separation from God for all eternity. For the wages of sin is death by one man, sin underworld, and death by sin. So death tests upon all men, for that all have sinned. Romans 3, uh 6. 23 and Romans 5. 8. Then Jesus paid that debt for us. The gift of God, eternal life through Jesus. Jesus Christ the Lord. But God, Romans 5:8, God commended his love toward us while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Then last of all is how do I trust Christ? Write these verses down. Romans 10, 9 and 10 And verse 13, Romans chapter 10, verse 9 and 10, and verse 13. That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in thy heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. For with the mouth confession is made unto salvation, and with the heart man believeth unto righteous. And you come down to Romans 10. 13. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And then you explain that by putting what calling on the Lord is, putting my faith and trust, relying on depending on Him to forgive me and save me from sin. So the Romans Road is a very simple, clear thorough plan I can use to share the gospel with others. Now there's other passages out there? Absolutely. There's John, you can put a series of verses together from John. You can actually use Isaiah in the Old Testament, chapter 15. It's a little plan you can go through there. Derek is not offended. He told me before he was leaving earlier. So a key component in witness thing, one is my own spiritual condition, two is transitioning the conversation over to spiritual things about their soul, and once I accomplish that, then sharing the gospel with them And I've mentioned this before, but a good little tip on that is have a Bible you use just for witnessing. Don't use it for everything else, just witnessing, and mark it. Mark Romans 3. 23. Beside that, put Romans 6. 23. Beside that, put Romans 5. 8. Mark it in the margin. That way while you're sharing, you don't have to try and remember what was that other verse. You got it right there and you can go to it. And so that's very, very helpful. Let me give you the fourth component is helping them make a decision to trust Christ. One, my own spiritual condition. Two, transitioning the conversation to spiritual things. Three, clearly, simply, thoroughly sharing the gospel with them. Then once I do that Then leading them to make a decision to trust Christ. Now here's the danger. We feel like, well, I told them how to be saved. I'm done here. My work here is done. No, I want to try and help them make the decision to trust Christ. Paul said, knowing therefore the terror, Lord, we persuade men. You read Paul before not Philip Felix. Man, he's putting the squeeze on him, trying to get him to trust Christ. And so there's a part we have to be real careful. I think churches probably around the world, but in our community perhaps, I don't think my mic is on here, Brother Dave. I don't think I think I got it on. Dead battery. Um so uh but I think there's churches, I know there's some in our community, and I'm not trying to be critical, but I'm just saying There's church documents, they'll preach people ought to be saved, they'll tell people they need to be saved, but then they'll never give them opportunity to make a decision to trust Christ. And so they walk out knowing I need to be saved, but never being brought to a point to make a decision to actually accept Christ as my Savior. And I don't want to do that in my personal soul winning. I want to give opportunity for them to trust Christ. And we can talk about that sometime, a good way to do that. But I don't want to just leave them hanging. Now, sometimes I'm in a situation and I'm not able to do that. I had a situation just this week. Uh hospital room's just full of people. It's chaos. And I was able to just kind of briefly give the gospel there, but it was a situation I wasn't able to follow up in any way or press for any decision. So you knew do what you can. But that's an important part, getting where we, if at all possible, help them make that decision. Number five, this is what I really wanted to get to, and I'm just gonna have to be brief. But leaving them with assurance This is when the person trusts Christ. They make the decision, they call on the Lord, and they accept the Lord Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. You say, Praise the Lord, that's wonderful. And you walk out and you leave them. I think there's a few other steps, if I'm going to be effective, that I need to take here yet. And one is giving them assurance. And what do we mean by assurance? Somebody talk to me. What do we mean when we say I want to leave them with assurance? What are we talking about? Salvation and it is forever. Yeah, it's just what it sounds like. They are sure that they've been saved. They have assurance that God has saved me. Now kind of what Abba's talking about is eternal security. That's something we address also. But when I leave that when I before I leave them, I want them not only to call on the Lord, but I want to assure Have one to be assured from God's word that God heard them and that God saved their soul. That's what we mean by assurance. I put it this way: the Bible-based certainty that God saved me. If I go through the gospel of someone, they pray with me to trust Christ. I don't want to walk out there and they say, well, I hope that worked. That's not I don't want that. I want to say I'm saved. I know I'm saved from the Bible. Now here's, if you'll bear with me, I want to give you two verses here, and I want to go through just briefly about how to use these verses to give someone assurance. They trusted Christ, they made the decision, they prayed with you to accept Christ. Now, immediately, this is what I do, and you can, you know, it works for me. When I'm done, I'm at Romans 10, 13. I've gone through the plan. Jesus Christ died on that cross, sir, for you, just the way you are. Would you be willing to call on him and trust him as your Savior? Yes, I would. Let's bow our heads We pray he calls on the Lord, dear Lord, be my Savior. He goes through, he calls on the Lord to trust Christ Savior. As soon as we say Amen, I go right back to Romans 10, 13, and I do this. I said, let me show you a verse here real quick. And I just read this with him. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I read that to them before. They called the Lord. Sincere, did you mean it when you just prayed? And they always say, Well, yes. And I always take them at their work. I believe that? I believe you were. Then I do this. Alright, let's look at this verse again. For whosoever, that's you. So call upon the name of the Lord. Did you just do that? Call upon the name of the Lord. And the obvious answer is what? Yes, I just did that. And you meant it. Yes, I meant it. Look what it says. Whosoever is called the Lord shall be saved. So whoever in the world calls on the name of the Lord, God says they shall be saved. Are you saved? Now I've had people say, um, I think so. Uh I hope so. Sometimes they'll say, well, yeah, according to that. Yep. I like to hear according to that. Now what I want to do here is say listen if you call on the Lord, if anybody, you sincerely call on the Lord, intelligently knowing about sin, Christ dying for you, you Sincerely and intelligently call in the name of the Lord, and God did not save you, then what could God just do? He lied to you. If you just called in the Lord, you meant it and you knew what you were doing, and God says, whoever calls on the Lord shall be saved. If you're not saved, then God's lying here. Now ask him, can God lie? Oh no, God can't lie. No, God can't lie. So according to the Bible, are you saved? Well, I've had people say this, well, yeah, according to the Bible. I said, Well, that's what we go by. That's the basis, what God has told us. So Romans 10, 13 is a tremendous verse to give a new believer Someone has just called the Lord, give them some assurance. That's the verse God used for me years ago. I knew I'd call the name of the Lord. God said, Whoever does that shall be saved. If I die and go to hell, God lied to me And God's not a liar. Now there's another verse. Write this one down. This is tremendous. And I try to use both of them. It's John 10, 28. In fact, if you have your Bible, turn it real quickly with you if you would. This is tremendous. I don't know how you get around this. People that say you can't know that you're saved. Be sure of that. John 10, 28. And I think this is as much a part of soul any as Romans 6, 23. It's understanding That one I call on the Lord. God, I have a story that God is saving. Look at John 10, 28. This is Jesus speaking. And he says, I give unto them eternal life. So eternal life is a gift. You simply receive it. We've already explained that to them. Now look at this: I give unto them what kind of life? Eternal life. I'm going to say to you what I say to the first, alright? So play along with me. I give unto them what kind of life? Eternal life. Let me ask you this. How long is it stuck eternal, how long does it last? Forever. So the life that God just gave you by calling on him is going to last how long? Forever. It's eternal life. It's not probationary life. Provasionary life says if you don't live it then you're going to lose it. That's not eternal. It's not temporary life. It's what kind of life? And eternal and something eternal lasts how long? Forever. I want them to say that. Eternal life that lasts forever. Then look at it, it says, and they shall never perish. Perish these dying of hell. The person that God gives eternal life to, when are they going to die and go to hell? Never. When is never? Huh? I would say they always say, well well if uh never. Well what's that? You're just defining the word with itself and what's never. Well I say this. happen. The people that God gives eternal life to are not going to perish. Never. At no point, no time, any way, whatsoever at all. So I say I'll say something like this. So according to this verse, when uh according to this verse, did God give you eternal life when you called on him? Well yeah, the Bible says so. Alright, so according to that, when are you going to die and go to hell? The answer is never, is what it says. Then you go down to verse 29 through 30. And it says my father verse 28, last part of verse 28. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. I said, now you're in God's hand. Then verse uh twenty-nine says, Neither shall any man pluck them out of my father's hand. I said, both Jesus and God the Father, God the Son have you in their hand. Nobody can pluck them out. Now here's the lamest excuse I've ever heard, lamest argument I've ever heard. Well, you can pluck yourself out. I say so you're not any man, huh? You're something outside of humanity. But it says any man. And it means person, of course. So I want to leave them with assurance And then the sixth component is follow-up. I don't want to leave them hanging. I want to go back, check on them. I want to try and get them out to church. Sometime we'll give a tip on ideas how to get them to come to church. What to do when they're here. So, number one, my own spiritual condition. I need to know I'm saved. I need to be right with God if I'm going to be affected. Number two, I need to work on and be able to transition the conversation to spiritual things. I need to number three be able to explain very thoroughly, very clearly, very simply the plan of salvation. I need to be able to help them call on the Lord and respond to that in faith, trust Christ as their Savior I need to give them assurance, once they've done that, leave them with assurance that God did what he said he would do and save them. And then last of all I need to make sure I come back and follow up and work with them and do everything I can. Get them to church, get them baptized. And help them live for God. So does that make sense? I think those six areas are very, very important. If you work on them, any one of us can be a witness. You say, Preacher, that's a lot. Uh I I won't say anything. No, no, no. Nothing else, give your testimony. Now you can use that, but I'm talking about making a consistent, effective witness, these are areas that have to So let's pray and uh for our invitation, this is what our invitation is, let's ask the Lord to search our hearts in this matter, apply ourselves to work at it, but maybe this summer, maybe give ourselves to get out and ask Actually get out and start witnessing the people. I know what people say they say stuff like this, well I just kind of witness where I go and uh through my daily routine. And I'm sure we all try to, but you know what I've found out that don't happen a whole lot. And then found out it's better if I have a certain time where I set aside and I go I'm going to go out and find people and try and share the gospel That seems to work best. So, Father in heaven, I ask you to bless us now in this matter of witnessing as individuals. Of course, as a church, we try and present the gospel as much as we can. But I pray you'd stir us. And maybe this summer we have a little revival of uh personal soul winning. And uh we can get out there and be able to share the gospel. With others and witness to others. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. How do we say break your guts for my heart a little bit tonight? And I just want to stop and reevaluate my personal soul winning, my personal witness day. And you would stay with me, preacher. It really needs a revival. My personal witness, it really needs God to stir it up and fan that flame a little bit. And uh you're you're with you're with me on that. Is there any like that by the uplifting hand? I really need God to fan that plane a little bit. Sure. It's a constant thing I want to challenge. Maybe tonight someone make a decision. No, I'm going to get involved this summer throughout the summer months. I'm going to get involved. I'm going to try and witness. Try and get out and deliberately engage people with the gospel. So Father in heaven, bless our invitation, I ask now, and help us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer is going to play