What do you say? Oh, well you sing it better and they do. But uh that was good Brother Barons is a blessing. He's a lot of fun to be around uh w and uh you know he's a lot of fun to listen to, but man alive, his messages pack some punch, don't they? And that's because they're solid Bible messages and uh they're always challenged. I've been praying, as I mentioned, many of us have been praying for revival for a long time, and I don't know who uh would rather have been here to preach our revival meeting than Brother Barron's And so I'm really glad he's here this week. Let's get our Bibles. Let's really ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Amen. Thank you. Well, thank you, preacher. I'll tell you what, I'm getting a little bit tired of this weather this week. Amen. We're going from clouds to rain to snow to Sundan weather. But uh I guess we've in this area you just have to live with it, amen? And uh back back in my I I lived just outside of Lancaster, Pennsylvania, and it was uh it was like 65 today. Yeah, and look what we got here. So, but uh hopefully hopefully we'll see a little bit of warm weather by the end of the week. Amen. But good to see everybody here tonight. If you have your Bibles, turn over to 1 Kings chapter 17 1 Kings chapter 17. That's in the Old Testament, Jerry. If you go to the book of Genesis and just start going page by page, you'll hit 1 Kings. If you get past the maps and concordances, you've gone too far. How many of me rather pick on Jerry than you this week? Look at that. Even your wife. Oh my. First Kings chapter seventeen, I'm going to begin reading in verse one. And Elijah the Chishbite, who was of the inhabitants of Gilead, said unto Ahab, As the Lord God of Israel liveth, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word. And the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, Get thee hence, and turn thee eastward, and hide thyself by the brook Sheriff that is before Jordan. And it shall be that thou shalt drink of the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to feed thee there. So he went and did according to the word of the Lord, for he went and dwelt by the brook Sherith that is before Jordan. And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning and bread in the uh and bread and flesh in the evening, and he drank Of the brook. I'm going to bring you a message tonight. I really hope that you'll get a hold of the truth of what I'm going to preach tonight. But here's the title: The Christian Life Just Doesn't Work For Me. Let me just say this and we'll pray. I believe with all my heart that far, far, far more Christians than we could ever imagine Say this in her heart. Come on. Not publicly, but we say it in our heart. It works for him, but it just doesn't seem to work for me. And I hope by the time we're done tonight, uh, that this message will be, I mean, it'll be a real encouragement for you. The Christian life. This doesn't work for me. Let's pray. Father, I pray tonight that you'd stir up our hearts. I pray that right now we would be willing to put aside pride and excuses And that we'd have a hunger, especially tonight, that we'd have a hunger for you to do something Spiritually and practically, in our lives, that would make the Christian life really work for us. I mean, really work for us Lord, I pray that by the time we're done tonight, we'll have a host of folks walk out of here tonight, telling the Lord, I'm going to put this into practice. Lord, give us a good service. I pray again, if we have somebody here tonight and they're not saved, help them to remember this: that the Christian life will never work for them. Until they first trust Christ as their Savior. Give us a good service now, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You know, I I think, I think, uh, I don't think I know probably every single person in here tonight, as we go through life We want to see answered prayer. Am I not right? Now understand so I'm listening I'm not talking about circumstances coming together. I'm not talking uh where we where we uh uh have something happen and and uh we play make-believe like god I'm talking about real prayer answered. Am I not right? We want to see that Why we here this week to see revival? Am I not right? Hey, listen, if you've been saved for any everybody, everybody, hey, I'm I I'm tired about reading about revival. I'm tired about that. Man, I I I want to see revival before I die. But but uh we'd say here tonight, boy preacher, you know what, man, I'd love to see revival. And yet, you know, but a lot of times we we but we just we never see it. And then there's some of us we go, we go, if we're honest, we go through life and we say, you know what, preacher, I can't remember the last time when God specifically answered a prayer. A lot of people would say it, say it if they're honest. A lot of people would say, you know, uh, you know, God uh God is not really using me. The way I know that he could use me. And here's what happens when we get that attitude. We get discouraged. Come on. We get discouraged. And then what happens? Here's the danger: we get so discouraged that over the years we begin to warm a pew. Now, the big problem, here's the big problem. I believe the problem in our life so often is that we want to do it our way. We we we have this idea, we have this idea, well you know if I just come to church, if I just put a little bit of money into the plate, if I sing in a choir, if I do this, if I do that, then we think that God owes us And we think that everything should be hunky-dory in our spiritual life. And then, and then, be honest here, and then are you still with me on this? Don't won't lose you here. And then when those things don't happen, when answered prayer, when blessings, God not using us, we don't see revival, when those things don't happen, then we get the attitude, we say this, well, you know what? The Christian life just doesn't work for me. Now, folks, can I remind you of something? If something in your life is broke, And you need it. Don't you just think the most common sense in the world is to get that thing fixed? Huh? Listen. If my car breaks down, do I walk away from my car and say, huh, cars just don't work for me. I'm never going to drive again. Do I do that? No, listen, if I said that, you would say back to me that I am what? Well, you don't have to call me crazy. I mean, you know. That hurt. Was that you or was that the Bremenite? That name's gonna hook to them, you know that don't ya? Yeah, you'd say, preacher, you need to get the thing feminine right? Now let me ask you something. What's more important, your spiritual life or your car? If your spiritual life is broke. If something isn't working in your spirit, don't you think it's just common sense that we get it fixed? I want to show you something tonight. I really believe it was a great encouragement to me. But I also believe it'll be a great encouragement to everybody here on how you can make the Christian life work for you. Isn't that the most important thing in the world? Now, In 1 Kings chapter 17, we see a man by the name of Elijah. Now get this, and what happens here to Elijah? Has happened to every single person in the Bible. It has happened to every Christian that has ever lived his life. And you know what? It's going to happen to you. And if you ever expect to be used, if you ever expect to see what God can do and what God wants to do in your life, Then we need to understand four things, four things tonight that are going to happen to us over and over and over. And I believe these four things Are the key to having a successful Christian life that works. Let me give you the four things first of all. First of all, number one, take a look at verses one through three. Verses 1 through 3. And Elijah the Tisbite, who is of the inhabitants of Gilgal, said unto Ahab, as the Lord God of Israel liveth Whom before I stand there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word. And the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, Get thee hence, and turn thee eastward, and hide thyself by the brook Sheriff that is before Jordan Here's the first thing we're going to see. First of all, there is instructions. There's instruction. Now, stay with me on this because it's a foundational principle. Folks, before any of us, before any of us can begin anything in our Christian life, do anything in our Christian life, see anything in our Christian life, you've got to have instruction. Doesn't that just make sense? Hey, let me ask you something here tonight. Why are you at church tonight? Well, if you have your Bibles, turn back to come on now, help me out here. Why are you here tonight? Some of you are trying to think of why you're here. Well, preacher, you know, the reason I'm here is because uh, you know, uh we're having revival meetings and I'm just expected to be seen. Wrong. Well, preacher, I'm I'm here to see my friends. Wrong. Come on, help me out of here. Why are you here? Let me tell you why you're in. Let me tell you why you're here for on Sunday and next. You're here for instruction. Why does God make preaching so important? For instruction in the Word of God. Listen, God wants you to learn how to live. God wants you to learn what to do. God wants you to learn what not to do. You see, I I think, I think all too often. Especially in the day and age we're living in, all across the nation. We have a lot of people come to church for everything but instruction. We come to be seen. We come to see friends. And folks, for a lot of churches, our churches have turned into clubs. And we're a bunch of clubbers. For the average Christian today, by the time they walk out the back door of the church, they forgot the sermon. They forgot the decision that God wanted them to make. You see, folks, listen. If we don't come to church for instruction in the Word of God, there's no sense in even coming. It's kind of like the preacher that was preaching one morning. And he looked in the back of the auditorium and there was a guy that snuck in. He was stealing the hats and the coats. And he stopped preaching. He said, Hey, somebody back there is stealing your hats and coats. Nobody turned around and looked. Everybody just stood there like that. And when he saw that nobody turned around and looked, he said the second time, hey, I just said somebody's trying to steal your hats and coats. Nobody looked again. After the service, the people came up and said, Preacher, man, during the service, somebody stole our hats and coats. The preacher said, I know. He said, I told you that twice. Oh, preacher. They said, we just thought you were preaching. Huh? Folks, that's a lot of us. We we come to church, but we don't hear. We come to church, but we don't give earnest heed as to what is being preached from the Word of God. Folks, listen to me. We come, this is important, we come to church to be instructed in the Word of God. Listen, you know what our attitude, listen, you know what our attitude ought to be tonight and tomorrow night and the next night? Our attitude ought to be this. You know what? When I come out here tonight, God has something for me. Man, I want God to do something in my heart and in my life tonight. And if God doesn't do something, I've wasted my night. You see, I'll say it again: if instruction isn't the most important reason for you being out, then we might as well just stay home. Proverbs chapter 1, verse 7. The fear of the Lord is a beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. Proverbs chapter 4 verse 13, take fast hold of instruction. Let her not go, keep her, for she is thy life. Proverbs chapter 8, verse 10. Receive my instruction and not silver, and knowledge rather than choice gold. Proverbs 8:33. Hear instruction and be wise and refuse it not. Proverbs chapter 13, verse 18. Poverty and shame shall be to him that refuses instruction. Proverbs chapter fifteen, verse fifty-two. He that refuses instruction despises his own soul. Do I need to keep on reading? I couldn't. The Bible is chock full of verses From God to you on the importance of us receiving instruction. You know why? Because you will never live right. You will never do right. You will never see everything that God has for you until you place an importance on instruction in your life And so, first of all, in verses one through three, we see instruction. What's point one? Instruction. Secondly, after God gives the instruction. Now we see what he wants or he expects out of you. Take a look here real quickly at uh at uh verse 4. Take a look at verse 4. We'll see the second thing here. Now we got instruction, here's the second thing, and it shall be that thou shalt drink of the brook And I have commanded the ravens to feed thee there. Now, this is going to be real short here. I'm not going to take long in here. First of all, God gives us what? Instruction. Then after the instruction, God gives here in verse 4, and it happens all through the Bible, it happens in your life. God gives a promise. In other words, what he will do if you will obey the instructions. Now, can I remind you of something? All through the Bible, there are thousands and thousands of instructions. I've got a book at home. Or see, there are thousands of promises. I've got a book at home. You may have one in your library. The title of it is this: All the Promises in the Bible. It's about that thick. Now let me ask you something tonight. Why did God put all those promises in the Bible? Hey, this is participation time. Help me out here. Come on. We're gonna be here all night if you guys don't speak up. So you can claim them. Am I not right? So you can claim them. That's why they're there. You see, over and over and over again, God gives us instruction after the instruction, God gives us the promise, but then he says, Hey. If. He uses that word if. Amen. What's that mean? It's up to you. If you do this, if you receive my instruction, I promise you I'll do this. I'll give you this. I'll take care of you here. 1 John 2, verse 25. And this is the promise. That he have promised us even eternal life. We are the promise of eternal life. If we what? Trust Christ as our Savior. You go over to Matthew, we can do this all night. But Matthew chapter 7, verse 7. First of all, God gives instruction. Asking it shall be given you. Seeking you shall find. Knocking it shall be open unto you. That's the instruction. Am I not right? God says, hey, you need to pray. But then after the instruction, God gives the promise. What's the promise? And that shall be opened unto you Ask, sink, knock, and I will answer your prayer. You'll say, well, preacher, why don't we? Because we don't ask And so, first of all, in verses one through three, we have instruction. What God wants. Then in verse 4, we have the promise. What God will do, what God will give you if you obey. Now we come to the third one. And by the way, this is what I've led up to tonight. This is the most important part right here of the message. This is why, I believe this is why right here, why the Christian life doesn't work for so many people and why so many of this, I'm talking to somebody here tonight. This is why you're frustrated. This is why you're discouraged. This is why we warm a pew. This is why we go through life and we waste our spiritual life. Now, God gives instruction. Amen. Then, after God gives instruction, God gives a promise. Right? Now, what does he do? What's the third point? Nope. You're close. Let me tell you what he does. Are you ready for this? Nothing. Why are you laughing over there? Let me say it again. He doesn't do anything. You say, preacher, that's not script. Yes, it is scriptural. Let me say it again. God does absolutely nothing. And that's why the Christian life doesn't work for some of you. You say, preacher, now you got me all confused. Let me explain this. Instruction? Promise? Then? Then nothing. Be quiet, Jerry. You're giving that point away. Then God does nothing. You say, now, preacher, why does God do nothing? I'll tell you why he does nothing. Because he's waiting to see what you're going to do. Do you know why we don't see revival? Do you know why we don't see answer prayer? Because we don't hear the instruction. Or we don't do what God instructs us to do. God, God Does absolutely nothing because he's waiting to see what all of us are going to do. Listen, if you do nothing, if you don't respond, then God can't do anything either And so this is the key. Here's the third point. Instruction, promise, go ahead, Jerry, obedience Obedience. Look in verse five. So he what went. What do we call that? Obedience. So he went and did according, what's that? Obedience. Under the word of the Lord, for he went, obedience. And dwelt by the brook Sheriff that is before Jordan. Obedience. In other words, what we have to do now. You see, folks You might call this, it's really not a secret, but you could almost call it it's I think it's one of the great secrets of the Christian life Until you obey God in your spiritual life, God's hands are tied. Let me make a statement here. God can't bless what you don't do. Let me say it again. God can't bless what you don't do. If you don't do, God can't bless. The only thing, get this, the only thing that God can bless is activity. God blesses and uses, get this, doers. Did you get that? He uses and blesses doers. God says this: you've got the instructions You've got the promise. Now you have to do the obeying. There has to be activity on your part Yeah, I I got I got people they come up to me I mean I mean people come up to me all the time Oh Brother Barrish I'd give anything in the world to see this friend or this neighbor get saved. Can I make a suggestion? The bulk. Maybe what God is waiting for on your part is activity. Maybe you need to go and obey. You see, folks, listen. There's nothing wrong with this. But you can pray all the Wednesday nights you want to for their soul. But until you pray and go, nothing's going to happen. Do you want to see revival? Come on. You want to see revival? Second Chronicles 7:14. Now wait a minute, what's the first word? If. If. What's that mean? God says it's up to you. It's up to you. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways. Now, what is that? That point. What is that? Well you all look at me like bamboo in the headlights tonight. Come on. That's instruction. Then here's the promise. Then If you do this, it's up to you. If you do this, then will I hear from heaven and forgive their sin and will heal their land Now, watch. God says, yeah, it's up to you. Then God gives you the destruction. Then God gives you the prompt. I'll send revival, but wait a minute. Now what does God do? Nothing. God steps back. He looks. He waits. You know why? Because He's waiting to see if you take the instructions seriously. He's waiting to see what you're going to do. He's waiting to see if you do the if. Second Kings chapter 5 and verse 10 is the story of Naaman. Remember the story? Elijah sends a messenger to Naaman. Naaman had what disease? Leprosy. The message was this. The instruction was this. Go wash in the Jordan seven times. Right? Instruction. And thy flesh, when you do this, and thy flesh shall come again to thee, and thou shalt be clean. What's that? The promise. Now what? God does nothing. God doesn't do a thing. God stands. He's waiting. What's he waiting for? To see what Naaman does. So what does Naaman do? But but I don't understand. I don't see the point of going and washing in a dirty river Bible says Naaman was wroth. And he went away and said, Behold, I fought. You know, that's one of the most dangerous phrases in the Bible. Well I thought, picture I just thought. Picture I I just don't know. Well, you know what? I think this, I kind of feel this. Yeah. And that's why the Christian life doesn't work for us. Folks, you don't have to know. You don't have to feel. You don't have to understand. You don't have to see. You just need to obey. You will never see God work in your life. You'll never see what God wants you wants to do in your life until you obey. Think I'm kidding? Second Kings chapter five again. Now we get down to verse fifteen. Here's the instruction, go wash. Here's the promise, you shall be clean. Naman. I'm not going to wash myself on that. I'm not going to do that. I think that. And so what happens? This whole time, this whole he could have been cleaned, amen. But this whole time, he still walked. Listen, he's not only walking around with leprosy, he's walking around with a bad attitude. He's not right with God. Family! He obeys. And in verse 15, now Naaman can stand back and say, Oh man, now I see it all. Now I know. You know what? Naaman is a picture of us. We want to know what's going to happen beforehand. We want to see everything ahead of time of what God's going to. And listen, it doesn't work that way. And it never will work that way. And if you have that attitude and you're not willing to obey, you're going to miss everything. That God has for you. Understanding only comes after obedience. That's it. Moses and all the plagues. Remember the story? God comes to Moses and says, I'm going to finish this thing off. Death is going to come to every household and the firstborn is going to die. What's the instruction? Here it is. Take a lamb without blemish, kill it, put the blood over the door. Where the blood is, there will be no death. Remember the story? Now let me ask you a question. Do you think there might have been a lot of people that think that Moses was crazy? Blood. Kill a lamb. You're nuts. I'll tell you one thing, they will understand. You say why? Because understanding spiritual things only comes from obedience. It only comes from activity. God never lays out the whole picture ahead of time. God instructs. Boy, listen, it's a great secret of the Christian life. God instructs. That's why it's important you come to church That's why I said listen, that's why it's important when you're sitting out there, you're not thinking about what you're going to put on your pizza when you get home. You're not checking your email. You're not doodling. Come on It's important. God instructs. He gives you the promise. Then He waits. And hopefully you obey. And then with obedience, you understand and reap everything that God wants you to reap. Instruction Promise, then nothing, then we obey, and then here's the last one. Look in verse six. And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening, and he drank of the brook. Instruction, promise, nothing, but then obedience, but then after obedience, here's the last one: supply. Supply In other words, what God does now. When you do your part, God then does his part. Can I make this real practical right here now? I don't know how you think. But I've thought this many a time. You ever have you ever wondered what you've missed out on? Because you've come to church And you've never heard the instruction that God wants you to hear. Come on, I'm guilty. We're daydreaming. We're looking at our watch. Oh, this is hey, this is the word of God being preached. Listen, I look, I don't care how dynamic a preacher is, I don't care how dully, it is the word of God being preached. That means, listen to me, you know what that means? That means that God tonight, and and and every night you sit in church, God has a message for you. There is something somewhere, it might not be the whole message, but there is something somewhere in the message that God think about this that God has just for you. And man, if this isn't important, you're gonna miss it. And in missing that, you're gonna miss what God has for you. The problem, you're gonna miss, you're gonna miss the supply that God has for you. The instruction, then the promise. And I often wonder someday what would I have missed out on. What God wanted to do for me. What God wanted to give me. What God wanted to supply me with. I know I've missed out on stuff. You know why? Because I didn't take instructions seriously. Well, because when I knew what I should have done, when I knew what the instruction was, I sat back and I said, you know what, that doesn't make sense to me. I don't agree with that. Well my job was just to obey. And I think someday for all of us, someday for all of us, God's going to pull back the curtain. He's going to say, This is what I wanted to give you. This is what I wanted to do for you. This is how I wanted to use you. You could have experienced revival. You could have had all these prayers answered. You could have had all these blessings in your life, but I couldn't give them to you. Because either you wouldn't listen, you never heard this, or you didn't obey. I don't know about you folks, but I want the Christian life to work for me Don't you? It's simple. It really is. It's simple. And you can see this all through the I mean every story now you can see this. God gives you instruction. It's all it's all it's all and how important you make the instruction. Then when God gives you an instruction, he gives you the promise. If you make this important, if you'll listen, I'll do this for you. And then he waits. And I ask yourself something, is maybe God waiting for you tonight? To obey, and then he supplies. Every person in here, listen to me, the Christian life can work for you in ways you can't even begin to imagine If you follow these four principles. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Every head bowed. And every eye closed. Now listen, listen real close to what I'm about to say. What I'm going to say here is not just words. Let me say it again. It's not just words. I believe this with all my heart what I'm about to say. Instruction is important. I read you verse after verse after verse tonight on the importance that God places on instruction. God knows exactly what's going on here in this auditorium tonight. You and I believe, I believe this. I believe, I believe right here, right now, tonight. The Almighty, All-Holy God of the Universe. Make this real. The Almighty, All-Holy God of the Universe is looking over the ramparts of heaven right now, tonight. I believe that. You say, preacher, what's God looking for? You know what I think God's looking for tonight? Activity Activity. He's looking, I believe God is looking to see. Tonight in this auditorium If there are men and women, ladies and young people, they're gonna move. There's areas of your life. Listen, there's areas of our lives where we've been instructed on things that we know we ought to do. We know that. And with that God has a cast a promise. But what has God been doing? He's been waiting. Hey, maybe maybe for some of you sitting here tonight, God's been waiting for several years. And that's why the Christian life isn't working for you. I don't know. Listen to me, I don't know. I don't even know if I'm talking to anybody about this, but listen, maybe there's somebody here tonight. You have never been scripturally baptized. You know what God's doing? He's waiting. You say, why, preacher? Because you've been living In disobedience to the Word of God. You've been living in disobedience to instruction. And God, listen, God can't use you, God can't bless you until you obey and you get scripturally baptized. Think of this is how serious this is. Maybe maybe there's some folks you I and again I don't know if I I know this this is the simple stuff right here. But maybe maybe there's somebody here and and you notice me, you know that you need to join a good fundamental Bible preaching church. You know that. But you're waiting. Can I clue you in on something? So's God. God's waiting too. He's waiting to see whether or not you're going to join. He's waiting to see whether or not you're going to obey. And until you do obey. You're wasting your life. Think about it that way. You're wasting your life. Maybe there's some of you here tonight. Listen, through instruction, through instruction. I'm not going to take that long in these other areas, but through instruction, you know you need to be faithful. Not just off and on, skip here and there. You need to be faithful. And God's been waiting for you to say, you know what? From here on out, every time the doors of the church are open, I'm going to be out. And God can't bless you. God can't supply until you obey. Maybe there's some of you here that God needs to see activity in your life in regards to soul winning. Maybe God needs to see activity in regard to sin in your life. Listen, we all sin. But there's a big difference between sinning and then taking care of it. And God's been convicting you about certain sin in your life. And what you've been doing? He's been waiting. Just waiting. Just waiting and waiting and waiting. And you've been walking around discouraged and frustrated? Man, I man, I wish the Christian. Yeah. The reason it doesn't is because you haven't obeyed yet. Maybe there's some things you need to add to your life, take out of your life. A music, a pure mind. Getting more serious about a ministry, having a ministry in the church, sticking to decisions. You've been instructed, listen, this is common stuff. You have been instructed in all of this. And God's waiting. God's waiting. I believe, I'll say it again. But God, right now, I believe with all my heart is looking over the ramparts of heaven. The God of the universe And he's waiting to see activity in your life. And when he sees that activity Then God responds and He'll supply. He'll bless. He'll bless. He will use you in ways that you can't even begin to imagine. Here's my question. I'm not gonna put anybody on the spot. Very general question. Because your spiritual life is none of my business. But I'm wondering tonight, how many might say, Preacher, you're right. God blesses activity. Brother Barons, as you were preaching this message tonight, you hit on an area, maybe you hit on several areas in my life. That I need to show activity in. Hey, maybe it might need to be something where you know when I come out to church, I need to take church more serious. I may need to take the preaching of the Word of God more serious. Or maybe it's another area. You know you should have dealt with it. You know you should have taken care of it, but we haven't done it yet. And you know, listen, in your heart of hearts, you know God's waiting for you to deal with it tonight. He's waiting to see activity tonight. And you'd say, preacher, tonight, would you pray for me tonight? Would you pray for me tonight? That I'd take care of this. Would you slip your hands up tonight all over the other corner? Just slip them up. Oh, thank you. Amen. Thank you. Lots of thank you. Amen. Thank you. Good number of hands. Anybody else? Now's the time. Listen, now's the time. Hey, you can sit there, you can sit there, you can make excuses You know, when you walk out the door, you're going to walk out more discouraged, more depressed than what you walked in. And God's still going to be waiting. He's still going to be waiting And you're going to miss, think about this, you're going to miss everything that God has for you tomorrow and the next day and the next day because God didn't see activity on your part tonight. Anybody else, real quick? Just look it up, put it back down. Thank you, ma'am. Anybody else? Thank you. Anybody else? Anybody else? Now's the time to do it. Let me ask one other question. Wonder how many we have here tonight? Anybody here tonight that would say, preacher, what you said at the beginning of the message. I'll never be a Christian till, first of all, I get saved. You're here tonight and you've never bowed your head and asked Jesus Christ into your heart as your Savior. You don't know you're on your way to heaven. I'm wondering if we have anybody here tonight that would say, preacher, you know what? I I'm not sure where I'm going to spend forever. If I walk out of here tonight, maybe on these rain-select highways, these wet highways. I was involved in a terrible accident and I died on my way home tonight. I don't know if I go to heaven, don't know if I go to hell, but I do know this preacher I don't want to go to hell forever. I want to go to heaven forever. And I do worry about that at times. Preacher, would you also pray for me tonight? Would you just look up your hand and put it back down? I won't embarrass you. I'll just acknowledge it and we'll pray for you. Anybody at all? Just flip it up, put it back down, and I'll pray for you. Is there is there one? Is there one here? Anybody at all? Father, thank you for the time that we've had here tonight. And Lord. Take take a Lord, I believe this is just a simple, basic, foundational message. But it's also important. Lord, the reason so many of us are frustrated and we're not is because we don't take instruction seriously. We don't take the Word of God seriously. And then when we do hear what God wants us to do, if we don't understand it or we don't agree with it, we don't obey. And we forget, we forget. God only blesses activity. God stands off from a distance in our life, not using us, not blessing us But just waiting. Waiting, waiting, waiting to see if we obey. God, tonight, tonight, I pray that if there's an area of our life, That we're not obedient him. Lord, I pray that we give this invitation. We'll have activity. We'd be willing to humble ourselves, come down to an old-fashioned altar, and promise God tonight that we're going to obey. And that activity, that activity alone, will kick in God's supply and blessing our lives. Help us to do that tonight Fortune Jesus name we pray. With heads bow and eyes closed, let's stand to our feet.