Keep moving along, James chapter two. And I want to mention Brother Lewis Howe, um, our missionary down in New Zealand, has uh He puts his bulletins available in digital form and uh I was able to get one. He doesn't do it consistently But he does have the latest one I received an email yesterday. I printed a few of them out. They're in the back there if you go and look and like to see what he's doing down there in New Zealand. He's doing a great job. I'm just ecstatic. And Lord will my wife and I will be down there with him in about four weeks, and he talks about that in his bulletin a little bit, give you a little idea of what we're going to be doing. and what he is uh has ongoing. I'm telling you the guy is zeroed in on soul winning down there and he is just going at it and I thank God for it. James chapter two, we're preaching through the book of James And I just want to share a few uh thoughts with you tonight from chapter 2, verses 12 and 13. Am I on here, Dave? Yes? Yes? No? I don't know. On, there we go. Alright, James chapter 2 and verse 13. So speak ye, and so do as they that shall be judged by the law of liberty. For he shall have judgment without mercy that has ship no mercy, and mercy rejoiceth against judgment. Notice he references the law of liberty And uh let's look at that. Let's pray real quick here and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, Lord, my heart's been challenged. The tremendous need around the world of the gospel is overwhelming And we feel like in and of ourselves, what in the world can we do? But God, we believe you're a great God, you're all powerful, you can do the impossible, and we ask that you would use us this year to have some impact upon the world, upon Kazakhstan, our community, with the gospel of Christ. So please do something in our hearts tonight that we would be more effective. Fill me, I pray. with your Holy Spirit and challenge us and help us. Lord, I pray you use the message tonight, the truth here, to make us nice Christians. In Jesus' name, Amen. The law of liberty. I think we all understand that the world's standards of right and wrong are very much different than God's standards of right and wrong. How many people would agree with that? We go out knocking on doors. I think I mentioned this recently. We go out with our little survey, that tremendous survey, and uh we ask people one of the questions is Are God's standards of right and wrong the same as the world's? And without fail, every answer, regardless of what their spiritual condition is, uh unsaved, whatever, they say, uh, no, God's standards are much higher than the world's. And that's true And what God says is appropriate to interact with other people, and what the world says is appropriate are very, very different. As God's people, we live by a different standard. Does everybody understand that? We live by a higher standard. We live by, I put it this way, live we live by a purer standard than what the world does. Uh God's people ought to be pure in heart and mind. I would say amen right there. That would be a good place to say amen. Let me try that one again. God's people ought to be pure in heart and mind. Amen. I think we all agree with that, surely. God's people ought to be kind. We live by a different standard. We live we have different values we live by than the world. The world is dog eat dog. The world is, hey, I'm gonna uh you you burn me, I'll burn you Uh and uh that's the world's mentality. But God's people, we don't live by those values. We don't live by those standards. Uh we have a higher standard. Uh Jimmy Rose. How many people recognize that name? Jimmy Rose. I love Jimmy Rose. Missionary for 40 plus years down in Brazil Brazilian direct well was, he's retired now, but Brazilian director for BIMI. He's preached here a number of times. Just the most gracious, godly man, one of I've ever met I love Brother Rose dearly. He was, I think it was either in a message or in a conversation when he was we here with us one time. He was talking about a Christian in Brazil, young man that had gotten saved He was growing as a Christian. He was getting strong in the Lord. He was living for the Lord. If I remember correctly, he was studying to uh pastor a church down in Brazil as a national pastor, and the guy messed up And he got involved, and I don't remember what the details were, but he was got involved in sin somehow, and he wasn't living as a Christian ought to live. And I'll never forget what Brother Rose said he that he told this young man. He said he said his name and he said, listen, you are better than that. You are better than that. And I don't know, that struck a chord in my heart and mind. As Christians, we ought to live by a little bit higher standard than the world does. We ought to have a little bit purer values. We ought to be, I think God, I think this book of James and what he's saying in chapter 2 here, he's saying to the believers being addressed, he's saying, listen, y'all are better than that And what was happening, if you remember the context, the context was rich people would come into their church service and they'd give those rich folk uh uh uh choice seats. I don't know how it all played out in detail. They might have had lounge chairs and and uh lazy boys recliners and all the rich people could sit in that door in church. Wouldn't that be something, Brother Ed? And uh I wouldn't get any amens, you know, I'd get snoring instead of amens. And then the poor folk come in and they'd stick them back in some quarter somewhere and have them sit on the floor or whatever, and they were being partial. They were being prejudiced. And God is saying to them, and I think in this passage here, he's saying, listen, you all are better than that. Christians don't act that way. Christians aren't prejudiced. Christians aren't don't treat somebody better because they have more or that I can get more out of them than I can another person. He's saying you're better than that. One key aspect of Christianity, and I believe we understand this, but we need to be reminded. And that is this. Every person is on level ground when we come to God. You understand what I mean by that? Everybody has equal access to salvation. The richest person in Garrett County gets saved the exact same way the poorest person in Garrett County gets saved. It's equal access, the most educated, the least educated. We all come to salvation the same way through the Lord Jesus Christ, faith and faith alone And so it's equal ground. We all have, everybody has, all believers have equal access to God's throne. You can pray to God and ask him for things just as freely as I can. I hold a position of pastor, responsibility God has given me. And uh but that gives me no more access to God's throne in prayer than the little children coming in here. All of us have equal accents. Doesn't matter Uh it's not dependent on our financial standing, it's not dependent on our educational level, it's not dependent on our position in society None of that has anything to do with my access to God. And he's saying, and they weren't practicing that. And they would show preferential treatment to the wealthy. They were unkind and hateful to the poor. And uh God says, you're better than that. You're better than that. The richest person in Garrett County can be blessed by God just as much as the poorest person, and vice versa. Now here's where we get messed up. We confuse God's definition of blessing with the world's definition of blessing. That's two different things. And so equal access to God is a characteristic, a chief aspect of biblical Christianity We're to love our neighbors as ourselves, the Bible says. We're to do unto others as we would have them do unto us. That is a principle of Christianity. It's a part of Christian living. Now, look at our verse. I'm going to give you just these three thoughts outlined here real quick. Verse number twelve So speak ye and so do ye as they that shall be judged by the law of liberty. Now I'm going to go a little out of chronological order to give my little outline here, but I want us to look at that phrase law of liberty. As I looked at that and got studying that, uh I came to a conclusion. That to me sounds like a paradox. Do you know what a paradox is? You say, yeah, it's two docks sitting down on the boat, uh, down in the water beside each other, a paradox. No. It's not what we're talking about. A paradox is a a statement that appears to be self-contradictory. But in reality, it expresses the truth. In other words, on the surface, it looks like that's that's a contradiction. That can't be. But then when you see the details of it, you say, hey, that is true. That's a paradox. I want to say a law. Of liberty. When I think of law, I think of restrictions. I think you're prohibited from doing some things. The law says You cannot drive faster than twenty-five miles an hour on Broadford Road. The law says you cannot cross this line or you can't do this or you have to do that And so the law in my mind prohibits and restricts freedom. And then you have the law of liberty Liberty in my mind represents no restrictions. I am free. I'm free to do as I please. I'm free to do as I choose. America, one of America's claim to fame in this world as a unique country, is that we have great freedoms. We see those freedoms ebbing away. And uh we see more and more laws. I was saw an article uh that January 1st, it was something like 15,000 new laws came into effect in the United States of America And uh so we are a land of freedom, but the law of liberty, law of liberty Sounds like a paradox to me. Uh we were in Kazakhstan uh the other year, the last time, and um uh brother Ken Fielder and I were able to have lunch with some national pastors. All we want to do is meet them Want to find out what it was like to have churches in the country and what their pers uh what their perspective was on the needs of the country spiritually, the state of the country their relationship with the government, it was interesting. Just about every one of them we'd ask him and say, do you have any freedoms to practice Christianity, what are your freedoms like? And almost every one of them made this statement to us. They said, Oh yes, we had tremendous freedom here in Kazakhstan. Well Ken and I were kind of like, What And this, yes, we are free to worship, we are free to practice Christianity, and they would go on, and then they would always tack this statement on. As long as we do what we're told, we are great freedom. We can do whatever we want as long as it's what they tell us we can do. And I came away with this conclusion. They have a flawed understanding of what freedom is. They've never experienced. They don't know what it's like to be free in America or where we actually can. meet together and sing praises without a permit uh and uh an okay from the government. And one of the things they're doing, Brother Pat brought that out, we learned this over there in the Bible Institute we went into, they re they require a They require an application, a permission to meet together, to assemble together to worship. They fill it out and turn it in, then they never get it back. Months and months and years will go by. The government just sits on it And then they come in and say you're meeting without your application. That's what the one person said. We send it in. We haven't got it back. And they just sit on it. And so looking back at our passage here, he says the law of liberty, it looks like a paradox, but it really isn't. Previously, he referenced the law of holiness, is what I'm calling it, God's law of holiness, and that required total obedience. Do you remember in verse number 10? It says, if you offend one part of this law You're guilty of the whole thing. And the law of holiness requires total obedience, or you're under condemnation. You may keep nine of the Ten Commandments, but if you break one of them, you're condemned by God. And so that's the law of holiness, as I call it. That's what the unsaved live under. There's somebody under the sound of my voice, whether through the internet or maybe you're sitting here and you've never trusted Jesus Christ, your personal Savior. You are under the law of God right now. You're guilty, condemned. And uh there's none righteous, no, not one. And so that law has restrictions. It's a law of condemnation But there's another law presented in the New Testament, and that is the law of liberty. Boy, those barrets get offended at the least little thing. I figured I might as well bring attention to it. Y'all are watching them anyway. Y'all be careful. Bye-bye. God bless you. See that? No, you pray for them. But uh the law of holies, you follow what I'm saying. Remember the chain I used the other week, the paper chain? You break one, boom, guilty And uh we've broken these laws. I had a guy some time ago. We were doing our survey. Did I tell you how great that survey is? And uh we were doing the survey, and one of the questions is, can you name the Ten Commandments? And the fellow said, nah, I don't know any of them. I said, all right, got down. Do you uh said uh do you think keeping the commandments will oh no, it was uh uh um do you know do you think you're going to heaven when you die? Yes, how do you know? Uh I keep the commandments. He couldn't name one of them, but he said, yeah, I'm going to heaven because I keep the commandments. I said, which ones are you keeping? And uh, well, you know, uh he didn't know what they were The fact is, if I break one commandment, I'm already guilty. That's not freedom. That's not liberty. That's bondage. I'm under bondage of condemnation. I've broken God's law. There's nothing I can do. What I need is a savior. To take that judgment for me so I can be free. Then kicks in when I accept Jesus as my favorite then kicks in the law of liberty And the law of liberty is simply in Galatians it's referred to as the law of Christ, Galatians 1 through 3. Some people refer it to as the law of the gospel. In other words When I accept, I'm a guilty sinner, I've broken God's law. When I accept Jesus as my Savior, God's law of holiness, as I'm referring to it Is now fulfilled. The condemnation, the judgment has been met by the Lord Jesus Christ. The requirements have all been met. The righteousness has been put to my account of Jesus Christ. Now I'm completely righteous with Jesus. Okay And so I'm under the law, I accept Jesus Christ, that's all fulfilled. Now I'm under the law of liberty. The law of liberty. Now, what is that law? That law is simply this. Because I've been set free from the law of holiness. Now I have, I want to say, obligation to live for God because I've been forgiven. You follow what I'm saying? The law of Christ. It's not a condemnation anymore, but now I'm free to live for the Lord Jesus Christ. Now I'm free to obey him and serve him, and I don't have this fear of judgment over me anymore. It's a law of liberty. Jesus fulfilled the other law. Now I'm free. Here's what some people misunderstand. They say, oh, the law of liberty, that means once I'm saved, I can do whatever I want. I'm free to sin. Because Jesus is already punished for my sin. Listen, that is a total perversion of what God's grace and forgiveness is Now I'm not free to sin as a Christian. I'm free from sin as a Christian. How many folks here would testify, and we don't want to know the details, but how many folks here would testify uh particularly probably older ones, uh that when you got saved, there were some sins uh that were true in your life, but when you got saved, the Lord set you free from them. Anyone can testify to that? I can. Many of you can That's liberty. God has set me free from that sin that dominated me, that I was under the judgment. And because he's done that, now I want to live for him. I want to please him. He has shown me grace. It's free from the fear of uh of uh God's judgment anymore. That's gone. I can lay my head at night if I messed up during the day and somehow by the way Christians still sin. Right? But here's the difference. We don't want to anymore. Let me let me ask you this. How many folks here after you got saved, you said or did something, you knew it wasn't right, and afterward you felt terrible and you say, Boy, I wish I hadn't done that. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Anybody here ever get a temptation to do something you know it's wrong and the whole time you're thinking, man, there's a temptation here and you're saying, you know, I don't want to do that. I don't want to do that. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And God sets us free from that. We don't want that. There's been a change that has taken place. So he mentions here, he references the law of liberty God's law has been fulfilled, every part of it by the Lord Jesus Christ. I've accepted him. I'm no longer under the law of condemnation, the the law of God's holiness as I refer. Now I'm under the law of liberty. Because he has done that, I want to live for him. I want to please him in your life in my life. Now what does that have to do with the rich and poor folk, how they're being treated? Well let's look at the verse again So speak ye, and so do ye, as they that shall be judged by the law of liberty. Now, there's an important word here, I think. That little word, so So speak ye, so do. In other words, in such a way Talk there's such a way you should talk as a Christian. There's a certain way that you should behave as a Christian, a certain manner Ought to be characteristic of how I talk and how I live my life. God is very much concerned with what we say and do. Can I get agreement on that? There's something, hey, there's some things a Christian ought not to say. Amen or not There's some words Christians just ought not to use. And I just grimace sometimes when I hear Christians talking, and the words sometimes come out of their mouth, and I thought, that ought not to be. Christians shouldn't talk that way. Get back to our bill uh brother Jimmy Jimmy Rhodes. You're better than that. We can talk. We don't need to use crude language. You don't need to use crude slang. Our words should be pure and good and right. And so there's some things Christian ought to done, but God's concerned about what we say and what we do. But not only that, this verse tells me God's concerned how we say it So speak in such a manner. So do not just what we say and do, but how we go about doing it. Is very, very important to the Lord. Our words and our actions reflect upon God's character and reflect upon God's actions. How I talk to somebody, how I interact with somebody, is a reflection, as a child of God, it's a reflection of my Heavenly Father. And somebody knows me to be a Christian. And they hear me talk in a certain way, and they see me act in a certain way. They come to a conclusion about my God. And he says, listen, so speak and so do as those that are now under the law of liberty. You've been forgiven of your sin. Your judgment has been removed. You're now free to live for God. Your speech and your behavior ought to reflect the fact that God has saved you and forgiven you. God has shown you mercy and grace. And how you talk and how you act should reflect the fact that God has been gracious and merciful to me. That is what he's saying. Now these rich folk come in, these Christians get all excited. Did you see the millionaire of Ephesus is in church today? Oh my word, let's give them front-throw seats. Let's get in the Lazy boy recliner. Anybody got some iced tea? We'll make sure he has that. Did you see those poor folk live under the bridge down by the River Tigris? Uh they came in and those poor people. They don't have nothing. They stink Good heavens, stick them back in the nursery, put them in the closet somewhere. We want them out there, they'll scare off the rich folk. Now, by them talking that way and acting that way, what were they saying to people about God? They were communicating to people that God respects some people and not others. That God loves wealthy people more than he loves poor people. That God is more gracious to wealthy people than he is And he says that's not the law of liberty. The law of liberty, God will forgive anybody. God's gracious and merciful to everybody. And you ought to talk and you ought to behave in such a way That it reflects God's grace and mercy expressed in the law of liberty. Our words and our actions reflect upon God's character By being partial to people, these believers were inaccurately representing God's grace and mercy. Our treatment of other people. Now here's my application. How you and I treat other people, how we talk to and about other people, ought to reflect God's grace and mercy that He has shown us. I wonder how many, you know, the Bible's, the Bible condemns gossip. How many people knew that? The Bible condemns gossip. Proverbs tells us that gossip hurts people deeply And when we get with someone else and we talk critically and hatefully and and judgmentally of other people behind their back What am I communicating to the person I'm talking about? About God's grace and mercy. I'm violating it. I'm staining it. I'm twisting it. And we ought not to do that. Our interaction with other people, our statement of, regardless of their financial standing Hey, I think we all understand this. The richest person in Garrett County and the poorest person in Garrett County have access to the same seats in Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church as anybody else In fact, there's been many times over the years, and that stirs my heart, many times over the years, and I know some situations where one person is extremely wealthy and they're sitting right beside another person Maybe came on a bus and had doesn't even own a car, it's very, very poor, and they sit there and uh and they just rejoice and praise God and love the Lord together. And that's the way it ought to be Our treatment of others, regardless of their financial standing, regardless of their skin color, it ought to be the same way. A person comes in with purple skin, they ought not to have to sit in a certain area or anything. They have equal access to any pew, any ministry, all that as anybody else. Amen or not To me, the difference in color of their skin shouldn't be any difference in the color of their hair. Well, all the red-haired people have to sit over here. And all the bald people, they get up front front row seats, preferential treatment Why do we just pick the skin color? Why don't we go with hair color? Why don't we go with the color of their teeth? You know, why don't we just pick the skin? In other words, he's saying, listen, you're better than that. God doesn't treat people partially. He's been very gracious, been very merciful to you. You ought to be the same way to others because how you talk and how you act is a reflection On your heavenly Father and what the world sees and understands him to be. And then last of all, I notice the precedent that's established, and I'll end with this. Verse 13. Verse 12. So speak ye, so do ye. They that shall be judged by the law of liberty. God saved you, He's given you the gospel. You're now in the law of Christ. Love is your love. Love like Christ does. Be merciful, just like Christ is left for you. Why? Verse thirteen, for he shall have judgment without mercy that hath shown no mercy And mercy rejoiceth against judgment. You know what he's saying? He's saying, if you're going to be unmerciful, to people, then God says, I'll be unmerciful to you when judgment day comes. Ah, Matthew, I wanted to turn there. We don't have time, but Matthew chapter seven Verse 1 through 5, he says, judge not that you be not judged, for with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured unto you. Now he's not telling you there we shouldn't use discernment, we shouldn't make judgment on types of things. The Bible tells us other places that we're to use wise judgment. But what he is saying there is, I need, I must not hold others to a higher standard than what I hold myself to. And God is going to hold me accountable to the standard that I hold others to. If having a certain amount of money is what requ is what's necessary for to be accepted in the church, then God says, all right, I'm going to hold you that same type of standard. I'm going to hold you that same thing. Matthew 5, 7. I like Psalms 18. 25. With the merciful, thou wilt show thyself merciful. How many folks here appreciate God's mercy? You know what mercy is? Mercy is not getting what I do deserve. God, how many folks here would say, preacher, God has been incredibly merciful to me? If you're saved, you know exactly what I'm talking about. And if you've been saved any length of time, you appreciate that statement more and more and more all the time. God is merciful. Now, because of that, we ought to be merciful to others. We have some folks come in, young man comes in here, and uh he's a little rough around the edges In his appearance, in his behavior. I tell you what, God loves him just as much as he loves the best Christian in this church. Jesus Christ had as much blood for that guy as he did for the best Christian walking on this floor. You follow what I'm saying? Now it doesn't mean you just let anything go. It doesn't mean, oh yeah, everything's fine, but it does mean this. We're not partial in our value of other people. Sometimes we have folks come in and they're just, the best way I know how to say it, they're just rough around the edges a little bit. You know, if the truth were known, we're all pretty rough around the edges. I don't think there's one of us would like for all the secrets of our life to be shown up on that screen next Sunday morning. I don't think there's one of us would want that to happen. You know why? Because we need God to be merciful to us. And that same law that we are living under, the law of liberty, of God's mercy and grace, liberating us from the judgment. We ought to extend that to others. And that is what the church here was not doing. And he's rebuking them for that. And he says that ought not to be. We must get away, I like this statement, we must get away from valuing people by how much they benefit us. We've got to get away with that. We need to value people by how God values them. Let me ask you this. What does the richest of us have anything to offer God that would benefit him in any way? Nothing. God doesn't need us We have nothing to make God richer. I have nothing to offer God to make him richer or more well off. Good night. He owns everything I have in the first place. So why would I value other people? And yet God loves me so much. He died for me. So I need to look at others. That person may have nothing to offer me of any benefit to me personally in any way, shape, or form. But I ought to be gracious and merciful to them because that's exactly what God has done to me. The wall of liberty God has shown it to us and we express it to others. Let's pray together. Father, I ask that you would help us We don't condone people's sin. We don't condone ungodly lifestyles, but Lord, we do understand that you love people. And you're kind and you're merciful. And I pray you'd help us as a church. And Lord, I believe to some extent we do this. But we need to be careful and we need to grow. And I ask you would help us. to be kind and gracious and merciful regardless of some of these other factors. Our heads bowed eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, that's my desire in this coming year To be a nice, gracious, kind Christian. That I not only say and do the right things, but I say and do them in the right way. So speak. So do. How many how many are like like me and you say that is my heart's desire to be a kind, gracious, merciful Christian. God bless you. Would there happen to be someone here tonight saying, Preacher, I'm not sure, I'm saved I know I've sinned. I've broken God's law. If I die now, I'm not sure I'd go to heaven. You're concerned about that. I'm telling you, God loves you, and He'll save you just like He'd save anybody else. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me too. I'd like to know that my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven And uh I need God to help me. Father in heaven, bless our invitation. As we give the altar call, I pray you start our hearts to humble ourselves before you and just to ask you to fill us and that the fruit of the Spirit Would be true in our lives this coming year in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Kathy, play a few verses of invitation. Maybe