Galatians chapter 5 verse 22. We're into this several weeks now, several messages, into this fruit of the Holy Spirit. Verse 22 says this, but the fruit of the Spirit, notice the capital S on there. We'll touch on that. Is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, Meekness, temperance. Against such there is no law. The fruit of the Holy Spirit. What the Holy Spirit will produce in my life if I just let him So let's pray and look at this long-suffering subject here, this fruit. Father, I ask now you bless as we look into this important passage in the life of us as believers. And I ask, Holy Spirit, I ask, dear Lord, that your Holy Spirit, who dwells within me right now, is in me. I yield myself to you and Him, and I pray that He would fill me. And God, that He would take your word and speak through me to our hearts that we could experience and have this fruit produced in our lives, and all the fruit listed here. And so I yield my mind over to you, Lord, and you would lead my thinking and my speaking and change us. Help us to be spiritual. God, help us to be mature. And a good testimony for you in this whole world. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We've been emphasizing the fact that the Holy Spirit indwells every believer. If we trust Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, whenever that point is, that moment that we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, the Holy Spirit of God takes up residence. How many folks here? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. One thing you never ever ever have to do. You do not have to ask God to give you the Holy Spirit. You already have Him. He's dwelling within us. And so what does the Holy Spirit do? Once I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, I recognize myself as a sinner. I believe Jesus died for my sins, was buried, rose again I call on him. I trust him to come in my heart and life. Forgive me all my sins. Save me. Give me eternal life. Gives me a new life When I do that, the Spirit of God moves in. And here's some things the Spirit of God does in the life of the believer. Number one, he secures my salvation Now, some people take issue with this, but I'll say very humbly, very sincerely, they're wrong. When a person trusts Jesus Christ as Savior, I cannot lose my salvation. The Holy Spirit of God seals that. And we see that in the book of Ephesians and a number of other places. And so one of the great ministries of the Holy Spirit in my life, in my body right now is that he keeps me saved. He secures that salvation. It cannot be lost. I cannot do anything to forfeit my salvation. The Holy Spirit keeps me saved. Now it's up to me whether I accept Christ or not. I can't save myself, but I can choose to let Christ save me. And once I do that, now I'm in His hands, secured by the Holy Spirit. Another thing the Holy Spirit does, another ministry of the Holy Spirit in my life, He empowers my witness. And we talked about this often, but in Acts 1. 8, and ye shall receive power after the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses. Here's the great thing about witnessing, and we emphasize soul winning and sharing your faith and telling others, giving the gospel to others. We emphasize that a lot. But here's the thing: I can't save that other person. I can't do that. All I can do is tell them of the gospel of Jesus Christ, what Jesus Christ did for them. I can tell them their responsibility to call on the Lord and trust Him as their Savior, but the Holy Spirit of God takes that witness and he empowers it in their life. He brings conviction and brings them to the point of salvation. I had the idea for years early in my Christian life that I had to get this person saved. I had to give the right illustrations. I had to have the right emphasis. And if they didn't get saved when I went some way, I failed somewhere. And along the way I learned, wait a minute, it's the Holy Spirit of God that empowers my witness I just give them the gospel. And God and the Holy Spirit does this work. So he seals us, he secures our salvation, he empowers our witness. The Holy Spirit directs our life The moment I trust Christ the Savior, the Spirit of God moves in my life and He begins working in my life and directing me. He will convict me when I get out of the will of God. How many people know what I'm talking about? I'm saved and I get out of the will of God. Maybe I drift. Maybe I get a little negligent in my walk with the Lord. Maybe I get enticed by something that I know is not God's will, and I choose to get engage in that, whatever it may be. The moment I get out of the will of God, the Holy Spirit of God within me starts working, starts working, starts working, convicting me Man, I feel miserable, I feel guilty, I feel ashamed, I know I'm not right, and he's convicting me, he's chastening me until I come back, and then the sweet peace of God comes back again when I'm back in the will of God. You know what I'm talking about? The Holy Spirit. And He encourages us. Anybody here ever get discouraged in your walk with the Lord? Man, alive. It's ongoing. And I read my Bible and the Holy Spirit will pull out verses and he'll assure me that God still loves me. He'll assure me that God's working in my life. He assures me that God has a plan and a purpose. He assures me that God can take things that I consider to be terrible and God can turn that around and still bring good out of that. Anybody know what I'm talking about? The encouragement of the Holy Spirit in my life, in my heart. He reassures me it's okay. God's still on his throne. Everything's all right in my Father's house. And uh he comforts us when we greet our good friend, Brother Carl Savage, his wife Sharon, passed away here a month or so ago is at the funeral I was talking to Carl. One of the first things he said is that Pastor, I can't explain the peace of God that's down in my heart and soul. I said, Carl, that's the Holy Spirit comforting you. That's the Holy Spirit giving you peace. And so the Holy Spirit comforts us when we grieve. He encourages us when we're discouraged. He convicts us when we get out of the way. And then what we're looking at here is the Holy Spirit enables us to be the people we ought to be. It says here in our text, it says the fruit of the Holy Spirit. Then he gives this list of nine qualities that the Holy Spirit will produce in our life. Nine characteristics. And if we look at these lists very carefully, look at these characteristics, we see These are characteristics of none other than the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. Jesus Christ, love, joy, peace, long-suffering, generous. You come down through here. And I believe what we're being told here in this passage of Scripture that you and I as believers, if we will let the Holy Spirit do what he intends and desires to do in our life He will produce in us these characteristics of the Lord Jesus Christ. We pointed this out. I know I'm a little repetitious in our in our introductions But if you remember in Acts, the Pharisees took note of Peter and John. They took note of them that they had been with Jesus. You know what that was? That was the Holy Spirit in them producing these qualities, these characteristics of the Lord Jesus. And they saw Peter and John, and they said, those fellas remind us of Jesus Christ. There's something about them. Not in their appearance, not physically appearance, but in their character, in their interaction, their countenance and their behavior. uh and these qualities that were evident in their life. That's what the Holy Spirit will do for you and I. They were called Christians first at Antioch. the unsaved world would laugh at these believers, say, oh, look at them. They're just like little Jesus is. They're little Christ. Oh look at them. Little Jesus is running all around. You know why Because they were filled with the Spirit and the characteristic of Jesus Christ was evident in their life. And they were making fun of them, but the believers, as we've repeated numerous times, the believers embraced that. They said, Yes, thank you. That's what we want. We want the Spirit of God to produce characteristics of Jesus Christ. Wouldn't it be something if people we work with our neighbors, maybe we have unsafe family members, and they come and say, you know There's something about you that makes me think of Jesus Christ. Wouldn't that be a wonderful thing? That's what the Holy Spirit wants to do in us. These characteristics of Christ. John the Baptist put it this way: He must increase, but I must decrease. I don't want them to see me, my nastiness that's worked of my flesh. I don't want them to see that. I want them to see Christ in me I want the whole and that's what the Holy Spirit does. People can see Christ in me. And so he comes down this list. We've already looked at the first three. There's Three sets of three, as we pointed out. The first three were love, joy, and peace. These had to do with the compassion of God. The compassion that Jesus Christ displayed here on earth, the Holy Spirit produces that, a love for others, a love for God. A genuine, unconditional, unselfish love for others. And then a joy, the joy of the Lord that's not dependent on circumstances, but what God puts in my heart A joy that is independent of my health, independent of my financial status, independent of my circumstances, independent whether I'm in America or Pakistan or wherever I may be. that joy that swells up from within. The Holy Spirit gives us that. Love, joy, peace, the peace of God. A settled calm in our hearts. So you have these three that show the compassion of Christ. Then you have the second set of three, love, joy, peace, then you have long-suffering. gentleness and goodness. This has to do with my conduct with other people. The first was just compassion in my heart. The second is how I interact with people, other people. I'm long-suffering with them. I'm gentle with them. I'm good to them And then the last three, faith, meekness, temperance, that has to do with my character, what I am as a person, and my standing before God, faith in God. And uh meek before God and temperate, disciplined. It has to do with my character. So he mentions this fourth one is what we're looking at. Long suffering. Long suffering. That was a characteristic of our Lord Jesus, and to be honest with you, it's a characteristic of God. Take time and go to these passages, but uh we'll not. But we might want to jot them down. It would be a good study. Exodus chapter 34, verse 5 and 6. In fact, I have it marked here. Let me just read it to you Exodus chapter 34, verse 5 and 6 says this. He says, And the Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him, Moses, there, and proclaimed the name of the Lord. Now listen to what it says. about our God. Our Lord. It says, the Lord passed by before him and proclaimed, the Lord, the Lord God. Merciful and gracious, listen to this, long-suffering, and abundant in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands. Forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. Man, I don't know about you. I say, praise the Lord, amen, right there. God is long suffering with us. Over in Numbers chapter 14, verse 18, he says, the Lord is long suffering and of great mercy. Forgiving iniquity and transgression and by no means clearing the guilty. And then we could go on to Psalms 86, verse 15, Romans chapter 2, verse 3 and 4. And all through Scripture it says over and over and over. That God is long-suffering. He's gentle. He's merciful. And He wants you and I to be that exact same way. Now here's my question to myself and all of us. Is there anybody in our family that would look at me or you Is there anybody in our family or our neighbors, co-workers, that would say, that Christian lady right there, she is very long-suffering. That Christian man, he's a long son. That's a characteristic of God, and the Holy Spirit wants to produce that in my life Along with all this other fruit. Long suffering. So three thoughts real quick. Number one, an explanation of what long suffering is. Now, there are some versions of the Bible that will replace the word long-suffering here in our text and some other places. They'll replace the word long-suffering with the word patience. Now, I believe they're wrong, because there is a difference between being long-suffering and being patient Now it's not a major difference. In fact, a lot of times the two words overlap and they're used interchangeably, but there is a difference between the two. And if you study how they're used in Scripture, you can see that difference. And so they make a mistake. These other versions make a mistake when they change these words in the Bible. Did you get that? They make a mistake when they change the words in the Bible. And so, what is the difference between being long-suffering and being patient? Now, again, it may be some subtle differences. They overlap a lot, they are used interchangeably. But the word long-suffering has this idea. I hope you'll get this. It means to suffer long. I mean people are glad you came to church, found that out, praise the Lord, figure that out. It means this: to suffer, get this, to suffer a long time without reaction. There you go. In other words, I don't react to something that may be in and of itself very irritating, very frustrating. But I suffer it. I don't react. It has the idea to be slow to anger. It has the idea of taking a long time to get irritated. It has the idea to remain calm when things are not going the way I intend for them to go. Things are not going on the schedule I would want them to, or the way I would want them to. And here's something I've noticed that is different between patience and long-suffering, and we'll define patience here in a bit. But long-suffering, get this, and it it's interesting that it's part of the fruit of the Spirit here. Long-suffering has primarily to do with my endurance, my calmness with other people. Anybody here uh have uh know anybody that gets on your nerves? I mean besides the preacher, um point at grandma, huh? The idea of long suffering means when there's somebody that's very irritating, they're doing me wrong, they're frustrating me, I'm getting aggravated. The fruit of the Holy Spirit of long suffering enables me. To remain calm and not react. Not get worked up. Not fret to use the Bible term as to how they're behaving and what they're doing and the way they're talking or what they're saying. I don't get I remain calm. And don't react to it. That's the idea behind long-suffering. To be gracious. In the presence of people who are not gracious, to be very kind Be very gracious when when people are doing things that it would be easy to respond in an unkind way. Would you agree with me? That goes against the grain of the flesh. Right or wrong? Flesh doesn't want to react that way. But the Holy Spirit of God, if I'll let him He'll enable me. He'll give me that fruit to remain calm. And I won't react. Now patience, on the other hand, again, they're used interchangeably. They're very, very similar. But there's slight differences here. The word patience has the idea of enduring a difficulty. I'm going through a hard time. I'm going through a trial. And patience, if I'm being patient, if I have patience, I will remain steadfast in the midst of trials. In other words, things are going wrong and circumstances aren't the way I want them to be, and it's making it hard for me. But I don't quit And I endure that and I stay true and I stay at it. James 1:12 puts it this way: Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. The word temptation has the idea of trials, difficulties. Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. When he's tried, he will receive the crown of light. That word endure has the idea of being patient. I don't quit. I don't veer off. I stay the course He's like, preacher, I'm going through a hard time. You don't know how difficult it seems like all my circumstances, everything's against me. But patience Says, I'm just going to stay on. I'm just going to keep my routine. I'm going to stay faithful to the Lord. I'm going to stay true to God. I'm just going to stay on That's patience. Long suffering has to do uh a little bit more so with people And being gracious and calm and kind to people, where patience has to do with enduring circumstances and situations I put it this way, longsuffering has to do pretty much with graciousness, whereas patience has more to do with grit. I just stick it in there. I'm going to stick in there. I'm not going to quit. I'm staying at it. And so patience and long-suffering, again, they're very, very similar. Here's the thing I found interesting as I studied the Bible on this. Both of them include the idea of anticipation. Idea of anticipating God bringing something good out of this situation, out of this person's actions. If I'll trust him, if I'll be gracious, if I'll mean steadfast and don't quit, just stay the course Be very, very gracious, regardless of what they're saying or doing, regardless of how people are acting, regardless of how difficult my circumstances are. I just remain gracious, I remain true, I remain steadfast. And out of that I anticipate God bringing something good. Listen to James chapter 1, verse 2. He says, My brethren, count it all joy. When you fall into diverse temptations, again, the word temptations there means trials and difficulties Count it all joy. How many people here, you naturally get very, very joyful when everything goes wrong in your day? No But the Holy Spirit is in me. And the Holy Spirit, if I let him, will produce this fruit in me. And I can have joy if I'm patient. He says, he goes on, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, anticipating this That the trying of your faith worketh patience. And let patience have its perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. In other words God allows us to go into difficult circumstances, difficult trials, and we should anticipate, even have joy. Anticipating, God is going to use this to help me grow and be more like Christ. God is going to use this to enable me to be a more effective witness, to be a stronger disciple, to be a better person. God will use this if I just be patient. Let patience have its perfect work. So it has the idea of anticipation, something good. God bringing something good out of this Again, in Hebrews 12, verse 2, it says that Jesus Christ, for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross. Would you agree with me? Mankind treated Jesus terribly at the cross leading up to it. But if you'll pay very, very close attention to how Jesus responded to what the Roman soldiers and the Jews and the population was doing to him, I mean violence, blasphemy, reviling him. And you pay close attention how he responded to them. And it was with grace. It was with kindness. Father, forgive them. They don't know what they do. Would you agree? Gracious. That's long suffering. And he did that, the Bible says, for the joy that was set before him, anticipating that out of all of this rejection, out of all of this violence and abuse, That God was going to bring out a way for mankind to be saved. The greatest gift ever available. And he went through that to make it possible. So, understanding what long suffering is, it's the ability, the supernatural ability by the Holy Spirit of God within me to enable me To be gracious when things are so frustrating. Enable me to stay the course and not quit when everything's going wrong around me. To be kind when people are unkind, to be true when everybody's lying. To be able to say, Father, forgive them. And no what they do. So an explanation of this long-suffering, the Spirit of God enables me to do this. And then the activation of this long-suffering, you say, preacher, I don't know where in the world you go to get that. I mean, is there a seminar somewhere I go to? I can learn to be have this long-suffering? Is there some pill I can take? Is there a book I read? Where do I get this ability from? Here's the thing, and we've been emphasizing this. If we know Jesus Christ as Savior, that characteristic, that quality, that ability to be long-suffering is already in us It's there in the person of the Holy Spirit. And what I do, I don't have to go somewhere to get it. I don't have to pay somebody to train me. I don't have to work up some sort of manipulation to make it true in my life. All I got to do is get out of the way of the Holy Spirit. And that long-suffering is activated in my life. It's already there. A little child that knows Jesus Christ as Savior can be long-suffering. The Holy Spirit enabled. A teenager, a middle aged, uh folks that aren't teenagers or middle aged. Um Can have that. You know, sometimes the older I now I'm getting up there, so alright. So I'm I'm including myself. Sometimes we get older, it's easy if we're not careful, we can get grouchy Come on now. Don't point at grandma. But you know, even a grouchy old man Can be long-suffering. Even uh, no, there aren't any grouchy old ladies, but um uh a grouchy old man can still have the qualities of Jesus Christ Doesn't matter our background, doesn't matter our financials, doesn't matter what our parents were, doesn't matter what we grew up in, doesn't matter, doesn't matter. If I'm saved, the Holy Spirit is in me, I can have this fruit in my life. What I got to do is just activate it. I just got to do what I got to do to activate it. We already have it in us. What we need to do is this, and it's the concept is very simple. It's not easy to always play out, but the concept itself is very simple. I just need to let the Holy Spirit have his way in my life. I just need to, and we reference this, I need to die to self. I need to mortify the deeds of the flesh. I just need to get my will. Jesus prayed this prayer in the garden, not my will. But thy will be done. I get myself out of the way. And the Holy Spirit does this. The Holy Spirit does it. Um look here. Are you back in Galatians? Look here. at uh verse number 19. Here's a contrast. He talks about the works of the flesh. And look at this ugly, ugly list of what my sinful nature produces, what naturally happens. Without the spirit of God in my life. Adultery, fornication, uncleanness. That's moral uncleanness. Lasciviousness is lawlessness. Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred Variance, that means fussing and fighting. Emulations, that means strongly envying other people. Wrath, strife. Seditions, not getting along with people, dividing up, I'm not talking to them, I'm not going to talk to her. Heresies, envyings, murders. Drunkenness, revelings, that's carrying on like a banshee Indian. This whole list. And if we look at these very carefully, you know what? Almost every one of them is rooted in self-will. Almost every one of them, get this, is rooted in impatience. It doesn't go the way I want it to, so I'm at strife with them. I'm not willing to wait on God as a uh uh a single person, individual. I'm not willing to wait on God and wait for a spouse to engage in intimacy. I'm not gonna wait. I get impatient. Almost every one of those characteristics of the flesh is rooted in impatience. Hatred? Is rooted in not being long-suffering. Self-will. I want to suggest to you that self-will is the basis of all irritation Self-will is the basis of all impatience. My unwillingness to be long-suffering other is rooted in self-will. They are not the way I want. This is not going the way I want. And I get frustrated, I get aggravated, I get angry, I get I hate them, fight with them. And so what I gotta do is don't let that flesh Control me and die to self and say, Holy Spirit of God, I just yield myself for you. What do you want me to do? What do I do? And get myself out of the way. And the Holy Spirit does this Would you agree with me? That concept is pretty simple to understand. Just get my flesh out of the way. Just get my self-will out of the way. But would you agree with me? That's not always easy to carry out. One of the hardest things to do is to die to self. One of the greatest challenges in the Christian life is to mortify myself, not I. But Christ liveth in me. And that's where the challenge comes. And so the activation of the Holy Spirit. And then last of all, the anticipation. As I'm studying this, I'm coming to this conclusion. Longsuffering is a form of optimism. Hey, I can wait on God. I can be gracious. God's in control. God has a plan. God allows this. And God allowed these people to be this way. And God allowed these disappointments. And God allowed these trials and these hardships. I can be long-suffering, I can be gracious because I anticipate God is doing something in my life. I'm optimistic that God has a plan on the other side. God has something He's accomplishing. I want to remind you tonight, God is good. Now either that's true or it isn't. And if it's true, and I'm convinced it is, then whatever God allows in my life, I can be long-suffering. Whatever God allows people to treat me, however it is, I may not like it, my flesh will bristle, but I die to self and say, Lord, I'm just going to be gracious. I anticipate, I'm optimistic, Lord, that you have a plan and you have something you're doing here. To be calm and composed when dealing with difficult people or circumstances. To be good-natured and gracious when there's delays or somebody's incompetent and it's frustrating me, and yet I can still be gracious. It means I anticipate a greater good as a result of me being calm and gracious. And when I long-suffering, then God can work something out good. I put this down, I'll end with this. The fruit of long-suffering is the divine ability to be calm and And be gracious so that God can work out his plan and his purpose and his goals. For what he allowed to come in my life. Do you get you follow what I what I'm saying? If I if I stiffen up, say, uh And I react in kind. I get angry and I strife and I hate them and I lash out and I speak hateful. I murder them, maybe not physically, but in my heart Then I'm stifling God's plan. I'm squelching God's purposes. I die to self, let the Holy Spirit fill me. That love, that joy, that peace is there Long-suffering, and then God can work something out. Amen? Let's pray. Father, I ask you to take this truth in Scripture. I pray you'd challenge us And God, it's easy for me to get up here and talk this, and I know the concept is simple, I believe, for us to grasp. But Lord, the ability, the willingness, the motive to do, to die to self And let you have your way sometimes is challenging. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, there's some say, preacher I want the Holy Spirit of God to bear the fruit in my life. I don't want to live in the flesh. I don't want to live By what I do. I want supernatural fruit of God in my any like that, my hands raised, that's what I want. I prayed, preparing this. Oh God, help me to die to self, get myself out of the way I wonder if there's some here tonight say, preacher, I'm going through a challenging time. Maybe I'm tempted to quit, tempted to give up. And tonight you say, preacher, by faith I'm not going to quit. I'm going to be patient, I'm going to stay true, I'm going to stay the course, and just anticipate God doing There's some here tonight say, preacher, by God's grace, I am not going to quit. I'm going to stay at it. Anything like that by the uplift of the hand? God bless you. That's patience. Somebody's treating you unkind. You say I'm going to be gracious, bad. We don't have to compromise. We don't have to do wrong, but we don't have to be unkind. We can be long-suffering One last question. Is there someone here tonight say, preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die my sins are forgiven. I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that Jesus has forgiven me and saved me, and I need that settled in my heart and life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I want to get that settled. I need to get that settled. Any at all I've never trusted Christ, I need to get that settled. Father, I ask you bless now our imitation in Jesus' name.