The book of Judges tonight. Let's give you a little bit of background to the passage of Scripture. It's always best if we know the background of the passage of Scripture. As you get to Judges chapter, before you get to Judges chapter sixteen, the nation of Israel has been going through this this pattern uh this pattern throughout the book of Judges. They would Follow after false gods, they would get away from the Lord, and every man the the the phrase is that every man would do that which was right in his own eyes And that God would raise up an oppressor, starting with the Moabites and all the way through the book. And finally, after a few years of being under the oppressor, the children of Israel would get right with God and make all kinds of promises that they turned back to him. God would defeat the oppressor and the children of Israel would be on their own again just long enough for them to come to the conclusion that they every man wanted to do that which was right in his own eyes. And so this process has been going on through the entire book At the time when you get to John Judges chapter 16, the Philistines are the ones that are oppressing the children of Israel. Zero's in in the 14th chapter, in the thirteenth chapter, I believe, with a man by the name of Manoah We don't know Manoah's wife's name. As a matter of fact, there's only one woman in the life of this character whose name we know. Out of all the people he knew, only one woman's name is revealed in the Word of God They don't have any children. They've been praying for children. His wife is barren. But one day she's out in the field and she's working and the angel of the Lord appears unto her and says, Listen, you're going to have a baby. It's going to be a boy He's going to be a Nazarite from the time of his birth. He's not going to touch a dead body. He's not going to drink of the fruit of the vine, and he's not going to cut his hair. And the Lord and the angel said, the Lord is going to use him to bring about the beginning of the end of the oppression of the Philistines. She runs and tells Manoah, she said, You won't believe what just happened. An angel just told me, I'm going to have a son, he's going to be a Nazarite, not going to cut his hair, not going to drink the fruit of the vine, and not going to touch a dead body, and the Lord's going to use him to bring about the beginning of the end of the oppression of the Philistines. And her husband said, Well, I need more information than that. I don't know about you, but if you're in my family, you if you want to get the actual information, you want to get everything right, you better talk to my wife. She notices every little detail. We've been driving away from a church and she'll say, Oh, Mrs. So-and-so said something to you. And I'm like Who's Mrs. So and so? And she begins to describe, well she was the one that had the beautiful diamond ring. I didn't notice the diamond ring. Oh she had these great little earrings I didn't notice any earrings. Oh, and she had this beautiful bracelet. And you wouldn't believe the outfit she wore and those shoes are so great. And on and on she goes, and I'm like, I don't know who you're talking about. She says, Oh, the lady with the big mole on her cheek. Ah That's the one thing I noticed. That's the way I am. You want to get the details, you better check with Mrs. Harper, not Brother Harper. And so, but in this case, Manoa says, Well, I need more details. So the next day The angel appears unto Manoah's wife again. She runs and gets Manoah. She says, You got to talk to my husband. And Manoah comes over and he starts asking questions, and the angel won't answer any questions He asked, he asked the angel what's his name, and he says, Why would I tell you my name, seeing it's a secret? They, by the way, you know they have a son, and by now you figured out what his name is. His name is Samson And Samson has a problem. Samson has fallen in love with a woman of Timnath. At that time, Timnath was either the second or the third largest city in the Philistine Empire. And he's fallen in love with a Philistine girl. His parents literally asked him, hey, isn't there one girl among God's people that you can fall in love with? And he goes, Oh no, mama, I love her. He decides it's time to ask her to marry him. He goes and stops by Jared. He goes all the way up on his way up to propose and on his way, you know the Story, a lion jumps out to attack him, and Samson grabs the lion and rips him in twain from his t head to his tail, down the middle like that That's powerful. They angel the Spirit of the Lord came upon him and he rips the lion in half and throws his carcass on the side of the road. He goes on up to Timnath and he gets down on one knee and he opens up that little box and he says, Will you marry me? And she says, Yes. And then Samson did what I think is one of the smartest things he did in his whole life. After he proposed, he got out of town Here's the thing. I learned this when I was getting married. A man gets a wife. A woman gets a wedding. They don't really need a husband. They just need somebody who looks good in a tuxedo that makes the wedding look good. That's all they really need. And the truth is, I would go to my wife and I I would say, because she'd been planning her wedding since she was like one, I think. Her first word was mama, her second word was daddy, her third word was baby a wedding coordinator, okay? And so she's planned this whole wedding and everything like that And I would say, Hey, sweetheart, why don't we have Donnie Donnie sing at our wedding? And my wife would go like this every time I would make a suggestion. She would go, Oh I f I finally learned to re to know that that meant, no, it's my wedding. You don't get to say anything. I'm gonna act like I appreciate your uh your suggestion. But I really don't. There's no way it's going anywhere past this conversation. So Samson has left town. He doesn't care whether there's a unity candle, whether there's a a uh a cloth a uh cloth down the middle of the aisle that the bride can walk on. He doesn't care if they have fuchsia colored puffy swing uh sleeves on their uh bridesmaids dresses. He doesn't care what color the tuxedos are. He doesn't want to do any wedding planning at all Every little girl pictures that day when she gets married. That's the day no matter what your background is from, she is a princess. Everybody has their eyes on her. That's why she comes down the aisle. The groom comes out of a little room on the side, he's in the baptistry changing room when he comes out. That's how it works. Samson left He's coming back for the wedding. When he comes back for the wedding, he sees the lion on the side of the road, and there's honey in the mouth of the lion, and he eats the honey. Then he goes up to the three-day wedding feast before the wedding He starts to talk to all the Philistines. First off, Samson's going down a pretty rapid descent, is he not? First, his eyes wandered toward the Philistines. Secondly, he fell in love with the Philistines. Now he's associating with Phil The Philistines. These are the people that he's supposed to be bringing about the beginning of the end of their oppression. While he's there with them, he starts to gamble with the Philistines Dr. Smith did not set me up for this on purpose, and I'm not following up because he said this. Understand, it was no more right for Samson to gamble with the Philistines than it is for you to buy a lottery ticket. Samson makes them a wager. He offers them a riddle. The riddle is this out of the eater came forth meat, and out of the strong came forth sweetness. He said, You solve that riddle in within the three days, and I'll give each of you a brand new change of clothes. If you don't I'm going to get a whole new wardrobe because each one of you are going to give me a brand new change of clothes. The men try for a couple days, they can't solve the riddle, so they go to Samson's fiancee and they said, Hey, uh We need the secret to Samson's riddle. She said, Well, I'm not going to tell you. I'm not going to betray my fiance. And then they say, Well, if you don't, we'll burn your daddy's house to the ground. She said, I'll be right back She went and she asked Samson, what's this secret to the riddle? And Samson basically says, Why would I tell you, you're going to tell everybody? Samson is the quintessential male chauvinist in this passage of Scripture Finally, he relents. She does something that is so diabolical. Ladies, I'm going to talk to you for just a second. I want you to know how evil this is. She does something that is so diabolical that no male, no scientist, no muscle bodybuilder has ever been able to overcome. You can have an argument with your wife, and you can have a stack of encyclopedias this tall. You can have Google on your side. You can have NASA scientists that tell you that you are 100% right. But if she starts to cry. Hang it up, you lost. Just go ahead and apologize. She started to cry. She not only started to cry, gentlemen, I want you to know how mean this woman is She didn't just cry, she said this. You just don't love me. Poor Samson This is this mighty man that just ripped a lion in half. He says, All right, I'll tell you the secret to the riddle. What could be stronger than a lion? What could be sweeter than honey? She runs to the Philistines Tells them what could be stronger than a lion, what could be sweeter than honey. The Philistines smugly come to Samson and say, What could be stronger than a lion? What could be sweeter than honey? And then Samson said some words that to the best of my knowledge have never been immortalized in a Hallmark card. He said, you wouldn't have figured it out if you hadn't plowed with my heifer. Now guys, I'm going to help you here. Whether you're married for fifty years, whether you're getting ready to get married, whether you just have a girlfriend, maybe you're praying for a girlfriend someday, I'm gonna help you right here. There is no context at all whereby you can say that your wife is a big fat cow and she's gonna take it as a compliment You wouldn't have figured it out if you had not plowed with my heifer. My wife and I were driving down the road, we're pulling our trailer behind us, and I said something. We're just having a conversation, a normal conversation. And I said, an old term that I've known all of my life. I said, well, you're ignoring the elephant that is in the room. Which means, as far as the argument goes, you're ignoring the most obvious of things. You can't ignore an elephant in the room We drive along and the conversation is ended. It's nothing but silence in the seat beside of me. I'm driving down the road with a big old trailer behind me. All of a sudden I start hearing whimpering in my seat and I look over and my wife is in full blown tears. I said, What's wrong? She said Well you just called me an elephant. No, I didn't. To this day, every time someone uses that phrase, if it's in a sermon, if it's on a TV show, if it's on the newscaster, whatever it is, I'm like, see, I told you. Samson then goes out and murders the Philistines necessary to pay off his gambling debt. Watch this His eyes wandered to the to Timnach to the Philistines. He fell in love with the Tim uh the Philistines. He's fellowshipping with the Philistines. He's gambling with the Philistines, And now he's murdering Philistines to pay his gambling debt I wonder which one of these groups of people sound like the people of God, Samson or the Philistines that he murdered. You start wondering, you start turning your eyes in the wrong direction. The slope is so slippery you won't realize that you're at the bottom of it before until it's too late. Samson's Samson uh kills the Philistines and then he leaves After he leaves, he decides after being gone for a little while that he's going to come back and visit his little fiance. He still wants to be married. He knocks on his father-in-law's door His father in law says, Samson, it's so nice to see you. What are you doing here? He said, Well he said, Well, I came to get my wife, and the the father-in-law says, Listen, you were gone. The only thing we were missing was the groom We had everything else. We had the uh the aisle cloth, we had the unity candle, we had the the puffy uh fuchsia uh bridesmaid uh dresses, and we had all the trucks already went in. We went ahead and had a marriage. The only thing we were missing was the groom, and we can pick anybody to be groom. He said, Your own familiar friend. In other words, your best man married your fiance And then he says something that no man should ever say. He said, but by the way, I got a younger daughter, and she's a lot prettier than her older sister. Samson didn't like that either. Samson went out, remember what he did? He caught uh three hundred foxes, he tied their tails together. Think about the strength and the speed and the dexterity It would think to k it take to catch those foxes with your bare hands and then hold them down while you tie their tails together. I'm wondering if you're tying their tails together, why aren't they biting you? You need both hands to tie But anyway, and then he sticks firebrands between their tails, sends them running all around Timnath, they burn everything to the ground. The Philistines aren't happy with that, so they come to kill Samson Remember the story? Only weapon he can find is a jawbone of a donkey, and he used that jawbone of an ass to kill one thousand Philistines. At the end of that great victory, though, Samson says to the Lord Well, I won this great victory for you. Now you're gonna let me die of thirst, and God sends water out of the jaw burn bone. Next time we see Samson, he is carrying the gates of the city to the top of a mountain to hide the fact that he's been with the wrong kind of woman the night before. The next time we meet Samson, we meet the only woman in his life whose name we know. Her name is Delilah They have a typical 2025 relationship. He is lying to her and she's trying to betray him She finally asked him, Samson, what's the secret to your strength? And Samson says, Well, if you bind me fast with new ropes that had never been dried, I'll lose my strength He falls asleep, she binds him fast with seven new ropes that have never been tried. She wakes him up, says Samson, the Philistines are upon him, upon us, and he breaks the ropes like a thread Sam she says, Samson, you lied to me. What's the secret to your strength? He said, Well, I'm sorry, the first one was green widths, the second one is with the new ropes. She wakes him up again. Samson, you're bound with new ropes. Get up, it's time to Philistines are here, and he rips them apart and goes out to battle. Then she says, Samson, seriously, you're lying to me. What's the secret of your strength? He said, well if you weave the seven locks of my hair in a web, I'll lose my strength. By the way Does it not strike anyone as odd that Samson is the soundest sleeper in the history of mankind? He wakes up and his hair is braided into a web She says, Samson the Philistines are here, and he gets up to go and fight the Philistines. Then Delilah uses a weapon. It's a weapon that women have that men c talk about And women will never admit that they have ever used in their entire life. Think about this for just a second. When we traveled in a trailer, I have a tendency to kick my shoes off and leave them in the middle of the floor And my wife would say to me, Sweetheart, see in a trailer, if everything is put away, you have plenty of room. If you have a couple things in the floor, you don't have any room. My wife would say, Sweetheart, would you mind picking up your shoes? And I would say, Yes, honey, I'll get them Then she would say, You know those shoes are still on the floor. Yeah, I know, I'll get 'em. I don't know why those shoes are still on the floor. I've asked you twice to get those shoes out of the floor. Yes, I know, I'll get them. By the way, ladies, I'm gonna tell you something. If a man tells you he's going to do something, he's gonna do it. You don't need to remind him every three months about it. She would then say this, Well, you just don't respect me, or you'd pick your shoes up. You don't know how hard I worked keep this trailer clean and you just put your shoes in the middle of the floor and I can't get you to pick them up. And please pick your shoes up. Would you please pick your shoes up? Pick your shoes up. I would I'd appreciate it if you'd pick your shoes up. Every man in the room, if you're brave enough and probably not sitting with your wife, what would you say my wife was doing to me? Thank you. Some of you are brave. Some of you are sitting there beside your wife and say, I want to say nagging, but she's sitting there and I'm not going to do it. Now, women, is she nagging me or is she reminding me? See, a woman will never admit that she's ever nagged in her entire life. Every man thinks that anytime they tell us something twice that they're nagging. Isn't that the way we are? There are two verses in the Bible about nagging. Did you know that? One is this. It is better to dwell in the corner of a rooftop than in a wide house with a contentious woman. But the other is right here in this story. In Judges chapter 16 and verse 16, Delilah says this, and it came to pass as she pressed him Daily with her words, and urged him so that his soul was vexed unto death. That's nagging guys. Your wife has never nagged you like that. He stole his vexed unto death. Samson finally says, Alright Cut my hair. I'll break my vow to God and I'll lose my strength. He falls asleep. She sends for a barber of the Philistines. He cuts Samson's hair. She says, Samson, the Philistines are here. And Samson doesn't even realize that the Lord's gone. His life goes completely downhill, doesn't it? They take Samson, they take him and they hit some red-hot pokers up and they poke out Samson's eyes After they do that, they take him down to Gaza and they put him in the prison house to grind. That's a job that's usually done by oxen or donkeys. It's not a job done by people, but Samson is grinding in the prison house. And it is obvious from the text of Scripture that where he's doing this, people can walk by and watch Samson be grinding in the prison house. The Philistines decide to have a celebration. They're going to bring all the lords of the Philistines there to Gaza. They're going to have this big time of drinking and celebrating and becoming merry, and they're going to worship their God Dagon. They're going to sing songs like Thank you, Dagon, for saving our soul. Thank you, Dagon, for making us whole. They're going to say things like this, our God They said this, uh Dagon has delivered into our hands our enemy, which just killed many of us. They're going to say, our God is better than Samson's God Can you imagine at that point in Samson's life, think about this statement, he has brought more glory to Dagon than he ever brought to Jehovah He's judged Israel for 20 years at the apparent end of his 20 years of ministry, very end of his 20 years of being a judge. Dagon is getting worship, Dagon is getting praise, the Philistines are happy, they're rejoicing, their hearts are merry, and then one of them says, Hey, you know it'd be funny, go get the blind guy out of the prison so we can laugh at him. They bring Samson out to make sport in front of them. They watch, they laugh, and they rejoice. And Samson, can you imagine this once great warrior asked the thirteen or fourteen-year-old boy that's leading him by the hand, let me fill the middle pillars. Now, while Samson's standing between those two middle pillars, he's going to do something that in the text of Scripture he's only done one other time. After Samson killed the thousand and said to the Lord, You're going to let me die of thirst, that's the only time in recorded scripture until the last moments before he died that Samson ever prayed. I want you to see this last prayer of Samson. I want you to go someplace with me. Let's just assume that all of us had gotten a promotion. And we're all in heaven and we're all there standing around the throne. And someone has given us one of those little devices that they use on some of those shows where you can vote whether something's going to happen and something's not going to happen. Let me ask you this. I wonder how many of us would vote for the Lord to answer Samson's prayer. Wonder how many of us would say, yeah, that's a good one, Lord. You go ahead and do that. I dare say you're probably going to be like me. If I had the choice, I wouldn't have answered one single prayer that Samson offered up. Look at Judges chapter 16. We're going to be beginning reading in verse 22. Judges chapter 16 and verse 22. And the Bible says this. How be it there? Let's read verse 21. But the Philistines took him and put out his eyes, brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with feathers of brass, and he did grind in the prison house. Howbeit the hair of his head began to grow again after he was shaven. Then the lords of the Philistines gathered them together for to offer a great sacrifice and a dagon their God. And to rejoice, for they said, Our God hath delivered in our hand, that's delivered champs and our enemy into our hand. When the people saw him, they praised their God. For they said, Our God hath delivered our hands, our enemy, and the destroyer of our country, which slew many of us. And came to pass when their hearts were merry That they said, Call for Sampson, he may make break make us sport, and they called for Samson out of the prison house and he made them sport. They set him between the pillars. Samson said unto the lad that held him by the hand, Suffer me that I may feel the mill uh the pillars whereupon the house standeth, that I may lean upon them Now the house was full of men and women, and all the lords of the Philistines were there, and there were upon the roof about three thousand men and women that beheld while Samson made sport. That's what's on the roof. That doesn't count what's inside Samson called unto the Lord and said, Oh, Lord God, remember me. I pray thee only this once. O God, that I may uh uh uh and strengthen me, I pray thee, only this once. Let's read that again. O Lord God, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee, only this once, O God, that I may be at once avenged of the Philistines. for my two eyes. And Samson took hold of the two middle pillars upon which the house stood, and on which it was born it was borne up, of the one with his right hand, the other with his left. Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines And he bowed himself with all his might, and the house fell upon all the lords and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead which he slew at his death were more than they which he slew in his life. And his brethren and all the house of his father came down and took him and brought him up and buried him between Zora and Eshtol in the burying place of Manoah's father. And he judged Israel twenty years. I want to preach this message entitled The Last Prayer of Samson. Let's have a word of prayer together. Lord Heavenly Father, thank you for this evening. Thank you, Father, for showing us inside the home of the prodigal son. Thank you, Father, for the interesting message that we heard the first hour. And Lord, we ask now that you bless this message like you bless that one. That you'll have your will and way in every heart tonight, that we'll see this failure of a warrior Reach success. Father, have your will and way in our hearts tonight. In Jesus' name. Amen. I want you to notice the prayer. The first thing he says is this: Oh Lord God, number one, remember me Remember me. That's a funny thing, isn't it, that Samson would say it that way. Remember me? It's almost as if Samson thinks that God has forgotten about Samson That's not the case. God's not commanded to remember us. We're commanded to remember Him. Ecclesiastes chapter twelve and verse one. Remember now thy Creator, in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh. When thou shalt say I had no pleasure in them. Samson has gotten so far away from God that he thinks he has to reintroduce himself to the Lord. Samson has gotten so far away from the Lord that he thinks God has lost sight of him. Understand this, God never loses sight. God never forgets where you are. Hebrews chapter four and verse thirteen neither is there any creatures not manifest in his sight, but all things are naked and open unto the eyes of him with whom we have Job chapter 34 and verse 31. He knoweth all the ways of man. He knoweth his goings. Psalm one and verse six. The Lord knoweth The way of the righteous and the way of the ungodly shall perish. Proverbs chapter 15 and verse 3. The eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the good. Understand what I'm telling you. It's a scary thing to know that he's watching when we sin. It's an encouraging thing to know he's watching when we hurt Here is Samson standing between the two middle pillars. Here he is, blind, wasted, ruined, washed up and wasted and used up Here he is with no strength in his body, little hair on his head, no sight in his eyes, no nation to judge. Here he is as the prisoner, listening to the Philistines sing about praises to Dagon, three uh singing how Dagon has delivered God's choicest servant into their hand. This Israelite has killed so many of them. Look what Dagon has done. He's delivered into our hands our enemy. If you're standing around the throne And you're hearing the praises of Dagon rise up from the he up to the heavens. You're listening to them praise a false God while the servant of the true God is standing there wasted and used up. And Samson says, Hey, remember me? I would have given the dad answer. You know the dad answer. Son, you made this bed, you gotta make it you messed up this bed, you gotta make it yourself. You got into this mess, now you have to clean it up. That's our response, isn't it? Would you have said the Almighty God, you know, I really think you ought to remember him? Or would you have pointed out how the praises to Dagon are rising up? I'd have voted no. I'd have pushed the button. If I had seven votes, I'd have voted seven times no. Just let him die right there. He's useless. He's wasted. He's a nobody now. Maybe you would have voted no with me. But Samson wasn't praying to me. And he wasn't praying to you. He was praying to the gracious, the merciful, the forgiving, the second chance, the fifth chance. the 70th chance, the 490th chance, we were one with unlimited forgiveness at his disposal. He was Praying to that God. And God looked down from heaven and said, Samson, I never forgot you. I never stopped loving you. Even when you ran from me, I still loved you. You don't have to tell me to remember you. I'll always remember you. As bad as that is for Samson who has forgotten the Lord for so much of his life to ask the Lord to remember him, the next thing he asked is even worse. Number one was remember me. Number two was this, strengthen me. Really? Let's analyze Samson's strength for just a moment. Join me in going down a little history lesson with Samson, if you don't mind. Do you realize Samson never one time? has used the strength that God has given him solely for the glory of Almighty God. He kills the lion. Why? Self-preservation He murders the Philistines to pay his gambling debt. He catches the foxes and ties their tails together to get vengeance on his father-in-law. He defeats the thousand Philistines with the jawbone again out of self- preservation. He carries the gates of the city to the top of the mountain to take care of himself. Every time you see Samson using the strength that God has given him in recorded scripture, he has that selfish motivation each time. If I'm there in heaven and Samson says, Hey, remember me, I might say, all right, I'll vote to remember you. But strengthen you, why, Samson? Got more gambling debts to pay Right, Samson, you got more vengeance to meet out? More self-preservation to take care of. Not one time has Samson used his strength just to bring honor and glory to God. And now he says, when I've made a mess of it, I want strength again. Don't we do that, Christian? Now this is hard to say, but I want you to listen to me. How many times has every preacher seen someone at an old-fashioned altar Who raised their children in the wrong way, didn't bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, didn't bring them up in church, and they're at an altar begging God to give them their children back How many times have people wasted decades of their life not serving the Lord? And now they come to an altar and ask the Lord to give them some more years to serve the Lord. Isn't that what we do? We're constantly asking God to give us back. What he's already given us and we wasted. Isn't that what Samson is doing here? Oh, Samson should have asked for strength before, shouldn't he? should have asked for strength when his eyes wandered toward the women of Timnath, for his eyes wandered toward the Delilas of the world. That's when he should have asked for strength. The Lord will not suffer us to be tempted above that which we're able. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world, 1 John chapter 4 and verse 4. And that which is word of God overcometh the world. And this is the victory that overcometh the world. Even our faith, 1 John chapter 5 and 4 verse 4 Jameson should have said, Hey, Lord, help me! I'm looking the wrong direction. But he didn't. Now that he stands there with his eyes gone. With his strength gone, with his nation gone, with his judgeship gone. Now as he stands here bringing more glory today gone than he ever brought to Jehovah. As he stands here, wasted and washed up, blind and beaten and battered, used up and useless now. Now he has the audacity to say, hey Strengthen me. Again, that's an easy one for me, and maybe I'm more cold hearted than I should be. I would not have been a a person that would have approved Samson getting any more strength. All right, Lord, if you want to remember him, that's fine, but surely you're not going to give him more strength after the mess he's made out of everything. Lord, he's in this mess because he used the strength you gave him for the wrong things. Surely you're not going to give him more strength. I would have said no. But bless God, Samson wasn't praying to me. He wasn't praying to you, and he wasn't praying to anybody else in this auditorium. He was praying to the merciful gracious, forgiving, loving, long-suffering, faithful, forgiving God. And God said, Samson, my strength is available for thee. Notice number one. He said, Lord God, remember me, I pray thee. And strengthen me, I pray thee. And then he says this. Now we're going to get into some theological weeds right here just for a second, so bear with me. Then he says that I may be a once at at once avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes. Let me ask you this deep theological question. Did the Philistines really take Samson's eyes? Let me ask it this way. Could the Philistines have taken Samson's eyes without God allowing it? God allowed it. Satan couldn't touch Job without permission from Almighty God. And now Samson says, number three, avenge me, Lord, do you see what they did? They put my eyes out. I'm going to warn you about something, Christian. Once again, there's some hard parts of this message, hard parts to the life of Samson. Those things that we refuse to surrender to Almighty God, he has a tendency oftentimes to take away. Samson never surrendered his eyes to Almighty God, and now God has removed them out of his head. Or he's allowed the Philistines to remove them out of his head. Oh, Samson should have prayed for vengeance earlier. Remember what the Lord said in Exodus chapter 17: Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord. At least Samson's right when he asked the Lord to avenge him for his two eyes. Here Samson stands blind because God had to remove his eyes out of his head. And Samson saw God more clearly after his eyes were taken out. than he ever saw him when he had two eyes. When Samson had two eyes, everything else distracted him. Everything else pulled him away from the Lord. But now that Samson's eyes are gone, Samson's focus is only on the Lord. It's now only the second time that he's prayed. This time there's nothing selfish about the prayer. He's going to tell us what he's really praying here in just a moment. He says, I want to be avenged, Lord, because I want you to win the victory Now here, Samson, avenge me. Avenge me. Christian, isn't that what we do though? When the Lord finally takes something that we refuse to give him out of our lives? We blame him. Well, I don't know why the Lord did that to me. I know why He did it to you. You wouldn't surrender it. Those things that we hold on to and we think, I love this so much, I'm not going to give it to Almighty God. Please be careful, it's his in the first place. And when he takes it from you, that's when you're going to get mad at him. Samson says, Avenge me. If I got the vote, I'd have said no. I mean, Lord, the reason that he needs vengeance is because he's gotten himself in this mess. Lord, you allowed him to take they allowed them to take his eyes. By the way, follow this simple thing in in in Scripture. God certainly allowed people to oppress Israel and to uh martyr crit martyr Christians and things like that throughout history. But he never allowed him to get by with it. God's judgment is going to come down on these Philistines. We know that. But Samson says, Lord God, avenge me. Would you have voted yes? Would you have voted yes while you're listening to the Philistines in their drunken stupor praising Dagon? Our God hath delivered our enemy into our hands, which slew many of us Our God has defeated their God. The best one they had, our God be him. Ha! Would you have been willing to answer Samson's prayers? Well, if you have stood there on the portals of heaven and said, Yeah, that's a good idea, I'd have voted no. Every single time. I don't know that there's anything that Samson offers that I would have said yes about. I would have said no But as I've said a couple of times already, Samson wasn't praying to me. He wasn't praying to you. An Almighty God was just standing there on the precipice of heaven Basking in the words of a backslidden servant coming back. Yeah, I'll remember you. I never forgot you. My strength is always there. And vengeance is mine, saith the Lord. I might have allowed them to take your eyes. But I'm not going to allow him to get by with it. Oh, the Philistines didn't wait till God fell asleep and then take Samson's eyes. They didn't wait until he was distracted. It is obvious that God had to allow them to do that Notice number one, strengthen me. Remember me, I pray thee. And strengthen me, I pray thee, and avenge me, I pray thee. Then Samson says something that is completely out of his twenty-year of judging Israel character. Skip down. Now he's reached out. He's touching the two middle pillars upon which the house stood, upon which it was born up. And Samson said, verse 30, let me die with the Philistines. Did you notice that? He doesn't say, Lord, can you kill these Philistines so I can go home? He doesn't say, Lord, I sure would like to just walk right out of here. Can you just distract them so I can leave? Learn, whatever you do to these Philistines, at least I want you to take care of me. That's not what he says. By the way, did you notice that about Samson's prayer? We can learn a lot from Samson's prayer, can we not? Watch this. Who's going to kill the Philistines? Let me die with the Philistines? Who's going to kill the Philistines? Is there an Israeli army getting ready to attack here in Gaza? No Samson's not sure he has any strength that God's going to even answer his prayer. But you know what? The reason Samson knows that God's going to kill the Philistines is because Samson asked him to You want to talk about praying with faith. Samson didn't do it much, but he did it right when he did it. Lord says, I already asked you to avenge me of the Philistines. Let me die with them. Let me die right here, Lord, if it means I have to die at the bottom of this building for you to get the victory, here Lord. Take me. Take me. I'm all yours, Lord. I don't want anything else but for you to be victorious. I want to fulfill what you told my mom I was gonna do. I want to bring about the beginning of the end of the oppression. I want to do with my dying breath what I've been called to do for my entire life. I've gotten away, I've gone the wrong direction, I focused on the wrong things, but now here at these last moments, I'm coming back. Here, take me. Nobody Launch defective merchandise. If I were the Lord, I'd have said, no. I'm going to go find someone else. Surely there's a 20-year-old back there in Israel that I can put my power on him and he can step out and leave the children of Israel Remember one time my dad was in the, for some that would understand this, when my dad was in the pre-Reagan military, we we were poor. I got three presents for Christmas one year. Opened up two of them. They were broken. My third present was a 500-piece jigstall puzzle. That's the lamest present you can give any kid. I'm sorry. You're a 500-piece puzzle, that means I'm not little, so I'm doing one of those little twelve piece puzzles that little babies play with. I'm I'm in I'm I'm almost a teenager and they're buying me a 500 piece puzzle. It's the only thing I had. Everything else was broken. So I sat down at the dining room table. I started putting this 500-piece ginsaw puzzle together, there were 232 pieces in the box. Everything I got that year was defective. You know what we did the next day? We took them all back Nobody wants defective merchandise. If I'm looking down, all right, Samson, I'll even give you some strength, but I don't want you. Samson doesn't have anything to offer. Isn't what the devil tells you, by the way? You're sitting here and you're a few years old. You're not a teenager. What I don't know why it is we act like only eight through eight through seventeen year olds can surrender their life to the Lord. I don't know where we came up with that idea. You're sitting there and you're saying, Well, I don't have much time to give the Lord. I'm I'm a little bit older now. You got more time than Samson has. I don't have very many talents to give the Lord. You got more talents than Samson has. You got more ability than Samson has. See, you've got something to offer God that the most talented, the most wealthy, and the most intellectual person could never give him. You We're all quick to surrender someone else. I'll be quick to tell you, I'm willing to give the Lord all of your money. I'm willing to give him all of your time and all of your possessions, but when it comes here, that's when it becomes hard, isn't it? See, I'd have been looking for someone else. I mean, there's a whole nation of Israel Surely there's someone that I can call to be separated from me and go and serve me and finally defeat these Philistines. I wouldn't have wanted Samson. But Samson says, here Lord, I'm all yours. Let me die with the Philistines that you're going to kill here in just a minute. And Almighty God says, that's all I ever wanted from you, Samson. See, this is what we do. We would look there if we had two choices. We had a twenty-year younger Samson on this side with his eyes and uh i i whether you believe he had muscles or anything like that or whether it was a uh just a a scrawny little fellow with the power of God on him. However I know we draw him with all these muscles. He might not have been that. On this side we got twenty year younger Samson. On this side we have bound in feathers of brass Grinding in the prison house, Samson, with his eyes plugged out, with his hair gone, with no strength in his body, no sight in his eyes. And you and I have the choice We can pick one of these two to lead the children of Israel to victory. Which one are we going to pick? The old blind guy, or we're going to choose the young guy that's got so much potential and so much virility. We're all going to choose him But he wasn't surrendered. He is Wherever you are in your Christian life, it's time for us to say, Lord, let me die in the Philistine with the Philistines. I am tired of being so self-centered and thinking about myself before you. Lord, I'll die right here if it means you get the victory. He said, number four, Lord, take me. But lastly, you know what happens? Samson pushes the two middle pillars. The house fell on all the lords that were therein. And your Bible probably says that 3,000 are killed on this day. That's not even remotely accurate. It's 3,000 that were on the roof, and it fell upon all the Lords that were inside as well. Thousands upon thousands have died right here. Samson dies. His family comes and digs his body out of the rubble. Take him and bury him in Eshtol in the burying place of Manoah's father. And that's the tragic end to Samson. Or is it? There are no extra words in the Word of God. God doesn't just throw things in there and say, oh, they'll like this. Won't you notice what it says, please? Verse 30, Samson said, Let me die. With the Philistines. And he bowed himself with all his might. And the house fell upon the lords, upon all the people that were therein. Now look at this phrase. So the dead Which she slew at his death were more than they which she slew in his life Number five, Lord reward me. Watch me now very carefully. We have this Samson, young, virile, vibrant. We have this Samson, old, wasted, washed up, used up and useless and blind and battered and beaten. This Samson for twenty years has judged the nation of Israel. For twenty years has done feats of strength and exploits, even though he did many of them, all of them with the wrong motivation. He shielded all of those great stories that we know about. And you and I will sit here and we'll say things like this Boy, if Samson had just surrendered twenty years before, how many chapter In our Bible, would be about the exploits of Samson. How long would he have been judging Israel in peace after he defeated the Philistines? Oh, we have all those what-if questions. Here's the question that's not a what-if question God took this Samson, who surrendered less than five minutes ago. God took this Samson and used him. Do you know what that phrase? So the dead which he slew in his death were more than he slew the which he slew in his life. You know what it means? That God was able to use This surrendered, broken, beaten, battered, blinded Samson more in five minutes than he was able to use the young viral vibrant Samson in twenty years. In other words, you have five minutes of surrender to God, you're going to accomplish more than twenty years of half-hearted surrender. You have five minutes of giving God everything, you're going to be etching your name in history. What I'm saying, it's time for God's people to say, All right, Lord, I don't want anything for me anymore. I want to die with the Philistines. I want to die on this battle. I want to give it all right here. And you say, but Brother Harper, I should have done that when I was fifteen. I should have done it when I was twenty-five. Samson didn't do it when he was fifteen. Samson didn't do it when he was twenty-five. But God still used him. He used this Samson more than he ever used this Samson. Add it all up. Add the dead lion. Add the thousand Philistines with the jawbone. Add the gambling debt sacrifices or murders. Add all of that up together. Five minutes. Five minutes of surrender Samson did more than all of that combined. You don't let the devil tell you that your best days have passed. Samson's best days, we would have all agreed. Samson's best days were over. When they put out his eyes, when they bound him with feathers of grass brass, when they made him grind in the prison house, we would all have said, well Samson's gone. But not God. God said I can use him right there. All God has ever needed, listen to this statement. All God has ever needed. is a surrendered vessel. That's all he've he's ever asked you to do. He doesn't ask you to write music like Brother Fox. He doesn't ask you to pastor like Pastor Letherman. He doesn't ask you to run the sword of the Lord like Dr. Smith. He doesn't ask you for that He just wants you to be the most surrendered you that you can possibly be. And if you will, it is God Himself who adds this phrase here, isn't it? Just in case you didn't know how powerful I am with a surrendered servant, let me add this in the book of Judges, he says. The dead which he slew in his death Five minutes or more than they which he slew in his life. That's what kind of God we serve. And that's all he wants from me and you. Every one of us would have chosen this Samson over this one. Oh, Brother Harper, what would have happened if this Samson was surrendered? I don't know. But I know what God did with this Samson. Don't you think that there was joy in the heart of the Lord? As he squelched, completely stopped, the singing of praise Dagon, from whom all blessings flow As he smiled upon Samson, as Samson fulfilled everything that the Lord had called him to do. And he literally fulfilled it in the last five minutes of his life. What we need is some Samsons. Brother Harper, wait, I'm way too old to serve the Lord. Nope. That's a lie of the devil right there I'm way too old to be used. I'm way too old to be of any value. Don't you let him tell you that, because it's just not true. If he can use that broken Bound up, blinded Samson, standing between those pillars, he can use every single one of us in this auditorium. It's just whether we're going to ever say Take me. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes, no one looking around. Every head bowed, every eye closed, no one looking around. Just a few moments, I'll give a signal to the pianist and she'll begin to play. But for right now, it's just us. On this Monday night I'm going to ask this question, although I pretty much know the answer just from yesterday and from so many people standing up in the ministry. But how many would say by the harper tonight? I know I'm saved. I know if I were to die today to die today Heaven is my home. Would you slip your hand up, please, all over the auditorium? Let the redeemed of the Lord say, So me at the redeemed in the hand of the enemy. Thank you so much. You may put your hands down Now you're a Christian in this auditorium. How many would say, Brother Harper, I don't know how much time I got left? I don't know what talents I have. I don't know what abilities I really have. I can't list one thing. But what I do want the Lord to know is I'm willing to give it all. Every bit of it to Him. Would you slip your hand up, please, all over the auditorium? Hold them up high in the air Thank you, Mr. Put your hands down. Just a moment, we're going to have an invitation. We're going to invite you to step out of your seat, invite you to step to an old-fashioned altar. Samson spoke up, didn't he? Stood up and stepped out. As you're sitting here, it's your opportunity during this invitation to do the same thing. Don't stay there if God wants you up here. Lord, we thank you for this evening. Lord, we thank you for our time once again in your house. Thank you for the privilege of opening up your word. Now Father, please bless this time of invitation, help us to do what you would have us to do tonight in Jesus' name. With your head still bowed, I still