And we'll be done this verse in two or three weeks. The verse. Uh 1 Thessalonians, or I'm sorry, 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, verse 7. And uh I'm gonna go ahead and read verses 7 through 10 because they make up one Thought, train of thought there. But uh we're stuck on verse 7. Notice what the Bible says. And to you who are troubled, rest with us. When the Lord Jesus Christ shall be revealed from heaven with his holy angels, with his mighty angels, in flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power, when he shall come to be glorified in his saints, and to be admired in all them that believe, because our testimony among you was believed in that day. It's talking about flaming fire here, about being uh everlasting destruction, and basically God's judgment on those who were persecuting the Thessalonians and all those that oppose the gospel. So let's have a word of prayer and uh we'll pick up the A few more words in verse 7. Father, bless our study in your word tonight. Fill me, I plead with you, with your Holy Spirit, and speak through me. Challenge us, Lord, in our Christian life, and help us, Lord, to have a correct perspective on this old world And on the future and on and your involvement in our lives. And help us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. The Thessalonians were under intense persecution. We've been seeing that as their influence increased, so did their persecution. And by the way, that's a principle that's been true all through the ages. It's true in this day and age. Um we had our teacher meeting w uh Sunday evening and God has been blessing our bus ministry, our Sunday school and children's church ministry tremendously. Classes are grown, we're breaking attendance records, the buses are running consistently full. And I told him Sunday night I said uh we better brace ourselves because any time our influence increases The opposition from the devil is going to increase also. And uh we found that to be true. I would believe that, not it uh I would believe that even if the Bible didn't teach it, I would believe that just by experience And so that was the case here with the Thessalonians. Apparently, as we pointed out last week, this intense opposition to them trying to live for God By the way, let me ask you this. Let's bring it home and make it a little personal. How many folks here, you have ever, in your efforts to try and live for God, and you know, we're not saying we're anything super special But just in your efforts to live for God, somebody uh opposed that and try and try to minimize your influence for the Lord and tried to discourage you from living with God. Anybody ever experienced that? Sure. It's part of the Christian life. All that live godly in Christ Jesus shall what? Suffer persecution, he says that. So they were facing it in Thessalonica, and um it was getting to some of them Do you remember there in verse 7 it says, And to you who are troubled, some apparently were uh it was getting to them, and uh they were getting troubled. We said last week that the word for trouble there is our word for what? Anybody remember? From last week? Uh what? Stressed. I mean people now remember that How many people remember coming to church last Wednesday night? Okay, good. That's about five people remembered being here. Praise the Lord Uh uh they were being stressed. The word troubled means press down. It means uh to have a lot of weight down on you. It's uh the idea we have of being stressed And it was getting to him. And he says, Rest with us. So his first instruction to them was to rest. And we said the word rest simply means to relax. Just relax. Now he's given them why they should relax. It's not just this idea. You ever hear that old song, I don't like it, I think it's dumb. I've only ever heard it in McDonald's, I think. But uh it says, Don't worry, be happy. Anybody ever hear that song? You want me to sing it? I'm not going to. Um Sandy's singing it right there. I so anyway. Um That's not the idea behind him telling them to relax. It's not just, oh, listen, don't worry, be happy. It's not at all. He's giving them some solid reason. And that brings us to my second point. The first point was in verse number seven Uh they were instructed to rest. And we looked at that last week. Now he says to them in the second part of verse 7, the reason they shouldn't be so stressed out, the reason they should just relax And trust God in this thing is because, number two, of the revelation of the Lord. Look at the last part of verse 7. You who are troubled, rest with us when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels. And then he goes on and gives a little more verse eight in flaming fire, taking vengeance on them. Now, how many folks here have ever heard preaching on the second coming of Jesus? Sure, if you've been around here any length of time, I trust you have or at least had it referenced. Um if you've been in a Bible you cannot believe the Bible is God's word and not come to the conclusion Jesus is coming back again I don't see how you can possibly do that. So for you and I, the second coming is a familiar truth. Am I right? Would you agree with me? How many people are familiar with the term rapture? Sure. How many of you are familiar with the term tribulation period? Sure. Second Advent. All these things. Millennium. We could just go through it. Bat of Armageddon, all these types of things. the the um uh antichrist, the abomination and desolation, all these things are all deal with prophetic events. You and I are very familiar with them In fact, it just so happens that the spring semester of Bible Institute, we are studying the second coming of Jesus Christ. That would be a good class for everybody to get in, especially in the day and age we live, I believe. And so anyway, we're very familiar with it. For the believers at Thessalonica, they were not very familiar with it. When Paul is addressing, and remember in the first chapter, he in the first book that he wrote, in the first letter, he went in length about the rapture, because they were confused about it. They didn't understand Now he's coming in and he's dealing again. He's tying in with the fact that these people persecuting them, God's going to deal with them. He's tying into it another aspect of the second coming of Christ. And uh this is new information to them. Uh they didn't grow up hearing this. They didn't see uh uh remember that movie went around in Christ in churches, A Distant Thunder Anybody remember that in this in the rapture? That was a pretty graphic uh depiction of the rapture and people up behind you. They never saw all those things. And uh they didn't is that what it's called? Yeah. Don't quit second guess me, Carolyn. Uh okay. Uh oh So anyway, they're getting this, and this has a profound impact on them. They're being persecuted, they're being opposed, thrown in prison. I mean, it's intense. Some of them are getting pretty shook up. They're starting to doubt their faith maybe. They're getting all tense. They're biting each other's heads off. They're getting short. And Paul says, listen, you guys, this is getting to you. Just relax a little bit. Jesus coming back again. And uh, huh? And this was this is this is new information. They knew about the rapture and all this stuff. But now he's talking about the Lord being revealed from heaven and flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God. And uh Uh this is brand new and it has a profound impact on them. Here's the danger you and I live in, living in a day where we have so much Bible, we have Christian radio, we've got books, we've got classes, we've got institute, is we become uh we become indifferent. We hear it so much, we know so much about it, we just kind of tune it out. That's not the way they were. Uh when I was studying this, I was reminded when I worked in the meat packing plant, I just got saved. And uh shortly after I got saved, I got saved in May, it was that summer sometime, our church had a one-week-long prophecy conference And he had a guy come in, his name was Harold Estep. I have no idea who he was, I didn't know then. He just came in and he did this multimedia prophecy conference. It was the most amazing thing I'd ever seen in my life I never knew anything about the rapture and a second coming, and boy, he went into graphic detail and all this stuff. And I was so fascinated every day I'd come into work from the night before and I'd tell all those guys You will believe the Antichrist. And I tell them all about what I learned about the Antichrist. And they're like, yeah, whatever. And um and then uh the next day it'd be something else. Next day it'd be something else, and all week long I was just stirred up Well, that next Monday, we started work at 6 o'clock. We had to be there by 5. 30 or so, get our stuff on and everything. And we started cutting meat at 6 o'clock. Well, I had overslept that Monday. And so it was I woke up about six. I lived about three miles from work, so I jumped on, went flying down there, and I come running in about quarter after six, six or twenty after six And one of the guys, Jim, uh real tall guy, uh, he's there working away and they're going on, and I come flying out on the floor, and uh he looked at me and his face just was white as a ghost And he said, Oh He goes, Leatherman, I'm glad to see you. I said, I'm glad to see you, Jim, too, Jim. And uh he goes, I thought that rapture thing happened And he was lit he was scared to death that he was left behind and would have no chance to be saved and was going to go through the tribulation period. Everything I said was so brand new to him that it had a profound impact on him And that's the way it was, I believe, with these Thessalonians. Now look what he says here about this revelation from the Lord. Let's break this down. And he gets into it here a good bit in verse 8, 9, and 10. But verse 70 says, When the Lord Jesus shall be revealed, that word revealed is an important word. It simply means this, to make visible. Uh it it has this I uh if you hear this term, what do you think of? If you unveil something. Alright Sometimes they'll have a new car and they're coming out and they'll have it covered up. And we're going to have the unveiling of the new car. You know, something like that, or a statue. It simply means it's something that's there, but you can't see it And when it's revealed, it's unveiled, it now becomes visible. The idea was that it's been there all the time, but you just didn't see it. Can I suggest to you that because of the omnipresence of the Lord Jesus, he is here all the time, but the world can't see him? You and I can't see him with our eyeballs, but there's a day coming when he will be revealed in flaming fire with the holy angels. And so that's the idea here, unveiling, a making visible. It's the exact same word that's translated other places in the Bible, Revelation. The revelation of Jesus Christ. Exact same word. The revealing of Jesus Christ. The unveiling of Jesus Christ. And so it's translated Revelation twelve times in our Bible. So Jesus had, it's not that uh uh yeah you know it's not like Jesus isn't here. He said, Lo, I am with you always. He's omnipresent. We're in his presence at at uh any given time. We're in the presence of God. In the presence of Lord Jesus Christ is God But there's a day coming, as I said, that he will be revealed. Now I do not believe, as I study this, I do not believe he's talking about the rapture of the church at this point. Can anybody say why would this not be re uh referring to the rapture? Okay, that's one thing, and the raptor, uh, we're meeting them where? In the air. And this gives the implication he's coming all the way down. There's another very uh obvious factor here in my mind. Okay, he's coming with his mighty angels. At the rapture, will the world be able to see Jesus? No, he won't be visible at that point. We're buspoom, we're out of here. But at the second advent, he is visible there. The sky is going to open and clouds will be rolled back and he's going to enter. Now here's my question. Uh why? Now put it in context. Here's the Thessalonians. They're being persecuted. They're being thrown in jail. They're maybe some of them being killed. We're not told the extent of the persecution, but it's intense. It's getting to them. It's bothering them. It's hurting their Christian walk. It's hurting their fellowship because they're so stressed out by it. And he says, listen, don't be stressed out. Relax Jesus looks to me, if it was me writing the church, my church, I would have said, hey, the rapture is going to happen. Relax anytime now, the rapture is going to take place. But that's not what he says He bypasses the rapture and he goes all the way to the second advent. He said, The Lord's going to come back in flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God, and all of that. Now, why look to me like the rapture would be more of an encouragement to the believers than the Second Advent. Right? Anyone on the same page with me? Um humor me at least. That's my thinking. But what's he dealing with here? He's dealing with folks persecuting them. He's dealing with unbelievers. He's dealing with those that uh God is going to judge. He's talking about the judgment of God. And that, as far as the world concerned, takes place after the rapture. And so he's referencing the second advent here, I believe, when the persecutors will be dealt with. And that's his whole point he's making to him. Listen, uh, you know, and you could make the argument, well, we'll be raptured out of here and the persecutors get off scot-free. And you know, they just go, we're raptured, and they're left behind, and and they get all free. And it's like he's saying, oh no, no. God's going to judge them. They're going to be dealt with And so um uh so uh he had the revelation of Jesus Christ. Now I put four things down here real quickly uh on the revelation of Jesus Christ, what it's going to be. I recommend you jot these down, a fly leaf or somewhere in your Bible. The revelation of Jesus Christ, particularly the second advent, is going to number one be personal. It's going to be personal. Notice what it says here. When the Lord Jesus shall be revealed. Jesus himself is coming back. And that's something. I uh started to say this we were talking about Max B And uh we've been praying for Max. He's somebody that we're concerned about. I feel almost like we know him uh a little bit. We've just been so concerned for him and uh he goes to Sweden. I'm hoping maybe someday he'll come to the United States. If he does, I'm gonna try really, really hard to get him come through here and be at our church so we can meet him, he can meet us. And wouldn't that be something to meet him in person? I mean that would be something. Now wait a minute. Jesus Christ is coming back in person. It's going to be him. It's a personal return of the Lord Jesus Christ. John 14, 3, Jesus said, In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. And I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will what? Come again. I will come again. Jesus Christ is coming back personally. To planet Earth. And that's an amazing thing. Write this one down. Number one, his the revelation or the return of Christ is going to be personal. Number two, it's going to be perceivable. What I mean by that, it'll be visible. People will be able to see him at the second advent. Rapture, we're just going along, going about our thing, all of a sudden, poof, we're gone. Their clothes just fall down. And we're gone. Glorified body. Uh, false teeth, hmm, crowns, glasses, hearing aids, hmm. Just all false. Boom, we're out of here. Won't that be something? And you know what the world's gonna say? What in the world just happened? They're not going to see, they're not going to say. But at the second advent, the world's not going to say, what in the world just happened? They're going to see very clearly, very easily, it's going to be visible. Take your Bibles. And go with me to one of the neatest stories in the Bible, I think, Acts chapter 1. I love this. I was somebody who was there when this took place, had a video camera, and would have videotaped this. I would watch it every day. Acts chapter 1. I'll let you get there. And I'm going to start reading at verse 9. Okay. I wish they had cell phones with video cameras on them back then. It says he just gave them their final instructions, he gave them their their last order, you're gonna be witness of me, Jerusalem, Judea, all the world. Then verse 9. And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, look at this While they beheld, he was taken up and a cloud received him out of their sight. Now just picture this in your mind. They're outside of the city. They've been asking him about the second coming and he said uh that's none of your business basically verse seven because here's what your business is uh you be witnesses of me. Make sure you give them to all the world be a witness for me. And they're they're listening to him and said, okay, okay, we understand that. And then all of a sudden I picture in my mind It says there, uh while they beheld, while they're looking at him, listening to talk this, and he stops talking, and apparently they're just looking at him, and he stopped talking, he's standing there. And uh I picture it this way, right? This is Leatherman's imagination. But I picture it that while they're talking, there's this cloud forming up in the sky, way up above them, and they don't notice it And his cloud's just kind of forming there above him. And um and so he stops talking, he's just standing there listening, and he's waiting to be for the next event to take place. Well they don't know it's about to take place. They think he's maybe going to tell them some more stuff And so they're just looking at him. See what it says there? When he had spoken these things, while they beheld, while they're looking at him, he was taken up and a cloud received him out of their sight. Now I don't know how he was taken up. Was it or was it just you know and his feet they're standing there looking and suddenly his feet are going up and this cloud vakes and boom. That and I'm gonna give you a tell you why I think that's the way it happened. And so they're standing there wouldn't you love to have that on video? I'd put it on YouTube. And um so look at it says. And while uh and while they beheld, he was taken up, and a cloud received them out of their sight. And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven They haven't they don't say a word. They don't know what to say. They're trying to comprehend what in the world just happened. And while they uh look steadfastly toward heaven As he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel, which also said, Ye men of Galilee, I like this statement, why stand ye here gazing up into heaven? I would say, why do you think we're gazing up and did you see what just happened? And uh the word gazing there, did your um fellows, did your ever wife, did your wife ever say this to you Quit when you're driving, she says, quit gaulking. And he goes, ever s none of you, your wives, ever said that to you. None of you have enough guts to raise your hand to say, um, what do you mean by when you're gawking at something? That's the idea of this word here. They're just staring up into heaven. Uh uh ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gawking up into heaven? This same Jesus, now look what he tells us here. This same Jesus, the same one that went up, which is taken up for you from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go. So what is he saying? Did they see him take up into heaven? Yes. Was it visible? Yes. Is his second advent going to be visible? Yes. The same manner, in the same way. He was taking up you saw him go, he's going to come back. I put a list of things here beside about the second coming in my Bible. I put one, it will be unexpected Number two, it was it will be literal, it'll be visible, and it will be physical. That's what I learned from that one verse He physically went up, he visibly went up, he literally went up, and he unexpectedly went up. And they said in the same manner he's going to come back. So When he's telling the Thessalonians, he said, Jesus Christ is coming back again. It's him himself coming back. The world's gonna see 'em, it's going to be visible. Put this down, number three, it's going to be powerful. It's going to be powerful. You come back to 2 Thessalonians, he says, uh, when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels. That phrase mighty angels has the idea, the word mighty has the idea of a huge army. In fact, it's used in some places, the term there is used in other writings outside of Scripture to re to refer to an overwhelming force of soldiers. In other words, they got a little town they need to take and they send 20 times as many soldiers as they need to to overtake that town. It's an overwhelming force. These mighty angels And um so when he comes back at the second advent, it is going to be a powerful display of heavenly angels along with the Lord Jesus Christ It will be an overwhelming force. I got stirred up about that. And come with me, I want to show you another passage that's amazing. Revelation chapter 19. Revelation chapter 19. Here we have Revelation's account, John's account of the second advent of Christ, and he gives a much more detail. Revelation chapter 19 and begin reading in verse number 11. Let you find it there, last book of the Bible, towards the end of the book. Revelation 19, verse 11. John's here, he's seeing this vision, God's showing him. And in verse 11, he says, I saw heaven opened. And behold, a white horse, and he that sat upon him, was called faithful and true. And in righteousness doth he judge and make war. His eyes, now mark this, we're gonna go back and forth here, his eyes were as a flame of fire And on his head were many crowns, and he had a name written that no man knew but himself, and he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood And his name is called the Word of God. Now look at this. And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses. clothed in fine linen, white and clean, and out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the nations And he shall rule them with an rod of iron, and he treadeth the winepress of his fierceness and wrath of Almighty God, the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God. As he hath and he hath on his vesture, and on his thigh a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords And I saw an angel standing in the sun, and he crieth with a loud voice, saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven, come and gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great God That ye may eat the flesh of the kings, and the flesh of the captains, and the flesh of the mighty men, and the flesh of the horses, and of them that sit on them, and the flesh of all Free, both small and great, and I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered together to make war against him that sat on the horse and against his army And the beast was taken with him, and with him the false prophet that wrought miracles before him, and which uh w with which he deceived them, that had received the mark of the beast and them that worshipped his image, these both were cast alive into the lake of fire, burning with brimstone. And the remnant were slain with the sword of him that was upon the horse, which sword proceedeth out of his mouth and all the fowls were filled with their flesh. Does that not sound like an overwhelming display of force upon this earth? Good night. He'll be revealed with flaming fire with his mighty angels. And here you have a picture. When Jesus Christ comes back at the second advent, now don't confuse it with the rapture, it is going to be an overwhelming display of force. But notice how he destroys his enemies. Did you notice? A sword comes out of his mouth. You say, what in the world kind of weapon does he have? The sword of the Lord is what? The Word of God. Do you know what it's saying takes place here The armies of the world and the enemies of God, Jesus Christ is coming back with this overwhelming display of force, and he speaks a word, and the armies of the nations are decimated. And absolutely wiped down, he calls the birds in to have a feast to eat the dead bodies. All he does is speak a word And so when he comes back here and he says with his mighty angels, I think he's referencing the fact that Jesus Christ is going to come back in overwhelming power insurmountable power, indefensible power, uh man will not have any opportunity to oppose them. So the revelation Jesus Christ is going to be personal, it's going to be perceivable, it's going to be powerful. I got one more I put down here. It's going to be phenomenal. Look with me again at 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, verse 7. When the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels, and that one statement can uh uh uh capsulizes awesome event. Then he says in verse 7, in flaming fire Taking vengeance on them that know not God. On flaming in flaming fire. What I mean by his coming is going to be phenomenal. By that I mean it's going to be spectacular Now that phrase flaming fire caught my attention. That was interesting. And so I got looking up words and how they're used and the idea behind it. It sounds redundant, doesn't it? Did anybody ever see a fire that didn't have any flames? You know, flaming fire, that sounds a little bit redundant. Of course, if there's fire, there's flames. But it's but this is what it's saying. Flaming fire, the idea of spectacular flashes is the idea. It's not just an ongoing, it's more like a uh one of the references used, that term was used to describe lightning. Flaming fire. It's just fire that boom! And boom! The interesting thing, when you come back to Revelation chapter 19. And verse 12, it says, his eyes were flames of fire. If you get your strongs out, that is the exact same phrase in both of those. His eyes are flashing fire. I mean, uh Paul uh John had no other words to describe it. Of course, God's uh moving them here, but his eyes were flames of fire with these flashing fires. I don't know. This is the way I picture it. This is speculation, alright? But this is the way I picture it. I picture Jesus Christ. Would you agree with me? Jesus Christ is the most powerful force in existence. No doubt about it. Omnipotent. Both physical and spiritual world, he is the most powerful force. Now, this may be silly, but this is the way, as I study this, this is the way I picture it in my mind. Jesus Christ is coming through and he's breaking through from the spirit world into the physical world. And I and and I don't know, but I'm thinking maybe that breaking through into the physical world with that un unimaginable, incomprehensible power produces some sort of whoa uh kind of like a uh a plane breaks the sound barrier and there's a sonic boo And that's that's the kind of the way I see it. He's coming in flaming fire in this huge flash and it catches the attention of the whole world. And uh as he enters into uh the spirit world. Uh the eyes, flames of fire. Um same word, same word. So, come back to Thessalonians. What all in the world does all this have to do with them? When you think about the power and the awesomeness of the coming judge. And how he's going to deal with those who oppose and love not the truth of the gospel. And then you compare that to the peons. Who are mocking them and are giving them a hard time. And he's saying, Listen, relax. Our God is far more powerful. His judgment is far more fearful. Than anything these men can do to you. They take your life, you go to heaven, but they face the judgment of this awful, terrible God that's coming back someday. And so His whole purpose here, if I understand it correctly, is to get them to relax. Get them so they're not troubled. Rest. Jesus is coming back. It's going to be an awesome display of his power. It's going to be a thorough judgment. And these people will be dealt with. So you just stay at it, stay calm, stay working away, stay plugging away. How many people recognize the name W. C. Fields? W. C. Fields was a fool. He was an avowed atheist nearly his whole life. He despised God, he despised Christians, he despised the Bible. In fact, his he was he was a womanizer, he was a drunkard. He he was a fool in a biblical sense of the word. In fact, he told his living woman that he was shacking up with, he told her that when he died he had a large sum of money. I mean he was a very wealthy man He had a large sum of money that he wanted given to any orphanage that would help little children on the one condition they taught no Christianity whatsoever. He didn't want their minds being filled with the garbage from the Bible, is what he said. The one recount I read where it said that he was on his deathbed. I think it was in his 60s when he died. He wasn't extremely old, but uh he was on his deathbed and um one of his friends came in unexpectedly and found him reading a Bible. Lifelong atheist. Hated God, hated anything to do with the Bible. Found him reading the Bible. He's about to die. And the guy cussed, the account I read, the guy cussed, and he said, What in the world are you doing reading that book? And it's recorded, his friend said, he said, I'm looking for any loopholes I can find. Isn't that sad? You know what that tells me about him? He knew he was about to face the judgment of God. And if there was some way to get out of it, if there's some loophole. I'm telling you, when it comes to the judgment of God, there is no loopholes. There's a door, and it's Jesus Christ, and it's through him and him alone that we escape the judgment of God. And Paul's trying to assure these Thessalonians, listen, they're doing all this stuff to you, but the judgment of God is so awful and so certain. Don't worry about them. You just keep plugging away. You keep preaching the gospel. You keep doing right, and it's going to be okay. Isn't that good? Father in heaven, I pray that you would help us to live in light of the fact that you are a just God and that you love us. God, help us to take you seriously. And you give us instructions. Help us, Lord, to uh take them to heart, implement and incorporate them into our lives. I'm glad you save us, Lord. We don't have to face your awful judgment in this awful event. Lord, we pray for our unsaved friends and neighbors, co-workers. That we would be a faithful witness. And even when they oppose and when they mock, help us, Father, just to stay focused, to stay true, and warn them and love them of this coming judgment. Our heads above, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I've got a friend that I'm really concerned about? Maybe they give you a hard time or it's a worker. You say, you know, they really get under my skin, but when I think about it I'm real concerned that they know Christ. I wouldn't want them to go to hell. I wouldn't want them to face the judgment of God. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'd be a faithful, good, effective witness to them. Is anybody thinking of anyone in particular? I've got someone in mind Young and old, how about it? God bless you, hands around. We need to pray for them. We need to pray that God gives us wisdom, we stay focused, stay at it. And as a church, whatever Satan throws at us, let's just remember God's in charge and uh he works things out. Father, bless us, Lord, as we have our invitation I asked in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. We always want to give an opportunity to respond at invitation time. And maybe there's someone burdened on your heart and You say, preacher, I don't want them to die and go to hell. Come before God, lift their name up. I remember as after I got saved, I just thought my one sister, for some reason, she had no profession of faith at the time It just broke my heart, my sister dying and burning in hell, facing the judgment of God. I just pray and pray and cry and say, God, you've got a savor, you've got to savor Grateful eventually she did make a profession of faith, rejoice in that, was baptized. But God give us a burden like that, regardless of what they say or do We don't let it get to us. We stay tender-hearted, we stay focused. Oh yeah, it was so much Thank you, Father, for your word and truths that you were revealed to us and help us to again to take them to heart in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. May be seated. The extra is going to come up. We're going to take our offering up. Ron, would you pray for us, please? Well, we thank you for the time you've given us tonight. Bless our prayer time now, Lord, and bless the offering. We give you the honor and the praise in your name. Amen.