Well, it certainly has been a blessing today and a joy to be in the house of the Lord and uh good to be at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church as well. And uh we've grown very, very fond of your preacher and uh very fond of this church and the good fellowship that we are able to have together. Your involvement in our ministry is uh very vital to the ongoing work that God has assigned us to do. And it's beyond my comprehension sometimes when I really sit back and try to take an honest observation of of what the Lord is doing and how He does it and I can't come up with the answers to that except it's all his hand of blessing. I I remember Brother Chip when we put that second unit on the press and we were we were anticipating that it was going to be about $15,000 in order to do that And uh we thought, well, uh the the Lord is able to supply that. And we took that step of faith and ordered the second unit so that we could run those two rolls of paper at the same time And the more we started to work on it and the parts that were needed and the revisions that had to be made when the bill come, it was thirty-seven thousand dollars. That's a bit different from 15,000. And what was extremely amazing to me, and I can't account for it to this day, the day the bill come The money was there to pay for it. It was an absolute miracle of the Lord that that happened. And that's the way it's been for our ministry all along. When we're up against it and there's a great need, the Lord just begins to work on churches like this and all up and down this east coast, and uh they take to heart what is needed. And uh the the need is met. And we certainly thank the Lord for that. In addition to what Brother Chip was saying, I I wanted to share with you that a truckload of paper That takes about, I would say, two and a half to three weeks to print, runs us anywhere from $18,000 to $22,000 I believe we've already moved on the premises two truckloads of paper this year, and uh it's just about all printed And we are obviously in need of more paper to do more printing and reach out to this world with the gospel. And the Lord certainly knows the need. And uh keep that in mind as you pray and seek the Lord for his blessing upon uh the ministry and outreach of Beacon of Truth. Uh it doesn't take long to go through a truckload of paper when those those two uh units are running and it runs at a rapid pace and the scriptures come out and then we have to do something with them And we are absolutely, positively, unmistakably out of room in Florence, South Carolina. It is packed to the hilt, and they many times have to move things from one area to another area. just to be able to print. When it's printed, then they have to move that to another area in order to do the binding and the cutting and all of those things. We have about 5,000 square feet of of prof of building down there We also have a 3,000 square foot warehouse in Stanton, Virginia. We also have another office in Chambersburg, Pennsylvania. And uh we are totally out of space. In addition, we have three 40-foot containers on the property that are full, and we need more space. We we believe anywhere from twenty to thirty thousand dollars would see us through another year or two. Every building that we've moved in The first impression that I had when I went in the building, well boy, we're set for life now. And that would only last a short period of time. I remember the first building that we moved into in South Carolina, we had about uh 1100 1200 square feet. We we lasted six months We moved into a 2,500 square foot building that lasted us a couple years. We moved into a 5,000 and it was amazing to me to see the press sitting over there and all this beautiful floor space. It was just beautiful. A new tile floor was put down. It sparkled. You turned on the lights and it would just beam off of the white walls that surrounded the press sitting there all by its lonesome And then all of a sudden, this was moved in. That was moved in. The Lord began to bless and give us other equipment. And now it's to the point that we are up against it. So make that a matter of prayer with us if you would, please. We need the mind of the Lord as to what he would have us to do. uh whether to enlarge where we are, whether to move into another building, just exactly what the Lord wants. I want to be on schedule with Him. I want to walk hand in hand with him. I don't want to get out there and all of a sudden realize God wasn't in that. God wasn't behind that. and have to suffer the consequences of that. So pray with us that we'll have the mind of the Lord and that his direction will will be clear to us and that we'll react to him the way that he would desire us to act. I do appreciate the opportunity to be here today and to share our burden with you. And once again, thank you for your involvement in our ministry, for your prayers. uh for your giving. The support that you give to us is certainly a blessing and an encouragement to our individual hearts. Tonight I want to bring a message from the book of Psalms 119. So get your Bibles, and once again, if you brought a Bible tonight, hold it up. Let's see the Bible's in the house tonight. You ought never to go to church without your Bible. Let me run that by you one more time. You ought never to go to church without your Bible. I I know a lot of you are fishermen in this building. You wouldn't think about going down to the lake to do some fishing and not take your fishing pole. I know a lot of you are hunters. You wouldn't think about going out to the mountain to go deer hunting or turkey hunting and not take your gun with you. And so when we come to church, we ought to bring our Bibles We ought to have the Word of God. And just because it's Pastor Dennis Leatherman in the pulpit, or it's Dan Hummel in the pulpit, you Make sure that what is being said and what is being taught is in accordance with the word of the living God. Amen, preacher. I agree with that. And like I said this morning, over half of this world could not do what you just did a moment ago in lifting up your Bible. Now stop and think about that for a moment. Seven billion people in this world, and half of them do not have a Bible in their language to read. To study and to know what you and I know when we come to God's Word every day. So tonight I want to bring a message from Psalms 119. And we're going to look at some verses here that I trust will be a blessing and a challenge to us. Psalm 119 Would you stand with me, please, for the reading of God's Word? We're going to start reading at verse number eighty-nine. Psalms one hundred nineteen, and beginning at verse number eighty-nine. Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. Thy faithfulness is unto all generations. Thou hast established the earth, and it abideth. They continue this day according to thy ordinances, for all are thy servants. Now, stop and think about that. Everything that God created is a servant of the Lord. And they are continuing to this day as his servants. They're all his servants. Now notice the next verse. Unless thy law had been my delights, I should then have perished in my affliction. I will never forget thy precepts, for with them thou hast quickened me. I am thine, save me, for I have sought thy precepts. The wicked have waited for me to destroy me, but I will consider thy testimonies. I have seen an end of all perfection, but thy commandment Is exceeding broad. I want to challenge you this evening with this thought: why we can be fully surrendered to the Lord. What makes it possible for you and I to sell out to the Lord? To be completely surrendered to Him, holding back nothing, making no reserve. But trusting him and allowing him to do in and through us what he desires to do. And I'm convinced tonight that God wants to do a whole lot more than what we have experienced. Now I want to give you four good reasons why you can trust the Lord and have absolute confidence in the Lord and be full fully surrendered to the Lord and make sacrifices all along the way. Why you can do that. Let's bow in prayer. Father, I pray that you'd help us this evening as we look to thy word. May it truly be a lamp to our feet and a guide to our footsteps. I pray that you'd help me to be a blessing tonight, Lord, and may thy word speak to us. May the Holy Spirit do a work in our midst that will be attributed to your hand of blessing. May the Savior be exalted, and souls saved, and your people blessed and encouraged, and we'll thank you for what you do, because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, may be seated. I believe when a person is fully and completely surrendered to the Lord, there are joy bells that you're going to experience in your individual life. It's when we hold out on the Lord, when we reserve and hold back in doing what He wants us to do, that we miss out on the delight and the blessing that God really has for us. It was Stanny Crosby that wrote these words: I am thine, O Lord. I have heard thy voice, and it told thy love for me. But I long to rise. In the arms of faith and be closer drawn to thee. Why is it possible that you and I can be fully surrendered and totally committed To whatever it is the Lord wants us to do. I believe there's many times in your life, many times in my life, that we are required to step out in faith, not knowing, not really knowing. where it's going to lead us and what it's going to cost us, but we have that strong impression and leadership of the Holy Spirit to step out in faith and trust God and believe God And I I want to challenge you this evening as to why we are able to do that. Why should you be able to do that? Why should I be able to do that? To step out in faith and have absolute confidence in him. That at whatever he is leading me to do, everything is going to be all right. I want to give you four reasons. The first thing that I would say to you, you and I can trust God and believe Him and step out in faith when He's leading us to do so because of the stability of His Word. Lay hold of that. Lay hold of that. You have in your hands the Word of God That is filled with the purpose of the Lord, that is filled with the promise of the Lord, and the assurance that we get from that promise as to why we can trust him and believe him. The Bible tells us in verse number 89, forever. How long is that? For all eternity. We literally could insert in that, eternally, thy word is settled. Now let that grip your heart to it. You can trust God and believe God and have absolute confidence in God because of the stability of his word. It's not going to waver He's not gonna get out there or get us out there on on the sea of despair and all of a sudden begin to sink and his word falls apart. This book, the Bible is settled. That means that it is permanent. I feel a shout coming on right now We hold in our hands a book that cannot be altered and cannot be denied, a book that is permanent, a book that does not change, even though man tries to do so. This book is forever. And you and I can trust God because of the permanence and stability of His word. In Isaiah chapter 40 in verse number eight. The grass withereth, the flower fadeth, but the word of God shall stand forever. Let that grip your heart tonight. You can trust him. Whatever God lays upon your heart to do, to purchase paper or to further the fingerprint ministry in this church. Whatever he challenges you to do, you can absolutely trust him because of the stability of his precious word. It's forever. Men have tried to burn it. Men have tried to bury it. Men have tried to banish it. We sung about it tonight. The Bible still stands. Down through the ages, this book has stood against all the attempts to destroy it and to burn it and to banish it. And men and women have given their lives So that you and I can hold a Bible in our hand and read that book and share that book with others. God has promised that his word will never be destroyed. In Psalms 119 and verse number 144, the righteousness of thy testimonies is everlasting. Give me understanding, and I shall live What a tremendous truth that is. Not only is it everlasting, but it endures forever. In verse number 160 of this psalm. The Bible says this, thy word is true from the beginning, and every one of thy righteous judgments endureth. That word endure means last. Forever. Forever. First Peter 1. 23, being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God that liveth and abideth forever. So don't question. What God is asking you to do, what God is instructing you to do, what God is impressing upon your heart to do, because you have the stability of the Word of God to back you up. Number two, why can we be fully and completely surrendered and sold out to the Lord and have no question about whatever he asks us to do? Not only because of the stability of his word, but because of the steadfastness of his faithfulness. The Bible tells us in verse number 90 of these verses that we read tonight. Psalm 119 and in verse number 90. Thy faithfulness is unto all Generations. Now that word all means all. One of my sheer delights in life Is when my beloved wife makes apple dumplings. The mere thought of it Just begins to salvitate. Is that a word? The juices begin to run. And uh the there's no more dry mouth when That word comes to me wherever I might be, I'm making apple dumplings. The only problem with that Is that grandchildren have stronger persuasion to get that task completed than what I do is usually when I have left her home and I have departed and I'm on the road, slaving and working and sweating and just going through all kinds of hardship and pressure That I hear from back home I'm making apple dumplings. And then the request Please save me one. Am I am I telling the truth here? Yeah And so regardless of how many miles it might be when I think about going back home and Going through that front door and the first thing that I normally do, where's the apple dumplings? And then the word, Jerry, they're all gone I I couldn't help it. The the the kids come and the grandchildren come and they ate them all. I mean word gets out amongst our families that she made apple doublets. It's all over It's all over. And so when God says in this passage of Scripture, thy faithfulness is to all generation. I know what he's talking about there. And I can read that's my apple dumpling verse, Chester. Oh. Oh. What am I saying to you tonight? God is steadfast. You can count on him. He's faithful. You don't have to doubt and be discouraged and be fearful. Uh if there's anything that I've encountered uh this year and really it started last year that I started noticing it more and more in the churches that we traveled to and people would come up to us and began to talk Fear is gripping the hearts of people as to the future. What is really going to happen in our country? Don't worry about it. God is faithful. He's on the throne. He knows what he's doing. Everything is on his timetable. You can have absolute confidence in what God is doing because He is steadfast in His faithfulness He's the one that said, I will never leave you and I won't forsake you. You can count on that. You can rely upon that. You can relish in that. God is faithful. He'll not deny his word. He'll not back up on his word. He'll not I didn't really mean that If God gave us a promise, you can count on that. He is faithful. He was faithful for Moses and the children of Israel when they were backed up and didn't know how they were going to get across the Red Sea. God provided a way. We could stand there and look at that and be amazed as to what was going to happen, but God show oh, I feel the shout coming on right now. When God shows up Great, mighty, supernatural things begin to happen. And that's why you can trust him and believe him and have absolute confidence in him because of the steadfastness of his faith He is faithful to what he's told us in his word. He was faithful for Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego when they found their self in a mess, a fiery furnace I mean the heat, the pressure, all of it was there. But God showed up. Boy, I could take a trip around this church tonight. I'm telling you folks, we can count on God because he is absolutely faithful. The early church went through severe and difficult times of of persecution that you and I have never experienced in our lifetime. We've not been drug out into the streets and stoned and left for dead The only time I've ever gone to jail was to preach. But the early church was imprisoned. The early church was stoned. The early church was scattered and driven from their homeland And the Bible says that everywhere they went, they preached the word of God. If we don't get off our lazy dust The Lord is liable to have to bring persecution to us to scatter us and get us out to be the witnesses that he wants us to be. But you can count on it. God is faithful. He'll show up in the time of need, in the hour of need. God is faithful. He'll be there in every trial you and I face. God is faithful. I can assure you this evening that every circumstance that we encounter in life, God is faithful. This has been one of the roughest years that Dee and I have ever faced in our life. It's been a rough road this year. But I can stand here and attest to you at the loneliness of the hour and the brokenness of our heart, God showed up. God showed up. The devil takes advantage of our circumstances. And I'll be the first to tell you this evening that when our hearts were broken and we were down, the devil showed up, whispering in my ear, Brother Ed It's time to quit. It's time to stop this. It's time to abandon the ship. And there were days that I sat on the end of the couch Brokenhearted, hearing that voice of the devil. If God really loved you. If he really cared about you. If he was really watching over you, why did he allow that to happen? Greater is he that is in us. And I can tell you this evening that when we face the circumstances that come our way God is faithful. He doesn't jump ship. He doesn't try to distance himself from us. In our hour of need, in our hour of pain, He is faithful. Every need that we have, He wants to supply. You know what I think the problem is? We're stubborn, bow-headed, stiff-necked, just like the children of Israel. We won't go out and gather up the manna in the morning. Because we think that a greater thing will happen if we just wait a little while. God said, if you want to eat, get out there early morning, pick it up, get what you need. And that says to me that we need to get up and get into that book every morning and derive from that book whatever we need. If it's joy that you need, get in the book If it's power you need, get in the book. If it's if it's if it's rejoicing you need, get in the book. If there's help that you need, get in the book. If it's grace that you need, get in the book. Because whatever you need today, God has it. And he wants to give it, but he said, I want you to get up and get out there and gather the manna. God is certainly faithful in every burden that we bear. First Corinthians chapter 1, verse 9, God is faithful. Can I give you a third one? You can trust God And follow his leadership in your life, and not have to be fearful about it and fretting about it because of the stability of his word and because of the steadfastness of his faithfulness. But thirdly, because of the satisfaction you receive from his word. Look at verse number ninety-two Unless thy law had been my delights, I should then have perished in my affliction. When you go through tough times, you know the first thing the devil wants you to do is lay aside the book. The second thing he wants you to do is stop going to church. Hello? Why why you're under pressure, so why go to church today? You're you're facing circumstances that that aren't very good and you certainly haven't invited them and welcomed them into your life. So stop going to church today. When the pressure's on, we need the church more than ever. That's right. Amen. And I'm telling you here today That when that pressure is on, the satisfaction that you will find and receive and get from the Word of God will be like meat on your spiritual bones. The psalmist found joy in this difficult time, and so can we. Times of discouragement and despair come our way. It's the book that we need, the Word of God that we need. Now stop and think about it for a moment. What has this day been designed to do? It's Scripture Publishing Sunday. Providing a Bible for people around the world that do not have what you and I have. They have no idea what I'm talking about. They have no comprehension. They have no Bible to read in order to discover the truth that you and I live by every day of our life. The psalmist said, I would have perished if I didn't have your word. And that word perish there means I would have drifted and gone astray had I not had thy word. You and I can have absolute confidence and trust in God, irregardless of what He's leading us and directing us to do, because of the satisfaction that we get. From the word of the living God. Could I say to you this evening that we do not go to the Bible to escape our circumstances? We go to the Bible. To help us face those circumstances of life. And I have found and discovered in my life that when I'm really up against it, God has something for me. I feel another shout coming on right now. He has something for me. Something special that he wants to show me. Have you discovered that there are times when you need something and all of a sudden a particular verse in the Bible pops off the page? You might have read it a hundred times. You might have just read it last week. But today is when you really needed it. And right there it is, and the Holy Spirit begins to unfold to you the comfort, the assurance, the confidence that you actually need in the circumstance that you find yourself in. The psalmist was delighted by the Word of God. That's what he says in verse number 92. Unless thy law had been my delights, do you delight to read the Bible? To study the Bible? That's what the psalmist is saying. I'm delighting in your work. And do you know why? Because it helped him It literally happened. He says in that verse, unless thy law had been my delight, I should then have perished in my affliction. It's a solid foundation upon which you can stand when you go to the Word of God. It's an anchor to the soul. That cannot be removed. It's a sure light that will direct our path in the right direction. But not only was the psalmist delighted in the Word of God, the psalmist was dedicated to the Word of God. He says in verse number 93, I will never forget thy precepts. Do you know one of the things that the devil does? He's here tonight, by the way. Do you know what he wants to do? He wants to rob and steal and take and deprive from you the very word that is being shared with you before you go out those doors tonight. He snatches and takes and robs us from the very word that God wants to give to us. But the psalmist said, I'm dedicated to the word. I'm never going to forget thy word, thy precepts, thy statues. Another thing that I notice here is not only did he delight in the word and was dedicated to the word, but he was determined to pursue the word He says in verse number 94, I am thine, save me, for I have sought thy precepts. That word stop there means to go after. It means to diligently search. It means to be totally committed to finding out God's perspective on my situation. When the psalmist said, I am thine, he was saying, I belong to you, Lord, I'm not my own. So we have the stability of his word. We have the steadfastness of his faithfulness. We are assured of the satisfaction that we get. And the fourth and final thing that I would share with you tonight is the strength of his protection. You can trust God because of his strength, his power. He is able. And we could just stop right there. We don't have to go any further. I I don't know what it is that you need, what you're facing, what you're going through. He's able. He is able. He is able. He is able. He is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we could ever ask or think. And it's all because of the power that works in us, Ephesians 3 and verse 20. When I look at this passage of Scripture, When you rely upon the Lord, do you know what it does? It stirs up the enemy. Notice what the psalmist said. I will never forget thy precepts. I am thine, save me. The wicked in verse number 95 have waited for me to destroy me. Satan is just waiting for that opportune time to pounce on us. And deprive us of what God really has for us. He goes about as a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. You don't hear him coming. You don't see him coming. He doesn't announce his arrival. He pounces Lurking in the shadows, waiting for the opportune time to pounce and devour and destroy. The psalmist said the wicked have waited for me to destroy me, but I will consider thy testimonies I believe there's a hedge of protection about the child of God when he walks with the Lord and he's in fellowship with the Lord. There's that hedge of protection around him that God intends to provide and keep. And may I say to you this evening, the enemy is persistent in pursuing? He's persistent in that. But you and I need to be patient and wait upon the Lord. The psalmist said, The wicked have waited for me to destroy me, but I will consider thy testimonies. Not only that, not only do we need to be patient, but as I look at this passage of Scripture, There's the perfection of the word that keeps us. I've said so many times, there's no flaws and discrepancies and shortcomings with the Bible. God hasn't left anything out. Not a thing. Everything that he wants us to know and we need to have to live a life of godliness, it's in the book. It's a perfect book. No flaws, no contradictions, no shortcomings. Verse number 96, I have seen an end of all perfection, but thy commandment is exceeding broad. The psalmist could say, human understanding is all limited and it comes up short and it's inadequate. But God knows what we need, and you can rely upon Him. People need the Word of God. And this day has been designated to challenge you and to lay upon your heart a burden. If you're thankful for your Bible, why don't you provide one for somebody else? Hmm? That's good. If you're thankful for your Bible, why don't you provide one for somebody else? Let's stand with prayer tonight.