Genesis forty-three, I want to begin reading in verse twenty-four, Genesis forty-three, twenty-four. Um This is Joseph's second encounter with his brothers. They've returned the second time to uh get uh grain during this famine. They're actually, I've been saying the last couple of weeks that they're good ways into the famine. They're actually two years into the famine later on in the book you reel we're told they're two years into the famine So they still got five years of famine ahead of them. So they've been down once, they've gotten grain and uh all the issues there, they come back. They run out of that grain, they're heading back down. So this is during that second encounter. Look at verse 24. It says, and the man, this is Joseph's servant or steward. The man brought the men into Joseph's house and gave them water, and they washed their feet, and he gave their asses provender. And they made ready the present against Jose uh against Joseph came at Nut, for they heard that they should eat bread there And when Joseph came home, they brought him the present which was in their hand into the house and bowed themselves to him to the earth. Take note of that. And he asked them of their welfare and said, Is your father well? The old man of whom ye spake, is he yet alive? And they answered, Thy servant, our father, is in good health, and he is yet alive. And they bowed down their heads and made obeisance. Take note of that. And he lifted up his eyes and saw his brother Benjamin, his mother's son, and said, Is this your younger brother of whom ye spake unto me? And he said, God be gracious unto thee, my son. And Joseph made haste, for his bowels did yearn upon his brother, and he sought where to weep, and he entered into his chamber and wept there. He washed his face and went out and refrained himself and said, Set on bread. And they set on for him by himself, and for them by themselves, and for the Egyptians which did eat with them by themselves Because the Egyptians might not eat bread with the Hebrews, for that is an abomination unto the Egyptians. And they sat before him the firstborn according to his birthright, and the youngest according to his youth, and the men marvelled one at another. And he took and sent messes unto them from before him, but Benjamin's mess was five times so much as any of theirs. And they drank and were merry with him. We're looking at their second return to Egypt. Let's pray, and we'll pick up where we left off last week. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Word of God. I thank you for these Old Testament accounts of these fascinating events and these incredible people. And I pray as we look at Joseph tonight and how he interacts with his brothers here that you would Your Holy Spirit would take principles and lessons from this and draw it out and apply it to our lives as you know that we have need. I pray that from the example of Joseph here in these events that our faith in you would be stronger, and our walk with you would be more uh would be closer and our witness would be more effective. And so, Lord, I yield my will to you tonight, and I pray you take my thoughts and conform them to your purpose and your will to be expressed tonight. I pray I present my body anew and pray that your Holy Spirit would take me and fill me, and that you would speak through me, and it would not just be a lecture by me, but it would be a message from God. And so I ask all of this in Jesus' name, Amen. I noted three issues as the brothers show up the second time. This time they have Benjamin with them. I think we know the story. Uh they're not going to get any grain. He's holding Simeon. Remember, he's holding him in prison until they come back. Well, they show up and they have Benjamin with them. And then if you remember, there's three issues that we're looking at here in this whole event The first was uh Jacob's faith, and he didn't really exercise faith in God willingly. He was kind of uh he was uh what I called forced faith. In other words, he was backed into a corner and he had nowhere to look but unto the Lord. How many people here ever were in a situation And you just decided that I'm going to trust God in this. You made the decision I'm going to trust God in this situation. Anybody ever been there? Sure, I hope so. I hope all of us. Anybody here ever been in a situation And you you had no choice but to trust God. I mean everything, there was the only hope was God And if he didn't come through, it was going to be bad. Anybody know what I'm talking about there? That's where Jacob was at. He was backed into a corner, and it was the only thing I can do is trust God. And he did. And as we'll see here in a bit, God came through. And uh his faith was not in vain. Then we noted the brothers' fear As they got to Egypt and they were encountered Joseph again, not knowing it's Joseph, and they're scared to death for several reasons. One, this money that they found in their baggage and their their goods on the way back. And they get home and hear all the money they paid for the grain is back in their bags of grain. And so they bring that down. Of course they're very, very anxious about that, very fearful how they're going to respond And then they're fearful about meeting Joseph. Again, they do not know this is Joseph. They don't know that they're talking to their younger brother. All they know is this is a very, very powerful Egyptian uh governor, and uh he has the power of life and death over them. And so very intimidating. And so they approach him with fear. Now tonight I want to look at the third issue, and that is Joseph's forgiveness. Now I'm going a little bit, I'm a little bit off the ranch on this as far as a lot of thinking among Bible commentators. There's various thoughts, but I still am of the opinion that Joseph was struggling with forgiveness for his brothers And I've studied it and studied. Every time I go over it, I'm a little more convinced that Joseph is struggling with this. And so we're going to look at Joseph's forgiveness in the passage I read here. Their first encounter with Joseph, as I just mentioned, was fear. First time they showed up. If you're going to have one word to describe their encounter with Joseph, it was fear. They immediately have accusations thrown at them. You're spies, you're spies, you're spies. And Joseph knew who they were And uh he knew they weren't spies, but he spoke roughly to them. He accused them, he makes these accusations, and then he throws them all in prison for three days. Would you think these boys are trembling or not? They're scared to death. They've never been in a situation like this before in their life. And they're in a foreign land, in a d an Egyptian prison, and uh and uh um and so uh and they don't know what's gonna happen. They don't know how long they're gonna be there, they're gonna die in prison So Joseph changed his mind, lets them out. And then he has all these demands he makes from them. They've got to bring their brother back down, or they'll never see Simeon again, they'll never get any food. If they come down without them, they're dead meat. So if there's one word I'm going to describe the brothers' first encounter with Joseph, it is absolute fear, like we elaborated on last week. Now the second encounter, it's a whole different atmosphere. The second encounter, if I was going to use a word, I would say, describe it with this word, confusion. They don't know what's up. They're coming down. I guarantee you, that second trip down there, however long it took, they are trembling. They are worried and scared and afraid. And they show up, and the reaction they get is the exact opposite of what they expected. It's an entirely different reception and a completely different atmosphere. So let's look at their let's look at what happens when they show up and they encounter Joseph. Look at verse number twenty four It says, and the man, this is Joseph Stewart, as I said, brought the men, the brothers, into Joseph's house. And gave them water. And they washed their feet. And he gave their asses provender. This is a 180 from the first time showed up. They have, this is the way I'm describing it, a very cordial meeting. Now, what do I mean by cordial? Somebody talk to me. I say it's a very cordial meeting. It's very what? Very friendly, very respectful. Very civil encounter here. In fact, I noticed several things. They're given a royal reception. It says they brought them to Joseph's personal house. Now think with me a little bit. The position that Joseph holds is literally, and even more powerful under our form of government, literally be the vice president of the United States, except you don't have any Constitution restricting your powers as the number two authority So he has absolute authority with no restrictions, and he's invited into his house. This would be like the governor's mansion. Well w the w the president lives in the White House. What does the vice president live in? The Blue House? Blair House. This would be like being invited into the governor's house or the vice president's house. This what they're getting here, the fact that they are coming into Joseph's house, this is absolute royal treatment. I guarantee you, all these ambassadors, all these folks from the nations around Egypt that are coming for grain or coming for supplies. They are not being invited into the number two Pharaoh's house in the nation. The only people getting invited there are heads of state. Allies of Egypt. And so these brothers, the first time, they're invited into the prison. They're escorted to the prison. This time, they're in like the most powerful man's house, personal home. And so they're getting a very royal reception. Second thing I noticed there in verse 24, they're refreshed with this water. And they brought the man in Joseph's house and gave them water, and they washed their feet. This was an act of respect. This was a he's refreshing them. He's concerned for their well-being. They didn't do this for everybody that showed up in Egypt. And then they're resupplied. Says they provided uh they gave their ass provender. They made sure their their uh their cattle and their donkeys and all of that were well taken care of I'm telling you, this is royal treatment they're getting here. This is heads of state type stuff. And they they come in here. And I'll tell you one thing, this is not how Egyptians treated shepherds. Now I want to show you something or jumping ahead a little bit, but I want you to get some information here. Come up to chapter 6. Go forward to chapter 46. I'm sorry, chapter 46 And verse number 34. Now, this is much later in the story. This is down the road a little ways. And Joseph is introducing his father to Pharaoh and Pharaoh to his father. And he's giving uh he's kind of prepping Jacob to meet Pharaoh. I mean, before you before you go in and meet the president, there's going to be somebody say this is what you do, you don't do Uh, you know, don't uh don't give him a a nuggy on his head, you know, and stuff like that. You treat him respectfully. So Joseph is doing this little uh orientation on what to say, what not to say And notice he makes an interesting statement here. Verse 34, the last verse in chapter 46, he says, that ye shall say, Joseph is telling his daddy. Thy servant's trade hath been about cattle from our youth even until now. Both we also and our fathers, that we may that ye may dwell in the land of Goshen. So he says, don't j tell them that you're you work with cattle. Dad, listen to me. Tell them you work with cattle. Why should I say that? And notice what he says. For every shepherd is a what? An abomination unto the Egyptians. They hate shepherds. For whatever reason, I don't know why. They despise shepherds. And so I'm way this is down the road away, this is later in our story, but Jacob Joseph is telling Jacob, don't tell him, your shepherds tell them your your work with cattle. They hate shepherds. So come back to where we're at in our story. And they're inviting shepherds Into Joseph's personal house, giving them washing their feet, making and making available to wash their feet, making sure their ass has all the supplies it needs. That is not how Egyptians treated shepherds. They hated shepherds. That's not how they treated Hebrews. They despised Hebrews. Remember what Potiphar's wife said? This Hebrew you brought into our house. I guarantee you these brothers' heads are spinning. What in the world? So they go along. They're being treated literally, like royalty So, first thing they're shown great respect, and then this cordial meeting they have initially, the second trip. Then they make ready their present. Look at verse 25. And they made ready the present against Joseph came at noon, for they heard that they should eat bread there. So apparently they overheard Joseph and the steward saying that they're going to come and have lunch with Joseph. They all know it's Joseph. And so they make ready their present. Now I thought I was trying to think, why does it tell us that they made ready their present? I'll tell you what I think this is. I think these guys are nervous. I think they're intimidated and they got this little now remember this is year two in a drought. And they've got some almonds and some spices and some nuts that they found in a drought, two-year-old drought. And they're getting them together and they're looking at this house that they're in and the immaculate tapestry and the furniture and everything that's here. Now you know at this point Egypt is becoming insanely wealthy. Because they're selling grain. They got a monopoly on food. And so Joseph, no doubt, is being royally compensated by the nation of Egypt. And so they walk in and and they got this little present, ooh, let's make it ready. And so they're I I I I'm guessing here, this is Leatherman imagination, but they're trying to fluff up the almonds, make them look bigger than they really are, you know And trying to make this present look as good as it can. And so I think I notice a hint of anxiety here on their part. They're making ready this present. Little do they realize that the man that's about to walk in that door in this dining area of his mansion is their little brother. They have no clue. That's little that's little Joe. That's little Joey. Whatever they called him. That's Joseph. They don't know that. They see a man of in in unlimited authority, humanly speaking, power antagonistic to them last time. And so there's a little anxiety here. So they're treated with great respect. They make ready this present. Now, here's, this is really my message tonight that I got from this. They respond in humility. I find it fascinating how these brothers respond to Joseph. Now, what do we know about these brothers? They're cruel, they're ruthless. They hardly have a conscience, it seems like. They've killed people. They've, as far as they know, they've killed their brother. Uh just on a whim. These are these are cold-blooded killers. These are hard-hearted men. And I notice how they respond to Joseph. There's something profound takes place here, I believe. Look at verse 26. And when Joseph came home, so no doubt he's doing his administrative duties, doing whatever the most second most powerful man in the world does. And he comes home, it's lunchtime, and they brought him the present which was in their hand unto the house. So they bring this present, which no doubt, I'm sure Joseph has received presents from dignitaries for the last two years all around the nation. They bring this little present here. And it's interesting to me. Joseph never makes a comment about the present that they bring. He doesn't say, oh wow, that's great. That's wonderful. Fascinating. He doesn't comment on it at all. But notice what the brothers do at the end of at the last part, which was in their hand into the house, and bowed themselves to him to the earth. Now they're not bowing like this. This is the way you see in the Far East when our president goes over and meets with a Prime Minister or somebody in an Asian country. A lot of times they'll bow like this, right? Did you ever see that? That's not what they're doing. They are bowing themselves, what? Their face is on the floor before Joseph. That's significant. Um so uh they respond in humility And uh they display, I believe they're displaying genuine humility here before Joseph. Their pride, their self-confidence, their cruelty Is all gone. And they genuinely humble themselves before this man. I believe. Now we're talking about Joseph's forgiveness. I believe Joseph is struggling with forgiving his brothers. And that is, I don't know about you, but for me that's totally understandable. Sometimes it's very, very difficult to forgive when you've been hurt deeply. Betrayed and as Joseph has been. And so he's struggling with that. And we all struggle sometimes. And he sees his brothers bow themselves to the earth. He sees on the part of his brothers, and I'm going to expand on that in a bit, but he sees on the part of his brothers Genuine humility. He sees something in the eyes and in the countenance of his brothers he's never seen before. Humility. Humility. I believe a key to a restored relationship has to begin with humility. If there's a strained relationship, if there's a broken relationship, and it's an understatement to say that their relationship was strained and broken. There must be humility. Every see if you agree with this statement. I mean, it's true whether you agree with it or not, but every relationship needs God's grace, right or wrong. Anytime you have a relationship, you got one sinner in a relationship with another sinner, you're going to need grace and mercy, right or wrong. If a relationship relationships don't break down because someone's a sinner. If that was the case, every relationship would be broken. Relationships break down when we fail to humble ourselves and show grace and show mercy to keep that relationship alive. Right or wrong? Absolutely right. Joseph, something is happening here that's making it possible for this relationship to be restored. Joseph, and I'm a um I'm assuming here, so don't hold me to this. I'll freely admit I'm making an assumption. Joseph, in his pride Is struggling with forgiveness. Because pride is what keeps us from forgiving. These fellas, in their pride, are now Humbling themselves. The pride that caused them to do what they did, now they're humbling themselves. And what I'm seeing here is this: I'm seeing a situation ripe for restoration. These guys are humbling themselves. Joseph sees that. He sees humility, which he never saw before. Alright, so we need grace. If I'm going to have a relationship restored, I need God's grace. I need a grace to forgive, grace, so it can be restored. And there's only one channel for the grace of God. And that is humility. Listen to James chapter four and verse six. God resisteth the proud But giveth grace unto the what? Humble. These fellows are humbling themselves, they're God's giving grace. 1 Peter 5:5. God is almost verbatim. Peter says the same thing. For God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble. These guys are humbling themselves. So They respond in humility, they show genuine humility, they humble themselves before the Lord, but something else happens. Now it started earlier, I believe. Now I'm giving you my assessment, my interpretation of this. I think it started earlier, but Joseph is starting to see right before his very eyes the plan of God. That was given to him in a supernatural dream 20 years earlier. When he has this dream that the sheaves bow down, the 11 sheaves bow down to his sheaf. And he tells the brothers about it, and remember, well let's turn there. Go back if you would, and we looked at this before, but go to Genesis 37. Now, I don't think anybody at this point knew exactly what this meant or how in the world it would play out. The brothers certainly did not Believed it it was going to happen the way Joseph dreamed, and whether Joseph fully grasped it or not, we don't know. But look at verse 5 of Genesis 37. And Joseph dreamed a dream And he told it to his brethren, and they hated him yet the more. And he said unto them, Hear I pray you this For behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and lo my sheave arose and also stood upright, and behold, your sheaves stood around about and made obedience to my sheep. That word obeisance means to worship, to lay yourself prostrate before. And his brethren said unto him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us, or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams and for his words. Now notice it says their sheaves made obedience, fell on their faces in the ground prostrate before him. Now come to chapter 42. Now we've already looked at this, but I'm gonna there's something happening here, I think. Chapter 42, and notice verse number six. This is the first time they come down to Egypt. We already looked at this before This is their first encounter with Joseph, not knowing it's Joseph. And look verse 6. And Joseph remembered the dreams which he had dreamed of them. They show up. Joseph remembers the dream. Now, the second time they show up in chapter 43, they are doing exactly What he saw in his dream. He remembered his dream the first time. Now he is seeing play out right before him, literally, physically in front of him, exactly what he dreamed before. And I'm telling you, I'm convinced that had a profound effect upon Joseph's attitude towards his brothers. I believe that. Notice verse 26 of chapter 43. We just read it. They bowed themselves to him to the earth. They're on their face on the floor. Look at verse 28. Now notice the wording here. And they bowed. This is the second time. He asked them about their daddy and stuff. And they bowed down their heads and made what? Obedience. The very same word that's used in his dream. Here's what I think is happening. I believe Joseph is struggling. This is Leathermanism, okay, 101. I believe Joseph is struggling with forgiveness. He sees his brothers, his initial reaction is rough. Throw them in prison. They're spies. It's going to give them a hard time, and he does. And then he kind of relents a little bit and he keeps one and sends the others back But you don't come back here without that little brother you told me about. I think a year's gone by it's eaten at him maybe. I don't know. But they show up this time, it's a whole different atmosphere. And when they humble themselves and he sees in their faces something he's never seen before, humility. And he sees his dream being carried out. I believe this is the point. Now here's what I'm getting at. I believe this is the point where Joseph realizes what he says at the end of the book. When his brothers come to him after Daddy's dead and they said, Daddy told us you're not supposed to hurt us for what we did to you And he's broken. And he says, he repeats it several times. You meant it for evil. But God meant it for what? I think this is the point where he realizes that. I think this is the point where it floods in on him. He sees their humility, he sees his dream being carried out And I this is, again, this is total speculation on my part. But I think he's like, God is doing all of this. This is part of God's plan. This is part of what God's been doing the whole time. God is working this out for good. Now maybe he understood that the whole time. I have a hard time believing that, but maybe he did. He was a tremendous man of integrity, as we keep saying, but He wasn't God. He doesn't know the future. All he had was this little bit of information he'd been given, but now he sees it right before him. And I think here is a I think here's some some Necessary ingredients in restoration in a relationship. Number one, there has to be humility to have God's grace come and enable me to restore that. And I think there needs to see, I need to be an understanding, this is God's will. This is God's will. I believe it's God's will for strained relationships to be restored. I believe it's God's will. If you have somebody, a family member, a church member, somebody that you have a strained relationship with. Two things need to take place. Number one, you need to humble yourself. Number two, you need to understand it's God's will that that relationship be restored. And I think that's what's taking place, and I think this is the point where Joseph forgives his brothers. I think so. I think so. God was fulfilling his plan and purpose. I think this is where Joseph realizes that God is working. So we have a very cordial meeting, it's very powerful. Man, this is fulfilled prophecy right before their very eyes. Something happening to 11 boys, 10 boys that never happened before, 11 of them. Then we have number two, verse 27 through 31. I notice Joseph conceals his emotions. Look at verse number 27. It says that he asked them of their welfare. Is your father well? And then he kind of covers himself a little bit here. Oh, that old man of whom you spake. I don't really know your father, you know, the guy you talked about Is he yet alive? They answered, Thy servant our father is in good health. He is yet alive. And they bowed down their heads and did obedience. And he lifted up his eyes. And Saul his brother Benjamin, his mother's son, and said, Is this your younger brother, of whom he spake unto me? And he said, God be gracious unto thee, my son. And Joseph made haste, for his bowels did yearn upon his brother, and he sought where to weep, and he entered into his chamber, that would be his bedroom, and wept there. I think this is one of the most touching scenes in all scripture. Joseph breaks down. Emotions take over. First thing he does is he, as I pointed out, he inquires of their father. He keeps his identity hidden. You know, that old man you talked about. He's concerned for his family. He hadn't seen his daddy. How many twenty plus years maybe He doesn't even know if his daddy's living. Now think about this. Joseph knows nothing about the condition of his family back home. He knows nothing. Twenty years has gone by. Is Daddy even still alive? They say, yeah, he's doing good. He's alive. He's very well. Would you agree? That would be pretty emotional. You finally get word about your daddy. And there's no doubt these boys loved their daddy, respected him. So he's concerned for their well-being. He asks questions about their father. Then he observes Benjamin in verse 29 This is his only full-blooded brother. This is his only connection to his mother who passed away years ago. This is a very special relationship for Joseph. Others are half-brothers. This is full-blooded brother. Notice here, he makes a statement, and we brought this out before, but notice at the end of verse number 29, he says to Benjamin. And he said, God be gracious unto thee, my son. The word God Is the same word we noticed used several times before. It's Elohim. He's referencing the God of the Hebrews, not the God of the Egyptians again. And this constantly keeps showing up. Nowhere can I find anywhere where the Egyptians ever said, May Ra, the sun god, be gracious unto you. Foreign pagan gods are not known for their grace. Foreign pagan gods, these false gods that people come up with, mankind has come up with. are never known for their graciousness. They're always known for their demands from humanity. Allah of the Muslim religion is not a gracious God. He is a very hard, angry, demanding God. I witnessed to two Muslims down in Sydney, Australia, years ago, number of years ago, and they could not accept the concept that God loved them. They would refer to God as Allah Nobody loves us enough to die and suffer hell in our place for us and rise again. Allah does not love us that much. In fact, the fact of the matter is, Allah doesn't love them at all. Fact of the matter is, Allah doesn't exist. And so Joseph says to his little brother, Elohim, the Hebrew God, the true God. Be gracious unto you. Now again, I keep saying this, but it sound looks to me these brothers' ears would have picked up on something like that. But apparently they didn't. And then Joseph's overcome with emotions. Verse 30 and 31, he sneaks out and says, um His bowels did yearn upon him. I mean, he can't control it anymore. Have you ever been you ever been so emotionally overwhelmed you couldn't control it? It just broke loose. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's where Joseph is His bowels did yearn upon him, and he sought where to weep, and he entered into his chamber, and I can kind of picture in my mind. And finally it just starts breaking down. He turns away, he hides his face from him And he immediately makes his way to however far it was from the dining area to his chambers, his bedroom, and he just, I just see him throw himself on his bed and just begin sobbing and sobbing and sobbing He's overcome with emotion. A lot of God's great men of faith were at times overcome with emotion. Emotion is not a bad thing in and of itself. It's given to us by God. It's part of our psyche. It's part of who we're how we're designed. Emotion. Weeping. There's some of God's greatest men of faith were overcome with emotion of various sorts. Can you think of anybody, any great men of God that were overcome with emotion? David, what about when Absalom was killed? I mean, he absolutely lost it Oh, Absalom, my son, my son, oh, that I had died. In fact, he lost control of his emotions, and um uh Joab had to come and say, listen, David You get yourself together. Come on, man. Can you think of anybody else in the Bible that was overcome of emotion? What about Elijah after he killed all the prophets? And uh and Jezebel says, I'm coming after you, you're going to be just like them before the sun sets tomorrow night And he was overcome. He flees and he goes up in the mountains. He's overcome with the emotion of depression. And he sinks down into that dark hole. He begins feeling sorry for himself, and he says, Oh, I wish that I would die. I'm the only one. And he's not thinking clearly. He's saying stuff that isn't true. God the a God has to come and God doesn't slap him in the face. He just has a little stuff still small voice, Elijah. There's a whole lot of others out there. It's okay. It's okay. But he was overcome with emotion. He lost control. It took over him. Elijah. David. Can you think of anybody else? Jesus on the cross wept severely. Somebody else? Jonah? I thought of Job. Man. Now he didn't necessarily lose control, but I'm telling you, good night, who which one which of us in the situation Job was in would not be overcome of emotion? And he says, oh, I wish that I'd have never been born. I wish that had died in my mother's womb, oh, wide in God. Emotion. And Job is praised of God like no other man in the Bible. Perfect and upright in all his ways. But yet emotion got the best of them. I put down Moses. Now Moses' emotion wasn't sorrow, it wasn't grief, it wasn't self-pity, it was what? Anger. Oh, Moses had a trouble with anger. And it cost him. Never made it into the promised land because of his anger. But he could not control it. His anger would take over and control him. And that is a dangerous thing. Here's the point I'm trying to get at And I'm going to praise Joseph here in just a moment. Emotion is part of God's design for us. It plays a role. It has a purpose. But emotion must, we must never allow emotion to control us. When emotion controls us, we make unrealistic, irrational decisions. Moses. Elijah starts saying stuff. David loses control and he needs to be slapped, so to speak. However, Joseph, he's overcome of emotion, but he controlled it. I'm impressed. He's able to conceal it from his brothers. He's able to control it till he gets somewhere where it's not going to affect anybody, it's not going to hurt anybody, it's not going to cause disrupt anything, and he just lets it release He washes his face, as it says, gets himself together, gets his stuff, and comes back out. So it's a very emotional time. One of the most touching, I think, one of the most touching scenes I can think of in all the scripture Where a man's heart is absolutely broken, but he's able to control that and release it in an appropriate way. So, first of all, we have a very cordial meeting. I think at that meeting is where Joseph realizes what God's doing and forgives his brothers, I think. Then we have this concealed emotions. He breaks down, but he controls it and handles it appropriately. And then last of all, number three, I notice this confusing seating arrangement. Now look here at verse number 32. So finally Joseph's back, he's cleaned up, nobody knows anything took place, they have no idea. They're just standing there head spinning. What's happening? And they sat on for him by himself. So Joseph sits over here by himself in this massive dining area in his mansion. So Joseph sat over here by himself. Now, the Egyptians are in a little quandary with Joseph, because they know he's a Hebrew, but they don't they hate Hebrews. But he can kill them if he wants to, so they gotta respect him. So he sets over here, then notice what it says, then the Egyptians Um they sent him by himself for them and and for them by themselves. So they put the his brothers over here, Joseph's over here, the Egyptians are over here Because the Egyptians might not eat bread with the Hebrews, for that's an abomination unto the Egyptians. These Egyptians had a real problem with Hebrews. You talk about racism, you talk about prejudice. They hated them for no other reason than what they were born as. So look at verse 33. It says that men marveled at one another, at what was taking place here. That word marveled means they're stunned, they're dumbfounded. They're standing there, and so you have this segregated seeding, as I just pointed out, and uh all through history folks have hated the Hebrews and the Egyptians were no different, and even to this day, the Jews are hated by most of the world. And by the way, America ought to stay friends with the Jews. The Egyptians weren't. So they have the segregated seeding. And then they have systematic seeding. Look at verse 33. And they set before him the firstborn according to his birthright, and the youngest according to his youth, and the men marveled. In other words, When they come to be seated at this ma mansion dining area table, this magnificent setting, they have assigned seats. And lo and behold, they are seated by age around, the youngest all the way around to the oldest. Now, Henry Morris, who's a tremendous Christian scientist, and he is a common commentary on Genesis, and he pointed this out. He says, if you have eleven men The the uh to arrange them in age order by accident He said there are 39,917 possible arrangements for eleven men to sit together. I mean there's 39,917,000 possible ways that these guys could be seated, and they just happen to be seated by age. Sum's up. And I I don't know about you, I can see these guys sitting there. You know, they're in their fifties, probably, forties, maybe the youngest, maybe Benjamin might be in his thirties, I don't know. But they're sitting around there and they're looking, what in the world? How did they know? So I think one of two things happened. Either they just have no clue how this took place, or I'm wondering if they're thinking This Egyptian Pharaoh is supernatural. He knows stuff about us we don't know. Now we're not told other than the fact that that word marble there, and literally one of the definitions of the word marble, was dumbfounded. They're absolutely Clueless. They had no answer how this happened. And then verse 34, and I'll end with this. He took and sent messes unto them. Now the word messes there simply means portions. I think that might be used in our military, mess hall, that type of stuff. It simply means the portion of meal they're getting, whatever their plate is they're getting. So he took and sent messes unto them from before him, so their being served their dishes with the food on. But Benjamin's mass, look at this, was five times as much five times so much as any of theirs. So he gets this huge plate. I mean it probably has sideboards on It is stacked up. And Benjamin's sitting there. I don't know, I don't know. The brothers like, what? And they drank and were merry with him. I'm telling you right now, that is not what they were expecting on the way down. They had no clue. And there is something about to happen to them that they absolutely have no idea what they're about to find out. Now here's a lesson I want to end us with Humility and forgiveness. I'm convinced the more I study it, Joseph, at this point. He said, I forgive these guys. They've humbled themselves. I see it in their eyes. I see what God is doing. This needs to be made right. This needs to be restored. And all this other stuff. Now, it doesn't m oh by the way, he's mess I put this down. I wanted to say this. I've been waiting to say this all week. He was messing with their mess Now great. He gave J Benjamin the big one. He's messing with him. Now he's not done messing with him. He's still got a few tricks up his sleeve down the road. But it's not in the roughness and the cruelty that was characteristic for the first time. This time it's a ploy to get them back and work this all together. But there's a definite change in Joseph's demeanor. When they humbled themselves and Joseph saw God's plan, it changed everything. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to help us learn from this. And I don't know what lessons each of us as individuals might take away. But I pray you'd help us, if nothing else, to humble ourselves before one another. Be patient and kind and loving and forgiving, even when it's so hard. I ask that you would send revival and like you revive that family. I pray you'd revive our church and our churches, our homes. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, preacher, I could use some humility. I need God's grace. And I need to learn to humble myself. Any like that uplifted hand? Yeah, probably all of us could use that. Probably all of us. What if there's some would say, preacher, I'd like to s I'd like to I want to fulfill God's plan and purpose? I want to be- I guess I'll put it this way, I want to be right with God. I don't want things out of line. I don't want anything to be out of God's will in my life. I want to be right with God. I think that's where Joseph was. Is there any like that? Preacher, I really, really just want to be right with God. My hands raised. Father, I pray you bless our imitation. Help us take this to heart. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen