Chapter twenty four, if you have your Bibles turning there. Thank you, uh Lord Neldon, that was a blessing. 1 Samuel 24, the life of David, we're looking at. And we're jumping right into it this evening. You know, the Bible is an honest book. Did you know that? The Bible's straight up and honest. It tells it tells things as they are. Um when the Bible deals with um God's heroes, if you want to say that, or God's men, God's women, it doesn't sugarcoat them in any way. It gives both the strengths and weaknesses of uh God's hero. Sometimes, you know, man's writings or whatever, the history, they'll kind of play down some of the weaknesses of folks. Um who was the president that was in a wheelchair? FDR was in a wheelchair and the way I understand that was a little for my time, but um uh some of y'all remember all that. But uh But the way I understood it was they would never show pictures of him in the wheelchair because uh they had the idea that maybe it would portray weakness on his part or somehow uh not be too flattering. Uh the Bible shows the wheelchairs. You know what I mean? The Bible shows both the strengths and weaknesses, the the integrity and the lack of integrity that sometimes shows itself in God's heroes. And David is one of those. We've seen a few places already where he struggled with his faith, made some decisions that perhaps weren't all they ought to be. Uh and um and then we're going to see some more of those. But um uh it reminded me I read and I read this a number of years ago, came across it again this week uh fella out in California, I believe it was. It was a news report. A guy out in California had gone through the drive-thru of a Kentucky fried chicken and uh had a lady with him, went through the drive-thru and made their order, chicken, whatever. And uh they got it, and they got it in the box, their drinks, set it aside, drove off to wherever they were going to eat their lunch. He opened the box up and here there was a money bag in there with tens of thousands of dollars of cash. inside the box and they looked and they knew immediately something wasn't right. Uh we didn't order this. And uh So they went back, got the manager, pulled him aside, and said, you know, this is what we got. And the manager was just horrified that he had taken the daily deposit And had disguised it in a chicken box because he was going to take it to the bank, and he set it down, and the lady serving had inadvertently picked up the wrong box and gave them that money. And uh they just praised him and praised him and praised him for his integrity and his honesty that he brought this back. They would have had no idea And uh he brought back and he says, I'm going to call the newspaper. I want the newspaper to know and let and report that there are honest people in the world. He said, Well, you and your wife to stand here and take a picture. He goes, Oh no, you can't do that, don't do that She goes, uh I'm a married man, but this isn't my wife. Ouch So sometimes, and I think this is true more often maybe than we care to admit, but we will have integrity in certain areas of our life And we'll do very, very well in certain areas of life. Then there's other areas of our life where maybe not so much. Right? And we see that in the Bible, being an honest book, the Word of God presents the greatest men, greatest women in God's kingdom, but it always presents them as they are, never sugarcoats, never makes them out to be some kind of super uh heroes beyond what they really were. And we're seeing that of David. Like I said, we've seen a little bit before. And we're going to see again some of his weakness, some where he is where he failed in his faith, just flat out failed, even in his integrity, as out of character as it may seem, nevertheless it's true However, right now we are seeing David's integrity. Now, if you remember, before I start reading, the background here is David's fleeing from King Saul. How many people remember that? All right. And uh he's got out in this wilderness of of uh Engadai. It's a desert area, although it's a perfect place to hide and uh to uh maneuver around you trying to avoid an army And he's in the cave. Saul comes up in the cave. And uh David uh's men tell him, here's your chance, kill him. Saul didn't know he was there, they were right there. And David restrains his men, says, no, we're not going to kill him. It's God's anointing. I'm not going to touch him. So he cut the little corner of his garment off. Saul goes out. David yells out, hey King Saul, I could have killed you Says I'm an innocent man. I'm just a dog. I'm a dead dog. I'm a flea. I'm nothing. You're wasting your time chasing me. I'm not a threat to you. And uh um, you know, uh I'm innocent, I'm not out after you And so that's the setting, and this is Saul's response back to David's declaration, David's statements that he made to King Saul. Verse 16, 1 Samuel 24. And it came to pass when David had made an end of speaking these words unto Saul. All right, David's up on the hill, Saul's down here safe distance. Saul's responding back. Look what happens. Saul said, Is it thy voice? Is it thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice and what? Wept. David's kindness to King Saul and sparing him had an emotional impact on King Saul. And he said to David, Thou art more righteous than I. Now he's I believe he's weeping and sobbing while he's saying this. He's crying out pretty loud because there's distance. Thou art more righteous than I, for thou hast rewarded me good, wherein I have rewarded thee evil. And thou hast showed this day how that thou hast dealt well with me, forasmuch as when the Lord had delivered me into thy hand, thou killedest me not. For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well away? Therefore the Lord reward thee good for that thou hast done unto me this day. And now, behold, I know well that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thine hands. It's the first time we hear King Saul saying that. Swear now, therefore, unto me by the Lord that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and that thou wilt not destroy my name out of my father's house. Verse 22, and David swore unto Saul, and Saul went home. But David and his men got them into the hold. They went back into hiding. into security. I called it for lack of creativity on my part, I just entitled this the effect of goodness. The effect that goodness has Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our time in your word here. I pray you'd challenge us to be good to people. I pray you'd help us to be kind to the unkind and bless those that curse us. And uh and uh follow David's example of faith and and kindness. I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. I ask that you would uh challenge us. You'd be the teacher and preacher tonight And as I already prayed, you'd help us to incorporate into our lives. Your Holy Spirit would instill into our hearts and minds these tremendous characteristics we see of David right here. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We see in David tremendous character, tremendous integrity, but other times we see weakness and faith, uh weakness of faith, and actually acts in dishonorable ways on occasion. Right here, I think we see two outstanding characteristics of David. As I studied this and gave thought to this, I asked the Lord, I asked the Lord, please help me Help me, Holy Spirit, help me to develop these attributes in my life. That I can have these two. And the two I noticed here is number one, great faith in God. He trusted God I don't know about you, but if if I was taking things if David was taking things in his own hands, or if I was in David's shoes, I was going to take it in my own hands, Saul would be a dead man. Right? If you're going to lean on your own understanding, you're going to be, this guy's out to kill me. I'm outnumbered. There's no hope. I'm a dead man. I got to take him out in self-defense. That would be human reasoning. But David trusted God, and we see this over and over again, where he exercises tremendous faith in God. And then the other characteristic we see come out of David here, and we've seen it a bit before But we're going to see it raise its head, display itself on occasion throughout his life, and that is this kindness. I believe David, in spite of the fact that he was a phenomenal warrior and slew thousands, tens of thousands of Philistines, he could handle a sword He could handle a bow. He was confident in combat. He could deal with eliminating uh enemies. But behind all of that, there was a kindness in his heart and life. And we see that, as I said, manifest itself. When I was reading this here, how Saul responded to David sparing his life and the humility that David displayed in declaring to King Saul, hey, I could have killed you. I didn't. I'm a dead dog. I'm a flea. The humility showed. And uh I thought of a couple of verses. In fact, if you would, let's real quickly go with me to the book of Proverbs. Seems like we end up in Proverbs a lot, but Proverbs chapter 15 and verse 1. I actually read this this morning in my devotions. And uh it fit right in. I'm going to turn this mic on, Dave. I don't have my Hi Mike, there we go. I read Proverbs chapter 15 and verse 1 and um spoke to my heart this in my devotion this morning. Notice what the Bible says in the first verse of 15, Proverbs A soft answer turneth away what? Wrath. Soft answer turneth away wrath, but grievous words stir up anger. You can see that in this instance right here where Saul is inflamed against Dave. He is, he, Dave, I call him Dave sometimes. He is just uh He is just out after David's blood. He is out after him. And David answers a so David gives a soft answer, and boy, it turned away all that wrath. And we saw how King Saul responded here a bit But grievous words stir up anger. Boy, do you ever you ever in a situation where you're just fine with somebody or get along and then they say something and man, it just gets you Anybody know what I'm talking about? Anything of a jet just fine. And just a couple words. Boom. Next thing I know, I'm as angry as can be. Or the other way around, boy, somebody's hot, and you just say a few words and shh They just cool off. A soft answer turneth away turneth away wrath. You know, we could eliminate a lot of the fussing and and uh anger and stuff that goes on. We could eliminate it if we just talk nicely. Just say nice things, have soft answers, can uh could bring a lot of peace to a lot of situations. I'll go over to chapter 16 and verse 32 Proverbs. Next chapter over, 32, down to the end of the second last verse of the chapter. He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty. And he that ruleth his spirit controls his attitude, you could say almost. He that ruleth his spirit, then he that taketh a city. Boy, Saul was a mighty man, powerful. He was a warrior himself in his own right. He could take cities, no doubt about it. He could lead that army. He could do all that. But one thing he didn't have, he didn't have that slowness of anger. And he could not rule his spirit. And envy and bitterness and anger and hatred took over it And the Bible says the guy that can rule his spirit and the guy that's slow to anger is better than the great mighty one that can destroy a city. Isn't that interesting? We won't turn there, but James chapter 3 and verse 17 says this. The wisdom that is from above. What does he mean? The wisdom that is from above is the wisdom that's from God, the wisdom that God gives us. Listen to how He describes it. The wisdom that is from above is first pure, listen to this, then peaceable. Gentle, easy to be entreated, full of mercy, and of good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy David displayed here wisdom from above. He exercised wisdom that only God can give. in his treatment in this situation of King Saul. Now I would like you to turn to one more and then we'll get back to our text. All the way back in the New Testament, Romans chapter number 12. And this is a great, great principle here that if we could, and I'm preaching to myself as much as anybody, I'm sure, uh, if we could incorporate this into our our very lives and our behavior, I think, man, what a difference it would make. Romans chapter 12, and go to the last verse of Romans chapter 12. All the way back New Testament, towards the end of the book of Romans. Now look at this. Look at verse 21. Be not overcome of evil. In our little story here, who would be the one that's overcome of evil? Be Saul, obviously. Saul's overcome of evil. He's eat up But overcome evil with what? With good. Overcome evil with good. Our natural thinking, our flesh says, overcome evil with what? More evil. You think you're evil? I'm evil. I'm evil. I'm more evil than you are. The world says, the flesh says, fight fire with Fire. But I notice fire trucks don't carry gasoline around with them. The Bible clearly teaches, it's a principle, we see it all through. You don't overcome evil with evil. You covercome evil with what? You don't fight fire with fire, you fight fire with water. They spray water on it. In God's standard, in God's economy, You don't overcome fire with fire. You don't overcome evil with evil. In God's economy, you overcome evil with good. This person's being evil to me. Well the way you overcome and by the way the word overcome there means to be victorious over, to have victory over it. This person's being evil, they're being unkind, they're cursing me, they're threatening me or whatever. Now there's uh don't misunderstand. I'm not saying we can't defend ourselves, but what I am saying is the way to overcome, the way to be victorious, to conquer that evil, is to respond with goodness. Jesus in the Mount in the Sermon on the Mount, he laid out this perfectly. He said, bless them that what? Curse you. Bless them that curse you. Now the flesh, the world, our natural thinking says they curse me, I'll curse them back. That's what road rage is all about. Man, people just, it escalates In God's economy, God's standard is you bless them that curse you. You overcome hatred with Love. Love those that hate you. You've heard it said, hate your enemies. I say, love them that hate you. Overcome hatred with love. Overcome cursing with blessing. Overcome lies with the truth. Oh yeah, well uh you were lying. Oh yeah, well you were lying too. Sounds like our political world. Overcome evil with good. So David is displaying all these verses I just read, and there's many, many others. We could, you know, the Sermon on the Mount is phenomenal. About how disciples respond, how the followers of Jesus Christ, how we respond to unkindness, how we respond to evil, how we respond to hatred and cursing. He says, you're my disciple, this is how you respond. And David is displaying that perfectly for us here in this instance on how he responds. Now the interesting thing is. is that it had a an effect upon Saul. And that's what we want to look at real quickly here, how it affected Saul. My first thought, come back there to 1 Samuel if you would real quickly So David had self-restraint. He didn't do what his cohorts were urged him to do, killed Saul. He restrained himself. He showed respect. He humbled himself and then He was kind to King Saul. And notice my first point is this, verses 16 through 21. I took that section, and I noticed Saul's response. Let's break down how Saul responds to David's action. towards him here. First of all, I put this down. It was an emotional response on Saul's part. Look at verse 16. And it came to pass when David had made an end of speaking these words unto Saul that Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son? It's interesting. He refers to him now as his son. And Saul lifted up his war voice and wept. I mean, this is a sobbing cry. He is sobbing. Emotionally, he is profoundly affected by this. It's an emotional response. Now, I said all that, I want to say this. Emotional decisions and emotional responses can often be very temporal. An emotional response, an emotional decision can often be very, very shallow. And what you find when somebody makes an emotional response to something or an emotional appeal, uh emotional decision in a certain circumstance, as soon as the circumstances change, as soon as the situations change and the emotions die down, what happens to that emotional decision? It dies down also, it vanishes, it fades away. An emotional decision. We see this, we used to see this a little bit when I was in Bible college. You know, we have a powerful message and a powerful powerfully emotional appeal to some sort of decision in the Christian life, and it's good, and I'm all for that But sometimes there would be folks that, and I'm no doubt this has happened to me on occasion over the years, is while you're in that appeal, while you're hearing that and your emotions get stirred and your emotions are affected profoundly and you make that decision. Then as soon as you walk out and that appeal has died, the sermon's done The music is over, you walk back, and then that decision just whoop goes right back. How many people know what I'm talking about? I think we're seeing that hap- we're going to see that happening here Saul responds emotionally, but we're going to see how temporal it is and how shallow it really is. Matthew Henry, the great commentary, commentator on the Bible, said this: many mourn for their sins. That do not truly repent of them. Maybe they'll hear something or they'll see how their sins affected somebody, and while they're in that situation While they're in that circumstance, that environment, oh, they weep and cry. But as soon as they get out of that environment, as soon as the consequences uh are not obvious to them, then they go right back And sometimes we can mourn for our sins, but not necessarily repent of them. There's a little song, I think it's a song or a poem It goes like this. Feelings come and feelings go and feelings are deceiving. Part of a little song. And boy, that is the truth. That is the truth. Anyone get in the situation anybody here when we were out visiting our son at Christmas while we were out there, there's the the headquarters, I mean the big mothership. of Bass Pro Shops is in Springfield, Missouri. I mean this is it. This is this is this is the the Bass Pro Shops of all Bass Pro Shops. And we got in there, and it was amazing. I was perfectly content the whole time, driving there and everything. And we walked in there. I started seeing fishing stuff. And it and I felt it coming on. And oh, boy, and uh, did you ever say this? Uh five minutes earlier you didn't even know that thing existed. Now you see it, I need that Man, I need it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You ladies got your little world you do your stuff in too Oh and oh and they got big fish hanging up everywhere and they got all this and it's like oh and then you buy all this stuff and you walk out and it's like what was I thinking? I was an idiot, why'd I buy all this I don't need it. I didn't do that, but um that happens sometimes. I think that's what's happening here. We have a emotional response. Let me ask you a question. Are emotions bad? No, God gave us emotions. Can I say this? God's an emotional God. The Bible talks about God rejoicing in situations, God grieving over things. So we are made in the image of God, and emotions are a vital part of us, a very important part of our makeup. We need to be emotionally healthy. To be able to function as God instructs us to. But emotions are not given to us to dictate our decisions. Motions are given to us to help us empathize with others. They help us be a blessing and be used of God, I believe, is primarily what they're given to us. And so Saul responds to what King David, this tremendous statement that David made in humbling himself and respecting the king's position. David humbling himself and appealing to that, you know, listen, I'm not what you think I am. And Saul is stirred, his emotions are stirred, and he begins to weep. And he makes some statements. Forget this. He makes some statements and he makes some promises that are the result of his emotions, not the result of a change of heart. You're going to see that. These are emotional promises. And emotions are deceiving. Emotions are temporal. Feelings are very deceiving. Very temporal. And so he makes an emotional response. The second one, the second point I have under Saul's response, first of all, it's an emotional response. Verse 17 through 20, I put this down. It's a concessional response. Now maybe some of the school teachers are saying concessional, I don't think that's a word. It isn't. I just made it up when I was studying this, putting together. I made it up. Concessional. I don't think it's a word. At least I couldn't find a dictionary that had it, so I thought, phewy, I'm going to make it my own word. And what I though what I have in mind with that is if you concede something to somebody, that means what? You're in a you're in a Not an argument, I don't mean you're arguing, but you've got two your debate maybe going back and forth, and the other person proves that, oh, I was mistaken, and I concede to them that point. I think uh Saul's response to David, though it's based on his emotions He is conceding to David some statements that David made, some points that David had brought out. He's conceding to him, hey, you're right. I was wrong. You were right on some of these. Saul concedes a number of things. First of all, verse 17, 18, 19, he concedes that David's actions were righteous. Look at verse 17. And he said to David, Thou art more righteous than I. There's a concession. He's conceding that point. He didn't believe that earlier But now when he experienced this, he says, all right, I concede you're righteous, you are more righteous than I. Thou hast rewarded me good And I've rewarded thee evil. I concede that. And thou hast showed this day how that thou hast dealt well with me. Yes, I recognize that. I acknowledge that. I admit it For as much as when the Lord had delivered me into thine hand, thou killest me not. So he says, David, you're righteous. Verse 19, For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well away? The answer to that question would be what? No, if you got your enemy, you don't let him go. Wherefore the Lord reward thee for good that thou hast done unto me this day So he concedes, all right, David, you are more righteous than I'm not. Then not only is he conceded that David's actions were righteous, he concedes that David's anointing was certain. Look at verse number 20. And now, behold, what's the next two statements? I know well. I know well that thou shalt, what's the next word? Surely be king. Saul knows. He knew what was going on. Now it's been shown to him right there, and it's like, man, God chose this guy. He has integrity, he has humility, his respect. Saul says, I can't deny it anymore. I have to acknowledge the fact. David will surely be king. And that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand. Not only is he going to get the position, it's going to work. David's going to do a good job as king. Saul knows that. And so he concedes that David's actions were righteous and that this anointing to be king was certain that it's going to happen. And then the third response I noticed, the third aspect of Saul's response, is a hypocritical response. So it's emotional. It's the basis of all the promises and statements he's making, his emotions, because as soon as he's removed from this environment, he goes right back to what he was As soon as the emotions die down. It's conceptual. Yep. David, you're righteous. I'm not. You're right. I'm wrong. You are going to be king. He concedes that. And then it's hypocritical. Look at verse 21 Swear now, therefore, unto me by the Lord. Alright, he's making a request. Now I don't know about you, but I'm looking at this and I'm thinking, all right, Saul's. He's weeping. He's weeping. David, you're righteous. I'm not. You're going to be the king. I'm not. Swear now to me by the Lord, this is what I'm thinking, that you'll forgive me And that you'll I've done wrong to you. But that's not what he says. Look what he says. Swear now thou unto me that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me. And that thou wilt not destroy. Now I underline the next two words. Man, Saul, we get past the emotions. Now we see his heart again. Swear unto me that thou wilt not destroy what? My name out of my father's house Look at that verse. What is that whole request? What does that whole request revolve around? Saul It's all about me. And it ends up right back where we started, where Saul is wrapped up with himself. He's all in his own world, and everything has to do with me. Remember initially? Ah, they've sang to me thousands. And they're saying to David ten thousands. What's going to become of me? Me, me. That has characterized King Saul from about not long after he becomes king. It goes to his head and he's just eat up with himself. Now the implication here is I think Saul was what's he implying that David would what? If he doesn't make this request, David's going to do what? David's going to kill all his family. Saul is implying that. It's a it's uh uh an implied accusation. Hey, listen, he he's assuming David's Here's what I got out of it. He's assuming David is going to do to Saul's family what Saul would do if he was in David's shoes to David's family. Well he's he'd he'd do that's what I would do. Now I don't see any indicator anywhere up to this point or from here on out that saw that David would even consider. slaughtering uh uh King Saul's offspring, his seed after him. In fact, we see him doing the exact opposite later on And so there's an implication here in Saul's request, I think, that uh is reveals his heart, and the whole focus of the request reveals his heart. And here's the thing. This is where I get the hypocritical part of it. He is asking David to do what King Saul was not willing to do. He's saying to David, David, don't kill my seed. The seed would include what? What's he talking about? His children, his children's children. It wasn't too long ago, Saul's throwing a javelin at who? Jonathan, his own son. And he's making all these horrific accusations against Jonathan and his mother, Saul's wife Saying these awful things about him. And he throws a javelin, tries to murder his son. And here we are a few pages later, he's saying, Don't murder my son. He's asking David, he's requ requesting of David to do something Saul was not willing to do. In fact, there was a time before this, we didn't study this, there was a time before all David got involved that King Saul was going to kill Jonathan when he ate that honey, remember? He says uh they made a vow they couldn't eat any honey, and David went out, or Jonathan went out, killed the Philistines, came back, and remember anybody remember that And the people had to step in and intervene and protect Jonathan's life. So at least on two occasions, Saul tried to kill his son. And so to me, it's a little bit hypocritical if I'm asking somebody else to do something that I'm not willing to do, I'm not doing myself. I hope you'll grieve me. That's kind of hypocritical Saul's focus is still on himself. If you would, take your Bible, turn back to 1 Samuel 15, just a few chapters before. This is before David shows up. This is before David's even anointed. to be king. Samuel, the prophet of God, is confronting Saul about his rebellion, his hard-heartedness, his stiff his uh his um stubbornness And he says, uh he says, I'm going uh God's done with you, King Saul. He's going to take your kingdom away from you, and he's going to give it to someone else. And look at verse number 30. Look how King Saul responds there. Very similar to this. Then he said, King Saul, I have sinned. That's what he's just saying to David. Oh, I did wrong. You're right. I did wrong. Honor what? Me now, I pray thee. Where? Before the elders of my people and before Israel. And turn again with me. What was he worried about? He's worried about himself. He's worried about what people think of him. Oh, please, please honor me in front of everybody. Honor me in front of everybody And now he's coming to David and he's saying pretty much the same thing. Oh, listen, let my name be honored among the people. The root of envy and bitterness is still firmly lodged in King Saul's heart. Emotions affected him. He made some statements. He made some requests based on his emotions, but his heart was not changed. And I tell you where God works, and I'll tell you where lives are changed. I said all that to say this. Lives are changed when the heart is changed. And what we need to do in our ministries, whether it's the preaching ministry or in the teaching ministries here, or our soul-winning ministries, all of that, we need to pray that the Holy Spirit changed people's hearts. Because that's where the transformation is. That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth and believe in thine heart that God hath raised them from the dead, thou shalt be saved. And so we see here, um, we see these things about King Saul. Now let me just real quickly, verse 22, David's restraint is how I put it. David's restraint. He doesn't do what maybe some people might have thought of doing. Verse 22. And David swear unto Saul. I put this down, David's compliant with his request. Okay. I won't kill your seed. I won't do that. I don't think he was intending to. There's no indication David ever intended harm to Saul or any one of his family. I thought it's interesting King Saul did not invite David to return with him back to the palace. He didn't say, hey, listen, listen, you're right, I'm wrong. Come on back. Let's work this out. Let's re-establish where we were. You work with me until the time is to make a transition. You don't do that at all. So David says, all right I'm compliant with that. I'll go along. I promise you I won't kill him. Do that. But the other thing I noticed is David's very cautious with Saul's response. Now I've got a sneaking suspicion. How many people like me don't think David was a dummy? You don't get this level by being stupid. And I have a f I have a sneaking suspicion when Saul's down there blubbering and slobbering all over and sobbing and he's saying all these things, I'm I'm wondering in the back of David's mind, he's thinking, I better be careful. Yeah, I've heard this before, yes. And he's gonna hear it again. And David's thinking, uh, I think I'll stick to plan B. I mean, I'm sorry, let me take it back. I think I'll stick to plan A. And I'll just keep hiding out here and keep doing it. And so he restrains himself from thinking, you know, I know some people would have said, oh, wonderful, hey, I'll come down, so I'll be with you. We're buddies again. Yay! And David's, uh-uh. No, no, no. And look what he does. It says that uh he gat them up unto the hold. He took his men and uh and went back into hiding, uh back to a secure, safe place. In other words Don't confuse David's kindness towards King Saul with his trust of King Saul. You say, preacher, can we be kind to someone we don't trust? Yeah, yeah. In fact, we ought to be kind to everybody, whether we trust them or not. But kindness does not equal trusting someone. In fact, I've taken a whole step farther. Now you've got to lead a little wisdom on this one, but forgiving someone doesn't necessarily mean I trust them. Say, well, you forgive them, and so we just put them right back in the same position. I've illustrated this way before. And this is just total illustration, is not based in reality even remotely But suppose we had someone that's handling the money of the church and they they steal out of the church funds uh $5,000 We find them and say, oh, I'm sorry it was wrong. I don't know. And we say we forgive them. Alright, we'll forgive you. Not going to press charges. They return it. All right, that's fine. Um and we say and and we say, well listen, we'll forgive him. We'll put him back in that position. No. No. You say, well, I thought you forgave them. Yeah, we did. We're not pre-charged. We're not going to hold it against them, all that. But that is not a position for them to be in. Right? Yeah, put them back and it would hurt them. We just had a meeting Sunday afternoon with all our teachers, workers, and everything. And one of our policy is, and and God can forgive, and we must forgive, and God does forgive But if somebody has some sort of child molestation in their past or something like that, we cannot put them into a position working with children. Or anything like that. Does it mean we don't forgive them or we hold that against them? No. Not at all. We love them kindly But uh forgiveness does not equal trust. Uh kindness does not equal trust. And David had enough common sense, he was wise enough to say, hey, I would be a fool to go back down there. Just based on these emotional promises he's making, these emotional statements he's making. So we're seeing some tremendous characteristics of David. Number one, we see great faith in God He's trusting God. And number two, he's displaying tremendous, tremendous uh kindness to a man that really did not deserve it And by fleshly standards, it would be the exact opposite. And with this, I came across an article, I was looking up kindness, reading about kindness. And an article, and this is in the world, this wasn't a Christian publication at all, but they had five results of kindness, the five benefits of kindness. I thought this was interesting. One, it makes us happier. I got to think about it. You know, the hap kind people are happier than unkind people. Mean people are not happy. I'm going to make a bumper sticker. Mean people are unhappy. So kindness produces happiness. Another one they pointed out was, and they said that kind people tend to be healthier. I don't know if I can document that or not. I know some unhealthy people that are very kind. But they said overall health, kindness promotes overall health, and that makes sense. I found that angry people tend to be stressed out. And stress is bad, right? The third one I put down, and this is what they said, I can't document this, but they said that kindness tends to slow aging. I don't know. This one's obvious. Kindness makes better relationships I get a lot I get a I get along a whole lot better with nice people than I do with mean people. And then their last one was kindness is contagious. I found that kind people get treated more kindly. You watch somebody at a counter somewhere and the or at an airport's a good spot and they go up and um uh we uh when we're flying back I told you about our plane got delayed and all of that and And man, they were people hot. And you know, uh it put them out, they were just, and there's nothing anybody could do. And they're going on, and I noticed that the people behind the counter tended to be a little more short. They tried, they were trying, you could tell, they were trying to be nice But they're getting cussed out and people are screaming I'm all mad and all this, my flight and this out and Christmas and New Year's and uh and they're going on and they're trying to we're trying our best And then I noticed people came up and said, hey, I'm just checking, but um I know you guys are doing the best you can. And I noticed they were a whole lot nicer to them. So kind people tend to get treated more kindly. And I added one more, another benefit of kindness. I believe God blesses kindness. I believe God blesses kindness. And so, let's be kind. Let's do good to people. And let's see if God won't bless us. Amen. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless us now and help us. Holy Spirit, you are kind. You are gentle. You're good. The fruit of the Spirit is all these characteristics. And I ask, dear Lord, that you would help us to die to self, to be fully yielded to the Spirit of God and filled with the Holy Spirit, that your fruit of kindness and goodness and gentleness Would be would be borne out in our lives in this old unkind world. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would like me, you say, preacher, I could I'd like for God to give me a good dose of kindness in my heart and life. Anybody like that? I could sure use some of that. And I think we all can. And maybe if we just ask God, God help me to be good to others, to be kind to others I believe the Lord would help us. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed. Jane is at the piano. He's going to play invitation head. Maybe some of us just kneel at an old altar and just say, Lord, help me to be kind. Holy Spirit of God. Fill me with your spirit. And bear kindness out in my life. Maybe there's somebody in particular that's coming to mind that you say, boy, I need to be kind. I need to do good to that person. And God will help us. There's no doubt about it. God will help us if we'll trust Him. Follow David's example here and these scriptures we looked at, soft answer. Overcome evil with good, all that. The Lord helps us. I know He does.