1 Samuel chapter 3. 1 Samuel chapter 3, and when you find that, would you stand for the reading of God's Word? 1 Samuel chapter 3. It says this, and the child Samuel ministered unto the Lord before Eli. And the word of the Lord was precious. That means it was rare. It was not a commonality in those days, which is not a good thing. And there was no open vision. And it came to pass at that time when Eli was laid down in his place, and his eyes began to wax dim. that he could not see, and ear the lamp of God went out in the temple of the Lord, where the ark Of God was. And Samuel was laid down to sleep. And the Lord called Samuel. And he answered. Here am I. Heavenly Father, we pray now, dear God That you would again anoint this second service and help the minds and hearts of these men to be open to thy Holy Ghost. And Father, through and by your holy unction, that you would allow your Holy Spirit to permeate each and every corner of this room, that his presence might be readily evident. Oh God, as I step back I pray you would step forward, articulate my speech, clarify and direct my thoughts, but most of all that you would indwell me through and by your Holy Spirit. Lead and guide us into all truth. Show us those things to come. Father, and we'll be very careful to give you all the praise and glory for what you're about to do, because you will do it. Father, We'll be very careful to give you the honor and glory. Might your name be glorified. And we pray this in the precious name of your Son. The Lord Jesus Christ and by the authority that's in his name, O Jehovah, we pray. Amen. Thank you. May be seated So something's going on here. The reason why the fire was lit 350 years earlier. was to show that it was the night before morning that the following transaction sometime the lamp you might say looked at as a lamp of prophecy that before was very almost Extinct in Eli, that note of prophecy. It only began to depart His eyes began to wax dim. The spirit of prophecy came unto his successor, Samuel. That passing of the torch, so to speak. So that as the Jews express it before one sun was set, another rose. And thus the sun Of Moses set the son of Joshua arose before Eli, and the son of Eli set, Samuel arose in the ark. Of God was, that is, in the temple of the tabernacle, not in that part where the lamps were burning in the candlestick, it was in the holy place. But the ark was the holy of holies where the Lord dwell, and the symbol of his presence observed that point. I love the fact of how Wood burns. I have a wood burning fireplace. I enjoy it. I use it in the winter. It's uh got a huge piece of ambient glass and uh and uh and there's a lot of wood in in Maryland. I'm thankful for that. Amen. And so I I get the oak And I put it in there, sometime the black thorn wood and put it in there and burns like coal. And as it's burning and it's circulating in there and it's giving off the heat to our home there in the upper Marlborough area, I realize that tree represents years of growth and absorption of the sun's energy. That's been stored. And now it's letting that out. I said, you know, isn't that wonderful that God gives us that gift of how energy can be stored and then let back out again. His energy, his fire, so to speak. And I I want to just get you to a point to understand About the fire, about Leviticus 6 and 13, where it instructs that the fire shall ever be burning upon the altar. It shall never go out. This is mentioned three times in that chapter, verses nine, twelve, and thirteen. And one reason why the ongoing fire is so very important Especially in the Old Testament, was because there was a fire that came out from the Lord, it consumed the altar, and it was basically showing that God's divine providence. was there. Consumed the altar, the burnt offering, the fat, and when the people saw it, they shouted and they fell on their faces. The fire in the altar therefore serves as a constant reminder of God's presence, of God's power. A gift from heaven, and no other source of fire was acceptable to God. Talks about that fake fire, that strange fire. In Numbers 3 and verse 4, and Nahab and Abaihu died before the Lord when they offered Strange fire. That's what you call going back to Brother Rossi's message on deception. Ongoing presence of God. reminded the Israelites that salvation is of the Lord. The atonement made at the burnt offering could only be made through Him. I appreciate the fact in the New Testament John the Baptist predicted that the Messiah would baptize with the Spirit and with fire. May I submit to you in Hebrews chapter one and verse seven, it says, And the angels saith, Who maketh his angel spirits and his ministers a flame of fire That you might say sacred fire. That fire that only comes from God. That's the fire that our founders had. That's the fire that these men possessed when they signed a document that for many of them was their own death warrant. You imagine in that room in Philadelphia, these men were just like you and I. Many of them had little ones at home even. Families to think about. And on top of that, these were the multi-billionaires, by comparatively speaking. These were men that many of them, most of them actually, were gentry class, the American royalty that had been brought over from Great Britain. These men could have led lives of leisure, but they chose something very different. They chose not to control the common man, but their concern for the common man. I love the fact. that when you look at our American history, that you see most of the times these men running into battle sick and almost starving to death. Many times these men ran into battle with hardly enough clothes to cover their bodies. Talk about ragtag group of men. They were truly ragtag. without enough leather to keep their feet from breaking through frostfite and bleeding as they marched in the snow. But they continued to go forward. And the reason why is because many times their leaders were their pastors. I appreciate the fact that They instilled in them a fire that burned so brightly. And it was because of pulpits just like this. That they went ahead and thank you very much for those comments over here. Social media is speaking up. I don't think it likes what I'm talking about, okay But look, the reason why our founders were who they were was because of preachers. Was because of men like Isaac Bacchus. Because men that had a fire burning. See, most of our history, you get this right, most of our Baptist history, we'd preach and then we'd run. Because if we didn't run, we'd get hung or drawn in quarters. Or we would be jailed and whipped to death Patrick Henry was one of those young boys whose parents would sneak him out at night. To go listen to unlicensed preachers. Didn't have a license from the state-run church. And if you were preaching without a license from the state-run church, which is the Church of England, And the head of the Church of England was the king. It was a death sentence. So these men like Patrick Henry at night, they they'd go out and and they preach They'd hear these men preach that would literally be preaching sometimes, not even from the pulpit, but maybe in the woods somewhere. From the stump of a tree. And when they got through, they had a horse ready to jump on and ride off into the darkness because The British might have some monarchists among there. And we're getting a lot of comments coming over here from this side, right? Right here. Brother Rossi, you okay? All right. You need you need some help? I don't think he liked that comment that I made about him at the beginning. But uh but hey, I look We had no hope when we started this country. You get that, right? We had no hope in man And and yeah, to do that you you to to turn it off you need to Hey wait, hold it, hold it, hold it. Just let me see this for a second. This is what this is this this is this is how Brother Rossi's looking right now. That's why that's there. Because he's having a hard time turning it off. Amen. Just to let you know, okay. I looked over there, he was he was looking just like that. Alright, turn it off. Okay But I don't know about Shu when those men had a document which was parchment, which was the skin of an animal. A feather of a bird, which was a goose quill pen, and they were being asked to come up and sign it. Knowing by man's estimation it was going to make them traitors. I'm sure their mind went back to all of those men that they saw under the threat of death. Preaching with a fire that couldn't be extinguished. I don't know about you. Man, that gets me going. And they were actually even then, human nature, thinking about turning that in without any signatures. Until out of the fifty-six men, one man stood up. The only pastor in the group, Dr. John Witherspoon. Old man, very old at this time, responsible for educating most of the men that had anything to do with the development of the Declaration of Independence. You see, he knew something that all of those men knew as well. Something that's been lost to us in history. The Declaration of Independence was not written by Thomas Jefferson. It was compiled by him. The Declaration of Independence was simply snippets for messages preached From pulpits under the threat of life, decades leading up to the Declaration of Independence. That document was filled with literally not only the holy Scriptures, but the blood of martyrs. That's what it represented. And they were thinking about Just sending it without any signatures. Well John Hancock, he was the first one that signed it. He was the president of these United States during that time, and that's another story, signed his name nice and large, knowing that the king, having reading glasses, didn't always have his reading glasses with him So he signed his name nice and large, and then said, That's going to double the price on my head, by old John Bull, which was a, you might say, a symbol for the king. And sure enough they did. They doubled the price on his head. It goes on though to say, as they're looking at that document, And I mean July 1776 in Philadelphia. Hot. I mean you could probably cut the humidity with a knife. John Witherspoon stands up. Everyone knows who he is. He's one of the most famous pastors in the colonial time frame. Gray hair, old man, one of his sons gives his life in the war for independence. And this is what he says, and I'm not going to give you the whole speech, but he says That document on that table. Every man should strain every nerve to sign it And if you don't, you're unworthy of the name free man. He said, of my own sake, property I have some, because these were men that were huge property owners. Some of them owned half of states. Unessable wealth. Property I have some reputation more. He was being humble there. He said that property is staked and that reputation is pledged. upon the issue of this contest contest. And although these grey hairs must soon descend to the sepulchre, I would infinitely rather that they descend there by the hangman's noose than to desert the sacred cause of this my country. Amen. And he went over and he took that goose quill pen and dipped it in the ink And signed his name very carefully. Every eye was on him. Every ear was open. Put the pen down, walked over and sat back down. And men started standing up and walking over and signing it. One man after another after another. Ben Franklin always never at a loss for words to say when they got through, he said, Well, we better all hang together, or we will surely all hang separately. Everyone laughs. I don't see that as funny, but I guess they did. Kinda broke a a little bit of the tense atmosphere There was a man that was very unique. Patrick Henry Had a tremendous speech where they were yelling at him treason. They kept on yelling at him, sit down, treason, he was talking against the king. He said, if it's treason, let's make the most of it. I serve a king higher than the king of England. My king is the king of kings and lord of lords. He ended that speech, and I've heard people give the rendition of the whole speech. And at the end of the speech, they almost call out. At the top of their lungs, give me liberty or give me death, but that's not how Patrick Henry said it He had spent himself in that oratory, and as he was putting his papers back together again, almost under his breath But men there next to him heard him say it and wrote it down in their journals and it was passed on to us. Give me liberty or give me death. See, those weren't his words. Those were the words of a Baptist preacher Outside of the Culpepper Jail in Virginia, that he saw marched out and flogged to death. They beat this pastor to death. He was standing next to another man who was watching, and women were weeping and Taking their children and turning them away. Men were weeping and crying out as this man of God was being beaten to death. He asked the person, what has this man done? He must have done something very heinous to deserve this punishment. He said, no, no, he uh He didn't take a license from the state-run church and this is a death sentence that they're perpetrating upon him. Patrick Henry heard that man say. Give me liberty or give me death. He saw something in that man, a sacred fire. That man could have chosen to live simply by saying, okay, I'll get a license. But you see, God's principles were more important to him than man's tyranny of saying you can't preach. Hey, we used to preach and run We used to preach and be hung. We used to preach and be whipped to death and now we preach and we go eat. That's refreshing change. Amen. But the reason why is because other men paid the price. See God, He's the one that started that fire. You can't start a fire without God. Not a sacred fire. A sacred fire must be started by God. And here's the problem, I think, in our Christianity today. There's a lot of people today, a lot of men in Christianity today that don't have that fire burning brightly. See, I don't want to live a life of mediocracy. I don't want to live a life down here I want to live a life for God that's burning. I don't want to be driving. I want to be driven. Last year I spoke at least once every single week. I mean I'm talking about 52 weeks in the year, I traveled 52 weeks out of the year. Christmas and New Year's as well. Say, Brother Harning, why are you doing that? I'm doing that because I can't do anything else I actually took Christmas weekend and uh New Year's weekend off, but I had guys calling and saying, Couldn't you come? And I looked at my wife and and because it was her birthday on one of those Sundays, the December the twenty-sixth And she said, yeah. I said, thank you, because I I need to go. Because I I I want to see something happen in our country. See, I'm tired of this lukewarm Christianity. And may I say this, it is something that just comes with our culture. We are so comfortable. We've had it good for so long. Hey, we don't have to pray for the rain so the crops can grow, so we can have something to eat. We just go by Burger King and we can get something handed to us with almost not even stopping. I think one day soon you won't even have to stop They'll take those cardboard boxes and put them together like a football, and you'll just wave your card by and they'll say, Go long. Throw it out to you But we've had it so good for so long. I I think we have been lulled into a complacency where the fire is still there, but it's burned down and there's just some embers glowing. Amen. See, I think it's time that we realize our heart is the altar. Yes, sir. That we put before God and say, Lord, please stir the embers again. I I don't want to be Just lukewarm. I don't want you to spew me out of your mouth. I want to be on fire for you, God. I want to be running into the next battle. I don't care if there might be something in my life. That brings me down in sickness or burden. I want to be running into that next battle. Oh I may not have all the weapons of the warfare that the world has to offer. I don't need them. Because my weapon and your weapon is true and by God and his truth. I love the story of the swamp fox, George Marion. Anyone ever heard of George Marion? The swamp fox. And and the swamp fox, this guy and his men knew the swamp so well. That knew exactly how to get in and get out. They would go and they were the early Green Beret. I used to work for a Green Beret. His name was Jim Vineyard. I'm telling you, Brother Vineyard was the hardest man I've ever worked for in my life. Say, would you want to do it again? No. But I'm glad I did it. Amen? Because he put some grit in my craw. Say, Brother Hardy, what do you mean when I started this ministry I mean it's going on 20 years ago now. No one in independent Baptist circles was doing what God called me to do. 200 letters were sent up by my preacher. Well known at that. Very well known. I got one letter back Brother Vineyard, though, man, he was he was deaf on you saying, I can't do that of Brother Vineyard. I remember one time Woody Williams was coming. Woody Williams, hey, he uh he just went to heaven. In June. I had the honor of preaching his funeral to over two thousand people the governor and his wife, governor of West Virginia, both senators from West Virginia, uh Capiteau and Manchin. And then all the congressmen and other Medal of Honor recipients. And Woody said, I want you to give a clean, simple presentation of the gospel and even bring people through and by leading them in a prayer of salvation. And boy it was it was it was wonderful. I mean I was in Georgia preaching uh on a Sunday night and his grandson called and said Woody He's just got a few hours, if not minutes to live, and in his will he wants you to bring his f Funeral message, the gospel. The Marines got a hold of it. The governor got a hold of it, and it was put into the West Virginia State House. It was a state funeral. Conducted by the Marine Corps. The commandant of the Marines were there. The sergeant major of the Marines were there. And I basically told them, I had a liaison that I talked to, and he said, we need to have uh a little protocol meeting And I could kind of perceive what he meant by a protocol meeting. Because even the Marines, I'm sorry to say, have gone a little woke. And and so I said, well before we had that meeting, we were standing right by the casket that carried the Woody's remains. He was the last medal of honor recipient from World War II to die at 98. Woody 98 years old going strong putting up gold storm memorials for families that have lost loved ones in service to our country. There's one in every state now At least one, and many, many more to come. And 98 years old, I mean traveling anywhere. I mean he fell down a flight of 18 cement steps At ninety-eight. And it started to spiral down. But up to that time, ninety eight, I mean this guy, I looked into his eyes and he had a fire burning. He had a fire burning in his eyes. I could see it. My oh my. And what he said uh I've got this going on, I'm going, I've got that going on, and what I'm saying is I told the Marines, I'm gonna bring a clear presentation because that Marine right there, the last Marine from from the last soldier Marine, Navy, whatever. Four hundred and seventy-three men given the Congressional Medal of Honor, he's the last one. that just passed away. He wanted me to bring a clear presentation of the gospel. And I'm not only doing that, I'm gonna actually lead people to the Lord. In a silent prayer. Because that man wanted it. And by the way, his family wants it too. His grandson came over and showed me the uh the order of services. He said, right here, you see this? It says gospel message. So I told the Marine, I said, see that? Gospel message. And that's what I'm gonna do. And I'm gonna be talking about Jesus Christ. After I said that and I said He wanted it, his family wants it, the protocol meeting was called off. I love it when a when a plan comes together, amen. And you can still see it today Look up Woody Williams' funeral and go to the end and the clear presentation of the gospel. Two thousand people there, seven thousand people. But But what I'm saying is Woody had that fire burning. My preacher, Brother Beneard, had that fire burning. And the first time Woody came, very first time I met him, and what started decades of friendship, he said, I had a quartet together. I had a quartet together. You guys have a trio. I like trios. But I have a quartet. He said, I want you to write a song about Woody. I want you to write a song. Here's the information about how he won his Medal of Honor. I want you to write a song. I want you to learn it with your quartet. And and then I want you to sing it for him. He's gonna be here next week. I made a mistake. I said to Brother Bineard I'm not a songwriter. He said, bless God. Chuck, I didn't ask you if you were a songwriter. I asked you to write a song. I said, yes, sir. And I walked out of there with that information. Fortunately, there was a songwriter in the quartet, and I called him up. I said, Daniel, you need to write a song. And he did, and it was a good one. But that started that Long relationship with Woody. I'm telling you, Woody cleared out six pillboxes. Six enemy pillboxes on Iwo Jima with a flamethrower. They got so close to killing him he could feel the bullets skimming off of his tanks As he climbed up and crawled up to that first pillbox, he said, when I got under blind side I jumped up. I ran over, jumped on top, and their air hole, my nozzle fit perfectly in it. And I turned it on. and fire came shooting out from every area of that pillbox. Two of those Japanese ran out and I picked it up and I got them. And then I went back down, had to get more tanks. He said I did that seven times. Seven times. And then I was on the White House lawn. Harry Truman pinned that Medal of Honor around my neck. And whispered in my ear, I'd rather have this medal than to be the President of the United States. I remember Woody saying, I had a choice that day. When I felt those bullets bouncing off. To stand up and run, if I had done, I would have been killed. But I controlled my fear And I kept on moving forward. Woody was a personification of what it is to be a true patriot and have that eternal flame burning deep in your heart, that sacred fire. George Marion. He was a swamp fox. He would hit very first special forces. He would hit and then he'd run back into the Swamp, but they couldn't follow them because the first time they did they got eaten up by some gaitors and and uh then so they got squ they got guys caught in the quicksand. You guys are enjoying this, amen. At least you you guys are enjoying. That's okay So his commander said, I want you to uh told his lieutenant, I want you to go in, I want you to do a little reconnoiter and find out what makes this guy tick. And so he said, all right, sorry, so he went under the flag of truce, and sure enough he was captured. As soon as he got into the swamp, they put a black bag over his head and brought him in, and there was Colonel George Marion in the interior of his camp. And they took the put off and he started talking to him and looked at his men and kind of did a did a little bit of recon order and then he said, Well thank you, sir, for allowing me to come in and and uh to honor the Flag of truce. And then he went back and he reported to his commander. And this is what he told his commander. He said, Sir, I saw men that were ill clad. Dilapidated. They're I mean their clothes almost about to fall off of them. I saw men that hardly had enough weaponry. They were ill-clad, they were ill-equipped They were ill-fed too. I could see their bones through their skin. They were skin and bones. I don't know how they're doing it, but they continue to to fight the way that they're doing until something happened. Well, every time he gave his commander one of those reports, his commander smiled more and more. Until he got to a point where he said, I know how they do it now. He said, Tell me, tell me, tell me. He said, I looked into their eyes and I saw something burning there. And I realized these men were fighting for their liberty. He said, Sir, they're going to win. He said, What do you mean they're going to win? Ill-equipped, ill-fed? Ill-clad? He said, Yeah, but that fire is going to carry them through. Because I look at our men and they don't have that fire burning Too many times I look into the eyes of God's people, I don't see a fire burning there. As we should have it. Hey, look, we need to understand. We are on the wedding side. Right now is harvest time. There are people out there, I don't know about you, but everyone that I give attract to now And I tell them this is good news from a far country. And they smile. I mean, I gave a guy this morning At McDonald's attract. He said, I'll read this at my break. I said, that's good news. I'll tell you how you can know for sure when you die, you're going to heaven. And may I say this It's dark out there, but it's harvest time. Yes, right. Yes. The only problem is we don't see it. We don't have it burning. Hey, let me just ask you this What's your relationship with that book right there? You say simple. It's not so simple. Is it the last thing that you think about at night Is it the first thing that you think about in the morning? I don't know about you, I want to be burning. I want people to come alongside me and know that I'm burning. I love it. I love when this happens. It happened just two days ago where I was walking out of Walmart, believe it or not. And I walked up to the guy and his name was Carmelo. I felt like saying, Do you have a soft center? Carmelo, that's a and and and I said, hey, Carmelo, before I could even reach into my pocket and get trapped, he said I think you are a preacher. I said, how'd you know that? He said, I could just see the light. I walked into a clothing store. Talking to the guys as I'm checking out getting getting the tie 75% off and both of them said, you're not the normal person that walks in here There's something different about you. What is it? I thought, well, here we go. And I just witnessed to him, gave him tracks. When was the last time someone asked you Huh? When was the last time someone said I can see the light? I could see the light. I I get that all the time. I it's not me. I'm nobody. I'm nothing. I'm just a worm. But when God has his fire burning bright in you. Even the lost can see it. Even the lost can see when God's moving upon you. I I love the bulletproof Washington. I'll guarantee you Washington had that sacred fire burning brightly. And when in that French and Indian War those Native Americans were shooting at him, four bullet holes through his vesture. Not one time did it reach his skin. Two horses shot out from underneath him on his third horse. organizing a retreat after his Colonel Braddock had been mortally wounded. And years later, that same chief of that tribe came to him and said, I know where you were. At this time during the war when you were fighting us? And he told him, he said, yeah, I was. He said, How did you know He said, I was the chief of the tribe that ambushed you as you were crossing that waterway. And I told my braves, kill him. Talking about you, sir. Kill him and we'll have everyone. I want to let you know I couldn't shoot you. My braves couldn't shoot you, and we don't miss with the long rifle. But you had the great spirit resting on your shoulders. You know why? Because he had that sacred fire burning. You're not going to rev it up yourself It's gotta be God that began this is this is how it starts right here. You start reading God's word with the tenaciousness that you must, and you start praying with a fervency on your prayers, and that's a problem. With America today, we don't have men that are on fire for God, that are reading God's word and waiting to see what God's going to say to them and praying and asking God to come down And stir the embers once again. I don't know about you. But every morning when I'm during the wintertime, I've got to restoke that fireplace. I gotta stoke it up again. I gotta get some more wood in there. Every single morning. If I don't, it's gonna get cold. I think the problem with America is not Washington, D. C. I think the problem with America is God's men. The men that call upon God, that have let the flame kind of come down to some burning embers. We need to once again ask God to stir us in such a way, in such a way. That we meditate on God's word day and night. We read it, we speak it, we live it. We offer up praise and thanksgiving to God for everything from a clean And sincere heart, that we pray, hey, I want to tell you. I want to tell you something. I'm nobody. I'm going to preface it that way. I'm nobody. But the last time that I was here until right now, I pray for your pastor. Day by day by day. I pray for Brother Rossi. I think about your pastor and Brother Rossi every single day. Think about them. You know why? Because I pray for them You know why? Because they're my brothers. They're my brothers. I even pray for some of my enemies. Brother Arnold, you have enemies? Oh yeah, I do. I pray for them too. You know why? Because God says to do so. And I tell you what, when I start praying and then I come and I s I look at Brother Lethem in the eyes I'm thinking I drove up and there was Brother Rossi. I didn't recognize him because his hair was so gray. And the sun was shining on his just kind of beautiful gray hair, you know? Amen. Now if it was Brother Leatherman I probably would have been blinded like Yeah see they're they're conspiring right now. He's gonna turn his computer back on in a minute. So you have to do this, you have to. But at least it's it's turning gray, not turning loose. But the reason why this guy here does because of his brain power burns it all off. Amen. And God just made certain heads that are perfect. You've heard this before And he covers the rest. I would not I would not do well like your pastor. I mean I really wouldn't, but he he looks good. He sports it well, doesn't he? Amen. See I can do that 'cause I'm his friend. At least I think I maybe I'll find out now. Amen. What? I'll pray for my enemies, Amen. Great peace have they which love by law nothing sh shall offend them. Okay. All right. But what I'm saying is, you know, we worship Yahweh. Yahweh means the God who answers by fire. Lester Roloff used to say that song, sing that song. Huh? He'll take you through the fire. But he'll burn out the draws and mire. I'm asking God, go ahead, Lord. If you need me to, I'll go through the fire again with you. I've been through the fire. I can't begin to show you the adversity. That I've been through. But you know, I thank God for it. Because he's burned out all kinds of things. He's burned out a lot of pride. Huh? Oh yeah. When you have people lie about you, when you have people ready to think the worst, you go to God. And he says, just be quiet. Because I'm going to answer by fire. And I'm going to I'm going to take this and use it. See, we need to start denying ourselves. Fasting. Praying and serving others with a good attitude. You know, it's it's time that God's people get a good attitude. The reason why we don't have revival Is because there's a a damper called bitterness. Because people don't know how to forgive. Huh? Yeah. They don't know or they don't want to forgive someone. Well they didn't apologize to me We don't need apologies. Oh, you don't you don't realize what they did. I don't see anyone with nails right here. Huh? It's time we let go of all that. Well they disparage my reputation. Hey, give your reputation to God. Your reputation is what men think you are. Your character is what God knows you are. I would much rather be working on my character and ask God to bring the fire so I can be used more by him. Amen. I've looked into the eyes of men and seen the fire burning. I want people to look in my eyes and see that sacred fire burning So he, God, can be glorified. And of the angels, he saith, who maketh His angel spirits, his ministers, a flame of fire. Don't be satisfied. With a burning ember. Stoke it up. Let the Holy Spirit of God ignite it. And burn for God That's what you would have. I'm not going to ask the piano to play. I'm just going to ask you to stand right now and come to an old-fashioned altar. Our country needs it Our family needs it. To have revival, we must have it. How bad does it have to get for us to just lay aside our pride? And seek for that sacred fire. You say, well, it's burning. Is it burning as bright as it should be? Was the last time someone said to you, I can see it? Last someone said to you, hey, you're you're different. What's different about you? I can see the light. And you know it's not you, not me. It's God. It's God.