118. I have marked in my Bible that Psalms 117 is the center chapter of the entire Bible. I've always thought that to be true. I had heard that somewhere. I never actually counted. The words and everything. And uh then I got studying for today's message, and it was suggested in some of the notes I was looking at in commentaries that um This passage was the center of the Bible, so I did what every real Bible scholar does. I went on Google and uh looked up to see what the computer said was the center verse of the Bible. And long before Behold, I got about five different verses. And so I don't know what verse is the very center of the Bible, but this is close. And if you would, look with me at verse number 15 is the text verse for the show. morning, Psalms 118 and verse number 15, it says this, the voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tabernacles of the righteous. The right hand of the Lord doeth valiantly. That first phrase of verse 15 is what I want us to focus our attention on this. morning, the voice of rejoicing and salvation in the tabernacles of the righteous. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless our study. Father, thank you for the word of God. I thank you for the Christmas hymns and uh and uh the songs we could sing. Lord, the fellowship with your people has been good this morning, and um we're just grateful for your blessings. Now as we look at this passage of scripture I pray, Father, that you would take this and help us, Lord, make us aware of the areas of our lives where this truth applies. Help us, Lord, to be willing to yield our wills to yours and to be willing to submit ourselves and adjust our lives to conform to the Word of God and your will for us God, uh I have no nothing in and of myself to offer of any spiritual value, Lord. So it has to be you speaking through me this morning morning if we're going to be helped. And with that in mind, God, I present my body anew to you. I yield my will to yours. Fill me with your spirit. Challenge us. Help our homes. Help our walk with you to be what you intend for it to be. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The sound of rejoicing, he says here, the voice of rejoicing and salvation in the tabernacles of the righteous. I don't know how you feel. I believe there's a lot of folks probably feel the same way I do, but I am so grateful for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. We say that over and over and over. We talk about it all the time. But we really are grateful for God's blessings. I believe that God has given Mountain Lake Park a good church. In the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I believe it's a good church, and I thank God for it. And as much as God has blessed us, I don't think one of us would say That Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church has arrived yet. You follow what I'm saying? We are certainly not all that we could be or even what we should be. We have plenty of room to grow as a church. The do you as a church agree with me on that? We got r oh thank God for it. Uh I I love this church and uh We love what God has done and continues to do through it. But we've not yet arrived. We've got room for improvement. We have plenty of growing to do as a church. Spiritually, mature-wise. Of course, we always want to reach more folks. Now, what's true for us as a church, we've got room to grow, we've got room to improve, we are not there yet. What's true for us as a church, I want to suggest to you, is true for each of us as individuals None of us have arrived. I'm talking to some folks. I'm looking out at some faces. You've known the Lord for a long time. Some of y'all have been saved, walking with the Lord longer than I've been alive. And um that's a long time, I'll tell you. But um uh and some some folks here uh just been saved recently, perhaps uh others a long time. But the fact of the matter is none of us are where we could be or even should be as a Christian. We've got room to grow. How many people would agree with me, say, preacher, yeah there's areas of my life that still need attention That still need improvement, still need working on. Can I get a witness? How many folks would say that? Look at that. That's about everybody. What's true for us as a church is true for us as individuals. We got room to grow. By the way, just as an aside, that's why church attendance is so important. We need God to help us grow. We're not gonna be uh we're not gonna grow. I made this statement online in a little chat type thing and uh a person I went to school with took issue. with me and uh I'll just be very tactful. They were dead wrong. I said it's impossible to grow in your walk with the Lord and neglect church. They took it Issue with me on that. And I'm saying they're wrong. God has given to the believer church for the teaching and preaching and training, the fellowship, all of that's part of my spiritual growth. And so we've got room to grow as individuals, that's where church comes in. That's where daily Bible reading comes in That's where good godly Christian friends come in. That's where godly music comes in. All this helps us develop and grow as a Christian. Now, I've said all that to say this. Our church and every church in existence hasn't arrived yet, still has room to grow. We as individuals, we haven't arrived yet. By the way, even Paul said, I've not yet attained But I press towards the mark. Paul said, I'm not there yet. I've got growing to do. I'm not everything I should be. What is true for us as a church, what's true for us as individuals, is true for our homes. Our homes. Now notice this verse here. He says, the voice of rejoicing and salvation in the tabernacles of the righteous. I am grateful that within our church there are many good, godly Christian homes. I'm grateful for that. I'm grateful for homes where I'm grateful for homes in our church where mom and dad love the Lord. And try and live by the Word of God and are trying to do right, trying to raise their children the way the Bible's taught. As pastor, I'm grateful for a church that's made up of I'm grateful for a church that has young people in it that want to live for God, want to serve the Lord, want to do right, want to please God. I'm grateful for that. I'm grateful for a church where we have grandmas and grandpas that love God and pray for their family and try and use their position as grandparents to be an influence, not nettling. Amen. Not meddling in the kids' homes and families, but being an influence. Can I get a witness there? Amen. I I'm grateful for that. But I'm suggesting, and by the way, I'm grateful for my wife and my boys. I thank God for my family. Uh because of the circumstances with Kathy's mom in the hospital and different things. I spent Thanksgiving home by myself. The boys were with uh Kathy's family. Kathy was with her mom in the hospital. And uh, you know, I spent a day uh just throughout the day just stopping and Thanking God for my wife and the boys that He's given me. I'm very, very grateful. But I'm saying this. This is what I'm trying to say. All of us in our homes, we've got room to grow. We've got we've got room to improve. Some folks, maybe I'm talking to some folks, you know, that and you say, boy, you know my home We just so much need God's help. We're just uh we're not anywhere near where we ought to be. Others would say, praise God, God's blessed us, and we're grown, we're going forward. But regardless of the case, we all have room to go forward We're winding down the year 2011. Boy, it seems strange just saying that. The year 2011. We're approaching 2012 In January, we have for years, we have family conference, family emphasis, to start the year out trying to help our homes, help our marriages, help our child raising And here was a verse that deals with that. He says, and I'll read it again, the voice of rejoicing and salvation Is in the tabernacles of the righteous, rejoicing. It's hard to imagine For me anyway, it's hard to imagine a genuine Christian that has no joy. To me, that's a contradiction in terms. Yeah, I'm a child of God. I'm saved from sin in hell. I'm a Christian, but I have no joy. That's hard to imagine. Now that's not to say that for a child of God, there are seasons of sorrow. There's times of grief. There's times of chastisement and conviction where the joy is overshadowed perhaps by uh issues or circumstances or whatnot, but nevertheless, eventually if I'm a child of God, if I'm genuinely saved That joy of the Lord, even though it's overshadowed sometimes, eventually it's going to break forth. I in our backyard uh uh I have bird feeders all over the place. Um my son came home uh when he was down in Texas a year or so ago. He said, Dad, you're turning into a weird bird man And uh uh but I like the little birdies flying around, different things. I hate the squirrels. I hate the squirrels. And um That's a personal issue. I'll talk to you later about that. But um, you know, I notice some days in the summertime I like to go out in the back deck and I do my devotions in the morning and studying and different things. and the birds all around. And uh I notice sometimes the birds are very quiet. There's not much singing, they're just kind of quiet. And then other times you go out, and man, it's like you're in a bird city, you know, and they're all just singing and chirping and going on and on and on. I found something about a bird, though he's not always singing. Eventually that song comes out. They're not always chirping, but eventually that song is going to break forth. And it made me think of a Christian. Sometimes our hearts are heavy. Sometimes we fail God and it clenches our joy. But if I'm a true child of God, if I have the Holy Spirit dwelling within me Eventually, that joy is going to break forth. It's like the bird without song. Eventually, that bird's going to start singing. It's it's part of its nature. Um it's kinda like when we lived in Colorado, uh they say st Statistically, the sun shone 300 days out of the year. So you had 300 days out of 365 days of the year, the sun was shining. And that found that to be true. While we lived the three years we were out there, we found that to be pretty true. But, you know, the clouds would over over shadow the sky sometimes and would hide the sun. But eventually that sun came out. It's true even here. I think it's more like 65 days of sun here and 300 of clouds. But eventually, if you wait, that sun's going to break through. Those clouds will disperse, and the sun's going to shine again. Again, that to me is the life of a Christian Sometimes clouds overshadow. Sometimes disappointments come. Sometimes we fail God and we grieve. But nevertheless, if I know the Lord is Savior, that joy is going to break through. That joy is going to shine through the clouds eventually. Say, what is it about being a Christian that produces so much joy? What's so joyful about being a Christian? Well, the Bible says several things. One, I have peace with God. Peace with God. Now that may not mean much to you, but if you've ever been under the conviction of sin And you've ever been dealt with by the Spirit of God and realize what it is like to be without God in your life? And then you come to realize that I can have peace with God. By trusting Christ, I have peace with God. I tell you what, that produces joy in your life. Now, an unsaved person maybe doesn't understand what's so joyful about having peace with God, but once you've tasted that pie, it's pretty good. Follow what I'm saying? peace with God. I have the presence of the Holy Spirit within me. Um I don't know how you view it, but I study scripture. I get the impression that our God is a pretty happy God. The Bible speaks of the joy of the Lord. The Gospels speak of Jesus rejoicing in spirit. And I've got the Holy Spirit within me. Now, we grieve the Spirit of God often. We can quench the Spirit of God. We do that more than we care to admit. But nevertheless, if the Holy Spirit is having free reign in my life, that produces joy in my life. I've got the Holy Spirit of God within me. I tell you, I still remember the semester in Bible college. I was rooming with a fellow, his name is Dean Demaris. He pastors down, get this, he pastors in Hazard, Kentucky That's the truth. I preached in his church, Bible Baptist Church, Hazard, Kentucky. I was roommates with him, and um We were doing one of our class or something, but uh I I knew this to be true, but it it's one of those things that just dawned on me that in my body, this incredible physique here Right now, inside here, this is incredible to me. Inside this massive chest Dwells the Holy Spirit of God. Now think about that The God that spoke everything into existence dwells with inside my body in the person of the Holy Spirit. How many folks here, you're saved, you know it. See amen. The Holy Spirit dwells in you too. Now, I don't know about you, that stirs my heart. Inside me, the God Almighty dwelling within me So we have the joy of the Lord. We have peace with God. We have the presence of the Holy Spirit within us. We have the promises in God's word. I tell you, uh you ought to read your, I'll just be very frank with you, you ought to read your Bible every day. You really should. If you're not reading your Bible every day, you're hurting yourself. You're doing yourself harm. I'm just trying to be very upfront with you. You've got to discipline yourself. You've got to change your schedule or do whatever you need to do. But you need to spend some time every day in the Bible. You know why? Because you read through that Bible, among other things, you start finding promises from God. And here's what happens. If you're a child of God, you're reading through there, God will take verses, God will take promises, and I don't know how he does it, and it's not audible, but he will take that promise and he will make it make you become very much aware of how that promise applies to your life. Can I get a witness? Does anybody here know what I'm talking about? You're reading down through there, and all of a sudden here's a verse, a promise of scripture, and it's like God says, Dennis, that's for you. Huh? Yeah, you. Wow I tell you what, that that that would brighten your day. Joy, rejoicing. We have the peace of God. We have the presence of the Holy Spirit. We have the promises of God's Word Well, I tell you, if you've ever been under conviction of sin, this one will put a smile on your face. We have pardon from all our sins. To be forgiven. Everything I've ever done wrong, every thought I've ever had, God says, I completely pardon you. I don't hold you responsible. Boy, that'll put a smile on your face. That'll make you happy. So rejoicing. I make the statement I made a few moments ago. I make it again. It's hard for me to imagine a genuine Christian Who does not have joy in their life? Now, again, there's different seasons. Sometimes it's overshadowed, but it's there, and eventually it's going to come out. I want to suggest to you the joy, this joy we're talking about, and that the verse referenced here, this voice of rejoicing, I want to suggest to you that's a contagious joy. I tell you what, you get the joy of the Lord. You get somebody that's just happy in the Lord and they're content in their life and they're rejoicing in their salvation, they're rejoicing in the Lord, that'll stir other people around I like to be around happy people. I like to be around folks that are rejoicing in the Lord. You know what? I want some of that to rub off on me. I try to bring through here evangelists that are happy. Boy, Byron Fox, don't you love to be around him? I think it is I think it's almost physically impossible to le walk away from Byron Fox and not be smiling. I'm going to do a study if I can find anybody that's ever done that. It's contagious. The joy of the Lord is contagious It attracts some people. Here's something I found to be true. Sometimes the joy of the Lord repels some people. I'm convinced, I don't think there's a lot, but I've come across a few in my years of ministry. There are some people who genuinely enjoy being unhappy. In fact, they're not happy unless they're unhappy. You know what I'm talking about? And sometimes that joy of the Lord it'll make them uncomfortable. It'll kind of repel them. I remember when I first got saved back in uh 1979. Did I ever tell you about that Uh the night I got saved. I work in a meat packing plant. God changed my life. I mean like that. I mean dramatic. Night and day, light and dark, transformation, instant. And um There's a guy that worked there. His name was Mark. I can't remember his last name. He was a short guy, had long hair. He was what we called, I don't know if you still have a now, what we called back then a deadhead Does anybody know what I'm talking about? He was uh there was a rock group and they'd follow him around. He was just, he was what you'd call a deadhead. Well, I got saved. And uh it became obvious to everyone. And I'm witnessing, and you know, I'm just so excited about being saved And um uh Mark made this statement one time. This is a couple weeks into it. He came up to me, we were working side by side, we were cutting meat, he was beside me, he says, Leatherman, he says, you scare me. I said, what do you mean? He goes, this get and save business and the whole change and everything. He goes, man, that scares me. You know what verse? I had just learned a verse. Those two guys were discipling me. You know what verse came to mind? Psalms 40. He hath put a new song in my heart, and many shall see it and fear. I thought, wow. So this joy of the Lord, it's a contagious thing. It becomes obvious. It affects the people around us. And I think one of the places that the joy of the Lord will affect the most is our homes is our homes. I put it this way, our spiritual temperature is felt first and foremost in our homes. What we are spiritually is measured better by what we are at home than what we are at church. I found just about everybody's a good Christian at church. You know, I mean everybody's victory and and that's fine. I don't want people dragging in here and all of that. I mean we put our best foot forward. I understand But you say, well, I wonder what kind of Christian I really am. I mean, how mature am I spiritually? Don't look at how you act at church, look at what you are at home And that's what this verse is talking about. The voice of rejoicing and salvation. is in the tabernacles of the righteous. It's in our homes, in our homes. Here's my point. Here's my first point. I'm going to try and go down through these quickly. By the way, I've had somebody say something to me. Today that I will never ever ever ever forget. My dying day, I will remember this. One of the children's workers came up to me and said, Preacher, we want you to preach long today. I said, really? They said, yeah, no limit. Take it as long as you can go. I said, well you're one of the very few people that feel that way. So I'm under obligation. No, I'm just kidding. They did say that, but um uh let me let's just share a few thoughts with you. Number one, this is what I put down. Notice the joy in the tabernacles of the righteous The word tabernacles is an interesting word. We don't use that today too much. We refer to building sometimes as a tabernacle. But in the context here, in the day and age when this was written When God gave this, the term tabernacle was a very common term. It simply referred to nomadic tense How many people know what nomads are? We don't have too many in Garrett County, but in the Middle East, they just travel around. They don't have any one fixed place they live. They just kind of uh they're nomads. And what they referred to their tents as was their tabernacles. In fact, when the Lord gave Moses the instructions to build the tabernacle, everybody knew immediately what the tabernacle was. It was a big tent Now this was God's tent in the case there, but the term here tabernacle was simply the tents that the nomads lived in. It came to refer to dwelling places People's habitations is one of the definitions I found. He's talking about our homes we live in. And he's saying that this rejoicing and this salvation is in our homes. The joy in the tabernacles of the righteous, the households of the righteous. Now, my first thought under that is this. Joy in our homes is often in relation to the number of people in the home that are saved. Let me say that again. The level of joy in a home is very much affected by how many people in that home know the Lord as Savior. Now, if one person in a household is saved, that's something to be excited about. Amen? I thank God for our bus ministry Thank God for our bus ministry. Connie came in this morning, had twenty-two on her bus. She says, Preacher, I need a bigger bus. And she says there's six others supposed to come, they couldn't come We need a bigger bus. So um you pray and you give and help us buy a bigger bus. That's a good problem to have. By the way, if I got some other things we need too. I'll talk to you later. But um I thank God for our bus ministries. You know what happens often is a parent or somebody will send a kid in, one of their children, ride the bus in. That child gets saved? Genuinely born again, they go back. They're the only person in their home that's saved. Now I say, praise God for that. That's better than no one in the home getting saved. There's a little bit of light there. There's a little bit of joy there. Um I think it's it's exciting to me to go up to uh the fellowship hall. I mean Walmart and um uh be around there and some mother that I don't know who she is, she'll come up and says, Oh, my kids were at your Bible time. And they learn verses and they sing in Bible songs and Jesus loves me. I say, praise God for that. I'm glad if there's just one, if we can reach one person There's a level of joy and rejoicing there. But don't you think it'd be better if maybe that child and one of the parents got saved? Be a little bit more joy in that home. What if both mom and dad got saved? There'd be a little bit more joy in that home. How about if the whole family gets saved? Be a whole lot more joy in that home. I think of my home. My dad, uh, though we were very religious, particularly early on, when I was ten, my dad got saved. He was the only born-again, only genuine Christian in our household for many, many, many years. Now I thank God for that, that he got saved. But I tell you how much easier it would have been for my father, how much how much uh happier would that home have been had the whole family trusted Christ. See what I'm saying? The joy rejoicing in salvation in the household is determined by the number of people people there. Husband and wife converted? Boy, there's a lot of joy. Uh the children all get saved. Mom and dad and the kids all love the Lord. Boy, what uh we used to teach the little kids on the bus route a song. With Jesus and the family. What a happy home. What a happy home. What a happy home with Jesus in the family. What a happy home. What a happy home. Thank you very much, man. I was going to have everybody sing along. I thought if I did that it would wake some folks up. That don't even wake some of them up. But um The fact is, you get Jesus in the home, it brings joy in the home. By the way, one unsaved person in the home can take away some of that joy. I don't know how many times I've seen a spouse weep and cry because their husband or their wife won't get saved, don't love God, don't believe the Bible, won't trust Christ. And boy, what heaviness that brings. Thank God Mama's saved. Thank God daddy's saved. But boy, that spouse just takes that joy away. How many homes I've seen where mom and dad are saved, but one of the kids won't get saved. Won't live for God and just take some of that joy away. And so the joy in the home is often in relation to the number in the home who are saved. 3 John verse 4 says this. John said, I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth. You know what he's saying? He's saying there's joy in rejoicing in the tabernacle of the righteous. He said, I want my whole family to be saved. I want my whole family to know the Lord. Joy in a tabernacle of the righteous, in relation to the number state, I put this down. Joy in our homes is not dependent upon external circumstances. In other words, you can find the joy of salvation in a palace or in a poverty-stricken home The home of the rich can have the joy of the Lord, the home of the poor can have the joy of the Lord. The joy and rejoicing in salvation has nothing to do with our financial standing Has nothing to do uh you can have the joy of the room joy of the Lord in a hospital room. My wife was telling me she was down with her mom and appreciate your prayers. Her mother she got out of the hospital uh Wednesday night and there's still some issues there, but she's coming along. But uh Kathy said they were down there Thanksgiving Day, just her and her mom in the hospital. Do you know what they were doing? They were reading scripture and And just rejoicing in the Lord, laughing and talking about things of the Lord. In a hospital room. You say, how could there be joy in a hospital room? I tell you, I'd rather be in a hospital room with Jesus than in a palace without him. There's more joy in a there's more joy in a nursing homeroom with Jesus than there is on a beachfront mansion in Miami without him. The joy of the Lord is not dependent upon my circumstances. Oh, if I just had a nicer house, then I'd be happy. Listen, it's not the size of your house that's making you unhappy. It's the attitude of your heart. It's your relationship with God. Boy, if I just got one of those new BMWs for Christmas, then I'd be happy. Listen, it's not the kind of car you drive that's determining whether you're happy or not. It's the attitude of your heart, it's your relationship with God that determines whether you're happy or not. Anytime external circumstances are the determining factor in whether I'm happy or not, tells me that I don't have a heart in tune with God. I'm out of fellowship with the Lord. The joy of salvation can be found in a nursing home, in a hospital room. Hey, Well, we learned this in a very real way, very literally in front of our very eyes recently. We found that there can be joy on the deathbed of a believer. I'm thinking of Brother Mike. I tell you what, that guy went to heaven with a smile on his face. The joy of the Lord in his life. And that ought to be true for every Christian. I've stood by the bedsides of unsaved people dying and of saved people dying, and I'm here to tell you there is a difference. There is a difference. The joy of the Lord, it's not dependent upon external circumstances I've witnessed greater joy on the deathbed of some believers than I have in the lives of healthy and wealthy unsaved people. People die without a penny to their name, but they had the Lord Jesus, there's greater joy in their life than there are some people who are filthy rich, who are popular living in everything they want, perfect health, and yet they're miserable. Unhappy. I put this down: a man is happier in a shed with the Lord than he is in a mansion with an empty soul. God's people are happy people. God's homes are happy homes. By the way, if there is no joy and rejoicing in our homes, it is not because God has failed. Hear me? Say, well, our home's not very happy. Hey, God didn't fail. God hasn't come up short. The problem there is our relationship with the Lord. Maybe you need to come to know Christ as Savior. Maybe we've allowed materialism to take over our hearts. And we've lost what we have in Christ. But he says here, the Lord, he says, the voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tabernacles of the righteous. Here's my second thought. Notice the expression of this joy. He says the voice of rejoicing and salvation. is in the tabernacle is righteousness. That word voice there is translated other places in the scripture to proclaim. It's the idea of speaking it out. The joy of the Lord in our hearts will make its way out of our mouths. We had a problem years ago in the basement. Some of you remember this and helped us actually solve it. We had a problem in the basement with water in the basement of the church here. How many folks back remember the back of those days? Man, we fought that thing and it was unbelievable. We ended up digging up the whole Paul Harvey helped tremendously But ended up digging up the whole French drain all around and put a new one in, put it down lower, put a bigger one in, ran it out farther, got a greater drop on it, and just finally got that thing. Then we had to do some other things And we finally got that thing dried up. But when we were dealing with that, and I was trying to figure out get and we were trying to figure out how to fix that, how many people remember old brother Ralph Leighton It's a member here years ago. He went to be with the Lord shortly after I came. But Ralph Layton was a builder. You remember that? And uh pretty good builder, actually. And um we were he was here and we were downstairs and we were looking at that and he made a statement I never forgot it. He said, Pastor, he says you can never stop water He says the only thing you can do is reroute it. He said, if you don't route that water away, you're never going to keep it out. It's going to find a way through. You cannot stop it. I found that to be true. You know what? I found that to be true in the heart of a Christian. If there is joy in the heart of the Christian, it doesn't matter how bad things get, it's still going to work its way out. Devil can't stop it. This world can put up all the black tar it wants to around a Christian. It can can pour uh all the gravel at once, put up plastic around and try and seal in the joy of the Lord. But if that joy is in the heart of a believer, it's going to come out one way or another. At some point. The voice, the proclamation, the declaration of joy. Jesus said, out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth, what? Speaketh. Out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. Joyful hearts produce joyful conversations. Amen? You know what I found? I found that self-centered hearts produce complaining conversation. Self-centered conversation I found that critical hearts produce critical conversation. I found that harsh hearts produce harsh conversation. No reference to Jesse. But um Uh I found that sorry Jesse, I didn't mean to wake you. But uh uh I found that uh I found that happy hearts produce happy conversations. I found that materialistic hearts produce materialistic conversations. I found that ungrateful hearts produce ungrateful conversations. But joyful hearts, the voice of rejoicing. The joy of the Lord in the tabernacle of the righteous is expressed in various ways Say, Brother Leatherman, if there is joy in my home, the joy of the Lord and salvation is in my home, how is it expressed? Let me offer a few suggestions. It's expressed in family prayer If a family if it's a Christian home, I don't know how you can have a Christian home and not have prayer in that family. There ought to be a time of prayer, especially when the kids are grown. Now our boys have grown up, uh college, work, going, it's kind of tough to get everybody there at one time and have prayer like we did when they were little But we work at it and we try when everybody's there we have prayer time before we go to bed. There ought to be listen, I want to challenge our families, particularly those with young homes, but all of us I want to challenge us This coming year, let's just determine we are going to have family prayer in our homes. Get all the kids together, mom and dad, all get together, maybe of the evening Say, all right, we're going to pray. Thank God for the day. Ask God for his leadership. Ask God's blessing. Ask for wisdom. Meet our needs. And just look to God as a family in prayer. Tell you what, that'll change your home I remember my father told me after I had gotten saved, he said, he said, I remember, he said, when I was young, he said, I was just a young boy. My dad told me this. He said there was a revival meeting down in Franconia, a little town near near where we grew up. And he said they they had a tent meeting Revival, tent meeting. He says, mom, dad brought all the kids. We all went to tent meeting. He says that night we got home. He says I'll never forget. He said I was just a young boy. He says uh they called my grandfather, they called him Pop. Uh they said uh Pop got the whole family together. He said, from now on, we're having Bible reading and prayer every night before we go to bed as a family And he said, I grew up with that. What a powerful influence on lives. So the joy, the voice of rejoicing in salvation In the tabernacle, in our households, in our homes, one way is expressed through family prayer. I want to challenge the families of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church this coming year. Let's establish family prayer Say, oh, the kids are growing and gone. Hey, mom and dad, then you guys pray together. Let me challenge the husbands here. When's the last time your wife saw you on your knees beside her praying for your marriage, your home, and your knees? and your kids. When's the last time your wife saw that? If it's more than just a few days, that ain't right. That ain't right. The husband is the spiritual head of the home. He ought to be leading that family in prayer time. You ought to take your family and you ought to pray. Now sometimes we pray around. My turn, Kathy's turn, Sam, Dan, we pray around like that But there ought to be prayer in the home, and daddy ought never be ashamed. You say, I'm not a very good prayer. You don't have to be a good prayer. Just be a prayer. Listen, I wish I I would love to have oh my and this ain't gonna happen, but I wish when I die uh my family would be able to say he was a perfect Christian. He wasn't short in any way. That's not gonna happen But you know what I'd like to hear, what I would like to believe would be true? They would say, Daddy, my husband, he wasn't perfect, but he was for real. That's all I want to be. I just want to be a for real Christian. And for real Christians pray. And I'm challenging our homes, particularly the fathers of our homes. to make prayer a priority in our homes. How else is the voice of salvation and rejoicing in our homes expressed not just in prayer, but also in Bible reading? There ought to be Bible reading in the home. And uh Mom, Mom ought to read the Bible. Come on now, talk to me. You guys are a little quiet this morning. Mom ought to read the Bible. Daddy ought to read the Bible. The kids ought to read the Bible. Ought to read it every day. That's part of rejoicing. That's part of the voice of salvation, Bible reading. We used to, now again I said it's a little harder now the kids grew up and the schedules are so crazy, but when the when the boys were young, uh this uh this was a blessing to me. We used to sing hymns. We'd have Bible reading, we'd have prayer, and then we'd get a hymn. We'd just work our way through the hymn book. We'd sing maybe one a night or one a week. We'd sing that hymn, then we'd go to the next one. And we'd all sing it together. And what a beautiful sound dad's voice was leading that, oh, it was so lovely. And uh this is no joke, this is the truth. When we We'd uh sit around the sofa and we'd get our knees or whatever and we'd start singing. We had a cat back then. I was backslidden and uh we had a We had a cat back then, Kissy was their name. And uh by the way, Kissy got saved. That's another story. I'll tell you about that. Really? And um but anyway, every time we'd start singing those hymns, that y it was one of those cats that you never saw. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? It lived in the house, but you never saw it. It was just vanished And the food would disappear and other things would appear at certain spots, but the cat was never around. But when we would start singing those hymns, All of a sudden that cat would show up. I mean she'd come racing out. And uh I think it was just the beautiful melodious sounds of dad's voice singing But uh listen to what Matthew Henry, Brother Dave, we were talking about Matthew Henry after Sunday school. Listen to what Matthew Henry said. He said, they that pray do well. He said, they that read Scripture and pray do better. He said, but they that read scripture, pray, and sing hymns do best of all. I want to challenge our homes this year. Let's make singing these great old hymns, let's make that a part of our daily schedule in our homes. You say, oh preacher, I'd be embarrassed to sing these hymns before my family. You know what the problem is? You need to humble yourself. Oh, it is. You just need to humble yourself. It's not a show. It's not some talent show. It's worshiping God. It's expressing the voice of rejoicing in salvation in our hymn. These good old hymns. I would like to think that my children learned the hymns of the faith in the home of their parents. That's what I'd like to think. That that would have an impact in the days and months and years down the road. These great hymns. These are powerful. I love these Christmas hymns. They have so much doctrinal truth in it, it's incredible. So the voice, the voice, the expression, family devotions. Would you do that? Your pastor is telling you, you really need to establish family devotion. In your home. Say, well, I'm the only Christian in my home. Then you especially need to establish personal devotions. Every day, reading scripture, praying, and adding some hymns in there. What a wonderful thing that is. Let me give you my last thought. First of all, we talked about the voice, the joy in the tabernacle of the righteous, then we talked about the expression of the Now notice the source of rejoicing. Look at verse 15. He said, the right hand of the Lord doeth valiantly. You know what he's making reference to? The right hand of the Lord? It's talking about the power of God. When you read in the Bible, it makes reference to the right hand of the Lord. Now we know that God does not have a body. God the Father is Spirit. So he doesn't have a literal right hand. He's spirit So when the Bible references the God the Father's right hand, it's talking about his power. His power. Some left-handed people aren't normal. No, I'm kidding, James. Tom I'm not, but James I'm not. It's talking about God's power. I read about a little boy named Philip, who was visiting his grandparents in the winter time. And uh uh spent the night. That night it snowed. And so in the morning they got up and grandma uh was going to take Phil and we were gonna go down, walk down the road, and there's a park there and different things. They got walking down there, and uh grandma, all the fresh new snow was on everything. And she said to little Philip, she said, uh, Philip, look at that. It looks like God painted a beautiful painting. last night. And Philip said, yup, and he did it all left-handed. Grandma said, what are you talking about? God did it left-handed. He says, yeah, we learned in Sunday school that Jesus Jesus is sitting on the right hand of God. So he had to do it all left handed on the right hand of God When he says the right hand of the Lord doeth bad, he's talking about the power of God. Genuine salvation is a result of the power of God. Listen, you're not a Christian because you go through some formality. Hey, let me take it a step further. Just saying a little prayer does not make me a Christian. Just repeating a little memorized thing does not make me a Christian. It is trusting Jesus Christ and the power of God giving me new life. It is a personal trust in Jesus that produces a powerful creation of spiritual life in me It's the power of God. Genuine Christianity is a supernatural thing. It's not something we work up. It's not something the church can produce It's not a changed lifestyle. It's a changed nature by the power of God. And that's the source of rejoicing. It is a conversion into a new man. It's the beginning of a whole new life. And only the power of God can do that. I'm afraid we have allowed the world, the flesh, to quench the joy of the Lord in our homes. Say, Brother Letterman, have you attained, has your home reached that point? No. There's not one home that has. We've all got room to grow. We've all got room to improve and work on these things and be more what God intends for us to be. And as we finish out this year and begin a new year, I want to challenge us. Let's not let the world. Let's not let the flesh quench and cloud over the joy of the Lord that ought to be in our homes like this verse. C. S. Lewis. I'm not a big fan of C. S. Lewis in a lot of ways. He's the author of Mere Christianity, Chronicles of Narnia. Some of you are familiar with that. But he made some great statements And he said this. Now listen to this. See if this doesn't convict your heart. Our Lord finds our desires not too strong, but too weak. He says our desires aren't too strong. They're too weak. Listen to what he says. We are half-hearted creatures. We're fooling around with liquor and sex and ambition. When infinite joy is offered to us. He said, we're like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies in the slum Because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a vacation out on a yacht in the sea. We are far too easily pleased. This is what he was saying. I think it applies to our message. We have become so satisfied with what the world has to offer. We're missing out on what God has to offer. We're so satisfied living in sin and carnal pleasure We're missing out on God offering fulfillment and joy and a full life. Satisfaction There's one thing the world absolutely cannot offer our homes, and that is satisfaction. The world is never satisfied. There always has to be more, it always has to be better, it always has to be something else. And we're satisfied with being unsatisfied. We're happy with being unhappy. We're content with empty lives and empty homes. And God says, I've got so much more. Your tabernacle can be filled with rejoicing and salvation We'll just come to Christ. Let Him have His way in our lives. Make sure we're saved. Then express that which He has given us. Father in heaven, please bless us. Help our homes. Help our church. Help us as individuals to grow. Lord, this world is such a greater grip on us than I think we even are aware. We become so content with mediocrity. We become so content with shallowness and emptiness. And we're We're missing out on all you have to offer. Their heads bound and with their eyes closed. How many would say, with me, preacher, my home has room to grow. Spiritual temperature in my home definitely has room to improve. And God's spoken in my heart this morning, maybe as a husband or a fat a father, a mother, wife You say, you know, I want to do my part. I want the voice of the rejoicing of our salvation to saturate our home. I want to do my part in making that real. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray with me. God spoke to my heart. Now I'm going to be real direct. You can put your hands down. Let me be real direct this morning. How many would say, preacher, are family devotions? I'm not going to ask you where you're at. That's between you and God. But how many would say, preacher, family devotions, particularly those with young children in the home? How many would say, preacher, as a head of the home, mother or father, I'm going to do my part to get this established and make that a regular part of our family time? Of having Bible reading, prayer, and whatnot. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. I want to work towards that. God bless you. A lot of hands. Praise the Lord for that. I believe that can change everything. Maybe it's just mom and dad in the home. Say, we're going to do that. We're going to read our Bible together and pray. Now, maybe there's some here this morning who said, Preacher, I need to be saved. My life is empty. There has to be more to living than just what I'm experiencing. You say, preacher, I'm concerned about my soul salvation. Salvation. I'd like to know this new life the Bible talks about. I'd like to know what it's like to have sins forgiven, a home in heaven. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me in this matter. Would you slip your hand up? Is there any like that this morning, preacher? I need to be saved. I don't want to live an empty life. I want my life to have purpose and meaning according to God's will. About it. Any at all? Father, bless our invitation. A lot of hands raised. Lord, these are some very significant issues. They're not easy, and the devil's going to fight it. So I pray you'd help us just to determine this. Morning, to look to you and trust you and step by step follow your leadership in our holes. And God, we want you to be pleased and we want the voice of rejoicing. In our homes, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's going to play a few verses of imitation. How about it, Mom and Dad? How about it, young people? You play a ro role in it. Why don't you slip on out? You raised your hand. Why don't you slip on out and say, you know, God help me. I'm going to ask God to help me follow through with what he dealt with my heart about. How about it? All across here. Now I'm telling you it's not easy. Tell you it's something about us men praying in front of our family. Sometimes for some guys that's just a tough thing, and uh for whatever reason. We just need to humble ourselves before the Lord and say, God, I want to be right. I want my home to be right. I want the joy of the Lord to be there. Not fussing and fighting and cussing and yelling. Want the peace of God and the blessings of God to be there. Maybe there's family member that's unsaved. Boy, that's an aspect of prayer that has such great priority. Thank God for a daddy prayed for me for eight years, every day I'd be saved. The voice of rejoicing and salvation in our homes. Father, thank you once again for speaking in our hearts. Thank you for decisions made I pray you'd help us, Lord, in the coming weeks and months and years to give you a center stage in our homes, our lives. That you would be the Lord of our lives, the Lord of our homes. We're asking for your help, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen