Ephesians chapter six, I'm gonna read the first four verses here in just a moment, uh to kind of bring everyone up to speed. This morning we started a series on the family, a series on the home And what we did this morning is we just looked at the biblical definition of what a family is. We looked at the origination of the family. We're not going to go through all the same text again just by way of bringing everyone up to speed. This is what we did. So we saw where God ordained all three institutions, family, government, and of course the church, but family was first God uh ordained the family um in Genesis chapter one, Genesis chapter two, we see it. Um so that's it's a very serious thing. It's a sacred thing, it's a good thing, it's a holy thing. And of course the devil wants to seek and destroy, and God is not the author of confusion, but the devil is. And so we we have seen where there has been um attacks on the home There's been attacks, of course, on the other divine institutions as well, but especially the family. And so we looked at that. And we looked at what God's definition of a family is And so based off of that definition, based off of what God's Word says, which is what we should base everything off of, we're going to move forward this evening, looking at different aspects of the family. My goal tonight is to start talking about family roles, family responsibilities of the different individuals, different members of the family. But again, this is all important to understand. This comes from God's Word. This comes from God. Family was part of His perfect design. The command to be fruitful and multiply, and the description of a man leaving his father and mother and being joined to his wife was before Genesis chapter 3, before the fall of man. And so before sin even entered into the world, God ordained the family. And so that is something worth at least mentioning. So we're going to be looking at that this evening. We're going to start here in Ephesians chapter 6, and you're going to see a couple different family members mentioned here. And this is where we'll start. Ephesians chapter 6, verse 1. Children, obey your parents in the Lord. Children, obey your parents in the Lord. For this is right. Honor thy father and mother. That's both. Which is the first commandment with promise, that it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live long on the earth. And ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Let's pray, and we're going to look at parents and children tonight. That's what we're going to do, parents and children. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the day that you gave us, Lord. Sure was good to be here. uh in your house this morning and it sure wasn't good to see you work this afternoon. We praise you again for the two that called on you this afternoon. We pray now that you would bless the service tonight. And um Lord, again, this is very much um a Bible study in nature. Lord, I pray that we would Be open to your word, be receptive to your word, and then make application of where you point out, Lord. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. Parents and children. We see both here in chapter six, Ephesians chapter six. In fact, chapters five and six here in Ephesians deal a lot with family, deal a lot with family members. We looked at Ephesians chapter 5. uh a little bit this morning, starting in verse uh twenty down through verse uh thirty-three, we see the um the beginning of the family, and that is husband and wife, and we looked at the picture of that, and it's a good thing, it's a wonderful thing. It's not something to make fun of, it's not something to make light of Marriage is honorable, and that is a quote from Scripture. He findeth a wife, findeth a good thing, obtaineth favor from the Lord. It is good to be married. It is good. That is a wonderful thing. It's a picture of Christ in the church. And we see that we see that. We saw that this morning in Ephesians chapter 5. And uh Paul is quoting Jesus, who was quoting Genesis chapter uh one and Genesis chapter two, uh, when he says Uh when he quoted chin here in chapter five, where he said, For this cause, verse thirty-one, shall a man leave his father, and mother shall be joint to his wife, and they two shall be one flesh. Um it's a good thing. It's a picture of Christ in the church. I mentioned this morning, just as I have a wallet with pictures in it, and one of the pictures I have in my wallet is a picture of me and my wife. Of course it is not my wife. It's a picture of my wife. I would much rather have my wife than the picture. But I'm not going to insult the picture, because insulting the picture would be insulting my wife. That makes sense. That's common sense, I think. And so any attack on the marriage is an attack on a picture of Christ in the church. And I think that makes sense. And even if it didn't make sense, it's what God says, so we should just accept it anyway. And so that's what we see here in chapter 5. But then here in chapter 6, he moves on. Talking about children and parents. Children and parents. Now who are the parents? It's the mom and dad. It's the mom and dad. The mother and father that were just joined together in marriage in the previous chapter then have children. And they are the parents of that child. This is this is basic things. This is basic stuff. This is something everyone understands. Mom and dad are the parents. Parents have the primary responsibility and the primary authority over the child. God gave the children to the parents. We see that in Psalms. I didn't write this reference down Um I wrote plenty of others down. We'll be turning here in just a second. But we see in Psalms where um children are heritage from the Lord. And happy is the man that has his quiver full of them. It's a gift from God. Children are a gift from God. And one thing that really um really will break your heart, especially I guess just working with with teenagers, working with young people, will absolutely break your heart is when uh a young person says something like they feel like they were they don't belong or they're an accident. That's rough. Or if they feel like their parents don't want them. Now sometimes they'll just say that and they don't really mean it. But when that is the case, that's very heartbreaking. Because children are a gift from God. And when w can I just I'm just gonna kind of give you we talked about this earlier, if I we give opinion, we should say it's opinion. This is opinion. It really upsets me when people act like their children are a burden. Maybe it's just because we've been t married for ten years and haven't had one. But it really upsets me when people act like children are a burden. Okay, sure they're a burden, but they're also a great gift. And I and Without getting too emotional. Be grateful for your gift. Okay? But children are a gift to their parents. And they are the responsibility of the parents. Here's the thing. Man has tried to man has allowed the enemy to change definitions. Man has allowed the enemy to corrupt God's plan. Well have we seen in our society, I'm not saying anyone here, but we've seen in our society where parents have given the responsibility of their children over to the government. That's wrong. It's not the government's job to raise your children, it's yours. Now the parents have the the choice and the responsibility and the privilege of using whatever tools they want to use to raise their children. Whatever school system they want to use, that's the prerogative of the parent. Whatever means of discipline that parents want to use, that's the prerogative of the parent. The state has no business in that. If the parent chooses to homeschool their children, if the parent chooses to put their kid in public education, if the parent chooses to put the kid in private education, that's up to the parent. That's the parent's prerogative, no one else's. Because it's the parent that has the responsibility and the privilege of having the children. Parents have the God-given responsibility. Let's look at some scripture. Let's do that. Go to Galatians chapter 4. I want everyone to see this. Galatians chapter 4. There's three areas that I'm going to point out. Now, the parent is responsible for the children across the board. Okay? But there's three areas that I want to point out specifically. That is general education, spiritual education, and also emotional. Support. Okay, look at Galatians chapter 4, verse 1. Now I say that an heir, as long as he is a child, differeth nothing from a servant, though he be Lord of all. But is under tutors and governors until the time appointed of the Father. The Father chose which tutors And which governors he wanted for his child. Is the prerogative of the parent to choose Whether what type of education they want their children to have. What type of system? And that's up to the parent That's totally up to the parent. The government has no business coming into the family and dictating what type of education the child is supposed to have. The church, I have no right. No church member, no pastor has the right to say, oh no, I'm going to tell you what kind of education to give your kid. That's inappropriate. That's inappropriate. If the parent wants to seek guidance and wisdom, then that's what they should do. Sure. But it is the responsibility of the parent, no one else. And no one else can dictate how you are going to raise your child. Now, with that being said, we see principles in the Bible. Sure. We see things like to not let the children learn the way of the wicked. Things like that. There's biblical principles. But that's your responsibility. That's your choice. No one else's. Sure, that there's there's verses in the Bible, there's scripture that can point to uh pros and cons for different things, different uh methods of education that you pick. And that's up to you. If you ever want an opinion from someone, ask for it. But it's your responsibility. And I believe that the scripture gives insight into that. It is the parents' responsibility to provide the education. I'm talking general education. It is the parents' responsibility to provide that education. And if they choose a school system, that's their choice. If they choose to homeschool, that's their choice. But no one should force that choice on the parent. That's the parent's choice. It is the a and it is not to be taken lightly. It's like, oh well, whatever, we'll just do this. No, it's a serious thing. You seek God on it, you pray on it, you spend some time fasting on it and seeking godly counsel on it because it is a major decision, but it's your decision. It's your responsibility. With great, someone said with great power comes great responsibility. I'm going to twist that a little bit and say, with great gifts comes great responsibility. So that is your responsibility. Not only is it your responsibility to make sure your children are educated, generally speaking, it is your responsibility as the parent To make sure that children are educated spiritually. Go to Deuteronomy chapter 6. Deuteronomy chapter 6. Verse 6 And these words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart, and thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children. And shall talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, when thou walkest by the way, when thou liest down, when thou risest up, and thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand And they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes, and thou shalt write them upon the post of thy house and upon thy gates. We're supposed to teach our children, God We're supposed to teach our children God's law, the Word of God. Just as it is not the government's or the school's responsibility for your children's education, if you want to use that tool, that's your decision. It is not the church's responsibility to educate your children spiritually. It's a tool that we can use And it's a wonderful tool. It's one you should use, and we should not forsake the assembling of ourselves together. But that's what it the responsibility of your children understanding the Bible will fall on the parents Pastor stresses it, just about every service, you ought to have family devotions. There ought to be a time where Dad sits down with the Bible and teaches his children the Word of God. Don't rely on the youth pastor to do it. We give them a 30-minute shot on Sundays and then a 45-minute shot on Wednesday nights most of the time. That's not going to cut it. The children need and will rely on the parents to teach them the things of God. There needs to be a time where you spend time together in prayer. Time teaching your children the Word of God. We see that here in Deuteronomy. It is the parents' responsibility, if you want to go back to Ephesians, to love their children. To love their children. Verse four of Ephesians six Says ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath. Provoke not your children to wrath. Don't irritate your kids just to do it. Okay, there's a difference between picking. Okay, my dad would pick on me, he'd tease me. I love my dad's sense of humor. That's one reason I think I speak sarcasm very well. It's awesome. I love it. We have a good time. It's a good thing But he would never do things to purposely make me mad that I'm aware of. He would never and that's good. That's good. He I can't think of a time where my father provoked me to wrath. I can think of times where he provoked me to love and good works. Now, I I I mentioned it this morning. I understand this. God's design for the family was broken with sin. Okay? And because of sin, you're not going to find the perfect family. You're not going to find perfect dads, moms, children. You're not going to find it Because we live in a sin-cursed world. But the way that the family is supposed to operate is what we're studying. Okay? Provoke not your children to wrath. Love your kids. Show your kids you love them. Moms and dads. Moms should show their kids they love them. Dads should show their kids they love them. And in one of the greatest things you can do for your kids is to show them you love them and show them you love their mom and their dad. Moms, if you don't love your kids' dad, you're setting them up for failure. Dads, if you don't love your kid's mom, come on. It's a broken picture of what we saw this morning. Love your spouse. Show your kids you love your spouse. And show your kids you love them. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. So and I want to just throw this out there, dads, if you don't love your daughters, someone else will. If you don't love your sons, mom's dads, someone else will. So General education, spiritual education, loving them. We're supposed to raise them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. I mentioned this earlier. The parents can use the tools they want. It's their prerogative. Different parents have different parenting styles. Okay? A lot of it can be sound of there's a lot the the scripture addresses everything. Okay? Um You can find in Proverbs where it says, you know, it says to spare not the rod, things like this, okay? Um and says things like he won't die, okay? It's it's okay, but y that's your decision How you want to discipline your kids, how you want to correct your kids, that's your decision. Parents have different rules, different curfews, different whatever. That's okay. That is your decision. You pray over it. You seek God on it. You seek godly counsel on it. But it's it's the responsibility that will come on the parent. That's the way God intended for it to be. Okay? You might choose different mentors for your children. Cool. We saw that in Galatians, where the the Father chooses tutors and governors until the time appointed. Great. That's your decision. Sounds like I'm echoing myself, but I'm really trying to make the point. So here's the point with all of that. Quit trying to make it out like it's someone else's responsibility. Again, I know I'm not talking to anyone specifically here. I'm talking generally. in our society. Our society has shirked the responsibility of parenthood We have given up the responsibility of raising our children to the state, to different people. That's a shame. Now, if you want to use the state education to teach your children, great. Please don't misunderstand me. But understand that it's still your responsibility to see to that. Does that make sense? Am I making sense? Is this clear? So there's a great responsibility with children. It is not anyone else's responsibility. It's not mine. It's not pastors, it's not the church's responsibility, it's not the school's responsibility, it's not the government's responsibility to raise your children. It is yours and you have the right to choose what tools you see fit Children are not property of the state. They are property, if you want to use that word, they belong to their parents. With all that being said, we started out in Ephesians 6. It said, children obey your parents. I start with parents because I want the children here to listen now for the next few minutes. Understand this. Your parents have a tremendous responsibility. Okay. Grace, you think you're easy. No, I'm just kidding. I'm not going to take on Grace. I could pick on anyone. The point is this. Listen to me, kids. Your parents have a tremendous responsibility that God has put on them. And you're a tremendous gift to them. Let's not make their job any harder than it needs to be. You understand? Kids are expensive financially, emotionally. I mean you go on down the list. Kids will absolutely break your heart and bring you more joy than you've ever experienced. So, but listen to this. This is the point I'm trying to get to you kids. Listen. Don't make your dad's job, your mom's job, any more difficult than you've than it already is. There is no such thing as perfect parents, and there is no such thing as perfect kids. You will sin against your parents Don't make it any harder than it needs to be. Okay, so we're looking at this. We're looking at this. Children, obey your parents in the Lord. Why? That's right. It's just the right thing to do We're talking about family roles. We talked about the the basis of it, the definition of it this morning, the origination of the family. We all have our roles in our families Quit trying to get out of your role. The children are not the parents yet. One day you will be, probably not that far away, maybe further for some. Okay. You're seventeen? You turn eighteen this year? Do you turn eighteen this year? Huh? Two weeks. Man, he's an adult. I mean Dawson, you're twenty? Dude. Crazy. What are you, fifteen, Belle? Okay. It's not that long until you're you have your own families. Georgia, it's only thirty years. She's looking at me like, what are you talking about? Understand this though. Now here's what I'm trying to get. If you can't stay in the position and you can't live in the position that God has you in now, what makes you think you will ten years from now? If you can't know your role as a son and honor and respect your mom and your dad now, what makes you think you'll respect your wife later? See, what you're doing is practicing for your next family. It's one way of looking at it. That's not the only purpose, but that's one way of looking at it. And if a daughter cannot respect her father, the man in her life, what makes you think she'll respect the man in her life five years from now? How's your practice coming along? Girls, honor your dad. Guys, honor your mom. Honor both parents. Obey your parents, both parents. Honor your father and mother. Verse 2, chapter 6. Honor thy father and thy mother, which is the first commandment with promise. Well, what's the promise that it may be well with thee? I had someone explain to me once this way. When you obey your parents and you honor your parents, things go well. Generally speaking. When you don't, they don't go well, generally speaking. So, um which one can I pick on? Chloe. Thank you for volunteering. Chloe. You're gonna regret this. So Chloe wakes up with an attitude. Dad says clean your room. He's over there. Yeah. Dad says clean your room. And youh. Right? Give him a little bit of a attitude. I'm just pretending. This would never happen. Yeah. So he gives a little bit of an attitude. Um and then she's like, I can't believe this. I don't even want to live here anymore. I mean it could get really bad. And we've seen like we've seen maybe some attitudes coming out and it gets really rough. And then it's, hey dad, can I go to my friend's house tonight? It's probably not going to go well with you. Probably not. Okay. But she wakes up in the morning. And says, what what what's your favorite breakfast? What when you've heard do you eat breakfast? Do you drink coffee? Nothing in the morning. Cereal, cereal, pretend you like cereal. Okay. So he loves honey bunches of oats. Just pretend, okay. So She gets up in the morning, she pours him a big bowl of honey bunches of oats, and throws her arms around, says, Dad, I love you so much, I made you honey bunches of oats. Can I go to my friend's house? Now not necessarily. It's not a guarantee, but it's probably gonna go a little bit better than the reverse. You understand what I'm saying But then, then, not just the honey bunches of oats throughout the day. He says, clean your room. She says, Yes, sir. Ooh. Try it. She says, yes, sir. And she has to just clean her room, she cleans the dishes too. And you fill in the blank. I know. Woo! It's a big deal. And then says, Hey Dad, I'd really like to go to my friend's house tonight. Now he must still might not say yes. But I guarantee you it's still gonna go a lot better than the other way. Things just go well when we honor our parents Things just go better. Not perfect, but better. And things will be well But I guarantee you, you wake up in the morning, you have an attitude, you say some things you shouldn't say, give your dad an attitude, go off to the school. And you're grumpy all day and you never answer him if he tries to get a hold of you. And then say, Dad, can I go to my friend's house? Probably not going to go too well, is it? Okay, do you see the picture Now, kids, listen to me, of all ages, not just teenagers. Things will go better if we honor our parents. Things will go better. Things will go well if we treat our dads and our moms with respect. Because that's what honor is, right? I've never called my dad the old man. Bugs the snot out of me. I don't have any snot in me. If I had snot in me, it bug the snot out of me. That was gross, I'm sorry. The old man? It's like like or when a husband calls his wife the ball and chain. I mentioned that this morning. I hate that. I hate that. I think God hates it too, because it's a picture that we we went over that. He's not the old man. He's your father. Your dad. You would not exist without him. Honor him. Respect him. Because he's your dad. Well you don't know my dad. You don't know my mom. Well, no, neither did Paul. But it's just what's right. Maybe you're maybe I I I don't know you're I don't know everyone's parents, okay? I I I get it. And he he says in verse 1, children obey your parents in the Lord. Because obviously, if your parent told you to do a direct sin, like jump off a cliff or rob a bank, then obviously that's different. There's that little caveat there in the Lord. Here's the problem though. We look for the caveat, don't we? Well, I thought that if um I want to obey my or God said to obey my parents, it's only in the Lord, and I'm not sure if what mom and dad tell me to do is right or not Well, I don't know. Stop looking. You'll know if it's wrong. You'll know if it's a blatant sin. Stop trying to argue away the fact that you're supposed to obey your parents Okay? But never do we see where there's any time it's appropriate ever to dishonor your parents. Ever. Your dad tells you to rob a bank, okay, maybe you shouldn't rob a bank. But never should you dishonor your parents. Ever. You would not exist without them. And if for no other reason than just that, you owe your parents your honor and your respect So, well you don't understand what my dad's done. You don't understand what my mom's done. If you knew Okay, so all of a sudden we can now trash our parents and it's right? Okay. Well let's let's just go there. Honor thy father and thy mother if they're good people. No. You honor your parents because they're your parents. Never ever is it appropriate to dishonor them. God takes that very, very seriously. You don't dishonor your parents. How seriously does he take it? If you don't honor your parents and you disrespect your parents Then it does not go well with you, and you don't get the promise of verse 3 that it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live long on the earth. I do believe I mean, I wholeheartedly I believe this. There are people's lives that were shortened because of the way they treated the parents. I believe that. I believe that. Don't let that be you, young people. We spent the first half of this service looking at the awesome responsibility And the seriousness that the parents have of raising children. It's a God-given privilege and responsibility. Honor that and respect it. Because it's coming soon your way too. You ever hear that you reap what you sow thing? Would you be the kind of kid would you want to raise you? Kids. Would you want to raise you? Be the person you would want to raise. Does that make sense? So anyway, honor your parents. So, uh let's see. A little after eight, I'm going to get finished up here. So uh that's what we're looking at. I'll stop there. I'll stop there. Parents and children. Uh next week we'll look at um Husbands and wives, and their roles there. Of course, husbands and wives are the same person as mothers and fathers most of the time, but just a different role that that person has. But this is the challenge tonight. To parents, be grateful for the gift God has given you and your children. And you better seek God and seek His help and His wisdom and the responsibility you have raising your children. Be grateful for that. And treat it with seriousness. Love your kids. Be grateful for your kids. Show your kids you love them. And kids, love and respect your mom and dad. And things will go well. If you don't, then hm they won't. So let's pray. Heads bowed, eyes closed