Uh verses seven through fifteen there in Judges chapter two. We're continuing the series on the family. I think this will be the last One is a three-part is what it was meant to be last week, Sunday morning. We started it and Sunday night continued. And this should be the last in that series that we're doing. And so you might find it strange that we started in Judges, but I'm going to read a couple verses here again, and then I have about 30 minutes of introduction and about two minutes of sermon. So it might it might end up being twenty five and two, or what's we'll see. I told Dave before church, thank you. I told uh Dave before church, I said, hey, eleven thirty. He says, yeah that's not gonna happen. I said it might. I don't think he was saying that it couldn't. I think he was telling me not to let it happen. But anyway. Look at verse number seven in Judges chapter two. The people served the Lord all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great works of the Lord that he did for Israel. Okay, now go down to verse ten. And also all that generation were gathered under their fathers, and there arose another generation after them, which knew not the Lord, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel. And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord. Today, this morning, we're going to look at the role that the family has in relation to the society around us. um the bi the biblical role that the family takes in our society. Uh what it does, what it shouldn't do, and what happens to a society that is filled with strong biblical families, then what happens to a society when there is not strong biblical families. So that's what we're going to look at this morning. Heavenly Father, I pray you would be with the service this morning. Lord, we're grateful for our families. Lord grateful that we can be a part of your family. Uh grateful, Lord, that you sent our or you sent Christ to die for our sins so that we can be adopted into your family. The picture uh that the family represent or what it represents, Lord, and Lord, what an honor it is to be a child of God and to be a joint heir with Christ, Lord, all the privileges that come with that. As we look at your word, Lord, I pray we would find a lot of encouragement here this morning. Pray you would uh challenge us uh to uh be what you've called us to be. And uh Lord, if there's anyone here that does not know you as Savior. And is not a part of your family, I pray that they would be today. Pray they would come to know you as Savior today. It's in Jesus' name Last week I mentioned this. I can't hardly preach on a subject like the family without mentioning mine. I am spoiled. I come from a great family. I have a great family. And I married into a great family. That's not normal anymore. And I am spoiled. I am so grateful for it. I had a mom and a dad that got married, stayed married, had a bunch of kids. And I married a wife who had a mom and dad that were married and are still married and had a bunch of kids That's amazing, isn't it? I I'm I'm so thankful for that. That's not to uh um um take away from anyone else's family or to anything like that. I just I have to let say I'm grateful Very, very grateful. And the design that God gave us for the family, we talked about this last week. There's three institutions God ordained. The family was the first one. Before there was a need for human government, which is one of the um God-ordained institutions, there was the family, before there was government, before there was the church. There was the family. Family was part of God's perfect design. Adam and Eve were married before there was sin in the world, before they sinned. And so the family is a wonderful, wonderful thing. It's a picture. We talked about that in great detail last week It's a picture of Christ in the church. The relationship of husband and wife is a picture of Christ in the church. And that is one reason we should take it very seriously. It is a very sacred thing. Marriages. The family is a holy thing. And the privilege and responsibility of having children. We looked at that last Sunday night, I believe. In the morning service, we talked a lot about husband and wife. In the evening service, we talked a lot about parents and children. Parents have an awesome responsibility Um it's the parents' responsibility to raise children, not the church, not the government. It's the parents' responsibility. Parents have the the prerogative to use whatever tools they see fit. We talked a lot about that. One of the issues or topics that come up when we talk about parents raising children and it's their prerogative is the type of schooling they pick. That's the parents' choice. Should always be the parents' choice what type of school they want to send their children to, or if they want to homeschool them, what curriculum, whatnot. It's the parents' prerogative. I think there's wisdom in seeking counsel. The Bible says multiple counselors there's safety, and I think that's a good thing. But I can't dictate to you what to do with your children. Pastor can't dictate to you what to do with your children, nor should we Nor should the government. It's the parents' responsibility. It's the parents' privilege of having children. It's a great thing. Psalm talks about happy is the man that has his quiver full of them. Children are a heritage from the Lord. It's a wonderful thing. We live in a society, we talked about this last week in great detail, that really has attacked the family. The family has been under great attack. Commercials um since way back when, before way before I was alive, um have been at and TV shows, have been making fun of family roles. Um the dad is always made to look like an idiot. That's just the way it's always gone. Cartoons have done that, TV shows have done that. And the kids somehow are always the wisest ones that take control of the family. What's up with that? Well it's an attack on the family. Of course that's not the way it's supposed to be. That's not the way God designed it. Children seem to, in all these shows and self, children always seem to be the ones that have their way with the parents. And it's sad. There's been an attack on other things, not just with TV shows and commercials and things like that. But there's just an attack on it. There's an attack on the family. Well anything, and we talked about this, anything that God says is holy, the devil hates. So obviously the devil will use or attack uh in any way he can. He'll use uh people to attack the family, he'll use um policies, he'll use governments, he'll use whatever he can to attack the family. If the devil could use and ally himself with one of the other institutions even, say a church, and have a pastor or a priest or whatever, just some religious person come along and take over your job as parent, he'll do it It's not good. Just like the the government has no business dictating what the church does, the church, the government have no business dictating what the parent does Okay, now is there, like we said, is there safety, is there wisdom in a multitude of counselors? Well sure, absolutely. I think that the in scripture we see where parents are given any tools to teach to raise their children and that's and that's good, but it's their prerogative which ones they use. Sunday morning we talked a lot about the roles of husband and wife and why it's so serious. Husbands ought to love their wife Husbands ought to respect their wife, treat their wife like their queen. That's the way it should be. Um, because Christ loved the church. Christ will always be faithful to the church. Christ is never going to divorce the church. Christ is never going to leave the church. So we should never be unfaithful to our wife. That's the picture. And then we talked a lot about wives submitting to their husbands because, again, that's part of the picture of Christ in the church. um to to follow their husbands as they follow the Lord. We should read a read about that in uh Titus a little bit, I believe. Anyway, that's what we talked a lot about. What was the basis for the family? We talked about that Sunday morning as well. It's the Bible You know, the family is not something that the governments have thought up. Family is not something that the world has thought of. It's a biblical thing. God created it, God ordained it. If it does not follow God's definition of family, then it's not a family. I was um picking on Gavin this morning. He's not up here, he's downstairs, isn't he? Good. So yeah, I was picking on him this morning. Um me and Nate were And it was fun because he was using words that he didn't know the meaning to, so I pulled my dictionary out and taught him how to look up words in the dictionary. It was quite fun And so then he realized that he the a word didn't mean what he thought it meant and he had like a light bulb and then he started using the word correctly. It was awesome. It was a good teaching experience. And I'm using this as an illustration, but I don't remember why. And that's okay. Um it's good to see Kamewin here. What's up, buddy? How are you? Good. He won the archery uh contest at camp this week And I didn't say this. He said it. It's in his blood. So um yeah, anyway, what was I talking about, Gavin? Definitions. Whatever. Oh, yeah, the definition of family. It means something. When you say marriage, that means something. It it it means a man and a woman being together. That's married. Together. That God brings them together. That's what that means. So if if you're not married, by definition it's not a family. If a man and a woman live together, if they're not married, they're not a family. By definition. If two men get a legal certificate that the government recognizes, it's still not a marriage because it's not the definition. Words have meanings. Okay. And marriage means something. Family means something. Okay? Um so we talked about all that. God created that So my plan is, I told you this is going to be a long introduction and then a very short sermon. What I want to do first is just mention just some observations, some just some obvious facts, some observations that I don't think anyone would really disagree with. And then we'll get to the the sermon here probably around 1150, 1145, whatever it is. So obviously, when we look at the Bible, God commands uh families to be fruitful and multiply, right? Um he he told that to Adam and Eve, the very first humans. Okay. Um they did. Sin entered the world and things got wet. If you remember that there was a flood, uh God judged sin. And um When they got off the ark, knowing his wife, his sons, and their wives, what did he tell them to do? Same thing. He wanted them to spread out, have kids. He wants people to have families And he wants people to get married and to have kids. You can look in the New Testament where Paul talks about this. Not everyone is going to get married and that's okay. God has different designs for different people's lives and that's great. But we see where marriage is good. The Bible says marriage is honorable. And it's good to have children. It's a good families are a good thing. We live in a world, again, this is just an observation, that is very, very Much becoming antifamily. You know, we want to wait till we're thirty-five to have kids and we have one. That's just what people our society wants people to do. You know, wait till you're thirty, then get married, and then make sure you have plenty of money and have two dogs and a cat and then you can start having kids Okay, that's not the way God intended it. Okay? Now, it's your family, it's your prerogative, but as we look at the Bible, we see where God wants us to Be fruitful and multiply. That's just an observation. He's commanded that. That's good. So I think we do ourselves an injustice. Now I'm a youth pastor, so please pay attention, okay? I'm not trying I'm not saying teenagers should just go get married, okay? Because it's for one, it's not even legal. Well you're 18, so it's legal. But not today. Okay. Um maybe tomorrow. Just kidding Um, I think we do our our society an injustice when we tell our kids, don't get married, go to college. Okay, now when you get your master's degree, now go get a good job. Okay, now once you get a good job, make sure you can save up for a down payment on a house and you get your car paid off Then you can start dating. Then you date someone for four or five years. Make sure it works. Okay, now you're 35. Okay. Now you can get married. Okay, but wait till you're ready to have kids. Okay? I think we do our society a hurt. This isn't one, it's not biblical. But two, I think it's bad for the country. Um when you have a a a nate a population go downward, that's not good. It's not good. Um it's not good for the military, it's not good for the economy, it's not good Okay, this isn't an economics lecture, but it's just these are just some observations. It's just not good. Um now if if for whatever reason you you don't have children, that's fine. It's your it's whatever. Point anything out or point anyone out. I'm just saying these are just some facts we see in Scripture. God wants us to, God likes families. God wants families. And I don't think anyone would disagree with that. Family is a good thing. Now, we read in Proverbs, we'll look at this verse here later, it says, when the wicked multiply, transgression increaseth. See, I think I th again I think we do ourselves an injustice when we um allow the wicked to have kids and we don't. That's just the just some thoughts here, okay? I'll get to preaching later. This is just a long introduction, I told you that. Just another observation. The family unit, husband, wife, children, that's kind of the main backbone of society, right? It's like the main pillar of society. Um if you don't have the family units, nothing else really works. Now, communism would say that it would be good to not have a family and we'll let the government raise kids or whatever. That doesn't really work, and we've seen that repeated through history. To have a strong society, you've got to have strong families. Um that's you could just see that. You could see that play out. When you have um uh you have a military, it's made up of 18, 19, 20-year-old recruits that join, enlist, whatever, they they just came from their parents' house. Right? They were raised by somebody, whether it's parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles, they were raised by some family. Family's a pillar of society. It's kind of what uh the the nation's built on. There is a study and I have a link to it here. This is not a study, it was a survey. And what they said was concerning this year's election, this the survey came out six days ago Out of the top five most important issues for people with issues that when they're talking about the election, what they uh their biggest concerns with the nation, four out of the top five have something to do with the family. You know, we're not we're worried we're not gonna be able to feed our family, for instance, you know, money of the economy or whatever, because we can't put groceries in the table or whatever. Um uh things like that. The family's a big deal. Family's a big deal. And it's uh the pillar of society, and I already said that. If you have weak families you have a weak society. If you have strong families, you have a strong society. If you have atheistic families, you have an atheistic society. If you have Christian families, you have a Christian society This is just the way it works. This is the way God intended for it to work, and this is the way it works. You get rid of the families, then that society no longer is the same. It can't be what it was. Okay? And so we we see that. Again, just some observations here when we look at Scripture. We mentioned this last week, but the family is a representation. Supposed to be a representation of Christ in the church, husband and wife, father and children represent uh God and his children And you can see this through Scripture. You know, when you see the picture of Abraham and Isaac, that's a picture of God the Father and God the Son, right? That's a picture there. And you see pictures throughout Scripture of families. When Jesus was going to tell a uh a story to make a point, he would uh oftentimes tell stories about families, like the prodigal son or or whatnot. Families are always used as pictures in the Bible. Or a lot of times they're used as pictures in the Bible. We see that. So if we have a strong picture. For a very clear picture, we're more likely to see Christ. Does that make sense? Okay, these are just again some observations. If we have a strong biblical family, we have a husband who loves his wife. And a wife who loves her husband, and husband and wife together love their children. You can see a good picture, it's a clear picture of Christ. In the church. Does that make sense? Okay. So the family is representative. It's a representation Again, just an observation. And we already mentioned this, so I won't spend too long on this, but there has always been an effort to destroy the family. It comes from corrupt men, it comes from the devil, it comes from governments, it comes from societies, whatever. But the devil used whatever he can to destroy the family. We see that a lot in socialistic and communistic type governments. And I pr I I I was do I was studying this last night. just doing some review. And I found an article, um, one of the goals of communists to take over America was to get children away from their parents. And they've done that. Success. And so this is these are just things to watch out for. And one of their top goals was to keep get the kids in school longer and longer and start earlier and earlier. We see that happening. But uh the point is is there's been an attack on the family. And it's that. But we mentioned earlier we're saying the bounds grace does much more abound. Is there such thing as a perfect family? Well, no. Because we're made up of people. And people sin. So no, you're not going to find a perfect husband, you're not going to find a perfect wife, you're not going to find perfect kids, you're not going to find perfect parents. About what we said last week and what we're saying again this week, we're looking at what we're supposed to be So we know what to aim for. Does that just make sense? So anyway. Now I read in Judges And do you want to go ahead and turn there, if you're not still there? Judges chapter two. The nation of Israel was made up of families, right? Now I want you to think, there is a group of families from all twelve tribes, whatever, you know the story. They left Egypt. Uh did did they get to go to the promised land? No. Unless they're kids. Because the families, the parents, mainly, um, because the ki you know, anyone over twenty, they they didn't follow the Lord. Okay? And uh when the spies went out there to check it out, they believed the ten, not the two, and they sided against it and God God punished them for it. And so because Of their rebellion against God, they didn't get to see the promised land. We know the story. But then Joshua comes along, and it's new families Okay, those kids grew up deciding I'm gonna serve the Lord. Me and my family, me and my house, we will serve the Lord. And their house, their families, serve the Lord. And so what did they get? Well, um if you looked if we were if you were to look at the end of Joshua, you see where Joshua gives them the charge And they said, Yeah, we're going to serve the Lord. He said, No, you won't be able to do it. And they said, No, we're going to do it. And he said, You're witnesses. Is this ringing the bell? He said, You're witnesses. And he and they said, Yeah, we're witnesses. We're going to serve the Lord. They did. And they had peace. It was a strong nation. Because they serve the Lord, because these families served the Lord. And then we reread that here in verse 7 of chapter 2. The people served the Lord all the days of Joshua and all the days of the elders. So it wasn't just Joshua. It was all the elders. So you have all of these heads leading the nation in the right direction. We're looking at the picture here of families, right? As long as these families were there, these strong biblical families, there was peace. And had seen verse 7, who had seen all the great works of the Lord that he did for Israel. Then when you go to verse 10, and all the generations were gathered under their fathers, there arose another generation after them which knew not the Lord. New set of families that weren't biblical families that did not follow the Lord, that did not seek to serve the Lord, and you then you have trouble. Now throughout the Bible We see the influence of families. There's a few areas here. Again, this is still just by way of this this is all still introduction. A biblical family influences the rulers in their society. That's just a fact. And I was thinking about this. Remember Mordecai and Esther, they influenced the king. Through prayer and fasting. Of course, uh Jesse and Da which was David's father, his sons uh were fighting with the king, and then David went out there. There's all Jesse's family involved with that, and of course Uh they influenced Saul, and then of course David became the next king and all that, but um that family influenced. I thought about um Abraham and Sarah And Pharaoh, and I thought about, like I said, Mordecai and Esther, but I thought about this one too. Um didn't Mary and Martha and Lazarus uh that family, they sure influenced Christ, didn't they? We see families have influences. And these are just some examples. But um, and I mentioned that survey about how the family is the biggest issue in any election, really I think it's important to understand and to not underestimate the influence that the family has on our government, on our rulers, but also on the rest of society. The family affects, I mentioned earlier, the economy. Of course the family affects the economy. This is just observation again. Proverbs 29, 16 talks about when the wicked uh multiply transgression increases. We mentioned that earlier, but Proverbs eleven ten says, When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth. Families influence the society. Families contribute to the number one safety of society. The number one source of protection that one has is from their family. You live in your home, children have their greatest protection from their parents. Um that that's just the way it works. And that's good. That's the way it should work. Okay. Now here's something I really want to point out. And this is this is gonna be the end of this section and then I'll move on. But when you have biblical families, you know, husbands, wives, love each other, have kids, raise their kids, the fear of the Lord. You're not just influencing your society here, you're influencing the kingdom of heaven, that society, right? It's families, biblical families, that are going to draw people to Christ. You know? That when you when you s when you see the family operating the way God intended for it to operate It will point people to Christ. And God uses families to raise missionaries, to raise pastors, to raise Sunday school teachers, to raise soul winners. It's good. And that is the main thing. If our society around us were to collapse, well we still have our heavenly home. We're citizens of heaven. That's our number one citizenship. We're citizens of the United States while we're here, but our forever home is heaven. And I want to be as much of an influence as I can be on that society I wanna I wanna bring as many people into God's family as I can. Now, it'd be difficult It'd be more difficult to bring people into God's family if I don't have my own underhand. Does that make sense? We were talking in Sunday school a little bit this morning. We've been going through the Sermon on the Mount. And we're at the the section there in chapter seven where it says to not to not look at the speck in someone's eye, the moat in someone's eye when you have a beam in yours. If I've got a glaring problem in my home, I'm not going to be able to help someone else in theirs, right? So, anyway, just a thought. Now, go to Judges chapter 2 if you're not there. We're going to read this again, uh parts of it again, and then we're going to make some points. Okay. Judges 2, verse 7. And all the people served the Lord all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great works of the Lord. Your family, your children, your grandchildren are watching you. Your children and your grandchildren and your great grandchildren in some cases, they are watching you. Catch this. They didn't just follow the Lord all the days of Joshua. Did you see that? It says this. So they're not just what it wasn't like this one man was responsible. He had a big part, obviously. He was a major leader. But once he was gone, they still served the Lord. So it wasn't like Joshua was the only reason. They watched Joshua. But then the elders that came after him. The point I want to make is this. If you're not going to serve the Lord, what makes you think your grandkids or your kids will? They probably won't. They probably won't. We get really upset because we look at well, I guess I I'd be the millennial generation. I'm young. It's okay. We look at the millennial generation or or Gen Z We'll say, oh, these kids, man, they have no respect. They have no respect. They don't care about the things of God, and we go on. Okay? Probably mostly true. But they got it from somebody They got it from somebody. And I'm not saying they got it from you, but they got it from somebody Your influence on your children and on your grandchildren cannot be underestimated You think, oh, well, you know, they are in school for seven hours a day. I don't have much of a shot. Okay, so they are in school for seven hours a day There was another survey, and I have links to these if you want them. I can share where I got them from. It was over 80% of Generation Z, which would be these guys. Over 80% follow not only the same political but religious affiliation of their parents. So not everyone, but the majority. You here here's can I share something with you? This is just me talking, okay? One thing that confuses me is when parents and grandparents will get upset for their kids not getting involved in church when they don't. You know what I mean? It's like, oh yeah, kids should be in church. Well dads should be in church. Well moms should be in church. We're getting really upset because we can't get them to get involved in youth group. You know, well, why don't you go soul winning on Thursday nights when the church goes? Well, you does does this make sense? We get really upset because these kid the kids are just doing what their parents do. Or their grandparents. The kids are just watching. Let's give them something biblical to watch. When's the last time your kids caught you reading the Bible? Or praying? When's the last time your grandkids came over to visit and they saw grandpa or grandma praying for them? Or the last time they heard you say, Hey, I'm praying for you. Or give a testimony in church. Ergo soul winning Thursday night with the church. Oh, the kids, they used to go on missions trips Well so should the adults. So should their parents. Does this make sense? And so what the kids see monkey see monkey you do? Not saying kids are monkeys We don't let's subscribe to that Darwinism stuff. Okay? We're not monkeys. Yeah Huh. Whoever said that, thank you. Was that you, Zach? Thank you, Zach. Yeah, we don't we don't do that, okay? But we are gonna do what our parents do. You know who people say I'm just like? My dad. Okay? I watched him very closely. Well I mean he's not right here, I'm not like watching him. But like growing up, I watched him very close. I wanted to do everything with him. When he would get in the truck, make a delivery, I wanted to go with him. Okay Um I wanted to drink coffee with him in the morning. That's just what I wanted to be around him. I wanted to watch him. I'm not as great of a a guy as he is, but um he's awesome. Okay But when I I I would get up at five o'clock in the morning with my dad and drink coffee with him when I was like four. They say coffee stunts your growth. Either it's not true, or I should be over seven foot. I'm not s you you can decide which one. But I I just I I don't know. You end you end up you you're you're you're more likely to do what your parents do. So if your parents go to church, you'll probably go to church. Okay, that 80% rule is pretty true. There was five of us, I was the middle kid. There's one of us that's not in church. You know, four out of five. It's 80% Okay? That's I mean now is that the same for everyone? No. But don't expect your grandkids and your kids to do something that you're not doing. We see that with Joshua, right? They watched Joshua. They watched and then the next generation, it wasn't till the third one when things started to go south. Okay? And then when they did, what happened? Look at verse number 10. All the generations were gathered under their fathers. And there arose another generation after them which knew not the Lord, nor yet the works which the Lord had done for Israel You know, um when society is made up of biblical families, the society prospers, but when the families quit teaching their kids When parents, when grandparents quit teaching the next generation the things of God, that generation will not know the Lord. They're not supposed to learn it from anyone else. The spiritual education of your kids is the responsibility of the parents. And if we fail to teach our children, It's not just going to mess up their lives, it'll mess up the whole society. Because what happens? Verse 11: the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord and served Balaam, and they forsook the Lord. God of their fathers, which brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods of the gods of the people that were round about them. You quit teaching them about your God, they'll learn about someone else's. If you don't sit down with your children and teach them God's word Someone else will teach them their God. They'll learn the God of um the gods of this world. Whatever. Fill one in, whatever. Um it could it could be it could be money, it could be humanism, it could be um um there's a trend back towards like the old pagan religion. Anyone anyone notice that? Anyone pick up on that? Like there's a whole lot you you know what I'm talking about? People are getting really involved in stuff that from like the Dark Ages or before. Like it's really weird. But but the point is, if you don't teach them your God, someone else will teach them their God. And we've just we we're just saying, oh they'll learn it at school. Well they'll learn something there. Oh, well they'll learn it at church. Really? You want me to be the one that teaches your kids? You should teach your kids, right? I mean I'll do my best. But don't count on the pastor or the youth pastor. Don't count on the school teacher. Look at them as tools. Use them when appropriate. A biblical family will contribute to the society. We talked about that. Okay, yeah. So if we fail to teach our children, it won't just hurt our children, it will hurt Our future society. Okay? Biblical family um is they're needed. We need families. We need families to operate the way God intended for them to operate. That means we need dads to love their children. We need dads to spend time with their children. We need children to see their dads love their moms. We need children to see their moms love their dads. And we want to look at all the problems in our society. If our families would become what they're supposed to be, a lot of those will just go away. Pick w big one's abortion, right? It's murder. We shouldn't kill children. Obviously, that's messed up. To kill kids. That's that's wicked. You know If men would respect women, leave them alone until they're married, and women would respect men, leave them alone until they're married, and then follow God's plan, get married and have children, that wouldn't even be a thought. These big serious issues, a lot of them would be taken care of if we would just live the way God told us to live. Okay. And you know who the happiest people are? People that come from good solid homes. No, it's not to say there's no heartache, but when there's turmoil in the home, when there's fighting in the home, it comes out in the rest of society. I I I'm I'm trying to think. I can't think of a time I'm so grateful for this. I can't think of a time where I've ever seen my dad raise his voice to my mom. I don't think I've ever seen that. In fact I know I never I've never seen that And I'm fortunate to come from a home like that. I understand that's not normal. But wouldn't it be great if guys we just decide we're gonna do that? Let's just love our wives. What would that do for our country? Oh my goodness. Forget forget the election. Well don't forget it. Vote. Vote for me for school board, by the way. But I mean vote I mean we should do w yeah, get involved, but that would take care of itself. If we just started teaching our children the Bible and praying with our kids, a lot of stuff would just take care of itself. God would just take care of it. Now I say all all of that, all of that, we look at that. We look at Joshua at the end of it when these the Joshua was right and the families were right, it brought success. And whenever you go in the book of judges, you see that circle over and over again where the people would sinned, they'd go into oppression, and they'd cry out, and then they get delivered, and you have that whole cycle. When the families were right with God, there was prosperity, and there was safety, and there was peace. But when families aren't right with God, meaning they're not doing what they're supposed to be doing, dads aren't, moms aren't, kids aren't. That that takes a toll on a society. So how can we apply this? And I'm you can close your Bibles, I'm pretty much done. How can we apply this? One I think we ought to call good what God calls good. I think the biggest supporters of the family ought to be Christians. It'll be you and me. I think we ought to applaud the people that get married. I mean marry the right person and all that, sure. But marriage is honorable. It's a good thing. Two saved people want to get married, two Christians want to get married, have at it. Okay And I think when people have kids, I think we ought to applaud that. I th I think it's a good family's a good thing. And and what God brings together let no man put asunder I think that's one application is we ought to be strong allies of the biblical family. But then the other Glaring application would be this. And this is where we'll really have to turn inward examine ourselves. I'm examining myself right now. Am I the family member that God called me to be So, Isaac, in your family, what's your position? You are a okay, you're a child, you're a son. So your role in your family would to put yourself under the authority of your parents. Correct? Are you doing that? Don't answer, but I think you are. Are you doing that? Okay? Are you doing that? Jacob, same question. What's your position? You're your parents' child. So everything we looked at last week, last Sunday night, you know uh as you know putting ourselves under the authority of our parents, obeying them, not just obeying them, am I honoring them, my parents? Am I obeying my parents? Am I being the child that I'm supposed to be? Okay You are sitting next to your, which means you are a good job. He didn't study. Are you being the husband that you're supposed to be? The dad? I think he's a good one, by the way. We don't know what goes on, right? We we put up a show. Derek puts up a show. That homie's really No I'm just kidding. I'm kidding. But seriously, look inward And I'm asking myself, am I the husband that I'm supposed to be? Where I love my wife? To the level of Christ loving the church. You know, I love my wife, but if I were to be honest with you, I think I fall short of Christ's love for the church. You know what that means? I need to work on this. I need to work on this. You you might be the the the greatest wife in here, if your name's Miss Courtney If not, you you might be the second greatest wife in here. Okay? But I don't know of any w any wife That has been able to fulfill the role perfectly. Because why, we're sinners. You know what that means? We got work to do. Wherever you're at, think about yourself. Okay, I'm a husband, that's my position. What is it going to take for me to be more like what God called me to be? If you're a dad, you're a husband, if you're a mom, you're a wife, let's try to be what God called us to be. We looked at the roles last week. Ponder on that. Ask yourself: Am I the family member that I'm supposed to be? What now, in closing. All of this is a picture of what? Christ in the church. I mentioned this last week. I'll have my wallet on me again this week. I have a picture. Pictures in my wallet, a few. One of them is a picture of me and my wife. Is it a good picture? Yeah. She's in it. Right? It's a it's a good picture. There's a picture on my phone. If you hit the lock screen, it's it's it's some kids and me and my wife. Okay? I like I like that. It's cool. Would I rather have her than the real or would I rather have her than the picture? Sure. Picture's nice, but it's not the real thing. I'd rather have her. You can have the best family in the world. But if you don't know Christ as your Savior, you don't have the real thing. You don't have the real thing. You can have, let me say this way, you can ha come from the the worst family in the world. But if you have Christ, you have the real thing. And because we're sinners, our pictures are broken. But the real thing's not. If you don't have Christ as your Savior, what an opportunity to be part of a family. Family of God. Where your Father is perfect. Your brother, Christ, is perfect. And he sticks closer than a brother. Stuff to think about. Stuff to think about. If you don't know Christ as your Savior, that's priority. Those of us that do know Christ as our Savior, let's live out the picture that Christ called us to live out. Heads bowed and eyes closed. I don't know everyone's family situations. I really don't. You you know yours. People come from different types of homes and I know that. You might have you might have come from a home with both mom and dad or mom and stepdad or step mom and dad or or maybe your grandparents or there's all kinds of different scenarios, okay? And that's cool. That's good. That's okay. But the the family that God offers you is perfect. It's not it's not a broken family. And if you've ever wanted a perfect father You can have one. In fact, he's asking you To come to him. He's asking you to, Jesus wants you to accept him as your Savior. God wants to be your Heavenly Father. And if there's anyone here that you don't know Christ as your Savior, But the idea of you're thinking about it. See, I'm not sure that I'm part of God's family. But man, I sure am thinking about it. I'd like to be part of that. Could you raise just raise your hand so I can pray for you? I'm not going to point at you, I'm not going to call you out, bring you up for anything like that. I just want to pray for you. But you say, Pastor Matt, that's me. I'm I'm not saved. I'm not Christian. I'm not part of God's family, but I find it Intriguing on thinking about this thing. Could you raise your hand? Okay. Next question is this. Does anyone say, you know what, Pastor Matt? Um while we've been going through this the last three services, I see I've got some work I need to do on myself. Um uh uh whatever position you are in the family, I I I need to work on this. Could you raise your hand? By the way, my hand's up. Uh there's some things I need to work on. That's good. But if you stand to your feet when she starts playing, the altar is open if you need to do business with God.