First Peter chapter one. There's people laughing right now, they just got it. The nice thing about telling jokes like that to blondes is it makes their evening later on the day makes it enjoyable. They finally get it and then Alright, quit while you're 1 Peter chapter 1. I want to begin reading in verse 9. I'm going to read down through verse 12. 1 Peter chapter 1. Verse 9, receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls, for which of which salvation the prophets have inquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you. He's referencing the Old Testament prophets that they prophesied of this grace that would show up in the Lord Jesus. Verse 11, searching what? or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify when it testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ And the glory that should follow. The Holy Spirit of God, Spirit of Christ, and these prophets prophesied before time The sufferings of Christ, the Old Testament prophesied the sufferings of Christ, and the glory that should follow his sufferings. I believe that's a reference to the millennial reign of Christ. Unto whom it was revealed that not unto themselves, but unto us they did minister the things which are now reported unto you by them that have preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven. Now look at this last phrase of verse 12. Which things the angels desire to look into. Huh. I'm going to preach tonight on the end of our faith. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts and prepare us for the week to live for Him. Be a witness for him this week. Father, I thank you for a good day, and it's been a blessing to me, and my heart's encouraged. See folks coming out in the morning and back again tonight. Lord, hear of decisions made for Christ and just a good spirit and We can fellowship together and pray and laugh and sing. And what a joy it is to be a Christian. We give you the glory for that, Lord. And I ask now, Father, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, that it would be you preaching to us tonight, dear Lord. I yield my will to you. I present my body as I always do And I pray with all my heart you'd fill me and, as I said, speak through me. Help us to receive your word and prepare us for the week, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen. Paul said in the beginning of his letter to the Romans in chapter 1 and verse number 16, he said, For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the what Power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth. The gospel is the power of God The gospel of Jesus Christ, the good news of Jesus Christ dying on that cross for our sins, suffering judgment for us, buried, rose again, coming again. That good news of Jesus Christ is a powerful, powerful truth. If we would just present it. The gospel, just the simple, clear gospel given to us in the Word of God, if we would present that to people, and if on their part they receive it by faith, that has a powerful impact in people's lives. I thought as I was giving the Kaz report this evening and thinking of these dear folks in Kazakhstan, uh no Christians, uh as far as we know, no witness I thought if just somebody would show up there with the scriptures and their language and be able to sit down. Maybe in an apartment building in a city. Maybe out in the countryside in the um in the gurz that they build up, those tents they those round tents they stay in, or yurts, I think they call them. If somebody would just show up with an open Bible in their language and show them for the Word of God the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ, I believe they'd be souls saved if somebody would just go and talk to them. I believe there'd be lives changed. The gospel is a very powerful truth. We spoke of it the last couple weeks in the mornings, we mentioned before, on Sunday mornings. The gospel can change a person's destiny. You have somebody living in their sins, unforgiven, unsaved. According to John chapter 3, verse 18 and 36, they're already under the wrath of God. They're already condemned. to eternal separation from God in hell. And the gospel, if it's received, changes that person's destiny Now, if we think about that, we've heard it so much, and we sing about it so much, and we talk about it so much, that I think the significance of that truth escapes us. A person's destiny is transformed from hell to heaven through the power of the gospel. That's an amazing thing. Not only is their destiny changed, but their life is changed. In fact, their very nature is changed Through the power of gospel. They're a new creature we mentioned this morning. By that, we understand their priorities. Change. The gospel will change a person's priorities. How many folks here before you got saved, your priorities were different than they are now as a Christian? Anybody? Sure. Sure. Things that are important to me changed. The gospel will change a person's perception, how they see the world, how they see themselves. How they see time and and uh other people. It changes our perception. The gospel changes this way our posture Our posture. And by that we mean our demeanor and our reaction to things, how we react to things I tell you, I got saved on a Monday night. Monday, I had taken a day off work. We were out just living in wickedness and using language that I am so ashamed of. But the funny thing is, Monday night I got saved. I trusted Christ Tuesday at work, and um I said a few things, a few things came off my lips Twenty-four hours before didn't bother me one bit. I could care less. Tuesday, I said a few words, and man, conviction. I felt so terrible. I felt like I needed to wash my mouth out. You know what that is? That's the power of the gospel to change a person, their nature, their perception, how they respond to things. These believers that Peter's writing to, we've been making a big deal about this because I think it's important to understand. These dear believers were being persecuted intensely. Their lives are being taken, their wealth, their families, everything they have and own, it's being taken from them because of their faith in Christ, because of what the gospel did for them And they're fleeing through Asia Minor there. They're fleeing for their lives, being forced out of their homes. And remember, we looked last week, I believe, how they responded to that mistreatment. How they responded to injustice. They didn't retaliate in kind, they didn't get bitter, they didn't they didn't react enough. fleshly sinful way. What does verse 8 say they were doing? Remember? Look at verse 8. How did they respond to this suffering and this hardship and these trials? Look at the last part of verse 8. Joy unspeakable and full of glory. Full of glory. Huh. I wonder if someone took me forcibly out of my home tonight. Twelve o'clock authorities came, kicked in the doors, drugged me out of there, took me down to the jail downtown, tied me up, beat me up real good, stripped the shirt off my back and Beat me with a whip, threw me in there, cussed me out. I wonder if I would respond with joy unspeakable And full of glory. I wonder how I'd respond to that. I think my natural tendency is I want a lawyer. I'm called CLA. But they responded with joy and speaker. You know what that is? That's the power of the gospel to completely change a person's demeanor and how they react and how they respond to things I tell you what's a tragedy, I tell you what's a heartache, and I have to, you know, I have to include myself in this, how sometimes we as Christians We respond to what other people say or do. Not in a spiritual, godly way, but we respond in an old, sinful, fleshly way. How many people know what I'm talking about? You say, man, that's not what I am. That's not Christian. And the gospel can change us. The gospel has power. Some of y'all may have seen this in the news. It's all a couple weeks ago. I don't have the date right here. It's not been too long ago. But there was a Daoas police officer, a lady. On the Dallas Police Force, and she apparently, according to her story, came home, went to the wrong floor of the apartment building that she lived in And went to the correct number apartment that she lived in, but it was the wrong floor. She was one floor above. How many people heard this in the news? And the door was ajar, apparently, and she pushed the door in, thinking it was her apartment. She walked in, and here was a man in what she thought was her apartment. And whatever ensued, we probably will never know. But she ended up pulling her gun and shooting the man, killing him dead, dropped to the floor. She was charged with murder. He was an innocent man. He was unarmed. She was charged with murder. And by the way, that fellow was from St. Lucia. It's big news down in St. Lucia. The man that was killed. She was charged with murder. They had the trial. She was found guilty. She was sentenced to ten years in prison Now some people were very upset that felt like she got off light for killing a man. But the fascinating thing about that whole trial, and I watched it on the computer, And when the sentencing stage of that trial, when she was sentenced, they allowed the fellow, his name was Botham Jean. It's the fellow's name, they allowed his young brother, 17-year-old brother To testify before her, right before her, uh, and just say his peace about his brother being murdered. When he got up there, he said a few words, and then he told the girl, her name was Amber Geiger, he said to her in front of the judge, the whole courtroom, and all the world. He said, I forgive you. And he said this. He says, I believe my brother would want you to turn your life over to Jesus Christ. So that God can forgive you and give you eternal life. And people agree with me. That's a pretty amazing thing. This girl, and I'm, you know, whatever the situation was, this girl shot her his brother in cold blood. Innocent, armed, unarmed. Shot and killed him. And this guy says, I forgive you. I believe my brother would like want you to trust Jesus Christ the Savior. You know what that is? That's the power of the gospel. God changes the way a person sees things That God changes our perception of the events and the circumstances we find ourselves in. You know what this young man? He saw that whole situation from God's perspective. Here's a dear sinner desperately needs salvation. Now, on top of that, and some of you probably told this. When that was all said and done and the hearing was over and they're about to take this lady back to prison, she's shackled up, they're going to take her back, serve her ten years. Before they do, the judge comes down. The judge goes back into her chambers, brings out a Bible, the judge. And pulls the girl aside. And I don't remember if she took her back into her chambers or if right there, but she opened the Bible and she gave her Bible to this lady And according to the reports I saw, she opened the Bible and shared with this lady how she could trust Jesus Christ as Savior. And if I understood the reports correctly, led that convicted murderer to Christ right there in the courtroom You know what that is? That's the power of the gospel to change a person's life, to give a whole new perspective. Now I said all that to say this. These dear folks that Peter is writing to, they trusted Christ, the gospel. has powerfully transformed their lives. Not just saving them from hell, taking them to heaven, but changing their whole perspective on what life is and and what God allows to come into their lives. And rather than getting bitter at injustices and rather than retaliating in the flesh The Bible says they rejoice with joy, unspeakable, full of glory. What a testimony. Now I want us to notice a real thing, a few things. I only got a couple minutes here. I want us to notice a few things real quick here. I notice in verse 9 I notice he references, now he's writing to encourage them. He's writing to them. Keep all that we're going to look at here in mind in light of this fact. Peter is writing to them to encourage them in their circumstances. to uh uh edify them in their circumstance. The first thing he points out is this. He notices, I want us to notice the conclusion of their fate. Look at verse 9 We'll try and go through this very quickly. Receiving the end of your faith. All right, what's the end of our faith? The salvation of your souls. The salvation of your souls. That word receiving there is really a word of assurance. It has this idea that you have this is yours. The end of your faith, the salvation of your soul, is already yours. It's yours. You've received this. The one definition I found for this is I looked it up. Uh the one definition was this to have in your hands and be walking away with. It's not something being offered to them. It's not something they hope they can have. It's not something that maybe one day will be a reality in their life. They've received it. It's already theirs. I'm glad that you and I can have a no-so salvation Yesterday I had a tremendous joy of sitting in a couple's lit a kitchen around their kitchen table with open Bible and show them from the Bible. Now they had professed faith in Christ. I didn't lead them to the Lord, but they had questions about their assurance. And I was able to show them from the Bible that yes, they can know they're saved, and they can be assured of their salvation And Peter's writing to these dear believers that are suffering intensely, and he says, Listen, you've received receiving the end of your faith, walking away with it. It's in your hands. You have it I put this down. Their faith in Christ was not in vain. I think that's a great statement. Genuine faith in Christ is never in vain. Never. A person sincerely puts their faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. They've received the salvation of their soul. Then he says, you receive the end of your faith. That phrase end of your faith has this idea, the conclusion of. what your faith in Christ will lead to, what your faith in Christ produces. Having received, receiving The end of your faith, that which faith in Christ produces, what does it produce? What does it lead to? The salvation of your soul. Salvation of your soul. There's no promise in the Bible that faith in Christ will deliver us from persecution. I wish it did, but it doesn't. There's no promise in the Bible that faith in Christ will deliver us from suffering or heartaches or injustice. There's no promise that if I put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ, everybody will treat me respectfully, and everybody will be kind to me, and everybody will rejoice in what God is doing. There's no promise of that at all. In fact, we find the very opposite. Paul told Peter, they that live in all the godliness shall suffer persecution. Help me with that verse. All that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. I think I'm close. And the Bible clearly teaches, and history tells us, and experience tells us. That sometimes, many times in some cases, faith in Christ, rather than delivering me from persecution, rather than delivering me from heartache. rather than delivering me from hardship and injustice, sometimes my faith in Christ invites it and attracts it So he doesn't say here, receiving the end of your faith a salvation from persecution. No, he says the salvation of your soul. He's telling these dear believers, when all was said and done, when they go through this trial and they come to the end of life and they stand before God. They would be received by God into his presence. Their faith was not in vain They would re- They're receiving the end of their faith, the salvation of their soul. So the first thing I notice here, real quick, is the conclusion of their faith. It's a Salvation of their soul, what they're going through is not in vain. God's secure, their salvation is set, and uh their south the salvation of their soul is theirs It's all in place. The next thing I notice in verse 10 through 12, and I want to try and just pull some highlights out of this, but I notice here the concern of the prophets. Now remember, he's writing to these New Testament believers, young believers, suffering, persecuted, run up being run out of town because of their faith And he links verse number 9, the salvation of souls, into verse number 10. And he says this of which salvation the prophets have inquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come to you. I believe the message of the gospel is the most important message in all the world. I believe it's the most important message. The world ignores it You're not going to turn on the late news tonight and get home before you go to bed, maybe turn on the late news. Jamie, I don't think this thing's working. I'm going to turn it off. Oh, you already did. Okay. Uh you go home tonight, turn on the late news, tomorrow all this week, we'll check out our news websites and There's not going to be one word from NBC, CBS, CNN, XYZ or any other news stations. There's not going to be one word about the importance of people getting saved. They're not going to say one word about it. They're not going to say one word about the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's completely ignored by the world. Most important message in the world. And it's ignored by the world completely. The Bible says Satan's the God of this world. He don't want that message getting out. He don't want people being saved. It's ignored by the world. Here's the tragedy. The message of the gospel, I hate to say this, I hate to say this, but it's true, is neglected. Shall I say by many churches? Many churches? Should I say this? The message of the gospel is neglected by most churches? Can I say that? No mention from the pulpits? If they do have Sunday night, Wednesday night, if they do, little or no mention of the gospel, how to be saved? Social gospel. The most important message in the world is the message of Jesus Christ as given to us in the gospel. And yet neglected, neglected by churches. But we see here he's saying, listen This message you're being persecuted for, this gospel that so impacted your life, look how the Old Testament prophets responded to that. I put it this way: this message of salvation was investigated by the Old Testament prophets. Did you get that? He says, of which salvation the prophets inquired And then he says this, search diligently. Then come down to verse 11, the first part. Search ye He's saying these Old Testament preachers, these Old Testament prophets, they were preaching and delivering the message of God. And in that message contained this message of grace This message of a coming Messiah, this message of coming salvation. And they investigated that. The word inquired there means to seek out, scrutinize, investigate. That phrase searched diligently means this. I thought this was interesting. To search with anxiety. Did you ever lose something and you panicked? Anybody here ever do that? You started looking for it with anxiety. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Where did I put those keys? Every now and then Pastor Matt will come in, I lost my keys every day. And um I got one time, it's not not too long ago, I got up here and I couldn't find my sermon notes. Tell you sit on a platform ten minutes before you're supposed to eat uh preach and you can't find your sermon notes, that's anxiety. My wife found them, praise the Lord. But that's they're searching diligently, searching with anxiety, searching with intensity. The idea is a is a hound dog on the trail of a rabbit, Mark. He's got a hound dog. Man, that dog is there after that thing, it's gonna get it. That's what these Old Testament prophets were doing, listen searching and investigating. What is this message we're preaching The word searching there in verse 11 means to thoroughly examine. Peter is letting these suffering believers know that the Old Testament message of God's grace was taken very, very seriously by these Old Testament preachers. They didn't understand exactly how it was all going to play out. But what these New Testament believers were suffering for these Old Testament prophets took very, very seriously, was very, very important to them, even though they didn't fully understand how it all plays out. They knew that what they were preaching was vitally important. And Paul's reminding these New Testament believers, listen, you have something that these Old Testament guys really didn't fully understand, but they knew was vitally important. The message, the salvation, this salvation was investigated by the Old Testament prophets. This message of salvation was given by inspiration. Look at verse 11. real quickly says searching what or what manner of time the spirit of Christ which was in them did signify The Spirit of Christ in the Old Testament prophets delivered this message. The gospel is not a man-made message. It's not something man came up with. It's given to us directly by God through the prophets In Second Peter chapter one and verse twenty and twenty-one, Peter said that the men of the old time were moved by the Spirit of God. The Spirit of God moved upon them And they wrote down and they delivered the message that God's Holy Spirit had given through them. And that's where the message comes from. And Peter's writing to these believers, he's saying, Listen This message you believe that has so drastically changed your life and you're suffering so intensely for it was given by God. It's not some fad. Every now and then fads go through. I follow different preachers and different things in churches around the country and get emails and different stuff. And every now and then this new fad will come through And oh, they'll have these little uh little uh uh words that then everybody's using that same word and going on through it. Listen, the gospel is not a fad. It is an eternal message given to us by an eternal God. The gospel. What they were suffering for was important. It was given by God. It was given by God. And the last of all, my last thought is this: verse number 12, the last part. And this captures my imagination here a little bit. Says that have preached the whole gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven. Now look at this. Which things? This message of the gospel, the angels desire to look into. I thought, well, that's interesting. The angels Desire to look into. Last Sunday morning I tried to preach the gospel from Ephesians 2, 8, and 9. According to this verse, if I understand it correctly, when I'm preaching that verse, Brother Heinball, there's angels. And they're desiring to look into that. I thought look in this, the phrase the angels desire, it means to long for, and here is a little nuance on that definition. To look for, to long for with frustration, to seek for, but not being successful at it. I put my third point down, the consternation of the angels. They hear this gospel, they see what it's doing in the lives of men and women, young people, changing them, their values, their perspective. God forgiving, wiping out the sin debt against them, the judgment of sin against them, completely forgiving that, paying it for them, and accepting them into heaven. And the angels look into that and they're What is this? The word look into has this idea to look carefully at, to stop, and I thought this was interesting. The one definition had this idea to kind of bend over with your head tucked. I thought, what in the world? You know what? This is what I picture in my mind. You ever see something? You ever see a dog look at something, didn't make sense, and it went. Anybody ever know? Did you ever do that? Look at something? Trying to figure it out. What in the world? That's the idea here. Look into. It has a hint of confusion behind it. And they said, we don't understand this. That's the same word used when Peter showed up at the Lord's empty tomb and said he stooped down and looked in. He's trying to figure out what in the world happened here. Where did the body go to? He's alive? And that's he says the angels desire to look into their looking at what the gospel does and how we respond to it and what we do with it. And it concerns them. What in the world is how we might say it Now, I don't know. What is it about the gospel that that concerns them so much that confuses them? We're not told. I can speculate. I wonder if they look down and wonder how in the world could such a holy God, and they know the holiness of God firsthand, How could such a holy God love such a wretched sinner? Such a wretched sinner. Do you ever get where you just your sense of sin overwhelmed you and you wonder, how in the world could God love me? Has anybody ever been there? How in the world could God love me? I wonder if that's what they look down and think, how in the world could this blindingly holy God love something like this? How in the world could this God leave the throne of heaven? Take on the form of a man and then take all of the most vile sins That man's depraved mind can come up with and suffer the judgment of God for that. Take responsibility. How in the world could a God do that? How can lives be so transformed by a simple truth That Jesus Christ died for that sinner, was buried and rose again. And that received by faith and how a life is so transformed. How in the world can that happen? They saw God create the universe. They saw God just speak the world and universe into existence. And they weren't surprised by that. And they weren't confused by that. This is a powerful God. Job indicates the angels sang. implies the angels sang when God created the universe. It it didn't confuse them. They didn't scratch their head. But when God saves a soul, when God loves a sinner, when God changes an old wretched sinful nature of man and gives him a new nature, the angels desire to look in to that. Wow. That's I believe That's how I believe these new b these New Testament believers suffering so being tortured and killed, and they're rejoicing with joy unspeakable. I wonder if the angels didn't look down and say How do they do that? How do they rejoice in that situation? How do they suffer so much and yet experience and express such joy? If angels are so captivated by our salvation, how much more should you and I value it? If angels are so captivated about the gospel and what it does to our lives, how much more should you and I live out our gospel on our daily life throughout the week? Live it out. I was reading one commentator on this section, and he suggested, he suggested that maybe the angels scratch their heads over Christians who have received such forgiveness and such grace and go out and live their daily lives and never say a word about it to other sinners. And they wonder how in the world can someone receive something so wonderful and not share it with others? That's a good question. That's a good question. We ought to share it. I come back to that 17-year-old boy from St. Lucia, brother's murder, and he says to the face of the woman. I killed his brother. I forgive you. And I believe my brother would want you to be saved. No, Jesus Christ is your Savior. That's the power of the gospel. As you and I go out this week, Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, all through the week, let's not forget that you and I have something that confounds the angels. That is so precious and so powerful. And let's share it with others. Let's live it out. Let's value it. Amen? Father in heaven, help us, Lord. Help us, Lord, to understand and as much as is humanly possible appreciate what this gospel really is. Help us to see our circumstances, our trials, other people's mistreatment of us. Help us to see it in light of the gospel. And with these New Testament believers, rejoice with joy, unspeakable, gracious, kind. I pray you'd help us to share it with others. I pray there'd be a great harvest of souls as we understand the significance of what you've done for us. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I've got some things going on, some fit folks are doing stuff, some situations, and my flesh has taken over, and I've gotten angry and I've retaliated in the flesh. And I can't say I've rejoiced with joy unspeakable. And you'd say, preacher, help me to have faith in God and emulate what these dear believers did in 1 Peter. And have a testimony of God's grace and the power of the gospel. And even in the most horrific circumstances, show the joy of the Lord. I'd be a testimony of God's grace. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I need that. I need that. God bless you. Hands all around. Are there some this morning say, preacher? I want to take seriously what Christ has done for me. I need to live. I need to live a life that the gospel produces, and I want to be a witness. I want to be a testimony. To the folks across this, I meet this week and share this message with them anyway and every way I possibly can, so that others know. Any like that, preacher, I want to be a witness this week. God bless you. Hands all around Maybe you're here tonight. You don't know for sure. You've been saved. You don't have this peace, this presence, this transformation the gospel produces. We invite you to come. Trust Christ. And get that settled. Father, bless our imitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed