Chronicles chapter seven. I won I would like for us to read together if you would verse number fourteen with me. Second Chronicles seven fourteen. You say preacher that's our memory verse. We just quoted at the beginning of the service. I know it Say, preacher, Pastor Matt just read that a few minutes ago. I know it, and I want us to say it again together today. By the way, you come back tonight and if you quote this memory verse correctly, we'll give you a prize Well I'll set up back there and say the memory verse for uh February and uh it it's a tremendous prize, I'll tell you that. And so learn this verse and come tonight and quote it, and you'll be glad you did. Let's read it together. Second Chronicles 714 Ready, here we go. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their lamb. I want to encourage you to do something in your Bible. Verse number 14 there, that very first word, I circled that word in my Bible. If my people, which are called by my name, if I want to speak this morning on the if of revival. The if of revival. Our theme this year is revive us again. We're praying for revival. I'll say this, I thought it was kind of interesting, and I don't know what the Lord's doing But last fall, I was praying about and considering what our theme for 2023 should be, and I had different ideas, some different thoughts in my mind, and it kept coming back this matter of revival Revival, revival. And so I took that as from the Lord and went to the scriptures, prayed for the Lord's leadership on a simple little quote or something that we keep that before us. And came across that passage there in Psalms 85, 6, Revive us again that thy people may rejoice in thee. And if you'll remember, the first service, January 1st, we preached on revival. Revive us again. And that's been our prayer. And I know there's people in our church praying earnestly for revival. I think we have a good church. I love our church. I think we have a wonderful church. But I'll say this: our church needs revival. We really do. And we've been praying for that and talking about it. Then lo and behold, now what do we read about in the news? We read about revival. You see that word everywhere. Revival, revival, revival. And I think God wants to do a work in our church. I really do. We're not comparing ourselves with anybody else. We're not trying to imitate anybody else. But we want God to move in our midst. Some of us, I'm getting ahead of myself here, but some of us have some things in our lives that need to be made right. I know that's true We don't want to you say, well, I don't want to admit it, but God knows. Some of us need to get some of us need to get a little on fire for God. That's kind of gotten cool and kind of a little indifferent. And some of us need a I don't know if I should say it this way, but some of us need a swift kick. On the other side, anybody know what I'm talking about? We just need the Lord to give us a good kick and get us up and going. And so, did I pray yet? I don't think I did. So I want to talk about the if of revival. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I thank you for The privilege of being a part of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. What a joy it is to be back home. I'm so grateful for the faithfulness of your people and what you've done for us as a church. And Lord, we don't want to be minimize the great things you've done here. And Lord, we don't want to minimize the joy that we have in our church. But we do need revival. And we acknowledge that. And we need you to move. We want to see supernatural work of God done here. Not just what we can work up. We want to see, God, what you can do in our lives, in our ministries, our body of believers. So I pray that as we look at this passage, that you would speak to our hearts, you challenge us, convict us, stir us, and help us. I yield my will to you again. I present my body anew, Lord. Again, with all my heart, I pray again that you fill me with your Spirit. And dear Lord, that you would speak through me. And help us to be submissive to your word. Help us to be obedient to your leadership and direction in our lives. And we ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. It's a tragedy to think. That most people in the world give little or no thought as to their spiritual well-being, their eternal destiny. We meet them all the time. Uh down in Australia, New Zealand, here in our community, I visit with folks, I'll knock on a door and talk to people. And you ask them sometime. You know, you give thought to spiritual things and often folks will say, nah, not too much. Not a whole lot. I'm suggesting most people fail to see the eternal significance of their life. Every life is going to exist forever somewhere. Every person you see, every person we meet, every one of us here in this auditorium, everyone under the sound of my voice, we are going to exist somewhere. And yet most people live their life as if this is all there is. Most people live their life as if there's nothing beyond. But there is something beyond this life. We're going to exist forever in one of two places, either heaven or hell. And there are no other options. There's no other destinations. And we preached on this before I left, uh a couple of weeks before I left, but the fact of the matter is every one of us is our life is leading us to either heaven or to hell And those are eternal destinations. And yet, so often folks give little or no thought to that. So often folks give little or no thought about their own spiritual well-being. About my my spiritual life. Oh, we work hard on the physical life. You know, we have our diets and We exercise and we do all that. You can look at me. You know I exercise and work hard on the diet there. But we give little or no thought to our spiritual well-being And we see that out in the world. The tragedy is too often even Christians Those of us that had trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. By the way, if you're under the sound of my voice, you're here this morning, and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm here to tell you that is the most important decision you need to make in your life. Amen. You may consider yourself a good person, you may be a good church member, quote unquote, good church member You may think you may have all your ducks in a row. You may put on a good show, like you've got your act together. But I'm telling you here, without Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, you're a lost person on your way to a devil's hell. And I I just want to be honest. I just want to be true. And yet those of us who have trusted Christ as Savior, too often we just let things go. The old Christian life gets dull and dry. Our spiritual lives are dead. We become cold, indifferent to the things of the Lord, and the Word of God. I see so many Christians living unhappy lives with miserable homes, no presence of God in their life, no presence of the Holy Spirit in their life, no joy of the Lord. Just going through motions, mechanical, lifeless, so many times, and it's a tragedy, but often Christians, if we even have do have devotions, it's simply a mechanical thing we go through. and um anemic, ineffective witness. Say, preacher, you're painting a bleak prick picture. I'm here to tell you, if we're not careful and if we don't pay attention, we can become very, very carnal Christians. Just go through the motion, just be dry, lifeless, and dead. And that's not the way God intends for it to be. We become content with our natural carnal Christian lives. Nothing supernatural about them at all. We need revival. We need revival. If you would keep your place here, I do want to go back to the New Testament. If you would turn with me to the Gospel of John. Back in the New Testament, I just want us to look at one verse for a moment. John chapter 10, verse number 10. Get to the New Testament. You've got Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. Fourth book of the New Testament. And find chapter 10. If you would come to ver down to verse number 10. Verse 9, while you're finding it, Jesus says, I'm the Lord. By me, if any man enter in he shall be saved, and shall go in and out and find pasture. Jesus is the only way to be saved. He's the door to heaven. But notice what he says in verse number 10. He says, the thief cometh not. But for to steal and to kill and to destroy. Now who would the thief be in the context here? Who who do you think that's the devil The devil comes to steal, to kill, and destroy. He says, These come not but to steal, to kill, and destroy. I am come that they might have life. And that they might have it more abundantly. The devil is out to steal the joy of the Lord The devil wants to take away any joy we have in our walk with God, our fellowship with God, and that leaves us weak. The devil wants to kill our enthusiasm for the Lord I know sometimes I watch, folks, and sometimes this is true in my own life. I've got to watch out for it. But we've been saved for a while. When we first get saved, man, we're fired up. Man, I want to live for God. We get to church and we sing those hymns and we're stirred up and we're just singing with all our hearts to the Lord. Jesus saved me from sin in hell. He gave me a new life. He gave me peace in my heart. He gave me purpose in life and we're fired up about that. Boy, we're excited to tell our family about Christ. And we want all our family to know what the Lord's done for us. And we want all our co-workers to know what the Lord has done for us. And we get all stirred up about that. But time goes by. And that enthusiasm dies down. And that enthusiasm takes the fire away. I remember years ago it fell all fired up. And uh seminary student, I mean he was stirred up for the Lord singing in every church service, uh, trying to be a witness. Seminary student came and told him I was I was in the church. He said this, oh, you'll get over that after a while I tell you what, I don't ever want to get over what Jesus Christ has done for me. And when we get to the point where we're not excited about the salvation of our soul and the forgiveness of our sins and an eternal home in heaven, escaping an eternal destiny in hell. We get to the point where we're not excited about that. I'm here to tell you we need revival. We get to the point where we as an individual or as a church can't sing these hymns, these great hymns, with enthusiasm and meaning it from our hearts, we need revival. And Jesus says the thief, the devil, he comes to steal that enthusiasm. He comes to steal that joy away from you. He comes to uh he says the cometh not but to steal and to kill and destroy. He wants to destroy our homes. I tell you what, the test of my Christianity is how I behave at home. That's where to say amen, right there. That's where reality is. And I'm telling you, we're missing the presence and the anointing and the joy of the Lord in our homes. So often Christian homes are little or no different than unsaved homes. Sometimes, Christian homes, there's no evidence of the presence of the Holy Spirit in that Christian home any more than there is in an unsaved home. I'm telling you, Christians ought to be different than the world. We ought to have something this whole world doesn't have, a joy of the Lord, the presence of God in our life. And it's real and it's possible. I'm here to tell you, living a victorious, joy-filled, successful Christian life is not easy, but it's possible. And if we want it badly enough, we can have it. And our homes need revival. The thief cometh not but for to steal and to kill and to destroy. But look what he says But I am come that you might have life. That's eternal life. God wants you to be saved. God doesn't want anybody to go to hell. God doesn't want anybody to die in their sins. He wants them to have life, eternal life. And then he says, and that they might have it what? More abundantly. That's not only saved from sin in hell, that's not only possessing eternal life, he says that's living eternal life. That word abundant means above the common, above the ordinary. I'm here to tell you, God has a life available for you and I that this world cannot produce. This world can this world can produce billionaires. Oh, by the way, I was at the I was at the airport in uh Auckland. You're gonna hear stories about this trip for months to come. I'm just warning you. But uh I had some money to exchange back to American dollars. I had some New Zealand dollars, I was exchanging it back to American dollars, so I went to one of these currency exchange booths in the airport So I went up there and I told him what I wanted and he's there doing it, you had to fill out all this stuff and he's exchanging my money. He looked at me and he says, You look like a billionaire He goes, no, seriously, I mean like Bill Gates or something. You just look like a billionaire. I said, Wow, tell my wallet that, you know I forget why I'm telling that story. Oh, uh, this world can produce billionaires. This world can produce superstars. This world can produce great athletes, Olympic athletes. But I'll tell you one thing, this world can't do. It can't give us abundant life. It can't give us eternal life. It can't give us the presence and joy and power of God in our lives by the indwelling Holy Spirit. And Jesus said, I want you not just to live. He doesn't want his people. God doesn't want his children just to live the same way the world does. He says, I want you to be abundant above that. Live above that. And so revival, most people, too often Christians, were just satisfied living just a carnal life, just gone through the motions. No joy of the Lord, no answered prayer, no presence of God, no supernatural things happening in our life. God wants us to have something more than that. Someone asked a church member one time, what do you think about the rampant ignorance and apathy in the average church? Person answered back, I don't know and I don't care. Ignorance and apathy. They don't know and they don't care I hate to say it, but that I'm afraid that pretty much sums up your average church today. I don't know, and I don't care. I just go through the motions. I saw a statistic on this trip. I was reading some news articles and I saw there were they had a statistic where I think it was like twenty years ago 70%, I think I have these figures correct, or I'm awfully close if I'm not exact. But uh twenty-some years ago, seventy percent of uh Americans attended church At least occasionally on a Sunday morning, 70%. They did a survey, I think it was last year, 2022, I believe is what it was, and that figure is down to 40%. 70% to 40% in 20 years. Less than half Americans attend church at all, ever, any place. I'm telling you, we need revival in our churches. They've gotten worldly and dead and carnal. And the problem is too many times that coldness, that deadness, that absence of the presence of God in our lives We try to replace that with uh uh worldly music and hooping and hollering and carrying on. I'm telling you, uh uh worldly music will never replace the presence of the Holy Spirit in the life of a believer You can crank the volume up all you want. You can turn the fog machines on all you want. We need the Holy Spirit in our lives, in our churches. And so Jesus says, I come that you might have life, you might have it more abundantly. Every now and then I I painted a bleak picture. I think it's pretty accurate for the most part I'd like to think our church is an exception, but I know our church needs revival. I know homes and our church need revival. I know there's Christians need revival myself. I pray every day, God revive me, God renew my love for you. We need revival, but every now and then, every now and then, It's one or two people, maybe in a church, and they say, you know, I want something better. I want the power of God on my life. I want to live the life that the Bible presents a Christian should live. Every now and then there's a Christian who decides, I'm going to get thoroughly right with God. Too often we're, can I say this? I hope you understand my heart this morning. But too often we're satisfied, we're content to not be right with God. We're not right with God, and we know it. And we're content with that. And we just live our lives out of fellowship with the Lord, unanswered prayers. No blessing, no joy of the Lord. And every now and then, maybe a young person, or a mother, or a father. Or a senior citizen says, you know, God has more than what I'm experiencing. I don't want to live this way anymore. I want to be thoroughly right with God. When every part of my life To be what God wants it to be. Every now and then, somebody gets that desire. Every now and then someone decides I'm going to be totally submitted to the will of God. Every now and then somebody decides, I'm going to quit going through the motions. Every now and then a church is stirred. To say, you know, we're not going to just go through the motions anymore. We're going to get right with God. We're going to seek the will of God for us. We're going to seek the power of God for us. We want God's hand to be upon our ministry. I want God's hand to be upon my light. I want God's hand and blessing on my home and my marriage. I want my family to be what God intends for it to be. I want that Every now and then a church gets a hold, their heart is stirred, and they say, We don't want to just be a dead dry church We want the presence of God here. We want the power of God upon our ministries. We want God to use us to save souls and change lives. Every now and then, God gets a hold of somebody. Every now and then someone's heart is stirred. I thought about Nehemiah. You're familiar with Nehemiah back in the Old Testament. He was a Jew and he was in Babylon. They were held captive. The people of Israel were defeated And he got word from Jerusalem that the city of Jerusalem, the city of God, where the temple was, where the people of God worship had one time, where the Jews had one time worshiped God. temple and its beauty and they sang great songs to the Lord and they worshiped God and they were a testimony to the goodness and power of God. And he gets word back that the place is in shambles The temple is a pile of rubble. The temple of God. Just a pile of rubble, and folks throwing their garbage on the rubble. The walls of the city, it was defenseless. The walls were all collapsed down. And one man in a faraway city, Babylon, got word of that. And his heart was broken. The Bible says he began to pray. He said, God, this isn't right. This isn't the way your people ought to be. And your house ought not to be this way. And it needs to be rebuilt, it needs to be revived. We need the presence of God back in the city of God again. Old Nehemiah began to pray and began to take action. God heard his prayers. God responded to his burdens and his tears. God stirred, and Nehemiah comes back and rebuilds the wall, and Ezra rebuilds the temple. The people of God are revived. Every now and then, there's one or two people that says we want to be thoroughly right with God. We want to see God's power again. I read the book of Acts. I just uh uh I'm in the book of Acts now, and my devotions are kind of jumping around in the New Testament. I'm just uh tonight I'll read Acts 17 And uh I read the book of Acts and I see there how the church, that New Testament church, had the power of God upon them. And souls were being saved. And I read there how folks used to worship the idol, worship idols, and they turned to God from the idols. And they worshiped the true and living God. And their lives were changed. And demon-possessed people were set free. And drunkards were made sober. And the power of God was upon that body of believers. And I read that, and my heart is stirred. I say, God, I want you to use our church. There's people in Oakland and Garrett County, surrounding areas desperately need Jesus Christ. Drugs are taking over our little community here. And liquor and alcoholism and fornication and adultery is eating our community up And somebody has to say, you know, just going through the motions isn't enough. Just singing these hymns isn't enough. We need God to use us to make a difference. It's not your abilities and my abilities. It's not our intelligence. It's not our great personalities that we need. It's the presence and power of God back in our churches. back in our homes, back in our ministries, our Sunday school classes. We're desperate Say, well, I'm concerned about America. I'm concerned about America too, but I'll tell you, I'm more concerned about the churches in America. Until we have revival, our country's never going to see revival. I'm calm. They might have life. They might have it more abundantly. Old Nehemiah said, somebody's got to do something. I'll be that somebody. We've got to get right with God. I was down. I've been talking about, but down in New Zealand, over in all in uh in uh Sydney, we're just outside the city. Bible Baptist Church, Pastor Medina, good man. There was about, I think, 13 preachers had come in, different churches had come in part of that service. And two preachers in particular. They came to me. I preached for them the first Sunday. I was down two different, I preached in three different churches that Sunday, but these two fellows, and they said, they said this. They said, Pastor, we need revival in our church You know what, you know where revival revival comes when people start saying we need revival. Two preachers came to me and said, we don't want to just go on the way we are. We don't want to be dead. Australia needs Jesus. We need revival. Revival comes to a home when a wife or a husband starts saying, I need revival. You need to get right. Revival comes to a Sunday school class when a teacher says, God, I need you to do something. I need your presence and power here. Every now and then somebody gets stirred up. I was over in New Zealand and had a couple young Christian y uh two young Christian fellows. And they came and they said, can we talk to you preachers? And they uh it was Brother Mike and McCurry and Brother Howe and myself, can we talk to you? And they said, yeah. And I said, we need God to use us. How do we get the power of God? How do we get the presence of God in our lives? I told him, I said, one of the starting point for getting the presence and power of God in your ministry is start asking, how do I get the presence and power of God? There's a hunger. Every now and then God raises up. Every now and then somebody is stirred. Maybe it's a young man, young lady, maybe it's a middle-aged, maybe it's an older person. But they say, I want God to do something in my life. I want to see something supernatural for one time in my Christian life. I want to see God do something that man can't imitate. Power of God, the power of God. Our text, if you would, come back to 2 Chronicles chapter 7 and verse 14. We're praying for revival in 2023. Say, preacher, will God send revival? I don't know if he can or not. I don't know if he will or not, but I know he can. And there's a key word here in 2 Chronicles 7. 14. He says, If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven And will forgive their sin and will heal their land. This verse here, the context of this verse here, is God responding to a prayer of Solomon's In chapter 6, you have one of the longest prayers recorded in Scripture. Solomon is dedicating the temple that David wanted to build for God so badly that God would not let him And Solomon had the privilege and the honor of building this temple to God. And he dedicates the temple with this tremendous prayer, a powerful prayer. Of dedication to God. And in that prayer, and we don't have time, I was going to go through and look at it, we don't have time. But he goes through there, and his prayer is for the well-being, the spiritual well-being of God's people. And several times he says, when your people sin, we need to come. And God, we want you to make things right. We want you to forgive our sin. And he goes down through this prayer. Pleading with God to forgive their sin and to revive their land and help them. She's just practicing on saying amen is all she's doing. And so Solomon has prayed this powerful prayer for revival. He's praying for God's blessing on the temple. And God, 2 Chronicles 7. 14, is God's response back to Solomon's prayer, God's response to Solomon's Prayer. I believe it's one of the most significant scriptures in all in all the Bible I think it's one of the most important scriptures for churches in America today and around the world as far as that goes. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray, seek my face, turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven? It's a very specific response on God's part. I want you to notice the word if. If, my people. If. That is a small word, but I'm telling you, it's a big word. Number one, I'll give you two thoughts real quick and we'll quit. I'll tell you right now we're not getting out at ten till twelve. That's what I like to hear. But um I have two thoughts. Number one I want us to consider the crossroads of that word if, or the crossroads of revival. If, my people. That's a big word. Two letters, big word. If. It occurs many times in Scripture. In fact, if I'm correct, it's just over 1,500 times that term if. Is used in Scripture. If you do this, then this will be the consequences. And the whole picture here is this: that God's people have come to a crossroads. And if they go down this road, then there will be these results. Or if they continue on the road they're going on, then there will be these results. There's a crossroad. God's uh Solomon's praying, God, we want to we want your blessing. We want your hand on us. We want We want our spiritual well-being. We want to be healthy spiritually. We want to be right spiritually. And God says, okay, if You do this, then that will be the results. Or if you keep on going the way you're going, then that'll be results. You know what the definition of insanity is? The definition of insanity is keep doing the same thing and expect different results And if we want revival, and if we want to see God do something, we want something supernatural, then we can't just keep doing what we're doing. We must make a turn. You follow my thinking The if of revival, the crossroads of revival. The word if, if my people, if this, if that is used all through Scripture. For instance, there's the if of salvation In Romans chapter 10, verse 9, it says, If thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus Christ, and believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. There's an if, there's a crossroad in life, the crossroad of salvation. Every person needs to come to that point at some time in their life and decide, am I going to believe and put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ? Or am I just going to go on the way I am? For me, it was May 7, 1979. I knelt by my bed, sinful, sorry wretch, called out to God, have mercy on me, God, I need you to save me. And God kept his word. He saved me. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Not might be, not could be, not hopefully will be, shall be saved. But there's an if There's a crossroad if thou confess with thy mouth. If you admit to God you're a sinner, believe in your heart Jesus died for you, was buried, and rose again, if you do that, then thou shalt be saved. Lord, well, we're going to have a baptism here in a little bit. That baptistry water never saved the soul. Nowhere in the Bible does it say if you're baptized, you'll be saved. Doesn't say that. We're going to take offering here a little bit. Nobody ever got saved by putting money in the offering plate. Now it didn't make the preacher happy when they did that, but uh nobody ever got saved by putting money in the offering plate. If confess with their mouth. The if of salvation. I thought about it, I looked in the Bible and I found the if of unanswered prayer. In Psalm 66 and verse 18, it says, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. In other words, if I have sin in my life, I know it's not right as a believer, and I'm living in sin and I'm disobeying God, I'm out of the will of God, and I know that And I refuse to do anything about it. I regard it. If I regard that sin in my heart, God says, I'll not hear your prayers. I'm telling you, there's a lot of Christians that do praying, but God ain't listening. Because we're regarding sin in our heart. We know it's not right. I'm talking to some folks now. I'm not the Holy Spirit, but I know what the Holy Spirit does. I think right now the Holy Spirit of God is dealing with some hearts. He's saying, hey, right there's that sin. You're regarding your heart. You're not going to hear your prayers until you make that right. That's Bible right there. The if of unanswered prayer, if I regard iniquity in heart. By the way, regarding it in my heart means this. Other people might not know anything about it, but I'm hiding it in my heart. You can sit in church and have sin in your heart. Nobody in the world knows about it, but God knows about it. The if of unanswered prayer. I noticed this in 1 John 1 9, the if of forgiveness. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Thank God that if I take my sin to Christ, admit it, acknowledge it, confess it to him, he forgives me and forgives me completely. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins. I like that next phrase, and to cleanse us From all in right. I tell you what, there's nothing in the world like having a clean heart. There's nothing in the world like having a clean, pure mind. There's nothing in the world but getting up off my knees. I confessed and forsook my sin. I made things right and walk away with that peace in the heart of God's forgiveness. No more guilt. No more conviction, no more shame, no more hiding my sin. If We confess our sins. He's faithful and just. It's a crossroad. And then we have here in our text the if of revival. If my people, which are called by my name, there's something we need to do. We have a role in revival. I don't think God is up in heaven saying, Nope, I'm not going to give you revival. I'm not going to send my blessing. I don't think he's that way at all. I think he wants to revive us. He wants to bless us. He wants to pour out his presence in our lives. But he's waiting on us to get in a position where he's able to. And that's my last thought, is this the condition for revival. And that's really not my message to talk about the condition, but it's here. If my people, there's the crossroad, where are we at? Where are you at this morning? Hey, let me ask you, where are you at this morning? You just want to go on? Just go on your dead Christian life? Just go on hiding sin in your heart and life? Just go on. Guilt and conviction. Just go on. No answer prayer. Just go on. No blessings. Just go on. No joy of the Lord. Just keep on going that way. Fine But there's a crossroad if I come and humble myself and pray, seek God's face, turn from my wicked way, get these things right. And God says, I'll forgive your sin. I'll hear your land. I'll hear your prayers. I'll revive you. So there's a condition. If we do this, then God will do his part. R. A. Tori was a tremendous evangelist. He followed D. L. Moody. Who was probably one of the greatest evangelists in church history. And he followed D. L. Moody. And R. A. Torrey knew a little bit about revival. God used him to bring revival to cities all around the world. In fact, uh last week we were in a church where R. A. Tory preached in Auckland, New Zealand Uh the by uh the uh Baptist Tabernacle, Charles Spurgeon had preached there, his son pastored it, R. A. Touri held meetings there. We were able to stand on the platform where these men were and see the seats where it were filled when these guys preached and saw revival. Ari Tori knows a little bit what it takes to get the blessings and revival and power of God And he said this. He said, there's three conditions for revival. This is what R. A. Tori said. He said, number one, a few Christians get thoroughly right with God and with one another. He said it doesn't have to be a lot, it doesn't have to be a hundred, doesn't have to be a thousand, doesn't have to be a fifty, it doesn't have to be ten. Just Just a couple Christians, a few Christians Get thoroughly right with God and with one another. He said that's step number one. Number two If a few Christians will band together and pray for revival Just like Nehemiah, just a couple. Say, you know, we want revival. We want the power of God. We want to see lives change. We want victory in our Christian life. And they band together, one or two or three, say, we're going to pray for revival. We're not going to quit praying until it comes. R. A. Turi said that. And then he said, number three. They will totally submit themselves to the will of God. God, whatever you want me to do, whatever you want me to do. I don't think we ought to imitate or try and copy anybody or anything. But I'm telling you, this last three weeks I saw I saw something I hadn't seen in a long, long time. And I sensed the presence of God and the and a revival spirit that I hadn't sensed for many, many years. We would give the invitation. No exaggeration. We would give the invitation. And I was telling my wife, I'd call her up, and I'd say the altars were packed. And people, I can still see people on their knees sobbing, saying, God, I want your will in my life. God, I've sinned, I want to make it right. And not just for 30 seconds or a minute. How many there, 10, 15, 20 minutes at the altar? After we're all done, they're there at the altar weeping and crying. At last service and at Brother Howell's place, we gave the invitation on a Saturday afternoon, the final service of the revival. Fifteen people come forward, say, we want to surrender our lives to the will of God to preach the gospel, pastoring, missionaries, whatever God has for us. We said all right those that did that afterward, if you're serious about it afterward, you come on up. We want to talk to you. Fifteen people came up, young people, older folks, married folk I said, we want to give our lives. We want to give our lives. R. A. Tori said, if you'll get thoroughly right with God. Find somebody that shares that burden with you and you pray and pray and pray And then you go totally submit yourself to the will of God, God, whatever you want to do for me. R. A. Tori said that'll bring revival. That'll bring revival. I believe that's true. I think he knows what he's talking about. In early 1900s, 1910, there was a revival swept through uh uh Wales, north of England. It's called the Welsh Revival. And the power of God was present there in ways that was very, very unusual. In fact, many church historians say it was the last great revival in church history. I haven't seen anything like it since then. There was coal miners uh there in in uh uh in in the in the country and uh just harden Uh hateful men, foul mouth, just filthy language, every other word, the most filthy words you could think of And all their donkeys ever heard was these filthy languages. They gave instructions. And the historians tell us that after that revival swept through, these men got saved. And their lives were changed, and they come out of those minds, and they would talk to their donkeys in a Christian manner, in a gracious way, without using filthy language, and they said the donkeys just looked at them and didn't understood what they're saying, what they were saying. Their mouth was changed, their hearts were changed, their minds were changed by the power of God. A reporter came up from London. He wanted to do a report on what was happening in Wales and what was going on. There was a policeman there and he came up and interviewed him and he says, he said, what's going on here? Where did this start? And the policeman looked at him, tears began to go down his cheeks, and the reporter said he pounded his heart, and he said, it started here in my heart. That's where the revival starts in my heart. The if of revival. How badly do we want it? We just want to just go through the motions and just be Christian? Or do we want God to do something? Let's pray together. Father in heaven, we do pray for revival. I ask for it in my heart. I ask for it in my home. And Lord, I ask for it in our church. Nothing to be sensational. We don't care about the news. But God, we want to be in your will. We want you to use us. One or with heads bowed and eyes closed. I wonder if there's some this morning that say, preacher, with God's help, by God's grace, I want to be thoroughly right with God. Whatever that means, whatever that costs, I want to be thoroughly right with God. Is there any like that, preacher? That's my heart. I want to be thoroughly right with God. God bless you. Hands all around. And whatever that means, whatever action needs to be taken, I'm willing to do that. I wonder if there's some say, preacher I'm going to pray, and maybe I can try and find somebody that would pray with me. Pray earnestly that God will send revival and not quit until it comes. Is there something like that? Say, preacher, I want to pray for revival. I want to pray, God sends right. Anything like that, uplifted hand, I want to pray for revival. My heart, my home, my church. Maybe there's some say, preacher, I need to surrender to the will of God. Thoroughly submitted to the will of God. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, I just want to yield to God's will. Whatever it is, I want God's will to be done. God bless you. Now, R. A. Tory said that's the formula for revival. God put it this way: if we humble ourselves, pray, seek his face, turn from our wicked ways, then He'll heal our land. I wonder if there's someone here this morning, real quick, say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I'm telling you, you're at the if of salvation. You can just go on, just ignore the Word of God, just ignore your soul's need, where you can say, no, I want to get saved. I want to make that right. I want to know I'm forgiven. Going to heaven, not to hell. So any say, preacher, pray for me. I've got to get that settled. I don't want to just go on. Is there any at all by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get that salvation matter settled My heart life, I don't want to go to hell. I want to know God's forgiven me. Any at all? Any at all? Father, you know our hearts. I saw a bunch of hands. You know our hearts, Lord. We're asking you to have your way. Your will be done in our lives in Jesus' name. Let's stand against