This morning from North Carolina, I might as well say hey y'all. Amen. That's what we say a lot down there But uh it's so good to be back in Oakland, Maryland. It's so good to see each and every one of you. I recognize faces. Sometimes I'm not too good with names, but I recognize faces. And we appreciate all of you being here this morning. And uh wanna say a big thank you uh from my family uh as we go travel the country for FBN radio. We thank you for your uh uh uh support that y'all send us each month. It's always there, it's always faithful, and we appreciate that. We also want to thank you from FBN, from from the staff of FBN, thank you for all the calls that come in. from Oakland, Maryland during the charathon. Amen. If it wasn't for Oakland, Maryland, and then our West Virginia station, I don't know what would happen. I don't I don't know, but but uh the FBN listeners are the best in the world. We thank you. Uh thank you for calling in. Uh turn in your Bibles this morning. Oh me, I have had such a time trying to figure out I've got eight messages I want to preach uh today. I've got it narrowed down to eight. Uh but uh the Lord will just have to work the rest of it out on the way But uh we won't take a uh a whole lot of time this morning. We'll be done at 1030. Turn to the book of Judges, chapter number two. Judges, chapter number two And I want to read just about five verses there and see what the Lord has for us during this Sunday school hour. Judges chapter number two Verses 6 through 10. And while you're looking that up, I know it's in the Old Testament and uh may take you a moment to find it, but while I'm looking that up, uh as we look at our nation, as we look at our country, what are we going to do? Uh I wonder what are we going to do? I I want to give you some suggestions before we even get into the Sunday school lesson this morning. Uh we're going to love God We're going to continue to love him. We're going to obey him. We're going to trust him. And we're going to continue to serve him. Uh I thank the Lord for the ministry that that Pastor Leatherman has here at at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I thank God uh that he's risen up a man in the in Garrett County that has a love for souls You don't see that everywhere. We're traveling, we're going to different churches, every service, and we don't see that everywhere that we go. But we're so thankful that God has risen him up here And uh he's the under shepherd and and has this flock of sheep here. Thank God for you. We're gonna love God And obey God and trust him and serve him. Judges chapter number two, verses number six through ten. The Bible says, when Joshua and when Joshua had let the people go The children of Israel with every man into his inheritance to possess the land. Oh, they're finally home. Amen. You remember Abraham uh before the children of Israel ever were thought about, God already knew about them, uh but Abraham had come through this area And uh God said, Hey, this is gonna be your land someday. This is gonna be your descendants' land, I'm gonna give it to them. Even though all these people it have this land right now, he said, I'm just gonna turn it over to you. It's gonna be yours And he and he says, and when Joshua had let the people go, the children of Israel went every man into his inheritance to possess the land. They went to take it, their home Verse number seven says, And the people served the Lord all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great works of the Lord that he did for Israel. Then we see in verse 8, and Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, died being a hundred and ten years old. You know, and I think about Joshua coming in and and he's Fighting the battle of Jericho and the walls fall, and he's he's the servant of Moses and the servant of God. And he comes in there and and uh I think about him being a young man I mean just in my mind I've got him stereotyped as a young man. But the Bible also says that he never lost his strength Uh he was strong till the day he died, a hundred and ten years old, and he died. Uh it's appointed unto man wants to die, and after that the judgment So he went along with the way things go in this life. Verse 9 says, And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timdeath Hereth in the Mount of Ephraim of the north side of the hill of Gaash. I cannot picture that in my mind. I'm sorry. I have never been to Israel. I've never been there. I want to go. I just have one wish. It's to go to Israel and see the holy land and be able to picture where this took place here. But I can't do that right now. Some of you may have been there. You may have seen where Joshua was buried. But in verse number 10 it says, And also all that generation were gathered unto their fathers. It means they died too. And there rose another generation after them which knew not the Lord, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel. As I look at that scripture right there, I'm interested in that one phrase in verse number 10, and there arose another generation after them which knew not the Lord These people it talks about all through here, verses 7 through 9, it talks about them. They had inherited the land that God gave them. They had seen the miracles of God as he brought them across Jordan. They had seen all these things, how God, uh they had heard about how God had fed them in the wilderness and brought them through, brought them out of bondage out of Egypt. And was with them all those years of wondering. And then the very next generation knew not the Lord. What happened? These people still knew all the miracles and everything that God had done for them, but they did not pass it along to their children. They did not make sure that they knew the truth. Now in Exodus 1:8, just think it for just a moment, and there rose another generation after them which knew not the Lord What's going to happen to our families? What's going to happen to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church? If the Lord doesn't return in our lifetime, we're going to fade off the scene. Is appointed unto me and wants to die, and after that the judgment. We will go by the grave if the if it's a while before the Lord comes back. He may come back today. But it may be another thousand years. I don't know. I just know he's coming. But I think about what is going to happen to our families, what's going to happen to this church? What's going to happen to FBN radio? We've got to keep people in place. We've got to keep telling the story. We've got to keep passing down truth to the next generation. Now in Exodus chapter number 1, verse 8, we read, Now there arose up a new king over Egypt which knew not Joseph. The king, the Pharaoh over Egypt, did not know Joseph. So that's when the children of Israel went into bondage. became slaves in that land because they were uh they were uh multiplying, they were becoming bigger and larger and and the the Egyptians said, hey, they're going to take away our land if we don't do something, so they put them into bondage. It's possible for us as Christians to go through this life and never know who Joseph was. I know it's hard to believe, but there are Christians in this world that have never read all the way through the Bible. I I hope that's not the case. I don't think it is, because y'all have Bible memorization drill. Y'all have all these things in the and you've got it right in the bulletin, the the daily Bible reading, things to do, to get through the Word of God. But there are people in this world, probably people in this state, that have never read all the way through the Bible, may not know who Joseph was. But I want to tell you this morning, it is impossible to be a Christian and not know who God is Whenever you ask the Lord Jesus Christ in your heart, He moves in, and that makes a difference. It's supposed to make a difference in our lives. Amen. So in verse number 10, and also all that generation were gathered unto their fathers, and there rose another generation after them which knew not the Lord, nor yet the works which he had done For Israel. The apostasy or turning from truth in the next generation is a direct result of the apathy or complacency in this generation You know, we may believe we have the truth. Thank God for it. We've got the Word of God, the King James Bible, uh, for English-speaking people to tell us uh God's heart. It's his love story to us. But if we say, okay, I've got that, and we don't share it with anybody, if we don't tell the next generation, guess what? They're not going to know who God is. That seems impossible, doesn't it? Uh the how God has blessed America, how we all have probably several Bibles in our house. And have children that go away from God that don't even know Him. Some examples of the apathy and complacency that's taken place in our nation and in in churches today. The result of that is corrupt Bibles Impure Bibles, perversions of the Word of God. Have you ever noticed that they don't fight amongst themselves? All these other versions, they're not coming up against each other. They're all against one Bible, the King James Bible. They're all against that one. But all the others come from an impure stream, out of the Cyanaticus and Vaticanus. I learned those sometime back and pronounce them. It's impressive, thank you. But King James comes from the one pure stream. All the way back to Antioch, first church. We've got the Word of God. We've got the truth. But don't get apathetic and complacent and not tell somebody about it. Tell what God has done for us. But the result of that apathy is corrupt Bibles, contemporary music, and contemporary churches. That's what you get. When you well first you get you your music changes. Then the church chang and then the Bible changes too. They throw it out That's what happens when we don't pass along truth. When the old paths of the Bible truths are not passed down to the next generation, spiritual treason develops. Treason against God. Have you ever thought of yourself as a traitor? If we're not telling our children the truth of the Word of God, we're committing spiritual treason We're not of this world. There's people that have been traitor to America. Everybody thinks about Benedict Arnold, the first name that comes up. There's others that have betrayed America. But whenever we don't pass along the truth that God has given us, and we're spiritual traders, we are not of this world. We're just pilgrims and strangers passing through, going to the next one. Going to heaven. What are we doing? What are we telling? Just like when our country sin is accepted And we turn and look away and allow immorality, we end up with what we have now. We've sat back, we've led it happen. Well I'm glad to report to you this morning. I know you know it already. There are people that are rising up. There's churches that are rising up against that now. And saying, hey, we want the America back that we grew up in, the one that was built on Christian principles. Is it too little, too late? I don't know. The word new in this phrase it says, And there arose another generation after them which knew not the Lord. In the Hebrew that word new right there means a certainty. or to comprehend. A certainty or to comprehend. Knew not the Lord. The neglect of the fathers led to the apostasy of their sons. One Bible uh professor said that. The neglect of the fathers. There's a lot of people talking about the neglect. Samuel neglected His children. Eli neglected his children. And they did not serve God like their dads did. Fathers did. We committed all kinds of sin. Judges 2. 10 reminds me of Exodus 5. 2. And Pharaoh said, Who is the Lord that I should obey his voice to let Israel go? I know not the Lord, neither will I let Israel go. He said, I didn't I don't know the Lord. He's nothing to me, and I'm not going to let you go And this verse right here says, and there arose another generation after them which knew not the Lord. There's no difference in Pharaoh over Egypt right there. Saying, I don't owe anything to God as to these this next generation of Hebrew children, the Israelites that knew not the Lord. They were the same. They had the same idea about God They knew him not. They had the same awareness. How quickly they slipped. Joshua, servant of Moses and and all those children, the the forefather of those that passed away. The next generation. This tells me, and it makes my heart quake this morning to think that we're just one generation. From not knowing God. It can happen if we don't hold up the truth. Never forget that unless we are faithful to pass down truth To the next generation, they will have no perception of the inspired and preserved Word of God, no knowledge or comprehension of Christ, and no care for salvation through his gospel. One generation away. I want my children to know God. We start them at a young age. Before they're even born, we give them back to God. And we'll we pray for 'em, we we're we pray for their spouses that God will send to them, and so far God's done that. And I know He'll continue to do it if we'll do what we're supposed to do. But we pray and we keep the gospel in front of them constantly so that they will get a hold of it and grasp it and trust Jesus Christ at a young age. So they don't waste half their life like I did before I got saved. I was twenty-six years old before I ever trusted Christ. Wasted Years. Joshua chapter number four, verses six through seven says, and this That this may be a sign among you that when your children ask their fathers in time to come, saying, What mean ye by these stones, then ye shall answer them That the waters of Jordan were cut off before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord when it passed over Jordan. The waters of Jordan were cut off, and these stones shall be for memorial unto the children of Israel forever. Whenever Joshua led the the Hebrew children, the Israelites across Jordan to take Jericho and to take the promised land They he told the each one of the uh one man from each tribe to take one of the stones and to set it up for memorial. And and I can imagine this generation that knew not the Lord, they probably walked by that heap of stones and said That means nothing to me. That's just a pile of rocks. But it was there for a memorial to them. To tell them, hey, this is the spot where the ark came across Jordan on dry ground. This is where we came over. But they had no comprehension of that. I want to bring it a little bit closer now. Don't forget that someday somebody else is going to be sitting where you're sitting this man. If the Lord doesn't come in our lifetime, somebody else is going to be sitting on your pew in your spot. What will they believe? What will they know? And I'm ever aware that someday, if the Lord doesn't return soon, somebody else is going to be representing the FBN. I'll lay my life down and go to heaven that somebody else will have to pick up and go What will they be telling about FBN? Oh, a couple years ago FBN became uh contemporary Christian rock and roll station. I don't want to hear that. That's not gonna happen in my lifetime if I have anything to do with it Amen. Brother Dwayne wouldn't let it happen either, Pastor Ebert. Lord don't ever let me forget Don't ever let me do something, Lord, that would destroy a generation and take their eyes away from God God. Don't let me mess up and do something that would harm the young person. We got a great responsibility This morning. You as a church, this man is the pastor of this church. Great responsibility. If we believe or act like we're the only ones who will sit here and Jesus doesn't come back in my lifetime, there'll be another generation If we don't keep truth before them, they'll be as lost as a mosquito and a tornado. Not knowing God. Not caring. Unless we determine and have a desire to give them truth. Apathy doesn't just affect the person that's apathy. It affects everybody around them. You remember when Peter, after Jesus, was crucified, dead, buried, and risen again Peter decided he was going to leave the ministry. He said, I'd go a fishing. One of the other disciples say, well, we go with thee. It didn't just affect Peter, him going away from God, it affected the other disciples as well. These that had been with Jesus Christ, these that had heard his teachings, had seen his miracles. It's going to affect the next generation. We need to stay with old time preaching Need to stay with old time preaching. Isaiah 58:1 says, Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet, and show my people their transgressions in the house of Jacob their sins Now that's good preaching. Amen. To point out and name what sin is so that your congregation, your family will know what it is and not do it. But we've got to tell them about the love of Christ, too. The love of God, that he so loved the world that he sent his only begotten Son into this sin-cursed world to die for us. Greater love hath no man than this that a man lay down his life for his friends. That's love. You know everybody is is talking about the Christians today. If you look at it on the news, it's all stacked up against the Christians. today. Saying they are they're they use hate speech. Well I believe it's love speech. Amen. That Jesus Christ died in uh for this world, for the sins of the world. That's love. We need to cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet and show my people their transgressions and the house of Jacob their sins. Jeremiah 616 says, Thus saith the Lord, Stand ye in the ways and see and ask for the old paths. Where is the good way? And walk therein, and ye shall find rest for your souls If you don't know what the old paths are, get with somebody and say, hey, ask for them. Ask for the old paths. Where are they? What are they? When you find them, you find rest for your soul. I want to insert right here that I believe a preacher ought to look like a preacher. Amen. Amen. We were in a church not too long ago. I'm running out of time. I'm not going to finish or anything. But we were in a church not too long ago. And this is what I'm talking about in this scripture right here. We went in, we sat down, we had just dropped in. We didn't have an appointment or anything, just wanted to uh introduce myself to the pastor and give him some FBN information. So his church could hear and uh it was it was an old Baptist church. We went in, we sat down and we got to looking around. It was about time for service and this man came in, had a T shirt and blue jeans on and tennis shoes, and he came up and I thought, well uh somebody here uh he's probably uh somebody has invited him he needs to be saved with my wife I said I wonder who that is and then he came up to the pew where I was at and he said I want to thank you for coming here tonight. I'm Pastor So and so How can the man of God expect to get the respect of his congregation when he dresses like the world? The Bible says, and be ye not conformed into this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. We're not to conform. We're not to be like the world is just to get a crowd, just to get people in I don't want to listen to some cool dude that sits on a snack bar stool after the praise and worship team has done their dance across the stage and gone and sat down. We need to keep our music right. I believe FBN has that covered, don't we, brother? Music, good Christian, Christ-honoring music will make you worship It won't make you wiggle. It'll make you worship. Amen. A police officer, if a police officer came in this morning, had a badge on, a gun on his side, and dressed the way they do, I'd say, hey, that's a police officer If a man came in and drove a brown square truck and had a brown shirt on and said UPS on, I said, that's a UPS man. They got a uniform for it. I believe pastors ought to do the same I thank God for you, Pastor. Love him, love his family, pray for him. We need to preach that people ought to live right and call sin what it is We need to pass on the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ to our children, the next generation. We need to set up some memorials, some stones, whenever they say Hey, what's this? They won't be wondering. They'll know because it's been the truth that's been passed down to them. But this fret this scare Father, I pray, Lord, that you'll take these words now, speak to our hearts Help us, Father, to hold the line and that we'll see victory at the end. Lord, we love you in Jesus' name. Amen.