I'm have a sneaking suspicion it didn't take as long for him to get through it as it is for us. Two and a half years, you know It was probably it was about fifteen minutes for him to preach it, maybe a little more than that, but um Matthew chapter seven, we're looking at a Key key statement in Scripture. Now all scripture is given by God. All scripture is profitable, so don't misunderstand. But there are certain passages and there are certain statements that really stand out and really seem to have uh uh eternal significance in what they're discussing. And that's what one of the that's what this passage is here One of those verse thirteen of Matthew seven, the Lord Jesus Christ says this Enter ye in at the straight gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction. And many there be which go in thereat, because straight is the gate, and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it. I want to talk particularly about the straight gate tonight. We started this a couple weeks ago and I gave some introductory thoughts, but I want to get in and make a few statements about this straight gate. Lord will next week we might look at the Broadway. So, but let's pray real quick here, ask the Lord to bless. Father, I stop now before I bring the message and the thoughts I've jotted down here. I ask, Lord, uh, again this evening that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit I present my body anew, yield my will anew to you, Lord, and as always, and Lord, with all my heart, I pray that you would speak through me and And uh be our teacher and preacher tonight, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. We pointed out that we're at a transition here of sorts in the uh Sermon on the Mount, he's kind of s bringing things together. At least this is my perspective, looking at the sermon as a whole. He discussed some issues and you can kind of see Uh though he doesn't make them real points, but there's themes, there's subjects he addresses as you go through. Now we get to the end of the sermon. He's kind of winding down here. It seems like he's making these broader statements um and uh kind of bringing it all together. I think that's kind of what he's doing here. And uh I believe if you're going to summarize this, at least this is the way I'm approaching this passage If we're going to uh just summarize what he's saying, I think he's saying this. As Christians, as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, now that's someone that has not only accepted him as their personal savior But they've made the decision to yield their will to Christ. They've taken up their cross. They're following Him. They're forsaking all. They are committed to live for Jesus Christ. Let Him lead them. and uh live for him. So as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, you and I have different values than what the world has. We have different priorities than what the world lives. We have a we're going, and obviously you see it in this passage, we are going a different direction spiritually. And morally, I guess you could say, than what the world is. Um we are on a different path. Straight as a gate, narrow is the way. We're on a different way And so we have different priorities. We'd have a different perspective on the world than what the world does, different perspective on life. than what the uh what the world does. If you remember two weeks ago I gave you about five questions to ask myself to determine what my priorities are. Does anybody remember that? Me giving those five priorities? I don't know if you jotted them down. I thought they were great questions. I'll just buzz down through them. One question I asked myself, I'm trying to determine, well what are my priorities Well, ask myself, how do I spend my free time? If I have time to invest in something, how do I spend that? How do I spend my money? I look at my checkbook, look uh where am I spending money that's uh what do you call it uh spendable money um uh money that's not assigned or what what is it? Disposable income. What do I do with that? uh and uh my giving to the church. So how do I spend my money? What do I talk about? What out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. So a good indicator of my priority is the things I talk about. How committed am I to church? I believe strongly that a c a good indicator of my commitment to Christ is my commitment to the church. The church is the body of Christ. And uh I have a hard time in my mind separating the two Uh and then we put down how do who do I choose as my companions? And I've taught this to the teens for many years. It's true for adults, back when I was youth pastor. Uh you you are now or you're becoming like the people you choose to associate with. Uh if I'm not there yet, that's what I'm becoming. And so a way to determine. So my point is this, we're trying as disciples, the Lord makes it very, very clear we have different priorities, we have different perspective, we have different values. We live by different standards than the world does. And he's kind of bringing this together. I believe in this passage, and I pointed this out last time, I believe what he's talking about here Of course it's evangelistic. This is a great evangelistic truth here. But I think he's addressing two aspects of a disciple. And then he's comparing those two aspects to that of the world. And the two aspects are this, are the gate, is the term he used, how I become a disciple, my entrance into life. And then the way. Straight is the gate, that's one aspect, and narrow is the way. And so I'm viewing it this way, as he's addressing the fact that our entrance into eternal life. into life is very straight. We'll talk about that. And then once I'm in, the life I live as a disciple is very narrow. Alright? You follow what I'm saying? We talked about that a little bit before. So the gate is the entrance into life, and then the way is the experience of the disciple, or the journey as a disciple. And so he's explaining these two aspects of that. And then he compares the two of the world. The wide is the gate. And broad is the gate that leadeth to destruction, many be thereat, because straight is the gate, narrow is the way which leadeth to life, and few there be that go in thereat. So that was what we talked about before. Now And I don't think we got into this last time. I want to give you three words concerning this straight gate. I may have given you these before, but the first one I want to notice is decision. Straight is the gate. And remember we said that word straight means very, very narrow. Uh very very uh Um trying to find my words here. Very, very restrictive. Closed in on each side. Pent up. Straight as the gate. You just gotta squeeze in through there. So decision, distinction, and then difficulty. Let's think about, let's think for a moment here on this matter of the decision. He says a straight gate, a straight gate. Then he makes a statement Few there be that what? Find it. Find it. That tells me that going through this straight gate is a deliberate decision that is being made. Um nobody nobody is just wandering through the straight gate They are seeing it, they're aware of it, they are and making a conscious decision. I am going to enter in through this straight gate. Now this is for another message, but I believe it's very possible and probably very common for people simply to wander through the wide gate. Very wide? People walking through it, going on, they can go through it, maybe not even know they went through that gate. They're just going along with the crowd, just going happily on their way. But that's not the case with the straight gate Nobody just wanders into that. Nobody mistakenly goes through this gate. There is a conscious decision to be made. If I'm going to enter into this gate and and have eternal life, receive eternal life. And so there's a very conscious decision he's made. Our Lord Jesus Christ On his life on earth, if you study the gospels, he continually confronted people with decisions. He was always confronting people, make a decision. He says to Matthew at the seat of customs, follow me Matthew's got a decision. Am I just going to keep on doing or am I going to follow Christ? He says to the uh uh one fellow, he says, go and wash. Uh what was wrong with the guy? He said, go and wash in the bat uh the pool of saloon. Uh he was palsy or something. And he made the guy had a decision. Am I gonna trust the Lord, do what he said, or am I just gonna uh keep on doing my thing? He says to the woman at the well, ask of me this water. She had a decision to make. And you go through the Gospels, and he's continually confronting people with decisions. And the truth of the matter is, life is a series of decisions. I am today the result of decisions I made yesterday and previously. Decisions. And so this matter of salvation, this matter of going through this straight gate, this narrow gate, is very much a decision I make. And if I'm going to make a deliberate decision, I have to have some information, right? I've got to be aware that the gate exists. I gotta be aware of what I need to do. How do I get through that gate? And so that is all part of and I'm I'm maybe reading more into this here than what's there, but I want to suggest to you that's part of our job as soul winners, and God has given us the commission to go out and tell people about this gate, tell them where they can find it and how to get through it And then allow them to make that decision for them. I cannot make the decision to go through the gate of salvation for Brian. Brian can't make it for anyone else. I can't make it for my kids. My kids can't make it for me It is an individual decision that needs to be made. So I see here this gate, this door to eternal life is very, very straight. Jesus said in John 14, 6. I am the way, the truth, and the life. What's the next few statements? No man Here it is. But by me. Very, very straight. Very, very narrow. It's only through the Lord Jesus Christ. We have a version of Christianity today that is trying to widen the gate. He's trying to stretch that thing out and make it wider so that, oh, uh Jesus isn't the only way, as long as somebody's sincere. I had that person tell me years ago, they say if they knew they were going to heaven, oh yeah, I'm sure how do you know? I have faith. So what do you have faith? Faith in what? Well I have faith in my faith. No, the net the gate's narrower than that Just having faith doesn't save a person. It has to be what my faith is in, in the Lord Jesus Christ. And uh so we have a lot of people trying to widen the gate. Listen I have no business trying to alter the gate. That is fixed. That is in place. My responsibility now as a disciple is to point others to the gate, get them through it. But I do not alter the gate. In fact, I can't if I try. It is fixed. So it's only through the Lord Jesus Christ. So uh there's a deliberate decision, a conscious, deliberate decision. To walk through the gate of the Lord Jesus Christ, trusting him as my personal Savior, it is absolutely necessary for salvation. Now look here at verse 13. I got a little ahead of myself there, but notice he says, entering in at the straight gate, for wide is the gate. Broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat. Do you have a mental picture in your mind of what he's saying? And I can see people just haphazardly, just, you know, in blissful ignorance. Wandering down with the crowd and just going through it. They're not making any decisions. There's no decision need to be made. You just go right along. You just don't change anything, don't don't make any decision. I like um it I mean it's it's uh I like it in the sense that I think it's effective. A little gospel track, I think we still have some back there. It said, what do I have to do to go to hell? Anybody ever see that? And you open it up and it's what? Blank. Nothing. And that's the whole idea here of this wide gate, this broad way. You know do anything. Just keep right on going the way you're going. Just keep right on doing what you're doing. And no decision necessary there necessarily, just follow the crowd through, just go right on And so when the Lord says, Enter ye in at the straight gate, there's a deliberate decision that needs to be made. I think we all understand that. And by the way, I cannot be a disciple until I enter that gate. I have to enter that gate. Then notice the distinction. There's a distinction here, and I'll try and explain what I mean. Keep your Bibles handy, because we are going to look up about Four hundred and ninety verses, something to that effect. I got a whole list of them here, but I w I'm gonna try and make a point with it is what we're doing He says, uh, wide is the gate, and he says, broad is the way I think the Lord is setting out here to the disciples. Now he's talking about entrance into the life of discipleship, eternal life, and then living it the way, the gate and the way. And he's contrasting that. He's making a distinction between the salvation of a disciple and the life of a disciple and that of the world. He says the way into destruction, and what is he talking about destruction? Was he referring to hell Uh broad is the wa uh wa uh the um uh way and uh and uh wide is the gate and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction. So he's making a contrast here. There's a distinction between the two. The gate to and the way of eternal life And the gate and the gate why it is the gate and the way to destruction? Very, very distinct, a clear distinction between the two. There is no confusing the two. By entering into the straight gate and going on the narrow way, I'm heading on a different direction than what the world has gone. Did you get that? It's a complete distinction between these two, that of a disciple and that of the unsaved world going their way. I put this down, number one, under this thought, I put this down. Our principles are different than the world's As a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, I'm not going to ask you to visibly respond to this, but I want to ask you this question. Are you a disciple of Jesus Christ? Do you consider yourself a disciple of Christ? Not just a believer. I mean, I've accepted Jesus as my Savior. That's wonderful. Praise the Lord. But a disciple is someone that takes up their cross daily, forsakes all, loves the Lord supremely, and follows him The Lord puts very clear requirements for discipleship. And so do I consider myself a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ? If that is true, he's telling us here. then we are going to be very, very different. There's going to be a clear distinction between us and that of the world. And our principles are going to be different than the world's. We're going a different direction. We're leaving the world behind. We're on a narrow way. It leads to life. The world is on a very broad way. Leads to destruction. I'm going different directions. I live by different principles. As a disciple, we are fundamentally different than the world. Our principles are different. Now, if you've got your Bibles, we're going to go through, and I tried to put them in chronological order here. I think I got them in that. We're going to buzz through some gospels, particularly the Gospel of John. We're going to look in Romans and then a few New Testament epistles. Go to John Chapter number one and verse number ten. Now we're going to think about this Broadway, the world, and how we are different than the world, how we are distinct from the world. John chapter 1 And I'll try and get your input on this. John chapter 1, let me get there. And verse number 10. Now some of these are just little snippets that the Lord statements he made about the world. But 110 it says verse 9, that was the true light which lighteth every man that cometh in the world. He was in the world. Look at this And the world was made by him. Who's the him here? Jesus. He was in the world. The world was made by him. But look at the next statement about the world. The world what? Knew him not. Now, as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, we are fundamentally different from the world in that the world does not know Christ. And you and I do. That word know there doesn't simply mean know about him. Doesn't simply mean they're aware of his existence or they can't give you some facts. The world knows about Christ. For the most part. They can give a lot of facts, particularly in quote-unquote Christianized nations. They can tell us a lot about Christ. But there's a world of difference between knowing about the Lord Jesus and knowing Jesus. Right? Are you with me on that? So here's one very fundamental distinction between a disciple of Christ and someone of the world. The world doesn't know Christ, they have no relationship with him They have no interaction with him. Oh, they can know about him, but uh they don't really know what he's like. You know what I'm saying? But as a disciple, we know him. We have a living relationship with him. All right, go over to chapter 3 of John. And I can't spend real long on each of these, or we'll be here until Next week. John chapter 3 and verse number 19. And this is the condemnation that light is come into the world, and men, the men there referencing the world, men of the world, love darkness rather than light because their deeds were what? What does that statement of our Lord there tell us about the world? They're in darkness. What does that imply? If they say they're in darkness, what does it mean there's no sun? There's no electricity? No. They're they're like their people. They don't perceive their ill of deeds. Can we put it this way? They're in ignorance They're not aware. If you travel a little bit or you go somewhere, you stay in a new motel and you wake up in the middle of the night and you forget where you're at, anybody know? And you're and it's dark And uh you don't know where the end table is, you don't know where the bathroom is, and you walk out in the hallway and your pajamas, ah, and run back. You know what I'm saying? You're ignorant about what's going on. And the Lord Jesus is saying the world's in darkness Their deeds are evil. They're not even aware of their own condition. They're not aware of spiritual realities. They're in ignorance. And we could give scores of illustrations of that But the world is in darkness. The world is in darkness. And notice, look at that verse very carefully. He doesn't just say they're in darkness, they're what? Look at the verse. They love darkness. They want it that way. I tell you, it's a it's a sad thing when you try to witness somebody, try and share with them the gospel, and they said, Oh no, no, I'm not interested in that. You know what to mean? I'm happy with not knowing the way of salvation. I'm satisfied. I like things the way they are. I don't want things to change. I don't want things to be altered. Now this is the most foolish thing in the world, but leading up to my salvation, there was such a struggle in my heart of the month leading up to it. And on one hand, I wanted to be free from the sin that was destroying me But on the other hand, I didn't know what the Christian life was going to produce, and I wasn't sure I wanted that either. You know what I'm saying? I'm foolishly in this struggle. I want to be free from the burden of sin. I want to be free from slavery to the sin. But if I get saved, what is that going to mean? And now after I got saved it was like this is great. You know, what was I struggling with? But in that darkness and loving that darkness, not being aware and not will be willing to let go of it. So uh come over to chapter seven and verse seven. I'm trying to point out a distinction between the disciple of Christ and this world, how we're different. Chapter 7, verse 7, the Lord makes a strong statement about the world John 7, 7. The world cannot hate you. He's talking to his disciples at this point. And actually, actually, he's talking to unbelievers. Look at verse 5. He says, For neither did his brethren believe in him, then Jesus said unto them, So these are as his unbelieving physical brothers. They don't believe in them yet. So he says to them, My time has not come. Your time is always in. The world cannot hate you. They're unbelievers. The world's not going to hate you. But look what he says. But me at what? Hated it. What does this tell us about the world? They hate the Lord Jesus. You say, wow, that's a strong statement. Oh, they don't mind talking about it, they don't mind singing about it, they don't mind worshiping their version of Him. But the world as a whole in general wants nothing to do with the biblical Jesus Christ. We have uh in um and I don't want to get political in any way, but we have in uh in uh The as a vice president, I believe a genuine believer. Have you been paying attention what the world's saying about that guy You know, they want nothing to do with them. And the world, in a general sense, Jesus says hates him. As a disciple, do we hate Christ? No, we love him. He's our Savior. He's who we committed our life to. What a distinction between the two. Now let me ask you a question. I'm going to start meddling here a little bit. If the world hates Christ, in a general sense, the world hates Christ, as a disciple, I love him. He's my Savior. I'm committed to Him. Would I be comfortable yucking it up? And mixing up with people who hate the most important person in the world to me? No. How would your spouse feel if there was somebody that hated your guts and they were best friends with the person that hated your guts? Or hanging out with them as your spouse. You'd say, what are you doing? They hate me. Follow what I'm saying? We're fundamentally different than the world. In our principles of life. Come over to chapter 15. Now, this is the Lord Jesus. This isn't some man's version of it. This is Jesus himself saying this. John chapter 15. I see we're probably not going to get beyond this point. John 15 and verse number 18. Verse 17: These things I command you that you love one another. Verse 18. If the world hate you, no. Now he's talking to a different crowd than the last statement. This is his disciples. These are believers. So he says, the world hate you. You know that it hated me before it hated you. All right, what do we know about the world? Restating it. They hate Christ. The world hates Christ. You say, oh, if Jesus Christ came back now, he'd change everything. You know what? I think they treat him exactly the same way now they did back then. No difference. The attitude's the same. Nothing has changed there. Chapter 17, verse 14 Getting a picture of the world, how it's fundamentally different. John 17 and verse number 14. He's praying to his heavenly father. If they talk about the Lord's Prayer, quoting the Lord's Prayer, this is technically, this would be the Lord's Prayer. This is the Lord praying. And he says in verse 14, he says, speaking to God the Father, I have given them thy word, and the world hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but thou shouldest keep them from the evil. When he says from the evil, the evil in the world, right? This in context. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Verse 17, sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. Even thou, as thou hast sent me into the world, even so have I also sent them into the world So again, he's re-emphasizing this fact that the world has no love for the Lord Jesus Christ, and the world has no love for the disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. Why should we be shocked that the world should treat Christians any differently than it treated Christ? If we're to be conform to his image, if as a Christian I am, the word for Christian means little Christ, Why would I think they would treat me any different than they would the Lord Jesus Christ? And that's what he's saying. We are fundamentally different in the world. Everything about us, we are on two different pages, we're going two different directions. We have two different perspectives on everything. Let me quickly go. Look at verse 25, same chapter. He says, O righteous father, the world hath not known thee. I heard a preacher years ago say the saddest words in all the Bible. The world hath not known thee. I think there's some others that are sad also. Come over to John chapter 18, verse number 36. Jesus answered, he's talking to Pilate here. He says, My kingdom is not of this world. You and I, as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, we are we are serving the king of a different kingdom We are not of this kingdom. This is not uh his kingdom is not of this world. I was down in Mexico. And um I was uh I was uh I wasn't an illegal alien. I was there legally. But uh I I wasn't I'm not a me I'm not a Mexican citizen of Mexico. It was not my home. And uh that's we were we were talking a little before, Brian and I. Uh you know, it seems like the older we get, the more sweeter heaven sounds. Because it's not our kingdom. This isn't our kingdom. We're serving another king. We're just here. Chapter, come over to Romans 12, and we'll buzz here a little quicker. Romans 12, maybe. Verse number two, this is passage, I just find myself coming back to this passage more and more and more all the time Romans 12, most of us are familiar with verse 1. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, present your body's living sacrifice, holy acceptable God, which your reasonable serves. Look at this, verse 2. And be not conformed to what? This world, but be transformed. What's he saying? We're different than the world. Be transformed by the renewing of your mind. What does that imply? We're to think differently than the world thinks. Anybody see the world doing stuff and you're thinking in your mind, are they nuts? Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's like where what are they would they leave their brain at home in the bedroom or something? What are they thinking? They're thinking on a whole different wavelength. And I'll tell you what the world tries to do. The world tries to get us as disciples to think the way they think. But we're different. We're different. Chapter, 1 Corinthians 3. And verse number 19, are you hanging in there with me? 1 Corinthians 3, you say that's a lot of verses. I know, because the Bible says a lot about this. I think this is a teaching that is missing in a lot of churches and a lot of preaching is a distinction between a believer, a fundamental distinction. Between a believer and the unbeliever, between the disciples of Christ and the world. We are fundamentally different in every aspect. Um what did I say? Uh 3, verse 19, chapter 3, 1 Corinthians For the wisdom of this world is what? Foolishness of God. Boy, the world thinks they got it all figured out, don't they? And God's in, and I don't mean to be irreverent here, but it's like God's in heaven thinking. That's foolish. How foolish can you be? Come over to Galatians chapter 1. I got a few more. A couple of these are going to be a little hard-hitting here in a bit Galatians chapter 1, verse 4. And I'm wanting you to see this so we grasp this. Galatians 1:4. Speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ, He gave Himself for our sins That he might deliver us from this present evil world. Salvation is a whole lot more than just getting escaping hell. Salvation is altering what I am, so I'm distinct from this world while I'm here. Um There's a whole lot more to it than just going to heaven. Chapter 6 of Galatians, verse 14, come over there But God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is what? Crucified unto me and I unto the world. Paul says this relationship that I had with the world has been severed. It has been crucified. I am dead to the world, and the world is dead to me. Now, reading that verse, how many people here think that Paul was really concerned about whether he made the top ten popular lists or not? I'm crucified to the world. He was dead to that. They're dead to him. He could care less about that. Come over to James. Now we'll just have a few more here. And now boy, James and 1 John, they really come down hard on this. James chapter 1, we preached on this here not too long ago, in the last decade. James 1, verse 27. Pure religion and undefiled before God the Father is this. Alright, here's summary of what God considers pure religion Visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, in their affliction, and to what? Keep himself unspotted from The world. Why? Because we're fundamentally different. I am not to allow the world to stain my thinking. I am not allowed to world. I am not to allow the world to affect Me mentally, spiritually, my thinking about it, I cannot be spotted by the world. There is to be a clear distinction between the two. If I'm spotted by the world, then I could fit in with the world. Right? I'm kind of spotted by the world. They see the world in him. And he says, no, no, no. That shouldn't be. A couple more. Chapter 4, verse 4. James 4, verse 4. Look at S. Good. Grief. You talk about just nailing it. The adulterers and adulteresses. How many people agree with me? That's pretty strong. To call somebody that. I mean, he's not saying you might be, you could be. He says, you adulterers and adulteresses. Know ye not that the Friendship of the world is enity with God. Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is what? Enemy of God. Strong language. Alright, come over. 1 John. I got two more passages. 1 John chapter 2. Now John is the love disciple. You know, he's love, love. Everything's love, but it's not everything. Look in chapter 2 and verse 15, 1 John. Love not the world. I put in right beside that statement, I circled that and I put decision That's a decision I have to make. I'm not going to love the world. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in it. For all that is in the world. Now he just starts, he's explaining her what he means by world. He's not talking about the little stream and the clouds and that All that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, that characterizes the principles of the world. Is not of the Father, but is of the world. And the world passeth away in the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. Now one more passage, chapter 3 and verse 13. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world what? Hate you. Now we said all that to say this. We come back to Matthew chapter 7. Verse 13 and 14 there, and he says, the world is the way to destruction, the way of the world is broad. There's many go in thereat. The way to eternal life, the way of life is very, very narrow. You go through that straight gate, and then it's a narrow way And there is a very clear distinction between the two. And the Bible brings that out all through there. And so we're different in our principles. Let me give you my this uh Let me give you one more here real quick. We're different in our popularity. This world does not celebrate the disciples of Christ. A disciple as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, our focus is not to get the praise of the world I learned I wasn't here very long. I really didn't give it a lot of thought, to be honest with you, but it dawned on me, not after after I was here not too long, I'm probably not going to win Citizen of the Year Award You know, and I'm okay with that. I'm okay with that. Because all right, Derek will vote for me, so I got one vote. Thank you, Derek. I'll take him fishing for that Disciple, our focus is not to win the praise of the world. Now we want to have a good testimony, right? We want their respect. We will be respectable. I think if I don't have their respect, I'm not going to have much influence. So I want their res I want to be conduct myself in such a way that they, whether they like it or not, they have to respect me. I want to have a good testimony, but I am not concerned about them lauding me And praising me. Our concern is not the world's praise, but our heavenly Father's pleasure. We want him to be pleased with us. And that's a fundamental distinction of between a disciple of Christ and the world is what we're looking for for praise. I get concerned about Christians That uh and we think of young people maybe this, but I think it's true across all ages, but I get very concerned about Christians that are trying to be cool. You know, what the world considers cool. I I'm not I don't I don't care. I don't want to be cool as far as and we have a whole mentality in Christianity now that we have to somehow appeal to the world That we have to somehow think the world think, man, they're really cool out there, man, they're really with it, they're groovy. Or, you know, that's kind of a dated statement. I don't know what they say now. They're they're radical or whatever. Our concern is not to be cool. I get very, very concerned when Christians are starting to are trying to be cool in the world. Do you follow what I'm saying? Trying to fit into this world, trying to seek this world's favor. We have to be very, very careful about that. We're on a whole different path. We're going a whole different direction And then the last one I put it under this thought was our personal security is different. Our principles are different. Our popularity is different. We're not worried about the world. We want Christ to be pleased. We want to be popular in heaven And before the throne, not before this world, and then our personal security. And by personal security, I don't mean our physical safety. I'm talking about not being insecure. But as a disciple, my security is in God's acceptance of me in Christ. Here's the amazing thing. When I go through that straight gate, when I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, I am in Christ. And God accepts me with the full acceptance that he has of the Lord Jesus Christ himself. Isn't that amazing thing? You talk about not being insecure, you don't have to be insecure. God accepts me. Now you get out in the world, I don't know if this group accepts me and that, and I gotta do this, and you have people doing these Extreme things to try and be get some kind of personal security or they're so insecure And what we need to understand as a disciple, we're completely different than that. We don't need the world's approval. We don't need the world's applause. I think what I'm trying to say is this, in this point At some point as a believer and as a disciple, I've got to become comfortable with the fact that I don't fit into this world. At some point, I've got to accept the fact and become confident and comfortable in the fact that I am going a completely different direction than what the world is. That I am unique in this world. I am extraordinary. I don't mean that in a laudy way, but I'm extraordinary in this world. I'm different. I don't fit in. And we've got to get comfortable with that. And I'll be honest with you, sometimes our flesh struggles with that, doesn't it? Sometimes we want to, the human nature is, I want to fit in. But we don't fit in. We're trying to put a round plug, round um peg in a square hole. Thank you. And we're round pegs in the world as the square hole. And we say, I'm okay with that. I'm good with that. I've said this before, we talk about this, a bunch of us have said this to each other. I just feel like I don't fit in around here anymore. You know? This whole world see everything going on. It's like I don't see it that way. How are you comfortable with that? How are you okay with that And the Lord says, you're on a very narrow way. The world's on a broad way. You're on a very narrow way. Now we'll look at that narrow way next time a little bit. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I pray you'd help us to see that when you saved us, you changed us very thoroughly. I look in the Gospels and the Book of Acts. And how fundamentally different the people of God were than the rest of the world, even the religious world. And Lord, help us to see that to be true in our lives. And that we would uh understand what that means in our daily living. Wonder with our heads bowed eyes closed, say, preacher, as a disciple, I need to keep in mind that I'm not of this world. I'm going a completely different direction. I have a whole different set of principles that I live by. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will instill that into my thinking and I understand that I can be renewed in my mind. So I'm not conformed to this world. Anything like that by the uplifted hand, I believe that would be true, probably for every Christian would feel that way. And so let's ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven, Again, tonight, without the piano and just here in our pews, we want to have our own little altar call, I guess. And I pray, Father, that you would uh help us to Get that old world's way of thinking that is so ingrained in our minds and our hearts and help us to see That new life you've given to us and those new values we live by and those new priorities and the glory that they produce. And so help us, I pray, in this matter, in Jesus' name, Amen. Amen. Very good. All right, ushers, if you would come on down