Anytime I speak, particularly from the Psalms or really anywhere in the Bible, I always like to do a little background on uh on that book or that chapter, just kind of get the context a little bit And maybe that'll help us get some insight in what it's saying. So I look at this psalm. If you look there above verse number one, there's no title given to it. And uh like many of the other Psalms, most of the other Psalms that do have some name attached to it, who is the penman, uh, you'll notice here in Psalm 91 there's no name attached to it Now we do not we cannot say for certain who the penman of Psalm 91 is, but we do know for certain who the author is And that of course is God Himself. The Holy Spirit is the author of Scripture. So we know this is God's word. We don't know for certain who God used to record it. However If you come back to Psalm chapter 90, we notice that there is a name given there in Psalm chapter 90. And for those that are here, who would that be? It was Moses. It says Moses, a prayer, it says a prayer of Moses, the man of God. Now, as we look at this, if we study these two chapters together a little bit, it seems, at least to me That Psalm 91 is a continuation, maybe chapter 2 of Psalm uh chapter 90. And so I tend to think that probably Moses uh was the human instrument that God used to give it to us. Um uh and so uh whatever the case, uh Uh that we don't know for certain who was the human pen. Now there's one other thing in this psalm I want us to look at before we get to my text. If you would look over at verse number eleven Now, I want you to pay attention here very, very closely. Look at verse 11 as I read this. For he shall give his angels charge over thee To keep thee in all thy ways. They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone. Now let me ask this question. Does that sound familiar? Have we heard that anywhere else? Actually, if we go to the New Testament, they're in the Gospels, and if we go to Matthew chapter 4. We have the Lord Jesus Christ as being tempted of the devil. He'd been out in the wilderness for 40 days. He comes back. The devil tempts him, confronts him. And the devil actually quotes this scripture In his temptation of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that tells me something about the devil. That tells me that the devil is a very diligent student of Scripture. He knows the Bible. I suggest that the devil perhaps knows the Bible better than you and I do. Uh he's been working uh against this thing for thousands of years. And um so we have to be careful. Uh the devil is a very diligent uh student of Scripture. He's very cunning at taking scripture and twisting it and applying it in ways that it's not intended to be applied. I believe Satan's motive for quoting scripture is his own agenda, his own his own uh um his own glory, his own drink uh his own will. Um I read about a fellow that worked for a Christian and uh he would study his Bible uh so he could get in good with his boss. And uh his whole interest in studying the scriptures wasn't to learn God's will for his life or to know the Lord. It was simply to help him advance in his business. And that's very much the devil's approach. So the be the b uh the devil knows the Bible. He just misses the point of the Bible. He misses the message of the Bible And so uh we need to be very, very careful. I say this often. Uh one of the chief characteristics of the last days is going to be the twisting of scriptures. It's going to be false prophets and false doctrine being taught. And Jesus said repeatedly when he spoke of the end times, beware of false prophets. Beware. Beware. Watch. And so we need to be aware of Satan's tactics. We need to be aware that he knows Scripture, and not everything that calls itself Christian is Christian, and not everything that quotes the Bible is of God. And so that's my point there with that. So I thought that was uh an important passage. We need to be aware of that there, and Satan's tactics. Now, let's look at this verse number one here. He says, He that dwelleth In the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty A couple words here that stand out to me. I notice in verse number one, he says, He that dwelleth. That word dwelleth comes from almost the same word as the word abide. And they have this idea. It is a place of habitation. In other words, it's a place where we spend a lot of time. This year, 2020, we're spending a lot of time at home, at least a lot of us are. Uh we dwell there. It's our abode. It's where we abide. Um and so he said the Lord's talking here about folks that don't just come running to the Lord when there's some sort of emergency. They don't just come running to church when uh Uh when things are going bad, but these are people who walk with God. These are people who uh dwell with Him. It's uh their relationship with the Lord is the central part of their life I've seen it over the years, and I don't mean to be o overly critical here, but I've seen it so often. Somebody gets a bad report from the doctor. And all of a sudden they show up at church and boy they want to get right with God and that's a good thing. That's the right response. If if something's if I'm away from the Lord and and something happens, coming back to the Lord is a good thing. The prodigal son did that But then what I've seen is a lot of times when the storm passes over, when the the trial is gone, when the cure is applied then you never see him again. Then they just use the Lord. That is not abiding with the Lord. God wants us to dwell with him He wants us to have a daily personal walk with him and just live with him, dwell with him, not come running whenever we have a problem. Three things I want to talk about this secret place, this dwelling, dwelling in the secret place. First of all, is this: I want us to consider the place. that we are dwelling. The Bible says it is a secret place. Now that's an interesting word. That word secret there means something that is covered up. It means something that is hidden. This place isn't secret in the sense that God hides it from us. It's not that God's high oh, you know, where's that secret place where I have God's protection? Where is that secret place where I have God's uh God can be my fortress and help me It's not like says, well, God says, I'm hiding it from you. You can't find it. That's not the idea here. The idea here is this to the world and to a lot of believers They know nothing about this. This isn't a visible place where we go to, and that's where we get God's protection. Uh it's not in the sense that God hides it from us. The fact is God's presence is available to all believers It's not hidden from us in the sense that we can't find it or we don't know where it is. It's hidden in the sense it's not a visible place. It's not a physical place. Some religions teach that you have to go to a certain place and bow before a statue if you're going to have God's presence, if you're going to have God's blessing. We were in, I think it was Dominican Republic and we were traveling many years ago on a mission trip and we went over this one mountain, this very, very steep downgrade on the other side and winding cutbacks and uh it was very dangerous And of course a lot of the vehicles there they don't have inspections and stuff like we do. So a lot of people have been injured and killed on this hill. And at the very top, just as you crest the top, there was a pull-off, and there they had this shrine And they had this uh this uh little building had a roof over, and inside was a statue of what they called Mary, the mother of Jesus, and there's little candles And the whole idea was if you stop at this shrine and you bow before this statue, maybe light a candle and pray to this statue, then you would have God's protection, then you would have God's safety as you travel down here. That's exactly what this is saying it is not. It's not a physical place we go to. I thought of a lady years ago when I first came here to Mountain Lake. Uh it's probably the first year I was here. It might have been the first couple months I was here. I was visiting down through Mountain Lake Park here and I knocked on a uh the door of a house one afternoon, weekday, knocked on the door, and um heard a lady inside say, Come on in! And uh opened the door. You've got to be careful sometimes. And here is this very elderly lady And I said, well, I'm the new preacher at the Mount Lake Baptist Church. I just out introducing myself. She said, come on in, sonny. And uh so I came in and we sat down, we got talking a little bit And I asked her, I said, ma'am, do you know for sure if you die now that you'd go to heaven and not to hell? She said this. She says, Reverend She goes, if I ever get saved, it's going to be in the church house. I'm not getting saved in my house, it's going to be in the church house I said, well ma'am, uh uh let's uh and I tried to explain to her, you don't have to get saved in the church house, you can get saved in your living room, you can get saved in a garage, you can get saved in a hunting stand. The place is not the factor. And you know, I could not convince that lady that she could get saved anywhere besides church. So finally I said to her, Well, tell you what, hop in the car. Let's go out to the church house and get saved. No, she didn't want to do that either And the tragic thing about that is, as far as I know, that dear lady passed away, died in her sins, unsaved. She admitted she was unsaved. She admitted she needed to be saved. She wasn't going to get saved anywhere but the church house, and I never could get her out to the church house. And so when God says they that dwell in the secret place He's saying this isn't a physical location. This isn't a material place that we would go to that's hidden from others. No, no, no. He's saying it's a spiritual place. This is a place of complete faith and trust in God. It's something the world can't see. It's something the world cannot understand. Sometimes the world might say something like this about a Christian. What's the secret to the peace that I see in their heart and life What's the secret to the calmness there? What's the secret to their confidence? Even when things are going bad, even when things are scary, there's just a confidence and a peace there. What's the secret? That's what the Lord's talking about. It's something that takes place in our heart and soul. It's a confidence that God is in control and that he loves me and God's going to take care of me. Boy, what a place to live In a place where I am absolutely convinced, where I'm absolutely certain that there is a God in heaven that's bigger than any of my troubles, there is a God in heaven that's wiser than any of my problems. There is a God in heaven that's richer than any of my needs, and he loves me. Oh, what a place to live. What a condition to have in my heart and life. And this is a secret place. It's not a material, physical thing, but it's a total surrender To the Spirit of God, a total trust in the love and the power of God. I'm telling you, we cannot live our lives independent of God. Listen. I'm saying to you and I, all of us, we need the Lord. We cannot live our lives independent of God. I've seen it in young people I've seen it in older people try to live their lives without God. They push God from their s uh their hearts and lives and minds, and they try to live their lives And you know what I've seen without fail, there's an emptiness there, there's a frustration there, and often boils up into an anger. We live in an angry country. We live in an angry society, frustrated and empty and just trying to find purpose and meaning in the most ridiculous things, the most ridiculous causes. And I'll tell you what, I believe the root of all that is, that secret place is empty. They don't have a faith in God. They don't have that confidence that only the Lord can give us. I'm trying to say this. We need the Lord. And we need to trust him. That's that secret place, a place of confidence and hope and assurance that God loves me and God has a plan for me and God is in control and God will take care of me. So this place, this secret place, the place is a spiritual condition of surrender to the Lord, of trust in the Lord, of complete faith in him. Second thing I want us to consider very quickly is the person of this dwelling. Look what it says here. He that dwelleth in the secret place, look at the next few words, of the most high. Shall dw abide under the shadow of the Almighty. This is not just any secret place. This is the secret place of the Most High. Almighty God. I see four names given for God here in this passage. The first one there I mention in verse number one is the secret place of the Most High. That phrase Most High comes from a Hebrew name of God. It is, and I'm not sure I'm pronouncing this right. Elion, Elion is this term here, the Most High. And it simply means this. God has various names he's addressed by. And this one means this, the owner of everything. The owner of everything. Thirty-six times in the Bible, God is declared to be the one who owns everything Everything. I I don't know about you, but I'd sure like to trust the one that owns everything. Uh last night I uh was up late and I I woke up and uh I stepped out on the back uh deck there. It wasn't too late, I guess, because the clouds moved in. But I went on our back deck back there. And the little campfire in my power place I started last Thursday was still smoldering away there And um looking at that. And I happened to glance up at the sky and it was the clearest, most crisp night. I looked at those stars and I just And dumbfounded as I look at that that night sky and how far away those stars are and the galaxies that are represented, and I just stood there in awe Of the God that owns that. He owns everything. And that God, and not only does he own it, he made it, he created it. We'll see that here in a minute And that God loves me. That God says that I can trust him. I can have confidence in him, that he will take care of me. I'm telling you, we underestimate God. He owns everything. You say, preacher, I don't know how my needs are going to met. Let me introduce you to someone that owns everything. He can help you. Say, oh, if only a billionaire would join our church and then all our needs would be met. I tell you we got something better than a billionaire. We got the owner of everything And so the secret place, it's the secret place, not just anywhere or anything, it's the secret place of the Most High, the God that owns everything There is I I like this thought. Maybe jot this down. There's nothing I need that God doesn't already have So oh preacher I need this. God's got it. Jer go in the store say, uh you guys got uh you guys got this? Nah, we don't carry that Uh I tell you, anything I need, I can come to God. God says, yep, I got that. Uh you need forgiveness? God says, yep, got it. You need peace of mind? Got it. You need protection? Got it. You need strength? Yep, got that He's the owner of everything. So the secret place is the secret place of the most high. Look at another name for God here. He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the what The Almighty. Ah, that's an interesting word. The Hebrew word for that, and again, I'm not a Hebrew scholar, but the Hebrew word for that I understand is Shaddai. Almighty, Shaddai. It means this: the supplier of all my needs. Ties right in with the previous one. Not only does God own everything, God says I'll supply everything you need. God not only possesses everything we need, He provides for us everything we need. Then there's another word here. Look There in verse number two. I will say of the Lord. Now look at that word Lord there very carefully. What do you notice about the word Lord there? They're all capital letters. You say, oh, what does that mean? That's a very significant. That is God's, what I believe is God's personal name. L-O-R-D, all capitals. The Hebrew that that comes from, the reason it's in all capitals, is because that is the name Jehovah. Now I personally think that's God's personal name. I think that is the name, Jehovah. And uh it has this idea, the eternal, unchanging one. It has this idea, the self-sufficient one. God is unchanging. Saying yesterday, today, and forever. I am the Lord God, I change not, he says in Malachi. Same God that Moses trusted, the same God that did amazing miracles for Moses is the God that you and I can trust today. And so, Jehovah, eternal, unchanging one, God is dependent on no one and nothing. He is self-sufficient. He is unchanging. I believe this is God's personal. As I said, this is God's personal, perhaps his greatest name. And this is what this name implies to me. God keeps his promises. God keeps his promises. And that brings me back to our first thought. We can trust him. We can trust him. For years in Bible college, I claimed Matthew 6. 33 to be my verse through Bible college. Seek ye first. The kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things will what? Be added unto you. And I'm telling you, God kept this promise. I give testimony. Many of our church folk give testimony over and over and over. When I put the Lord first, he met my needs. When I sought first the kingdom of God, God took care of me. And so God keeps his promises. This is the one that we hide under. This is the secret place of the Most High, the God that owns everything, the God that provides my needs. The God that is unchanging and self-sufficient that keeps his word. There's one more word here. Look at this. I will say of the Lord He is my refuge and my fortress. Now look at this. My God. Now that's the term we usually use for God, is God. That term simply means this. It's Elohim is the Hebrew word there. And it means this, the power to create. The power to create God. In other words, he says we can put our faith We can put our trust in the very one who created us and created everything there is I'm telling you, you can't get much greater than that. You can't get much more power than that. A God that created everything there is. Uh The power, the one that has the power to create. Notice again what he says here. He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress, my God. In him will I trust. I tell you that word my means something to me. That's a whole lot better than this. He is a refuge. He is a fortress. He is a God. No, no, no. Moses says he's my God. He's my fortress. He's my trust. I wonder if you can say the same thing. Do you know if you have a relationship with God? Can you say I've had people all the time, oh yeah, I believe in God. Oh yeah, I believe in Jesus. Yeah, I believe he exists. Yeah, there has to be a God. But the question is, is he your God? Is he your refuge? Is he your fortress? It's a personal thing. That word my is a whole lot better than the word a He's my God, my fortress. And last of all, I want us to consider the promise of this dwelling. You say, all right, preacher, God is great. I'll tell you, he's an awesome God created of everything. He owns everything. He provides for me. He's all powerful. He keeps his promises. So I'm going to put my trust in him. What do I get out of it? What's the result of that? What happens? What's the promise? Look here, if you would, at verse 3. Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler And from the noisome pestilence he shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thou trust His trench shall be thy shield and thy buckler. Verse 3 tells us that he's our deliverer. Our deliverer. He doesn't keep us from trials and difficulties, but he keeps us in them. He keeps us from the devastation that they come. Believers' houses burn down and unbelievers' houses burn down sometimes. God doesn't keep us from the trials. God doesn't keep us from the sickness or the the hardships or the difficulties, but what he does do is he protects us from the spiritual damage that these things can do to us. In other words, we can have this secret peace and confidence and calm, even when everything around us might be falling apart. And the world panics and the world riots and the world reacts in violence and frustration and chaos. But those that dwell in the secret place, there's a peace there, there's a confidence there, there's a purpose and a direction So he promises to deliver us. And then verse 4, he promises to defend us. He'll cover thee with thy feathers. And under his wings shalt thou trust. His truth shall be thy shield and thy buckler. Oh, I tell you, we get to the point where we just trust the Lord. God puts a hedge about us. And God keeps us even in the storms. I read years ago, and it's an old illustration, but years ago there was a fire hit a farm And uh they had different animals there, horses and pigs and all, and the fire was devastating to that farm, and so many were killed. And after it was all over and they got the fire out, they found a little hen that had cornered up there in the corner somewhere and had spread her wings out like this and buried herself and she was burnt badly and uh But when they uh got her out of there, she opened up her wings and lifted them up, and underneath were all her little chicks. And they were undamaged by that fire. I tell you, I think of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, who he took the judgment for our sin for us. He took the wrath of our sin for us, and we put our faith and trust in him. We trust Him as our personal Savior. We find forgiveness and salvation from God's holy wrath on the sins that you and I have committed. If you're tuned in tonight, you've never trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, I plead with you tonight. Come and put your faith and trust in Him. He's God Almighty. He's God in the flesh. He created this world, he owns this world, and he gave himself to die on the cross for your sins and my sins He was buried and rose again. And we come to that secret place, that spiritual place, where we put our trust and faith and confidence in the Lord Jesus Christ and what he did for us. God forgives our sin. And we have peace and we're safe from the judgment of God for our sins. He gives us a new life and then a home in heaven. Those of us that know the Lord Jesus, Savior You know, we're in trying times. I don't need to talk about it. We know what we're in strange days, trying, difficult. Tries our faith. Worry, scared sometimes. What God is telling us here, there's a place that you and I as a believer can come to in our heart and soul where we just say, Lord, I trust you. And I yield my will to you and I submit to you. And God, I believe you'll take care of me. God, I'm trusting you to lead me and direct me and help me through this. And that's that secret place. And I want to challenge all of our church folk, every believer. Let's just come and say, Lord, I'm going to trust you. I have faith in you. I tell you the verse that God's been using in my life this year, I don't think there's I know there's not a day goes by for this verse doesn't come to my mind. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart And lean not into thine own understanding, and all thy ways acknowledge him. And what? He'll direct thy paths. That's that secret place. A verse I've claimed for many years, just a simple, overly simple verse, Mark 11, 22. Jesus answering said unto them, have faith in God. That's that secret place. I'm trusting the Lord. I'm living in confidence and faith in the Lord. And I tell you, God gives peace. God gives peace. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us as believers. To come to this secret place of faith and trust in you, confidence that you'll take care of us, you'll meet our needs, you'll lead us and direct us. Lord, those of us that know you as Savior, maybe some are away from the Lord, out of fellowship, Lord, I pray you'd move and work and bring them back into fellowship with you, that secret place Of submission and trust and faith. And Lord, for any that may be listening in, that do not know for sure that their sins are forgiven, they're on their way to heaven. Lord, I pray That they would turn to you and trust you as their personal Savior, calling on you, believing that you died for them, was buried, and rose again. I pray that you would help them just to humble themselves and cry out and ask you to come in their heart and life and be their Savior. Father, bless now we ask in Jesus' name. Amen.