Alright, how y'all doing today? Yeah, that awesome. I'm very continuing to give me to preach, Pastor. I really do appreciate it. And I really do uh well before I start speaking uh just if you could open your pro bo Bible up to Proverbs chapter two. Proverbs chapter two and we will be reading verses one through six of Proverbs chapter two. And I just want to thank you all for your hospitality and your generosity. I really do appreciate it. I've really enjoyed my time here and to see last week the the soul save and the booster rallies and and the teen rallies and to see those teens whose life's been dedicated to God was just something great to see. And as Pastor said, just to kind of see the aftermath, everything that's going on, just to follow up and to do visits with the pastor and just to see the day-to-day operations of uh ministry here. It's been a great experience uh that I'm really thankful for. And I really do appreciate the time here. I appreciate the food. The food's been good. I really do like it. It's been good, trust me, it really has been. Keeping me w keeping m me well fed. And uh like Pastor said I uh leave for Staten Island, New York Saturday morning. And no brother's the way the book slice is probably like at four in the morning anyways. So we have to be uh I'll be up really early in the morning. But alright, uh hopefully you found your place and we'll start reading verse one My son, if thou would receive my words, and hide my commandments with thee, so thou incline thine ear unto wisdom and apply thy heart to understand. Yea, if thou cries for knowledge and liftest up thy voice for understanding, if thou seekest her a silver and searchest for her for hid treasures, then shall I understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. For the Lord giveth wisdom, out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. Highlight message today is this understanding the fear of the Lord and finding the knowledge of God. Understanding the fear of the Lord and finding the knowledge of God. Let's pray. Dearly Father, Lord, you thank you for this day. Do thank you, Lord, for that key to give me to preach. And Lord, I just ask you that your Holy Spirit may speak through me to the hearts of the people here and to my own heart, dear God. I ask your Holy Spirit to have free reign. In Christ's name I do pray. Amen. We all have had that person or that authority figure, maybe that parent in our life that when they tell us to do something, we do it And we have this understanding that if we don't do it, there will be consequences for it. Rather like I said, authority figure, a boss, a a parent, an employer. And oftentimes I think now that we have this knowledge of, hey, we're told to do something. And we must understand there's consequences and there's blessings of doing what we're told or not doing what we're told, and as a result, we put those words into practice. Put those words into action. And a lot of times we obey an individual, we obey an authority figure out of maybe the fear, uh fear so to speak, the respect or the reverence we may have for that individual. Growing up in in inner city Cleveland, I was I was around a lot of crime, a lot of uh I saw a lot of drug dealings, I saw a lot of shootouts growing up. And it would always be because this individual, they they have this knowledge. They have this knowledge that they're gonna go about and they're gonna do their own thing. And they have this understanding of their own understanding that, oh, I'm not gonna get caught. So I'm going to do what I want to do, and as a result of breaking the law, there's consequences for it. As a result of not following the law, not showing proper respect to the law, there's consequences for it. But on the other hand, you had that citizen You have that citizen who has a proper knowledge of the law and what the law says. And he knows if he breaks this law He has his understanding that there will be consequences for it. Maybe he'll have to pay a fine, or maybe there'll be prison time. And as a result, having this knowledge of having this understanding He doesn't break the law. And he's blessed with the freedom that he that he had that a prisoner doesn't for breaking that law. And you see, oftentimes we can be like that criminal Oftentimes in in our Christian life we can be like that criminal in regards to God. We know what we a lot of times don't know we we know what God's Word says. Or sometimes we don't. And what we fail is we put so much of the world in our hearts and in our mind, we begin to adopt an understanding of the world. And as a result of adopting the understanding and the knowledge of the world and the mindset of the world, we begin to act like the world. But then on the other hand, you have this Christian. He immerses himself with the Word of God. As a result of immersing himself with the Word of God, he develops a fear of God. He develops a healthy respect, a healthy reverence for God, and he develops a biblical understanding. He develops a biblical comprehension as a result of immersing himself with the w with the knowledge of God and developing a godly comprehension, he puts into practice that which he has put in Because he develops a fear of God. He develops a healthy respect for God. And the question I have for you today is this How can we understand the fear of the Lord? And find the knowledge of God. How can we understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God? I just have a couple terms that are pretty elementary, they're pretty basic, but I just kind of want to lay the groundwork for the message. I just want to define these terms Knowledge. Knowledge is simply that which we are taught and we retain our own minds. It's the it's the uh math, it's the geography, the history uh the science that we are taught when we are younger, when we're in high school, when we're in elementary school, and all that is taught and we put in our mind and we retain it in our head. That's that's knowledge. And understanding is is comprehension Understanding is uh little Johnny is told by Mama, don't touch the stove because the stove is hot. Now little Johnny has that knowledge in his head that, hey, mama told me to touch the stove because it's hot, but little Johnny doesn't always listen to mama. So little Johnny goes goes ahead goes right ahead and just touches the stove and he scorches his hand. Now you know what little Johnny has now? Little Johnny has understanding. Little Johnny has the knowledge that hey if I touch this stove, this hot stove, I'll burn my head. And now he has this understanding that hey if I touch this stove I'm going to burn my hand. Why? Because he's experienced it. And as a result of having that knowledge and now having that understanding, he has the wisdom of, I'm not going to touch the stove because it's it's hot. So he puts into practice the knowledge and the understanding that he has, which leads me to my next term. Wisdom is the exercise of knowledge of putting into play that which you know, applying that which you know, and applying that understanding that you have. That's wisdom. And also fear, as I defined before, is a healthy respect or reverence. You see, if if little Johnny would have had a fear, a healthy respect for his mom, he would have obeyed his mom. But now that little Johnny has not had that fear, and now that little Johnny has ignored his mom's word, he didn't have the understanding, he's burnt his hand. Not only is it a burnt hand, But chances are he's gonna be probably disciplined for disobeying his mom. Because why? He had the he ha he may have he had the knowledge, yes But he n but he did not have the understanding. The understanding he learned later and refused to put into practice that which he knew and that which he understood. But when the next time the next time it rolls around, he'll know that I'm not going to touch that stove because I'm going to get my hand burnt. And mom's gonna beat me. So the question I asked was, how can we understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God? First and foremost, if we're going to understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God, we must do so by receiving and hiding the Word of God. In verse number one, it says, My son, if thou would receive my words and hide my commandments with thee What Solomon in the book of Proverbs is written by Solomon to his son, and what he's telling his son, if you receive my words, if you accept, if it received has the terminology of receiving, accepting buying or to draw that if you receive my words, if you take my words in, and if you hide my commandments with you, hiding uh meaning to set aside, to be made private, if you receive my words, you take them in. If you hide my commandments with you, Two things will happen. Two things will take place. Verse number two. So thou incline thine ear unto wisdom. What he's saying is that son, if you receive my words If you had my commandments, you're going to incline your ear new wisdom. You're going to know how to properly apply and exercise those words that I'm telling you You're going to give your ear to it and you're going to listen on how to apply those words. And what else he says, and apply thine heart to understanding, the heart being that which we think The things that we dwell on. You're going to apply your hearts to a understanding, to a comprehension of my words, my son. That's what Solomon's trying to tell him. We see that There's bleach you know bleach. If an individual was to swallow bleach, and I actually went online to kind of looked over it a little bit in the study of it, but if an individual swallows bleach, it develops in this individual this thing called acids And when those acids are in that individual's stomach, it begins to eat away at the cells that are in that human. And the cells that cause our body to function, it gives us our muscle tissue, it gives us all kinds of functions in our body in which we live. And what that does is when bleach is consumed by an individual, when bleach is consumed by a human being, it begins to eat away inside of that human being. The things that we put in, the things that we receive, that we accept, it's gonna affect what's inside. It's gonna affect his heart. That's what Solomon is telling to his son. Hey, if you receive my words, you hide my commandments, guess what's gonna happen? You're going to listen to wisdom. You're going to have a heart. You're going to have a dwelling of understanding. And when we reveal ourselves to the knowledge, understanding, and wisdom of God, what we're doing, we are in Applying our ear to God's wisdom. We are applying our heart to a biblical comprehension of God. Well, the same is true about the world. When we receive the world's words, when we receive the world's philosophy, when we receive the world's understanding, we hide the things of the world in our heart and we dwell on them, we adopt the worldly wisdom. James writes about a worldly wisdom. Then there's a worldly understanding. We adopt a worldly comprehension. We adopt a worldly mindset. And that's going to affect our heart, that's going to affect the way we we dwell on things, and sooner or later it's going to eat away at us, and just how that acid will come in and destroy the cells in the human body when when an individual consumes bleach So will the things of the world. We're revealed to the things of the world every day. We really don't have a choice in there. We can drive anywhere and there's a billboard with something that isn't really appropriate. Or maybe we go to a a mall or two uh to or to a store and we're revealed to maybe music that isn't godly, that is not glorifying. And maybe in our own lives we are harboring sin, maybe sins of envy, maybe sins of bitterness towards another individual. If we harbor those sins, eventually, sooner or later, it's going to eat away at us and it's going to come out It's gonna filter out. If we're listening to music that does not honor and glorify God, that's of the world. That's of the world's understanding. That's of the world's wisdom. Guess what? It's eventually going to come out in the way we speak. It's going to eat away at us. Which leads to my next point. Okay. Now we have what Psalms telling us son. Okay. And you receive my words, and you hide my commandments with with with with you, you will develop, you will incline your ear into wisdom How to apply knowledge, what to do with the words that I'm giving you. Not only that, but you apply your heart to understand. You apply your heart to a biblical mindset. And as a result of that, what will happen to Solomon? What happened to him is this. What Solomon is telling his son is Yea, if thou cries after knowledge and liftest up thy voice for understanding, Yea, thou seekest her as silver and searchest for her as for hid treasures. What he's saying is, okay, now if you take in the mindset, if you take in the understanding, if you take in my words, what's going to happen? You're going to, my son, develop a craving for understanding. You're gonna develop a craving for knowledge because you have taken that in. And what you're gonna do is you're gonna pursue that. I think of the athlete. I think of the athlete who when when when conditioning comes around before the season even starts, and you know what, he he watches his diet, he watches what he eats, he watches what he puts in And not only that, but he's he's working hard in practice. He's working on all his other teammates. And and on his off days, he's still working hard. He's watching footage so he can know how to properly play against the teams, learning their play, so we can probably play against them and beat them. So when the season comes around and when it's the fourth quarter and they're down by two, there's twenty seconds left in the game He's working just as hard in the first quarter that he did in the fourth quarter, sorry, than he did in the first quarter because he put the work in during the preseason, during the conditioning. He put all that in and that will that comes out in the game And so is the Christian when we when we let the world's influences in our lives, let the world's knowledge, let the world's way of thinking, the world's w wisdom into our lives, it's eventually going to come out and create a craving for those things. But so is it with the Word of God. Sometimes I gotta stop and think in my own life and just when I when I look at this message, this is a message I had preached about a year ago in my home church. And when a pastor asked me to preach, I looked over this message, and I really began to start thinking in my own life, how often do I reveal myself to the knowledge, the understanding, and the wisdom of God? We are just surrounded so much about around worldly knowledge and understanding and wisdom that the only way to combat it is through the word of God is to receive it, is to hide its words in our heart. What does the Bible say? Thy word have I hidden my heart that I might not sin against thee. Whereof all shall shall a young man cleanse his ways by taking heed thereto according to thy word? Jesus even said that out of our hearts will come action, will come adulterers, idolaters, things of that nature out of our hearts what's in our heart will eventually become our actions Solomon also writes in Ecclesiastes, all things are full of labor, man cannot utter it. The eyes are not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear with hearing. Our thoughts are eventually going to become our actions. Rather good or rather bad. And as a result, it's going to cause a trading, a desire. And if we're in the Word of God and we're We're going to crave that knowledge and that understanding of God as much as we're going to put in, we're going to get out. But the same thing is with the world If we're going to harbor envy and bitterness in our heart, guess what? It's going to eventually come out towards that person we're harboring envy and bitterness against. The music, for example, guess what? When we harbor music in our lives, sooner or later is going to come out. It's going to come out in the way that we talk. I never even Even even to this day when I was in s like I really for me music didn't really become an issue. I it really wasn't much of an issue for me when I was in high school after I got saved. It really it really wasn't But I listened to it a lot when I was in elementary school, and I find myself even today subconsciously quoting music, rap music, and rap music that I listened to when I was in elementary school. That that's that's how how often the word like the philosophy of the world has on us. I remember when even when I was growing up when I had just gotten saved, I was constantly quoting a song when I was about twelve, thirteen years old and outfits a cuss word. Why? Because I put so much of the world's knowledge into my head that had an effect on me later on. And when we put in the world's entertainment, we put in the world's wisdom, guess what? It's eventually going to filter out and come out into our lives, and we will develop a craving for that. The same thing is with the Word of God. When we pursue the knowledge and understanding and wisdom of God, we are going to develop a craving of it. We're going to search for it as treasured. Like a pirate uh goes after uh hidden treasure. He'll he'll risk his life for it He has a group of men, and he'll give his life wholly unto pursuing after that treasure. If we develop and receive the word of God, we're going to have a craving and a hunger for it. And I'm going to wrap this all together. I want to put this all together. And I ask you this question. How can we understand the fear of the Lord? and find the knowledge of God. Verses five through six. Then shall thou understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. For the Lord giveth wisdom, out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. We understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. Quite simply, right here in the Word of God. Why why why does why does Solomon write to his son about receiving his words, receiving knowledge, understanding, and wisdom? Well he writes later in this chapter, he writes about the evil men. He writes about the strange woman. He writes about the influences of the world. Because you know what Solomon's been there Solomon seeing those influences. He's partaking in those influences. He's writing to his son. Yeah, I had all that, you know, I had everything. I I had that worldly possessions. I I had that worldly mindset It's not worth it, son. I'm writing to you. So you can avoid those bl so you can avoid those evil men. So you can avoid that that that that strange one ways writing to him so he can You can avoid the snares of this world when you take in the knowledge, the understanding, and the wisdom of God. In conclusion I just want to I just want to leave you with this and it's been I think pr pretty short but this is all the Lord ha ha has for me to give you today and this is what I believe the Lord had for me to g to give you. And we'll I'm gonna leave you with this. I remember there was uh reading about this lady, this girl actually, and she was a teenager, I think about maybe sixteen, oh eighteen years old, and I remember she was drunk. She was in in Orlando and she She was driving, oh I don't know the influence, and she and she tweeted on her Twitter, too drunk, too care, runs a red light, kills two people instantly, they're dead. She gets a broken leg, she's in jail for the rest of her life Now, if she would have done this, if she would have taken consideration, hey, she probably knew if I go out and do this, I'm probably gonna hurt somebody. So I'm not going to do it. If she would have did that, maybe she'll have her freedom. She'll have her liberty. Maybe two people still have their lives. But instead she didn't So what I want to leave with you, I want to leave with myself today, is that let's expose ourselves to the knowledge and understanding And wisdom of God. So why? So we can understand the fear of the Lord and learn the knowledge of God. So we can flee away from those sinful influences of the world. Because if we're not revealing ourselves to the things of God, things of the world are out there. And our D. Al Moody said, this book will keep you from sin, or sin will keep you from this book. So let me leave me with this. We understand the fear of the Lord and learn the knowledge of God by the Word of God. Let's pray. Dearly Father, Lord, I do thank you for this day. I do thank you, Lord, for the opportunity to give me to preach. I just pray, Lord, that This truth may be evident in my life as well. That I will reveal myself to your knowledge, to your understanding, and to your wisdom, dear Lord. And I pray this truth will become evident in the lives of the hearers as well That your truth, that your word will set free reign to work in our hearts and in our lives, to escape the sinful influences of this world, to understand what it means to truly fear you and learn your word and find your word. Your truth. Christ's name I do pray. Amen. Amen.