Couple of thoughts here tonight. Uh Ecclesiastes chapter three. It's been a full weekend, busy yesterday, today is a good day, and uh we praise the Lord for it. And I appreciate that song. I really uh enjoy Mark singing. What a blessing. Ecclesiastes chapter three, verse number eleven. If you go to Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, and get over there. And I see what time it is, so I want to try and be respectful uh for that there. Ecclesiastes chapter 3 verse 11. We looked at the first part of this verse last Sunday night, I believe. It says, He hath made everything beautiful in his time. That's a tremendous statement. I really enjoy studying that and looking at it. Then we get to the second half, Ecclesiastes 3. 11. Notice what he says. Also He says, in addition to that statement, he, God, hath set the world in their heart, so that no man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end I got that phrase there. He set the world in their heart. I'm going to try and preach on this just real quick. But I'll be, I'm going to make this statement right up front. That is a tough statement to grasp what he's talking about. And I worked on this and worked on this and worked on this, and I'm going to give you what I came up with. And I think I got the mind of what he's saying here, but I'll be honest with you. What does he mean? He set the world in their heart Let's pray, and uh let me share you what I came up with. Father, now as we look at this passage, you've made some uh uh amazing statements in Scripture, and some of them are very challenging to our limited minds, our limited understanding So I ask that you'd open our hearts and minds and help us. Lord, I pray and I trust I have an accurate interpretation of this, and so I ask you'd fill me with your spirit And use this to help us grow in our faith and understand our lives and your will for our lives a little bit. In Jesus' name. Amen. Solomon, of course, is trying to live a life independent of God. I don't need God. He goes after wealth and wild living, he tries to get education, he's working, building stuff, and nothing brings fulfillment, nothing brings satisfaction to his heart And he comes to this conclusion, vanity and vanity all is vanity, all is vexation of spirit. And he's saying the whole life is empty And it's frustrating, and I can't find any fulfillment in anything I'm doing. It's because he's pushed God out of his life. And come to the end of chapter two, we get into chapter three, we see he's realizing that though he's pushed God out of his life, God's still in control. And we can pretend we don't need God and we can pretend that God doesn't exist and we can pretend that we've got our act together. But when it In reality, God is still God, and God is still in control. So he's running into this, God keeps showing up in all his endeavors. And um he says this here. He says, he God hath put the world in their hearts so that no man can find out. I think that phrase so that no man can find out the work that God made. I think that phrase has this idea. Nobody can grasp it. Nobody comprehends. What God is doing. What God is doing from the beginning to the end. But that phrase he put the world in his heart. So I got looking at the word world. I said, well what does he mean by that? He's put the world in their hearts. I found out it's used that same word is used seven times through the book of Ecclesiastes. But it's translated with different words throughout. Go back to chapter one real quick with me and verse number four. And this will help us, I think, understand what he's trying to say here. Ecclesiastes chapter 1 verse 4, he says this one generation passeth away, and another generation cometh But the earth and that next phrase abideth forever. It's the exact same word as the word world In chapter 3, verse 11. But here they translated, it's been translated, abideth forever. Look with me at verse 10. Is there anything whereof it may be said, see this is new? It hath been already of old time, which was before us. Same word. The world. Chapter 2, verse 16. Another way, he says, there is no remembrance of the wise man more of the full forever, seeing that which is now is in the days to come, all shall be forgotten. That phrase in the days to come Come over to chapter 3, verse 11. That's what we just did. Chapter or verse 14. I know that whatsoever God doeth, it shall be forever. Same word. It comes from the exact same word, but here it's translated forever. Chapter 9 and verse 6 He said it's used this way, live joyfully with the wife. Verse 6. Also their love and their hatred, their envy that is now shall perish. Neither have they any uh any more portion forever. That phrase forever, same word, world. One more, let me show you real quick, chapter 12 and verse 5. And when they shall be afraid of that which is high, and years shall be in the way, the almond tree shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail, because man goeth to his long home. Uh world. So I'm thinking, I'm looking at this, I'm writing these out, and I'm thinking, what in the world what in the world does he mean by the word world? And I came to this conclusion. Again, I think I'm right. But I I can't stay for a certain it's tough. I think when he says God put the world in his heart, I think this is what he's saying. God hath put something in our heart and soul, an awareness that there is something bigger than us. That there is something that lasts longer than we last. That there is something in existence that was long before we ever showed up. Something that lasts long after I'm gone. God has put an awareness in our heart and soul that there is something that is beyond me, bigger than me, greater than me. That's what I come to. And this is my conclusion. This is my application. That tells me three several things. Let me give them to you real quick. Number one, we are an exclusive creature. And by that I mean we are unique. No other creature in the world understands that there is something out there bigger and greater and more powerful and longer lasting than we are. You follow what I'm saying? God created man in the image of God. Genesis tells us that. God has given to man dominion over the earth. We are not just one We are not just one of many species of animals. Excuse me, I don't care what the world says. And I I still I still hold to this I still hold to the fact that evolution is the greatest hoax that has ever been played on the on mankind. We are not advanced primates God has created us in his image, and we, I think, in the heart and soul of man, we know that we are unique. There's nothing else on this planet like us. I think God has put in our hearts When he says he put the world in the hearts, he put the this concept that we we're created in the image of God and we are not like anything else. We're not like the monkeys. We're not like any other creature. We are unique in this planet. I think we as believers, as Bible believers, we ought to speak out against the satanic teaching of evolution every chance we can. I think we ought to speak very very very clearly and very uh and very boldly out against that. So I put this down. Man, we're we're exclusive in our creation. We are unique. God has put something in the hearts of man that is in nothing else that He has created. This awareness that there is a something greater than us out there. Number two, I put this down. Man is a curious creature God has putting something in man's heart, has put in our hearts an intense curiosity. In other words, a desire to learn God is putting our heart to desire, explore. How many kids how many some of y'all here have small little children? How many when your kids are small, uh your kids drove you nuts? Why? Why are you doing this? Uh because that's how we do it. Why? Because that's how my dad taught me. Why? Because that's how his dad taught me. Why? Because it doesn't work any other way. Why? Shut up. Why? God puts in the heart of mankind an intense desire to learn and know, a curiosity. And here's some of the question man's at man asks. What's beyond tomorrow? What what ha what ha what's going to be on tomorrow? People spend millions and millions of dollars going to psychics and looking at horoscopes and trying to find out what is tomorrow? What's going to happen Uh we've uh man fantasizes in movies and books and about time travel, going ahead in time. And uh there's this intense, God has put in our hearts a desire to learn and know. Oh, here's a question asked, what's beyond the grave? If you want to wit witness to somebody, ask them their opinion about stuff. Ask somebody, what do you think happens when people die? Boy, that'll open a floodgate. And now you can start, well, this is what the Bible says. What happens after we die? A preacher years ago made this statement. Death is the most democratic experience in life. All participate in it That's the truth. And there's a concern in the heart of man about what's going to happen. What happens after death? All throughout the Bible you find people, a jailer shows up at Paul, what must I do to be saved? Some guy shows up to Jesus. He says, What must I do to inherit eternal life? When are you going to set up your kingdom? When are these things going to be? Intense curiosity. It's interesting. I was I got a DVD back in my office of a group of scientists. They're not Christian. They wouldn't claim to be Christian in any way, shape, or form. But they have come to the conclusion that there it is impossible for evolution to be true. There is no way this could possibly happen And so they're pursuing science with an open mind that what evolutionists are saying are is not feasible no matter how try hard they try and reason and come up with formulas and all stuff, it it's impossible. The statistics themselves, statistically it's impossible. And uh they did study, and they have on this DVD, they have uh an animation of our universe, and it is absolutely captivating. And they made and they pointed this out that Earth, our solar system, and our planet is placed so precisely In the Milky Way galaxy, that we are situated in just the perfect spot that we can observe the rest of the universe. They said if we were placed in any other part of the galaxy, the rest of the galaxy would obscure the universe. We wouldn't be able to see it. We wouldn't be able to have the information we have If we were anywhere else in the galaxy, and he made this statement, he says, it's as if we were deliberately placed in that position to learn as much as is possible about our universe. And I said, Amen. I believe that's true. Why? Because God has created us with a hunger desire to learn, a curiosity. God's put the world in our heart We're unique in our creation. We are curious in our creation. God has created us to be curious. I believe man has an awareness in our heart and soul that there are things out there that we don't know. Watch out for the guy that knows everything. Usually he doesn't know anything. God has made us aware that there is stuff we don't know. There is stuff to learn. out there. I put this down. Man is a man has a comprehension of God You look at that word world, and I'm I'm I'm telling you, I'm struggling here to try and grasp what he's saying That word world, how it's translated other places, tells me God has put in the heart of man an awareness that there is something bigger than me, there is something greater than me out there, there is something far beyond me. I don't know all of it. I'm curious. I want to know. I'm unique in this awareness. Nothing else on the planet is aware of this And here we bring it down, and we learn this from other passages of scripture. God has put in the heart of man an awareness of God's existence. I do not think there are any I'll make this statement, I could never prove it, but I don't think there are any actual genuine atheists. I think down the heart and soul of every man, woman, and child, there is awareness that there is a God. We try desperately to squelch that awareness, to squ uh, to uh crush that awareness, to flood it out, drown it out. But I think there's an awareness there. The interesting thing is the Bible never tries to prove God's existence. Doesn't say this is how we know there's a God. Doesn't do that at all. It just begins with the assumption there is a God. In the beginning, God. I think the Bible approaches that deliberately because God has placed into all of us the awareness that God is That God exists. Every culture, every culture without exception, regardless of how isolated from the rest of the world they may be, every culture has worshiped some sort of God. Now how do you explain that? How would people that never had contact with anybody else in the world, hear they're worshiping a God? Here you have another group, they're worshiping a God. Here you have another group in the Arctic, they're worshiping a God. You got another group in the In the tropics on the equator, they're worshiping God. No matter where you go, no matter what the climate, no matter what, any the culture, no matter what, every single culture, they worship God Now, where does that universal awareness of a God out there, where does that come from? God put it in the hearts of man. We're created with that awareness. Man knows there is something bigger than us out there. Man knows there's a God out there. And then last of all, I put this down. Man has a craving for something or someone bigger and better than himself. There is something, there is someone there that I need to know. There's a desire. to know whoever or whatever that is out there. And of course we understand from scripture this God. There is a craving in the heart of man to worship. Did you ever notice man worships something? You get some you get some long-haired drug-addicted guy that knows how to scream a certain way and smash guitars, oh no, come out by the tens of thousands and worship, oh this guy something and put his picture up on the wall and wear dress like he dresses and oh we'll talk like he talks and look it's worship some actor can put on a show and act like he's something he isn't And he's very good at acting like he's something he isn't. Oh, he's the greatest thing in the world, and I'm gonna do this, and we'll have his picture on the wall, and we'll talk a bit, we'll worship. And worships his cars, he worships his house, he worships his job, they worship other people. In our hearts there is a craving to know and worship. Something bigger and better than us, a longing for eternity, a longing for something this world cannot satisfy. Every natural desire of man has something that satisfies it. There is no desire, there's no craving or desire in our makeup. That's natural, that naturally comes, that is not able to be satisfied in some way. A little baby is hungry. That desire, that hunger for food, is there because food is actual thing that can meet that desire. You follow what I'm saying? Um the desire uh thirst. We have a natural desire for what thirst And that's because there actually is some water that can meet that desire for thirst. A little duckling is born. That little duckling desires to swim. Why? Because there is such a thing as water for the duck to swim in. And you and I, and all mankind, down in our hearts and souls, we have a desire for something bigger and better than us. A longing, an emptiness, a need. For something, but here's the problem. There's nothing in this world that meets it. The desire for h the hunger can be met with food. Thirst met with water. But this hunger of our soul for fulfillment, for meaning, there's nothing in this world that meets it. What does that tell us? That tells me there's something outside of this world that we've got to look beyond the sun. To have that need met. Am I making sense? You follow what I'm saying? And so we have we have millions and millions and billions of people. They're living their lives in vanity and vexation of spirit and there's something in their heart and soul that is crying out for some meaning. for some purpose, for some fulfillment in life. And the money doesn't bring it. And the w the job ethic, work ethic doesn't bring it, and the wild living doesn't need it. And that great education doesn't need that. And there Their spirit is vexed and their life is empty. So this desire, this hunger that's there That's been put in their hearts. Where is it met? It's met something outside of this world. I believe dissatisfaction in the soul of man showed up when sin entered the world. And man is separated from God, and that one thing that meets our spiritual needs is now separated. And what we need is someone somehow to come down and get man with this emptiness, this hole in his soul. This emptiness in his heart and soul, and get him back in touch with the God that fills that emptiness and meets that need. And you know what we found out? There is someone. His name's Jesus Christ. And he took our empty heart and soul, and through what he did on the cross and the grave and coming up, he put us back in touch with the God that meets that. He has put the world in their heart. I don't know what in the world does that mean. And I think it means God has put in our heart the awareness that He is out there. And he has put in our hearts a hunger, desire to know him. And the only way we can know him is through the Lord Jesus Christ. So that's my interpretation of that statement. And whether that's an accurate interpretation of that statement or not, I know this. It is biblically true. That we need Christ, and this world needs Christ, and to try and live my life without God is an empty, vain, frustrating endeavor. And we need the Lord. So let's walk with God this week. Those of us that know him. Let's uh let's try and bring others to Christ. Give out those gospel tracts. Put people in touch with the one that's bigger than they are, that can meet their needs and put them witness to people, invite them to church, and let's live for God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I Pray that this was helpful. I hope and pray I was true to your word. I know that what was said is biblical. So I pray as we finish out this Lord's day. That you would help us keep our focus on you, that we would get as close to you as it can. And Lord, if there's sin and unbelief and things in our life that separate us and hinder you working and filling us. If you'd help us face that and deal with that and forsake it and get close to you and let you work in us and through us and fill us with your Spirit in Jesus' name.