The greatest story ever told is actually not just a story As old Timothy was trying to tell Dr. Phipps, Fitz, Mr. Dr. Fitz, as he called him. It's not just a story, it's an actual event that took place many, many years ago when God, the creator of this universe Now think about God for a moment. It spoke And our world, our solar system, our galaxy, our universe comes into existence That is God, eternal, forever existing in past and future. A God that is so incomprehensible, He's invisible And he's holy. Holy. And 2,000 years ago, that God laid aside his deity And took on human flesh in the form of a baby. And what little Timmy was trying to convey to Dr. Fitz That little baby came for a reason. That God became man for a very specific reason. And it was so that you and I As God's creation, the one that created us, the one that gave us life, created life. So that you and I could have our sins forgiven, have eternal life, and know we're going to heaven someday. God loves us. God created us. And in spite of all the arguments against him, in spite of all the theories about life, The fact remains that God created us. God gave us this life. And God, as a holy God, established a standard for his creation. God being holy, God doesn't act holy, God doesn't behave holy, God is holy in his very nature. And he requires a standard of holiness from his creation. He's expressed that in what we understand the Ten Commandments. God gave to mankind. These are the standards, these are the requirements that are necessary for me to be able to accept you, my holiness to accept you. And the fact is that we failed miserably from the get-go. We failed to live up to God's standards. The Bible says that we've sinned against God. By one man, Adam's sin came into the world, and death by sin. So death has passed upon all men, for we've all sinned. And because of our sin, we're under the judgment of God. Sometimes I'll talk to folks and they'll say something like Pastor Leatherman, I'm I'm not perfect, but I'm not as bad as so-and-so. That guy down the road or that gal across the street. The fact of the matter is we don't compare ourselves one with another to be accepted by God. We have to compare ourselves to God's standard. And we've all come short of that standard. One of the commandments is thou shalt not bear false witness. You shouldn't lie. Yet, how many of us have never told a lie? We've broken God's law. We've come short of his standard. We're all sinners And because of our sin, we are separated from God. The wages of sin is death, that is separation from God. Jesus Christ became a man He lived a perfect life for 33 plus years. He lived a perfect life, never sinned one time, kept God's standard perfectly for us because we failed to. Then he gave himself on that cross, and on that cross, he was judged for our sins. He was punished for our sins. He suffered the judgment of God, the eternal hell on that cross for you and I. He was buried and he rose again. He's alive today. He's at the right hand of God He knows everything that took place here this morning. He knows every thought that's gone through our minds. He knows every word that was said. He heard it all The Bible says that if we will confess our sins, if we will acknowledge to Him that we're sinners, if we'll turn from that sin and trust in Jesus Christ as our Savior, calling on Him to be our Savior, the Bible promises us. That He will forgive all our sin. He will give us eternal life. We have a home in heaven when we die and not go to hell. I tell you what, that's the greatest story that I've ever heard. That the God that created me loves me so much that even though I have failed him miserably as a man, Yet he would come down and take the consequences for my failure upon himself. Bear that judgment for me. And then if I will just acknowledge my need of him, acknowledge my sin, and trust him as my Savior, he'll fully, freely forgive me. I have a home in heaven. Not only a home in heaven, but a new life here on earth. A new life Peace, fulfillment. Our church is probably tired of hearing it, but I can't ever get over telling what Christ did for me May 7, 1979, back in Philadelphia, 19-year-old punk made such a mess of my life. I knelt by my bed one Monday night. I called out, God, I need you to come in my life. I need you to forgive me and save me. I'm telling you, God did exactly what he promised he would do in his word, that whosoever should call upon him should have everlasting life. God saved me. He changed my life. An empty, purposeless life was now given purpose and meaning And what he did for me, he's done for folks all across this auditorium. And as portrayed in Dr. Fitz, calling on the Lord and finding peace and purpose and forgiveness. God can do for you, young and old. Young and old. I guess I said all that to lead up to this question. Let me ask you a very important question. Do you know for sure, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that when you die, whenever that may be, that when you die, that you're going to heaven and not to hell The Bible says you can know that. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life. And it's a simple fact of simply accepting what Christ has done for us as portrayed here and as I just now tried to explain Acknowledging to God I'm a sinner, believing that he died for my sins in my place, was buried and rose again, and then calling on him, looking to him, putting my trust in him to come in my heart and life and forgive me and save me. You're here this morning, you don't have that assurance. You're here this morning, maybe you're like Dr. Fitz, who was you've been fighting God. God's been working in your life, things have been happening. God's been moving in your life and you know it down in your heart and soul, you know God's trying to get your attention. You know you need him. And maybe this morning you would be willing to call on him sincerely in faith, turning to him from your sin, trusting him as your personal Savior. And if you would do that, My Bible promises God would give you eternal life. You have a home in heaven. Does that make sense? We're going to have a word of prayer. Before we pray, before I close this part in prayer, I'm going to offer a simple little prayer. Now it's not magic words. Please don't misunderstand. By simply repeating these words is meaningless if that's all it is. But if in your heart and soul you would like Jesus Christ to be your personal Savior, you know you're a sinner, you know you've broken God's law You know you need Christ. And you'd want to know for sure you're going to heaven. You could pray this simple prayer with me to the Lord. Again, not just repeating words, but from your heart, calling on the Lord. My Bible says that God would hear you, God would save you, just like He did me and many, many others around. So let's just bow our heads. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. You've heard the message this morning. God loves you. Jesus Christ died for your sins, was buried, rose again. He's alive right now. And if you would call on him and trust him as your Savior, He promises he would forgive you and cleanse you, give you eternal life. Here's the prayer. In your heart, between you and God, you can pray this with me. Here it is. Dear Lord Jesus, I know I'm a sinner. I've broken your law. But I believe you love me. You died for my sin on that cross. You were buried and rose again. With all my heart, I'm calling on you this morning to forgive me, to save me, and give me eternal life In Jesus' name, with heads bowed, eyes closed. If you prayed that prayer with me just now, you say, Pastor Leatherman, I prayed that prayer with you. I meant it with all my heart. I wasn't just repeating words. But in my heart I was calling the Lord. Would you just slip your hand up? I can pray that God would bless you. Is there any this morning? Say, Preacher, I prayed that prayer with you just now, calling on the Lord, trusting you as my Savior. How about it? Any at all by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I prayed that prayer with you. And I meant it with all my heart. God bless you. God bless you. How about it? Any others? Now, Father in heaven, I thank you for the message portrayed in the cantata. I ask you'd help us, Lord, to grasp this truth. And I pray, dear Lord, you'd help us, those of us that know you as Savior, to share that message with others And others would come to know Christ as Savior. God please bless now we ask in Jesus' name. Amen