Joseph, at least this for me it is, we're coming down to the end of Joseph's life. Look with me if you would at verse 22 And the Bible says, and Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he and his father's house, and Joseph lived 110 years. And Joseph saw Ephraim's children of the third generation, the children also of Makar, the son of Manasseh, which were brought up upon Joseph's knees. Joseph said unto his brethren, I die. And God will surely visit you and bring you out of this land into the land which he swore unto Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and ye shall carry my bones from hence. So Joseph died, being 110 years old, and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt. If you agree with me, that's kind of sad that we come to the end here. It did the same thing with David when we studied David. I just kind of got a little sad when it came to the end. So let's look at this And see if there's some lessons here we can learn. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless us now as we study these final Verses in the book of Genesis, I pray that your Holy Spirit would take these truths, these passages And Lord, glean from them application to our hearts, our lives, areas that, Lord, you know us. You know our condition, you know we're at. So I ask you to use this and apply it to our lives so we can be stronger in our faith and Lord uh may be a little more bold in our witness, effective there. Fill me with your spirit is my prayer. I yield my Heart and mind, my body, I present anew, and pray you take me. And Lord, you just speak through me tonight and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Um we're coming to the end, as I said, of the study of the life of Joseph. And one thing, one conclusion I think we've come to as we've studied uh this man is that he was an extraordinary man. Would you agree with me? Uh extraordinary in so many ways. I think he was extraordinary as a son to his father. Of course his mother passed away. But he loved his father. We noted that very, very clearly. It's very, very evident. That Jacob loved Joseph and Joseph loved Jacob in return. He loved his father. And uh he loved him and he respected his father. He showed tremendous respect, and we noted that uh numerous times, uh all the way back when his father sent him out uh to uh check on his brothers before the whole ordeal and the trial started as a young man Uh his father sent him out there. Um I got looking at that again and thinking about that uh event and uh I would imagine, I don't know remember if we brought this out at that time or not, but I would imagine that Joseph was aware of his brother's attitude towards him at that point. We were told before that happened that they hated him and they couldn't speak kindly to him. So He's being sent out by his father to go check on his brothers, no doubt, in his mind, this they're not going to be nice to me They can't even talk nicely to me. This is probably going to be unpleasant. But when we looked at that, there's not one hint of hesitation on his part to do exactly what his father told him to do And um growing up, I don't know how it was for you, I know uh some there were times daddy would ask me to do something that I didn't want to do. I knew it wasn't going to be pleasant But when our fathers instruct us to do something, even though it might not be pleasant, we still ought to do it, right? And that's what Joseph did He respected his father. He honored his father very much. When Jacob showed up down in Egypt during that famine, the very first thing Joseph did was introduce him to Pharaoh. And uh showed tremendous honor there to his daddy. So Joseph, we're winding down on a study of his life, we're coming to the end, we're looking back over a few things, and we notice he was an extraordinary son And I think he was an extraordinary brother. He was in very difficult circumstance, family situation And yet he forgave his brothers. And we spent a couple weeks looking at that. That is outstanding. That he would do that. That's fantastic. Uh uh that he would do that. That's incredible, I guess, is the word I want Uh he forgave his brothers. Here's something else I got thinking about him and his brothers. He was loyal to his brothers We don't find anywhere where he spake evil of his brothers. Not one time do we find him running them down, complaining about them to anybody Sometimes we have a tendency, if somebody mistreats us, correct me if I'm wrong, sometimes if somebody mistreats us, we feel obligated to tell people that they mistreated us Right? Oh, you wouldn't believe how bad that's that waitress was. You wouldn't believe how unkind they were to me. We don't find any of that from Joseph And he was tremendously loyal to them, and uh we don't find any account of him running them down or speaking bad about them at all. He just didn't say anything And then uh so he was loyal to his brothers in spite of their treatment, and he was caring. Uh he promised them, we noted this, that I will take care of you. You don't have to be afraid after Jacob died. I'll take care of you, don't be afraid. I'm going to make sure your needs are met. And so he was extraordinary as a son, he was extraordinary as a brother, and he was an extraordinary man as an administrator Every position he got into he was held, he was very, very successful, whether it was overseeing Potiphar's household and his affairs, or whether it was in the prison and eventually given the uh the responsibility to oversee the prison, it's very successful. And then of course as the governor of uh Egypt, tremendously successful, fed millions and organized uh uh rationing type thing and uh collected all that just extraordinary And so uh he was an amazing person, um extraordinary man. And um I got thinking about that. Nearly everybody that Joseph interacted with When he left, they were better off after they interacted with him than they were before. Right? Potiphar, he showed up. Man, he ran the place. I would venture to say Potiphar's affairs were in better shape when Joseph left than what they were when he showed up. He handed everything over to him. The prison was a better prison when Joseph left than it was when he showed up The nation of Egypt was wealthier and highly respected because of Joseph's leadership in saving literally millions and millions of people's lives during his famine. And so every everybody that encountered Joseph to any extent, when they left, when he left, they were better off than they were before. And I don't know about you, but that challenged me I would like to be a blessing to people. I would like that when I interact with people, they're a little bit, their faith is a little stronger, they're just maybe a little happier. Maybe they're a little more settled than before. Some people when you encounter them, you feel miserable afterward, right? But Joseph wasn't that way. What an amazing man. So let's look at our passage here tonight. This extraordinary man, Joseph, his integrity and his character and everything about him just is outstanding. I want us to notice, first of all, in verse 22 and 23 of chapter 50, Joseph's final years. Look with me there at verse 22. And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he and his father's house. And he lived 110 years. I got calculating. How long did Joseph live in Egypt after the famine? They didn't go back to Canaan. We noted that. Even when Jacob died and they had this tremendous funeral procession there, they all came back. And they settled in in Joseph. And I got figuring. Joseph was, according to chapter 41, verse 46, Joseph was 30 years old when he was appointed governor over Egypt. He was 30. We're told that expressly. Then you have seven years of plenty, right? So he's a governor. There's seven years of plenty. I mean they're just raking in the crops and they're storing them up and they're planning ahead. And then there was how many years of famine? Seven years of famine. So Joseph's 30 years old when he's appointed governor. Seven years of plenty go by, which would make him, what, thirty-seven, and then there's seven years of famine, which at the end of the famine he would be 44. So when it's all said and done and things settle down and they're getting back to normal, uh he's forty-four years old. He lives 110 years, according to verse number 22 here. So that means after the famine, he spent 66 years living They're in Egypt. Famine's long gone, long over with. They're settled in, and that's where they're living. That's where they are. 66. That's a little over a year longer than I've been alive So he lived there an extensive period of time. He lived in Egypt more than he lived in Canaan. And in a lot of ways, he could have referred to that as home. Kathy and I have been here for uh 31, working on 32 years, and as far as we're concerned, this is home for us. This is our home. We grew up, we lived a lot of places, this this is home. Garrett County is our home And so Joseph settled in there and lived 110 years, 66 of them in Egypt after the famine's over and settled in. We assume he lived a pretty good life As governor. We're not told any of his responsibilities once the famine's over. Two things about his final years. Number one, obviously he lived a long life, 110 years. I think that, and it was fairly typical then, but we have some promises in the Bible about honoring our father and our mother. Joseph honored his daddy. Of course, his mother had passed away. Joseph honored his father. And according to Exodus chapter 20 and verse number 12. We're told that we should honor our father and mother. Why? That thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee. And God kept his promise for Joseph. Joseph honored his daddy. The Bible says that we should honor our father and mother, that our days may be long upon uh the land that God gives us. In fact, God repeats that in Deuteronomy chapter 5 and verse 16. He says, verbatim, the same thing again. Honor thy father and my mother, that thy days may be long upon the Lamb which the Lord thy God giveth thee. I still think that principle is in effect today. Now a lot of times possible, some there are times people honor their parents and for whatever reason God calls them home or earlier than a long life. But for the most part, that principle stands. I still think we ought to honor our father and mother. And we say, yeah, these kids, they need to honor their father and mother. I agree, but I think even after we are grown adults, we ought to honor our father and mother. Now if our father and mother has passed on, we ought to honor the memory of them. You say, well, you don't know my daddy. Well, let me ask you about Joseph's daddy. He was less than ideal. But you never hear Joseph saying a negative word about his daddy. You never hear Joseph criticizing his father or finding fault with his father. Was Joseph aware of his father's faults? Sure. He wasn't stupid. But he didn't dwell on that. He honored his father. And I think God honored that for Joseph. So he lived a long life, but also he had a loving family. Look with me at verse 23 It says, and Joseph saw Ephraim's children of the third generation. So that's his son, Ephraim. And then that'd be the first generation, then his children would be the second generation then his children would be the third generation. That would make he would saw his great-grandchildren. Am I correct? Am I thinking? Son, grandson, great grandson. And uh and so he had a long he had a long family. He got he had a loving family And the thing that points out to me that I notice here that suggests they had a loving family. He said, how do you know they had a loving family? Joseph certainly did not come from a loving family. But look what it says here at the end of verse 23. And it says, they were brought up upon Joseph's knees. Now what in the world does that mean? I got doing some digging. And I found that that phrase they were brought up upon Joseph's knees. That phrase implied in the In the um uh Jewish culture back then, that phrase meant it indicated they had a very, very close family. The kids and the grandkids and then the great-grandkids, they would climb up on Joseph's lap They would spend a lot of time close to their grandpa, great-grandpa. And they interacted. It implied an affectionate relationship where they loved each other. And I can see the little kids coming into the palace or whatever Joseph lived in, and the grandkids, and I can see him stopping all his government duties, and the little kids coming running up and climbing up on his knees And hugging grandpa and hugging great-grandpa. And so they had a very, very uh close and affectionate relationship with his children, his grandchildren, and his great-grandchildren And it also implied, according to one author I was reading about that phrase, it also implies that Joseph had an active role in their training And raising them up and helping them, helping teach them values, helping teach them principles to live by. I'm here to tell you, grandma and grandpa still have a role to play in the great in the grandchildren's lives. Now we don't usurp mom and dad. Amen? They have their own household, they have that. But we still have a role, we still have a place there where we can uh impart values, we can uh uh uh influence scriptural principles Even in the lives of our grandchildren and great-grandchildren. I think that was the case with Joseph. Maybe he would get them up and tell them stories about the great famine How God had miraculously provided for them. And so He had a loving family here Now here's what caught my attention when I'm studying this. I got looking at Joseph, and the little bit we're told about his family, and it clearly implies they were very close, very affectionate. And dear to one another, involved in each other's lives very, very much. And then I compared that to Joseph's home that he grew up in Would you agree with me? Very, very different. What would you say characterized Joseph's home with the brothers and the multiple mothers? What what would you what one word, if you were going to use one word to characterize Joseph's home, what he grew up in, what we know about it, what would you use? Chaos, dysfunction, strife. Was it I can't hear. Kindness. Joseph in his home, he's raising him up. Absolutely. Kindness. In the home Joseph grew up, there was little or no kindness. The word I was thinking of is hatred. We're told multiple times that Joseph's brothers hated him. They hated him. There was envy. There was fighting amongst the multiple wives of Jacob. Leah and Rachel and then the m the uh not midwives, the um uh concubines involved there. And what a contrast between Joseph's upbringing. Now Jacob loved Joseph. We're told that very clearly, but nobody else in the family did. And it was it was hatred, envy, to the point of violence. And then I look at Joseph's family. And here's what I take away from that. This is what I want to leave with you. You and I don't have to repeat what history was for us. Some people come from broken homes, some people come from drunkard homes, some people come from very abusive homes, some people come from very dysfunctional homes Hatred, even violence. And I'm here to tell you, we don't have to repeat that. That doesn't have to be ongoing. So many times we hear people say they have various problems and and different things and they mess up and they say, well, it's just because of the way I was raised. Now, I'll be the first to admit how we're raised is a powerful influence on us, but it does not have to define us. We can overcome. We can uh break uh the chain, so to speak, of an ugly, dysfunctional, hate for hateful family. We can break that chain and we can and raise it up. Um there are, and I believe I I don't I I believe there are what we refer to sometimes as generational curses. I've noticed that some families have a tendency, they have of vulnerabilities that are passed on from one generation to the next. But I'm here to tell you that can be broken. That can be stopped. Well, great-grandpa was a drunkard and grandpa was a drunkard and mom and daddy were drunkards, so I'm gonna be a drunkard. No, it doesn't have to be that way And Joseph was able to come out of a very, very difficult upbringing, a very dysfunctional upbringing, and yet he was able Through God, through the Lord and His character, he was able to establish a very stable, loving, uh, compassionate, strong home. And I believe that's what's implied in that little phrase. They were brought up upon Joseph's knees. And so it's possible God can change God can break the change uh the chain. We don't have to replicate the past. We're not doomed to repeat the past. And the next thing I want to know, and I'm not going to give the whole message tonight because I really want to spend some time on my last thought that we'll look at in another week or two, but the next thing I want us to notice is Joseph's farewell. Look at verse 24. So he dwelt in Egypt, he's 110 years old, his kids, he saw his kids, his great-grandk his grandkids, his great-grandkids. Then it says, and Joseph said unto his brother, brethren, I die. It's time. My life has come to its end. It's run its course. I die Then he says this, and God will surely visit you and bring you out of this land into the land which he swear Unto Abraham to Isaac and Jacob. Now don't let that word swear throw you there. He's not talking about swearing What's he mean when he says God swear to them? He promised. He made a vow. He made a covenant with them. And Joseph is reminding his brothers of this promise of God. Concerning bringing them up into the land, which he promised to his forefathers. And Joseph, verse 25. And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you. And ye shall carry up my bones from hence. Now remember what Jacob had required of his sons, that he be buried where? Back in Canaan, very specific place. Abraham bought the family burial plot. Joseph is not asking them to take him up there, and there's various reasons we suspect he didn't. He's okay to be buried here in in Egypt, so to speak, and we're going to look at that uh later on, but he's n he doesn't want his bones left there God promised at some point we're getting out of this place and we're going back to the promised land, and when you do, you take my bones with me. And so that's his farewell to his brothers. Now think about with me, where let's see if you can rem let's see if you remember, where in the in the list of the boys, where does Joseph come in as far as chronology is concerned? He's the second youngest. Benjamin's the only one younger than him. All the boys are older than Joseph except Benjamin. Joseph is 110 years old. So how much older his brothers were. In fact, what I'm getting at, it's very, very likely that several of his brothers have already passed away at this point. If not, they're very elderly. And so Joseph gathers the brethren together, which whoever's still alive, we're not told, and uh He makes these statements. First of all, he accepts the inevitable. He accepts the inevitable. Little statement, two words. And Joseph said unto his brethren, I die. The inevitable. Now I look at that statement, and I don't sense, and again we're not told a whole lot, so I'm assuming a little bit here. But I don't sense any hint of fear in that statement. Sounds to me just a matter of fact. I'm I die. I don't notice, I don't sense any hint of anxiety. Joseph knows this is how it works. Life has a limit. There's a point where we die. If you would, take your Bible and turn with me to the book of Luke. I want to illustrate a fellow that did not have that thinking. Luke chapter number 12. Keep your place there. I want to come back and look at a few more of his statements he makes there. But Luke chapter 12. And I want to begin reading in verse 13, Luke chapter 12, verse 13. Joseph accepts the inevitable. Okay, 112 years old. I'm coming, I've run my course And he says, I die. No hint of fear, no hint of anxiety. It accepts this. This is God's plan. Notice chapter 12 of Luke and verse 13. It says, and one of the company Said unto him, Master, speak to my brother that he divide the inheritance with me. And he said unto him, Man, who made me a judge or divider? over you. Joe Jesus said, I'm not getting involved in that. You guys settle that. That's not what I'm here about. Then he used that as an opportunity to illustrate an important truth. Look at verse 15. And he said unto them, Take heed and beware of covetousness, for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth. These guys are fussing over the inheritance. And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully. And he thought within himself, What shall I do Because I have no room where to bestow my fruits. And he said, This will I do. I will pull down my barns and build greater, and there I and there I will bestow all my fruits and my goods And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up. What's the next three words? For many years. I don't gonna die. I'm not even thinking about that. That's uh, who worries about? How morbid can you be? Take unease, eat, drink, and be buried. Now look how the Lord responds. But God said unto him, Thou what? Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. Whose then shall those things be which thou hast provided? So is he that layeth up treasure for himself And is not rich towards God. And he said unto his disciples, Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life what ye shall eat, or w uh uh neither for the body, what ye shall put on. Life is more than meat, the body is more than raiment. So here's a fellow. That did not accept reality. He says, Oh, I've got I'm not worried about that. I don't even want to think about that. Joseph says, no, reality is really is I'm at the end. It's time for me to go home. Hebrews 9, verse 27 says, It is appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment. And so God has a plan. God has a time for all of us. And Joseph understood that. And he realized, it was very clear, all right, that's where I'm at. This is time, it is time I die. And so he accepted the inevitable. Then notice, come back there to Hebrews, or I'm sorry, Genesis, if you would, chapter 50, and notice what else he says. He said unto his brethren, I die. Alright, this is it. Then he says, and God will surely visit you and bring you out of this land into the land which he swearing to Abraham, to Isaac, and Jacob. And he took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you. So first of all, he accepts the inevitable. All right, it's time. Second of all, he assures his brethren He says twice. He makes a statement twice. Did you notice it there? He said, God will surely visit you. Verse 24. Then verse 25: God will surely visit you. What he's doing, he's referencing back to Genesis 15, where God had promised Abraham that he would give them that land. That would be their land. And that's where the people are going to be. In fact, come back to Genesis. He gives a little details about them actually being in Egypt. Genesis 15. And uh verse thirteen. He says, And he said to Abraham, God speaking, Know of a surety that thy seed, now listen to what's he saying here, thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs. And shall serve them, and they shall afflict them 400 years. What is this land that his ancestors are going to be strangers in, his seed? It's Egypt. God was telling Abraham Years in advance, that his seed is going to end up in Egypt. They're going to be afflicted, and they're going to be there 400 years. Does God know what the future holds? Yes. He's all-knowing. He says verse number 14. Also that nation whom they shall serve will I judge. Ah And afterward they shall come out with great substance. So that is what Joseph is referring to God's going to visit you and he will bring you out of here. He's reminding his brothers of that, that what God had told them. Now here's, and I'm going to end with this here, I think But here's what Joseph, his last recorded words that we have in the Bible. And the thing I notice is last recorded words are not words that are critical. He's down at the end of his life. He knows he's going to die. He calls the brethren in. And what's he going to say to them? You sorry dogs, you treated me like trash. There's no bitterness here. Uh his final words are not critical. There's no complaining. Now maybe it's just me. I notice the older I get, sometimes I catch myself complaining a little bit. Anyone know? You get older and you kinda complain, oh my knees, oh my shoulder Huh? His final words aren't complaining about how terrible he feels or how awful he was treated. There's no condemnation of his brothers. What caught my attention was the last recorded words we have of Joseph are words of confidence. What God said He's going to do. What God promised, he will keep that promise. He's positive. The last recorded words of Joseph are very, very positive words. God's going to visit you. God's going to do great things. You're going to come out of here. When you do, take my bones with you. It's going to happen. Mark it down. Would you agree with me? That's a pretty positive way to go out. Not complaining or criticizing. He's comforting his brothers. He's reassuring them. Everything's going to be alright. God's going to see this thing through. God's going to keep his word. It's positive statements. It's praising God, really. What God's gonna do. Would you agree with me? That's a pretty good way to go out of here. I mean uh then you come by the uh and and I've experienced this a few times And I'm thinking tonight, I'm thinking of um of uh Mildred Harvey. I was had the opportunity to be with her when she God took her home. We were in the hospital there with the family And I'd gone up the day before so, and she wanted to know what the memory verse was for that next month because she wanted to memorize it while she was there in the hospital. It was a couple days before So I told her what the verse was we found in the Bible and she was going to work on that. I came up a day or two later. She goes, you know how she Pastor Latherman, she was so petite. She says, I think I got the verse memorized And I can tell you what the verse is to this day. I work on it. I work on all our memory verses every day. And it's Deuteronomy 31, 6. Fear not, uh, for the Lord thy God, he it is that doth go with thee. He will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. And um that if it's not the last words that Mildred ever said to me, it's one of the very last words that I ever heard come off the lips of Mildred before she went home to heaven. Would you agree with me? That's pretty positive. Fear not, nor be afraid of them. The Lord thy God, he it is that doth go with thee, he will not fail thee, he will but forsake thee. And that's what Joseph is doing. He's going out of here comforting those that are left behind, reaffirming God will keep his word, trust him, wait on him, have faith in him. That's his last recorded words in the Bible, isn't that something? Take me with you. When God visits you and takes you out, take my bones with you. By the way, I'm getting ahead of myself. Years later, Moses does that exact thing when they come out, takes the bones with them, we're told. And then later on, Joshua makes sure they get buried where they're supposed to be buried. They honor them. Twinston Churchill, anybody recognize that name? Great Prime Minister of uh England during World War II and personally treme tremendous leader. He was uh quite a character But um he was a tremendous leader in England. I read I was I read a short biography of him about a month ago, several weeks ago, just a brief biography, particularly of his time during uh World War II. And I and I read where Winston Churchill planned in detail his funeral before he died. He knew he was coming to the end, wasn't doing well. So he put it together and um uh he called it, and I don't know why they did this, but he called his funeral, the planning of his funeral ahead of time, he called it Operation Hope Not I don't know where what the deal was with that, but that's what he referred to it. But this is what I thought was interesting. And he died, I think it was January twenty-fourth, nineteen sixty-five. He was buried six days later. They had the funeral. Big state funeral It was the largest funeral in the history of England up to that point, of any leader of England, largest funeral service. And in his planning, in his directions for his funeral, he wanted, at the end of the funeral, he asked for two musical arrangements. He said, when you're done, all the ceremonies, and he was big on pomp and circumstance, and he was a great military man before he was ever prime minister. He was an amazing man. And he said, I want two musical um uh uh performed. He said the first thing when everything's done, I want Taps to be played. Anybody know what taps is? It's the end of the day. I want taps to be played. But I don't want it to end with that. He says when that's done, then I want somebody to pray play play revelie. That's the morning. Up and about, getting to it, going forward. And his whole purpose was for that. Now I I have my questions about whether he was saved or not. He was Christian in the sense. I don't know about his salvation. But he wanted revelie to be played because he believed as Christians do in general, is that death was not the end of it all. There's still a life after. And for a believer there's eternal life after. And he wanted revelity to be played, uh, not just taps. Isn't that something? I think that's what Joseph is doing when he says, hate my bones with you. Joseph fully anticipated a resurrection someday. If there was no resurrection, if there was no future, if there was no life beyond the grave, why would he care whatever they do with his bones? Just throw them in the Nile. But him and like his daddy Jacob and like Isaac and like Abraham they believed there would be a resurrection coming. I'm here to tell you there's a resurrection coming. And when Christian dies, it's taps, we miss them, but it's also reveling, because there's new life on the other side. Isn't that good? Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to help us to learn from Joseph here. I pray that our faith in you would be strong. I pray that we would have confidence in your promises to us for here and the hereafter. I pray you'd help us, whatever our past may be, help us not to let that define us, but to be what you have us to be today, and for what the life you've given us. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I've got stuff in the past, maybe that I've been involved in, or that maybe I grew up in. That I'm letting affect me too much. And I need to put it behind and be the man, be the woman that God intends for me to be, and put that behind. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. My hand's raised. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I need to quit focusing on the negative and the critical and the complaining and the pains, the aches and pains, and the brevity of life, and start focusing on the promises of God. And be a blessing and be encouragement to people, even when maybe uh uh I'm going through it a bit. Any like that, any like that. Sure, we all want to be that way. Father, I pray you bless our invitation now Uh use these thoughts I ask in Jesus name a