The reading of verse 3. Now we started this last week, uh this uh section here. We began, we're preaching through the book, and uh we got to this last week, and I really only got the few opening statements And um so I want to I'm gonna be I'm gonna be a little uh uh repetitious from last week and I'm gonna try and abbreviate what we said last week. But the reason I'm doing that is is I want to have continuity of thought. Verse number seven is what we're going to be looking at. And I just think to chop that verse up into uh a pa a sa a message last week and then another part this week, we wouldn't get the the full uh uh truth that's being presented here. So if you'll bear with me a little bit, I'll kind of review what we said last week and try to bring this together. The subject, the title I've given to the message and to this passage is the trial of your faith. I believe this is an important truth, and I believe it's very important. Now, you know, I'm talking, I'm preaching to a lot of folks who've been saved a long time. And so I know what we're going to look at in this passage here tonight is not going to be anything new for a lot of us. Not only because we've read it and we've heard it preached on, many of us have studied it. From the Bible, but for many of us, what I'm going to preach on tonight we know is true because we've experienced it and and we've been through it and we've seen We've experienced what this tr this passage is teaching us. So for a lot of us, it will be, yes, that's true. I know that's true. I agree with that. I believe that will be true for a lot of us Some it might be, oh, this explains what's happening. Now I understand a little bit what's happening. And I think it's important for new Christians, particularly To understand that the Christian life, for just using a cliche, for lack of more creative way of saying it, the Christian life is not a bed of roses. Can I get an amen on that or not? It's not been a bed of roses. And I got saved pretty young, 19 years old. And I can honestly say with you, I've had greater heartache since I've been saved than I did before I was saved. I've uh been through some greater trials since I've been saved than I have been than I was before I got saved. Now I was kind of young, so you know there wasn't a lot of life lived yet. I made a mess out of what I had. But how many people how many people would say, preacher, that's been my experience also. Since I've been saved, I've had I've had real heartache. Anybody can anybody relate to what I'm talking about and get a witness? Sure You say, well, I thought it would be differently. I thought you'd get saved, and man a lot of bills are paid. You don't have impacted peat. You know, everybody loves you. Everything's a bed of roses. It's not that way at all. And by the way, it's not that way by design. By God's design. So, with that in mind, let's look at this here. I'm going to begin reading in verse 3 just to get the whole context, come down through verse 9. Then we'll get back here to verse 7. Look at verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. To an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled, and that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you, who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation Ready to be revealed in the last day, last time, wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, ye are in look at this, ye are in what Heaviness through manifold temptations. The word temptations, trials, difficulties, hardships. And I just have to stop and pause. I know we do it every time. But it's just impressive to me that these dear believers, through the intense persecution and heartache they're going through, they, look what it says, they greatly rejoiced. What a testimony. What a testimony. Now verse 7, he kind of gets to the crux of the matter. That the trial of your faith Being much more precious than that than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire might be found unto the praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ Then he goes on, whom having not seen ye love, in whom though now ye see him not, yet believing ye rejoice with joy unspeakable, full of glory. Receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls. The trial of your faith. Let's pray. And as I said, I just want to briefly recap what we said and try and get this train moving and look at two other thoughts. Father I pray you bless now our time in your word. It's sure been a joy to my heart to be in the house of God. And Lord, I say amen to the testimonies given about what a wonderful church you've given us. God, you are wonderful. And you blessed us beyond what we deserve. Absolutely. So now we ask you to speak to us again tonight. Lord, help us to understand when these trials come. Help us to see them from a heavenly perspective. And I pray through the supernatural power of your Holy Spirit That in the midst of our trials, in the midst of the storms, we could follow the example of these dear believers and rejoice exceedingly with joy unspeakable, full of glory. Lord, we'd sure like to be able to do that. We'd sure like to experience that. So fill me with your spirit. I yield my will to you, and with all my heart I pray you speak through me, Lord. And be the preacher tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Peter was certainly well qualified to speak about trials. We mentioned that last week. He'd had his share. of manifold trials. He knew what it meant to fail fail God and fail him thoroughly when he denied the Lord three times. He knew what it was to struggle with faith in the midst of a literal storm when he's walking on water and he gets his eyes off the Lord and he gets looking at his situation. The Bible says he saw the wind and the waves And uh he saw his situation and became overwhelmed and began to sink. And so he knew what it was like to struggle with faith in the midst of the storm He knew what it was like to fail the Lord, and he certainly knew what it was like to suffer for his fate. He was imprisoned. He was beaten. And he ultimately gave his life, not because he was a criminal or a murderer or a rapist or anything like that. He ultimately was executed because he was a preacher of the gospel. Because it was a Christian faithfully serving God. So he knew he ha he had a little bit of uh experience to uh draw on when he's in trying to encourage these believers who are being persecuted severely and going through trials. And of course, the Spirit of God is moving and directing him to write this. But God sure chose, I think, a a tremendous uh instrument to record the first of uh the book of first Peter and 2 Peter. First, as we look as we first looked at him, I thought, what in the world, Peter? And then we look at his life and we say, yeah. Yeah, he can speak from experience here. He can speak from the heart. And I believe that's what he's doing. We pointed out, we tried to address first of all last week the trial of our faith, as referenced there, the first part of verse 7 The word trial, if you remember, we said means this, to test, or this idea, to prove genuine, to prove whether it's genuine or not. We're going to test this. We're going to put it through a trial. And we're going to prove whether it's genuine or not. It means this to determine the quality or the integrity of something Now this is before my time, probably before most everybody here's time, maybe probably everybody, but back in the day when they had gold coins, there used to we used to have a gold standard, and they actually use gold coins maybe out western places And one thing you never knew sometimes whether that coin was genuine coin or not, whether gold or not. And anybody know what the old timers used to do to determine whether that was an actual gold or not? What'd they do? They invite it. And uh I got gold in my tooth, but I never bit any gold like that. And they would bite that, they'd put pressure on it. And if it gave, if it was um uh soft metal, then that indicated that it was genuine gold. If it broke their tooth, it probably wasn't gold. And so that's the idea behind this word, the trial of your faith, the testing, the proving, the determination whether this faith is genuine. Whether this faith has any quality to it, whether it's integrity to it. Did you ever think this way? Did you ever think like this? You say you see somebody and man they're going through a trial or God's using them. And do you ever think this? Boy, I'd sure love to have the faith they have. Anybody, everybody, I've thought that many times Boy, if I only had as much, here's how we say it sometimes. If only I had as much faith as they do. Can I suggest to you it's not how much faith we have? There's people in this world have a lot more faith than I do. There's people in this auditorium have far more faith than I do. There's no doubt about that. It's not the amount of our faith, but it's the what? The quality of our faith. The integrity of our faith. I can take the little bit of faith I have and put it in the Lord Jesus Christ and accomplish and see God do great things. Somebody has great, tremendous amount of faith, and they don't put much in the Lord. They trust in themselves or other things and not see as much. You follow what I'm trying to say And so Peter's saying, listen, God's trying your faith. You're going through these horrific persecutions. You're being hounded, your heartache, you've lost loved ones because of your faith God's proving something. He's testing the integrity of your faith. He's proving it. I put this down. I mentioned it last week. Untested faith reveals nothing about the quality of my faith. If it never is tested, it's never tried, it's never put to the test, is my faith uh of a higher quality? Do I have strong faith? Is it weak? An untried faith tells me nothing about the quality of my faith. And we looked at some examples of that in the Bible where some folks, boy, they appeared to have great faith, and they hit the test, and boy, that faith wasn't everything we thought of. We mentioned John Mark. I think I referenced Demas last week. Demas, Paul said, Demas hath forsaken me, having loved this present world. Um, 1 Corinthians 1013. Anybody know what 1 Corinthians 1013 says? Anybody got that memory? I'm I'm sure there's people who have memorized. There hath no temptation taken you, but what? Such is common to man. God is faithful and will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able. Now man, that's a tremendous truth. That's a tremendous verse. There's a lot in there. That tells me this, everybody's going to face temptation. And the temptation there, I believe, is the enticement to sin. There's no temptation taking such as common to men. I'm tempted to sin. These girls down here are tempted to sin. Pastor Matt's temp to sin. Brother Brian's temp to sin. We go through here. It's common to all of us. Don't Don't say, boy, I'm facing a temptation. Nobody else goes through this. Don't believe that. That's common to everybody. I had a gal years ago, years ago said to me, I've never been tempted to sin. I said, oh brother, are you an what are you an alien or something? So uh temptation is common to everybody, but then he says this, there's no temptation, but such is common to man God is faithful. Now listen. Who will not suffer you or allow you, permit you to be tempted above that you are what? Abel. Now think about that with me a little bit. If temptation comes, I'm being tempted, God is allowing me to be tempted. Is it God's will I be tempted? No, I don't think so. He doesn't tempt any man, James tells us. But he allows it If I'm being tempted to sin, tempted to do something wrong that God forbids or not do something God instructs me to do, that temptation is there. God is allowing that. Why is he allowing that? I believe it's to prove the strength of my faith. Because if that temptation was more than I was able to bear, God would not allow me to face it. You follow what I'm saying? God is faithful. Not suffer you to be tempted above that you're able. If it's above that I'm able, then he won't allow it to happen. So several things that means. Number one, if I'm tempted, I can't have victory. The fact that I'm being tempted is proof I can have victory, because if I couldn't, then God wouldn't let me be tempted in that area. Is everybody with me? Everybody follow him safe? Now I think there's a side effect of that whole experience How I respond to that temptation indicates to me the strength of my faith is a testimony to myself and to others. The strength of my faith. If I'm tempted to something and God allowed it, because if I I could have victory over it, or He wanted to let me do it, and I give in to it, then I realize, ah, my faith isn't what I thought I would Peter experienced that. Uh what are you gonna deny me? I'll never deny you He thought his faith was a lot stronger than what it was, didn't he? He thought his faith was a higher quality than what it was And within just a few short hours, he did exactly what he said he would never do. I'll die before I deny you That test, that temptation to deny the Lord was a trial of his faith, was proving, and Peter learned humbly That my faith wasn't nearly the quality I thought it was. And I believe he benefited from it. He grew from that. I think he came out stronger in the end And so he says, the trial of your faith. It may be persecution. How am I going to am I going to run? Am I going to trust the Lord and go through it? Temptation, demus This whole world, the lights, attracted his attention and boy, it he fell in love with the world. He forsook of Loved this present world, and God allowed him to face that temptation, and uh his faith wasn't apparently wasn't what uh the quality it could have been or should have been And so the trial of our faith, we mentioned Abraham last week when God proved him, tried him, tempted him is the term the Bible uses to test him. to offer his son Isaac up. And man, Abraham passed that test with flying colours. And here he I'm telling you, I am telling you When I read and study Abraham and Isaac, offering up Isaac, every time I read that, every time I think of it, it is a phenomenal challenge to my own faith in God. And God is still using that testing, that trial of Abraham's faith to help me, to help me be strong in the Lord. When our faith is tried and proven to be genuine, It reveals to others the goodness of God. Somebody says, how in the world can someone like that go through that trial, be tested like that And yet stay faithful to God. And even in the midst of it, rejoice in the Lord. Wow. That's an amazing God they have that they would be able to do that. that they would be able to do that. Everybody with me? Everybody following what I'm saying? The integri uh I can you th uh well Paul and Silas in Acts chapter 16. Remember? They're in Philippi They're winning some souls. Town turns against them. You can't do that. You can't preach that. You can't preach the name of Jesus. And they say, well, do what you got to do. We're keeping preaching Jesus. They threw them in jail They put them in stocks. How many people understand a little bit? You say, I think I understand a little bit what the jails were like back then. Anyone? They didn't have cable TV. They didn't have mattresses. There was no weight rooms. There was not nothing like that. I mean it's a pit, it's a hole in the ground, basically. They're in stocks, their feet and their their wrists, they're in stocks Uh they're like that. At midnight, the Bible says they sang praises and prayed. Then there's a great statement, if we had time we look at it, there's a great statement right after that in that verse, it says, and the prisoners heard them. You know what God was doing? God was putting them through that, and their faith was being proved, and everybody looked and said, man, what those guys got is real What those guys have is the real deal. And I believe, the Bible doesn't clearly say this, but I believe that testimony they had was a powerful impact on that jailer. when he came in and said, what must I do to be saved? What must I do to be saved? So the trial of our faith, it's not just haphazard. And get this, when our faith is trialed, when we go through a storm, we go through a trial, it's not just haphazard, and it's not meaningless. It's not meaningless. I tell you, if we can know there's a reason behind this, it sure helps us to deal with things. Say, this doesn't make sense. Oh, God's trying our faith. You know, well, that makes sense. It helps us deal with it. So he's writing to these believers He says, the trial of your faith, the trial of your faith, then I put this down, my second thought is this, the treasure of our faith. Look what he says. That the trial of your faith being much more, I love that next word, precious. Peter uses that numerous times throughout his writing, precious. The trial of your faith being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire. The treasure of our faith. That phrase much more precious has this idea. Much more costly. A much greater value. More highly honored. What's it more precious than? Gold that perisheth. Our world loves gold, don't they? Our world looks how to get rich in five easy steps. You know, man alive, we our our world practically worships billionaires and millionaires. Well, you got a lot of money, you're somebody You got a big bank account, you're something else. Um our world loves money. Our world honors moneymakers Forbes comes out, top one hundred billionaires in the world and how they did it. A world loves money. A world loves moneymakers. The world values money. Now listen, money, gold, in and of itself, is not wrong. God's designed the world to operate on a monetary type basis. How many people think it would be great if we could send missionaries wouldn't cost a dime? Wouldn't that good great? We'd have million missionaries. But God set it up this way. So money, gold in and of itself is is not sinful. What did Paul tell Timothy? Did he say money is the root of all evil? Is that what he said? No, he said what? The love of money is the root of all evil. So money has value. Money in the world has tremendous value. But Peter's writing to these believers that are going through it, and he says, listen to what he says. He said, this trial you're going through, this persecution, those hot tears on your cheeks, that running for your lives and living in strange places because you're driven out of your home hometowns He said, all that's a trial you're going through. It's proving your faith and what you're going through is more precious than all the gold in the world. It's more valuable. Let me put it this way. Now it might be hard for you and I to grasp this, but I believe this is a solid biblical truth. A tried and proven faith in God is far greater than all the gold in the world. What I'm suggesting in this is this, a genuine, proven, tried and proven faith in God. is of greater value to me than all the gold in the world. Than all the gold in the world. Things that are impossible with man are what? Possible with God. I guess let me put it this way. God can do things for you and I if our faith is real, if our faith is genuine, God can do things for you and I that all the money in the world could never do for you and I. I'm going to suggest to you there are some dear people in our church that hardly have two nickels to rub together, and they've got more than Donald Trump and all the billionaires in the world have. They have a relationship with God. They have peace with God. They have the presence of God in their life. They have the joy of the Lord in their life. I want to suggest to you, and I can't tell you this firsthand, but I am convinced of this, there are movie stars and rock and roll stars and politicians that have money coming out their ears. that would give it all up to have some have what some dear people in our church have. Peace in their heart, a clean conscience. acceptance with God. He says, listen, the trial of your faith, your faith going through this trial and being tested. That faith, when it's proven, that proven, genuine faith is of greater value than gold that's tried with fire, though it perisheth. The treasure of our faith. When I was young, we had a gravel driveway, and they bring this gravel, and I don't know, I don't know what kind it was, granite or something, some kind of broken up uh gravel there. And uh in that gravel, every now as little kids, we get out there playing with our um do they still make hot wheels? And matchbox is funny. I had two sisters. They'd be playing over there with their dolls. Oh hi Martha, how are you? Oh, I'm fine, Mabel. How are you? Oh, I'm doing good. Let's cook dinner. Okay. I love your dress. They'd be doing that And uh I'd be there with my neighbor Scott Smith, he was my buddy, we'd be up there, we never said a word, we just went, yow, boom, and there'd be a bomb under and boom, the car would go fl And uh we didn't make n we didn't say words, we just made noises. And the girls actually said words. I'm trying to think why I'm telling this to you. Um In the driveway they had this gravel. We'd make little roads in the gravel there and drive our little cars. And every now and then you'd find one of those little rocks and it looked like it had gold in it Anybody remember that? Oh wow, I found gold. So I collected them all. I had barrels of this. We didn't have any gravel in our driveway, but I had all this And I thought, and uh, man, it's gold. You know what that's called? It's not really gold, it's what? Fool's gold. Fool's gold. I want to suggest to you a faith. You and I might think we have great faith. Oh, I've got great faith in God. Oh, my faith. But if it's never been tested, It may just be fool's gold. It may just be fool's faith. Fool's faith. It's not quite everything, oh, I thought that was, and it's not what I thought it was. But brother, you find some dear saint of God, some dear man, some young person, and God lets him go through the fire And God, in his wisdom and plan, allows them to be tried and their heart be broken. And they maintain their faith in God. They maintain their trust in God. God says that's of great, great value. You know what I found? I found that those that have the strongest faith Those that have the great the most genuine faith usually don't talk about it a whole lot. They don't go around bragging how good a Christian they are and how much faith they have You know what I found? They pretty much live it. Just the presence of God there. Do you ever get with someone and you just sense the presence of God in their life? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I'd venture to say most of the time, if not all the time, that person's been through the fire. That faith has been tried and tested And they have the presence of God there. So the trial of our faith, it's a purpose, there's a reason, it's to prove how genuine the integrity of my faith, the quality of my faith. It's very, very valuable. That genuine faith is very precious. And let me give you the last thought here real quick, the tribute of our faith. Look at the last part of verse 7. Much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire. Now look what he says. That it that it might be found, he uses three words. Unto the praise. And unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ That word might be, that phrase might be found, has this idea, to be discovered, observed to be. It says we've seen it, you've been through it, we've watched this, we've seen it. And we've seen it's real. We've seen the value of your faith in God. It's been proven to be very, very precious, very, very genuine. And God says, when we see that, when he sees that, it's to the praise and honor and glory. Now, the word praise there means to be commended. A lot of times we think of praise as praising the Lord, expressing our gratitude to Him. It's a little different word used here, translated here. This has the idea of be commended. It's like somebody accomplished something. We go up and shake their hand and say, good job, good job. It's a little bit, we had the teen rally a week ago yesterday. Was that right? Was that a week ago yesterday It was all said and done. Man, this altar was packed, and the program went good. The teams were stirred up. The preaching was powerful. It was all going. About everybody was going. And Brother Matt was somewhere. I came up and I took him by the hand and I said, Brother Matt, good job. You did a good job. And that's the idea, that word praise there, to commend. So praise. Unto praise and then honor. That means to be valued. Boy, we honor this. This is very valuable. And glory means to be exalted and magnified. Now look very carefully the wording here That your faith, tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory, but it doesn't say unto God. He just says, unto praise, honor, and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ So I got looking at that and trying to think and praying, Lord, who is this praise and honor and glory to? Is it being given to the Lord or is it given to the one who's been tested and tried and found to be true And I think what he's saying here is God is praising and honoring and glorying The believer that has proven their faith to be true through that trial. I think that's who the praise and honor and glory is from the Lord to that. In other words, God's saying, that's who I honor. This is the one I commend, not the one that can sing the loudest. Hey, we're all for beautiful singing. I sang a little bit this morning in the message. It was amazing. But um it's not oh that one can sing so beautiful Oh they can say Amen really loud That's the one I honor and praising no Uh man, that person can quote all of the New Testament. Uh those are all great things. I'm all for saying amen and praise the Lord for beautiful music and You know, memorizing verses are good, but that's not who God honors. That's not who God praises. That's not who God glories in. It's the one that trusts him. that has genuine, legitimate faith in him, even when it doesn't make any sense what's happening to him. And God said, there's the one. Now, we're going to cheat a little bit. We won't take time to go there, but if you go into Revelation, we find out all this reward, all these crowns, all this praise and honor and glory that the Lord gives to those whose faith is genuine. You know what we're gonna you know what they're gonna do with it? They're gonna turn around and direct it right back to the Lord. Take all those crowns, all that glory, all that thing that the Lord honors us with, and we'll we'll just throw it at the feet of Jesus. We're going to say, Lord, it's you. I'd be burning with the devils in hell if it wasn't for you. Lord, you get the praise. You get the honor. You get the glory. But God honors, that's who God honors, that's who God praises, that's who God glories. Those whose faith is genuine, trust him. And then he says at the appearing of Jesus Christ, I tell you what, I think when the Lord comes, maybe today, I think when the Lord comes and we're caught up together with him in the air, I think we'll look at the trials and we're going to see our tears. And we're going to see our confusion we've gone through from a whole different perspective. And right now it's like, what in the world are you doing to me, God? Don't you love me? At the appearing of Jesus, we'll look back and say, oh yeah, the Lord loved me, all right. He was doing something. He was molding me, he was making me He was developing integrity in my faith. He was developing the quality of my faith. We'll see our trials from a whole different perspective. Oh well I think we're gonna I think we're gonna see that things that we thought were so important down here, we're gonna look back and say, oh, that wasn't that important. I think we'll see our our values will be different. Our priorities and our we'll see our trials. As I was working on this the last several weeks, and again this week for tonight. I think there's a lot of folks in our church that have been through some real trials. And in the years I've been here As your pastor, I've seen amazing acts of faith on the part of believers in this church when God put them through trials. Through some heartaches, setbacks, failures. Now we've we've seen some, and you know it's not our place. It's the Lord takes care of this, but we've seen some some some hit something and man their faith wavered, struggled, and they've you know, they're off. You know, God knows, and we just pray and trust the Lord for their life. I tell you there's some been through it I hope I'm not out of place in this. I don't think so. Paul mentioned people in his writings that God used in his life. But years ago, when uh Sherman Harvey got sick, many remember that and passed away, I was out visiting with Paul and Mildred. It was such a shock. And Paul said something to me that has helped me. Paul said, Pastor, we don't understand. Listen to this, but we trust God. We trust God. Phew The trial of your faith. The sin of gold that perisheth. Don't be trying. Might be found into the honor, the praise at the appearing of Jesus Christ. That is what God praises. That is what God honors. That has been such a challenge to me. And I faced heartaches and disappointments that don't even come close to what they dealt with. So I'll just trust you, God. Just going to trust you. What a powerful message Keter writes. To these believers who are going through it. And you know what? They rejoice exceedingly. Joy unspeakable. Let's pray that God would help us, that in the midst of our trials, we have faith in Him We trust Him. Amen. Father in heaven, please help us. Take to say this because I I don't want to be dishonest, but Lord, we need to thank you for the trials. We need to because of what they accomplish and the purpose you have for them. So help us have this right perspective. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I want my faith? I want my faith to be in God and I want it to be genuine and true. Any like that? Of course, who in the what believer in the world wouldn't want that? And maybe as we go out into this week and we have no idea what this week holds, maybe you just want to kneel at an old altar and say, Lord, I'm trusting you. Help me, Holy Spirit, to stay faithful through whatever you bring in my way, allow in my life I believe God will help us. I sure do. Father, bless our invitation time now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed. Eyes are closed. As Jennifer plays the invitation.