James chapter five. I know you got your Bible with you because I saw 'em a few minutes ago. And so we bring them, I always like to say this, we bring our Bibles to church, we might as well use them, huh? And so get them out and keep them out because we're going to be going to a few different verses this evening. James chapter 5, I want to read verse number 15. But in this verse here for a couple of weeks now, so Lord will, and I want to try and finish it up tonight. I think there's some things here that I trust will be very, very helpful to us in our prayer life and our Christian life. James chapter 5. I just want to read verse 15. If you're there. It says, and the prayer of faith. I like that statement. That's one of the reasons we got hung up here for a little while. The prayer of faith shall save the sick. And the Lord shall raise him up, and if you have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. He goes on then and uh expands on that. But I want to talk tonight about this prayer of faith And the promise that comes along with it. How many people, just curious, I just thought of this, how many people read that verse and it raises some questions up in your mind? Anybody? You look at that verse and you think, well, what's he saying here? Well let's look at it and see what uh let's see if we can answer that question for us. Let's pray together. Father, it's been a good day. Lord, it is a blessing to have the families with the little babies here this morning And what a joy it was. And I trust that our church and the service was a blessing to these folks, an encouragement. Maybe we're able to challenge them a little bit. to look to you and and raise their children in fear and admonition of the Lord. We thank you for others and what you're doing here in our midst. We give you glory Now, Lord, as we finish out this Lord's Day, this special day in our weekly schedule, we pray that you'd speak to us And that you'd challenge us and help us for the coming six, seven days till we meet again next Sunday. And I pray that our faith would grow and be strong. Our witness would be strong this week. And so speak to us. I yield myself to you. Ask that you would fill me with your Spirit again. Every one of these messages, I want you to speak through me, speak your word through me. to each of our hearts, I pray. In Jesus' name we ask this. Amen. Now if you remember we're pointing out this passage of scripture here, James, under the inspiration of God, is giving some instructions to Christians in their Christian life. And he's telling us, very practical as the book is, very practical, what we should do when we're de when we're afflicted. He says, if any man if um uh uh verse thirteen, if any among you uh is afflicted, is any among you afflicted? Let him pray. Saying he, Mary, let him sing. And he comes down through here and he gives these lists of things to do in different situations. We come to verse 15 and he makes that statement. He says, and the prayer of faith Now, this whole subject is on prayer. This whole passage section of Scripture is on prayer. The prayer of faith shall save the sick. And we pointed out, if you remember, the prerequisite of faith when we pray. If we don't have anything else in our prayer life, we ought to have faith. And so the prerequisite, and we, if you recall, we said that faith is a priority in prayer As I just said, uh there's a lot of necessary ingredients in getting my prayers answered. We gave some of those, but if I don't have faith, I can have everything else in place. But if my faith is lacking in my prayer life, then my prayers are not going to be answered. My prayers are going to be ineffective And so we must begin with faith, every area of our Christian life. And we talked about that at length. Then we said that faith must be uh not only uh faith needs to be a priority in prayer But our faith must be pointed in our prayers. And what I mean by that is we're trusting Christ. We're not trusting my ability to pray or the greatness of my prayers or the uh the ingenious of the how I ask for things or what I'm asking for. That's what not not what makes my prayers effective. It is the fact that I'm praying to Jesus Christ And we try to emphasize the fact that prayer in and of itself does not change things. God changes things in response to our prayer. So our prayers must our faith must be pointed in our prayers to Christ and be very specific in our request. And then we ended with faith must be persistent. When I have faith in God, my prayers will be persistent. And we looked at scores of passages there, many, many passages, I should say of uh God encourages us to pray and keep on praying, keep on praying, keep on praying. If I really believe that God answers prayer, if I'm really trusting God That he will answer my prayer, then I'm not going to quit. I'm going to stay at it. Uh I re I like what George Mueller said. I read this last week. The great fault of the children of God is that they do not continue in prayer. They do not go on praying. They do not persevere in prayer. So whatever it is you're praying for, whatever that overwhelming need is in your life, and I have my own, uh, Kathy and I have our own That we pray for and pray for and pray for. The challenge is this. Let's trust God and let's just keep right on praying. Just keep on praying. Don't quit until God intervenes one way or another until God does something, either meets the need, answers the prayer the way we anticipate, or he changes our attitude towards it and our approach. So that was the prerequisite for prayer. Now, I want us to consider two other things very, very quickly. Second of all, I want us to consider the purpose of prayer. Now let me ask you this question. Why do we pray? Why do we pray? Why do you pray? I trust you're a Christian. Christians no doubt certainly pray regularly and earnestly. Why do we pray? What is the purpose? of us coming to God in prayer. Now for us in America, that may be difficult to answer because we don't have a whole lot of needs. We are so prosperous in our land that we have confused our wants with our needs How many people ever went in a store and you saw something, you made this statement, Oh, I need one of those. An hour ago you didn't know it existed. Now all of a sudden I need it. Can I get a witness? So if we have all this stuff, we really don't have a lot of needs. They're really so prosperous it's all there. Why do we pray? Here's my answer. Now, maybe you have one in your mind. Here's my answer. We pray, when we pray, we are seeking God. To do for us that which we cannot do for ourselves. When I come to God in prayer, I am asking God to provide something that I need That I cannot provide for myself. Now, there are occasions, granted, there are occasions when God does things for us that we could have done ourselves. But God steps in and his mercy and grace is goodness and he'll he'll help us in areas even that we probably could have worked that out one way or another, but we look to God and God answered that. But for the most part Our prayers are asking God to provide something, some legitimate need, sometimes it's a want. We ask God for it. I cannot do that myself. I'm asking you to do that for me. Maybe We're asking God, we're praying because we need God to give us some direction in life. That I don't know which direction to go. I don't have the answer. I don't know which direction to go with with this situation And so I look to God and God, you know, you know the end from the beginning. You know the the You know the results of every scenario where each scenario leads to, God, which is the one I should do And so I'm looking to God to do for me that which I cannot do for myself. Maybe in providing something and giving direction. How about wisdom? That kind of ties in with the direction James chapter 1 verse 5. We studied it a while ago. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. Pray. I don't know what to do. I don't know what the right answer is here. I don't know what the solution is to this problem. Well, ask God, but let him ask in faith Nothing wavering. And so we pray. The purpose for our prayers is to seek God to do for us what we cannot do for ourselves. Maybe in a matter of comfort. Any given time, on any given Sunday morning, probably Sunday night, Wednesday night, any given time, there are people sitting in this building, on this campus, there are people who have broken hearts. There are people who need God to comfort them. They need God to step in and strengthen our hearts and help us and comfort us any given time. And so we try to comfort ourselves, we try to comfort our brother or sister, our family members, try to comfort them, but sometimes we need God to give that comfort And that's where prayer comes in. Asking God to do for me what I cannot do for myself. Maybe changing circumstances Remember Paul? He had the thorn in his flesh. He sought the Lord three times that God would remove that thorn. Now God didn't remove the thorn. It wasn't his plan. It wasn't his purpose. God was doing something Uh and Paul figured that out as a result of his prayer, and God changed his attitude. So sometimes we're in a circumstance, and I can't change my circumstances, and uh something's gotta give, and I can't handle this And so I come to God in prayer. Sometimes He will change the circumstance. A lot of times he'll change our attitude about that circumstance. And allow us to go through it. We pray, we ask God to do for us what we cannot do for ourselves. In Acts chapter 4, the early church prayed and asked God for power That they may speak the Word of God as they ought to. They were praying for Holy Spirit power to w when they shared the gospel, when they witnessed the people The power of God, the Holy Spirit of God would fill them. The power of God would bring conviction, and people would turn to Christ and be saved and find eternal life. Listen, I can't save a soul. I don't have the power in myself to bring conviction. A little boy Charlie and I were talking to, young man, uh we couldn't open his eyes and open his mind to understand. We need the Holy Spirit of God there filling us and empowering us And so we pray for that. They did in the book of Acts. We pray for spiritual victory. Maybe there's a besetting sin. Besetting sin is one that I just cannot shake. It just comes back, it comes back, I think I've got victory, I got it behind me, and lo and behold, that thing's back again And you say, God, I need your help. I need power of the Holy Spirit. I need victory in this area. And God does it. Oh, we pray. We ask God. The purpose for prayer is asking God to do for me that which I cannot do for myself. Maybe we have somebody that's unsaved and we want to see that person saved. Curious, question. How many folks, someone right now, they're heavy on your heart, they're lost? You desperately want to see them saved. Anybody here like that? Sure. My hands raised. Can we save them? No, I can't save them. But I can pray for their salvation Paul in Romans chapter 9, verse, and Romans chapter 10, verse part, he said, My prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. He was praying for the salvation of others. Listen, I say this often at invitation times, and I mean it. It's so important If we have people that are unsaved, we ought to be praying earnestly for them. God has to do that. God has to do that. So, what's the purpose of prayer? To seek God to do for us what we cannot do for ourselves. Now That brings us to our text. Sometimes maybe somebody is sick. Maybe it's a loved one, a child, a parent, brother, sister, spouse. Maybe it's myself. And sick, and very sick, if you remember our study of this passage. The word sick there isn't just they got a ruddy nose. This is serious illness And he tells us that we are to pray for the sick. We are to pray for healing. And so the purpose of our prayer, I can't make myself well, I can't heal myself, and uh maybe the doctors can't do this and all this. Uh I'm a little ahead of myself, but I want to make this statement here. Doctors actually don't heal us. You know that. All healing is ultimately from God. Our healing. Now, doctors and medicine and all that may be a role in it, but behind all of it, it is God that designed our bodies. so that they can heal. So really God gets all the glory. We're very grateful, I'm not trying to minimize doctors. We're very grateful and everybody that does that And God uses them. But uh we ask God to do this. So uh the uh the prerequisite of prayer is faith The purpose of prayer is to seek God to do for me what I cannot do for myself. In this context of our text is healing. Now I want us to look at the promise of prayer. The promise of prayer. Let's look again at verse number 15. The prayer of faith, now look at this promise, shall save the sick. And the Lord shall raise him up, and if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. Now, some folks take that and run with that verse. Some folks take that and they'll run with that outside of scripture, other scriptures that address this issue. So we want to address this from a scriptural point of position. The greatest need, now I'm being a little repetitious here, but the greatest need in our Christian life is faith. The greatest need in my prayer life is faith. Now let me ask you this. What is the source? You say, preacher, I need more faith. I believe God, but my unbelief is there. I just can't get I just don't feel strong in my faith. Where do I how can I get more faith? Well, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the. So the greatest need of my Christian life is faith. The greatest need of my prayer life is faith. And the greatest source of faith is the Word of God. The greatest source of faith is the promises of God. So if I want to pray in faith, pray a prayer of faith. I need to come to the Word of God where I find literally thousands of promises concerning prayer. Promises, hundreds and hundreds concerning answered prayer. The Bible is full of promises dealing with every aspect of life. Every aspect. James 5. 15 is a tremendous prayer promise. The prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up if he have committed any sins. They shall be forgiven him. What a prayer promise. How many people believe that verse? Right there. Believe that verse. How many people are, preacher, I believe it, but I don't fully understand it. Anybody like that? Sure, but it's a prayer promise. And God has given to us this verse to strengthen our faith and embolden us, I believe, in our prayer life. Now let's look at this. When he says the prayer of faith shall save the sick, What does he mean by that, save the sick? I'm suggesting, this is my first point under this, is he's talking about physical salvation. Shall save the sick and raise him up. The term salvation, as I see it in Scripture, is used three different ways. One way the term salvation is used is salvation from or deliverance from sin and its judgment. That's usually how we use the term salvation. I was saved on May 7, 1979, at 1030 at night, right after Did you ever hear I tell you that? We we use it that way, we're talking about salvation from sin, deliverance from sin and its judgment. Ephesians two eight nine for by grace are ye saved through faith not of ourselves the gift of God, not of works lest any man should boast. In Acts sixteen, the Philippian jailer comes into Paul after the earthquake, and uh Paul says Well Paul runs in it, do thyself no harm. And he says, What must I do to be saved? So he said, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, thou shalt be saved in thy house. So when we hear the word saved, we generally think of salvation of the soul. We think of the being delivered from God's judgment, from my sins and their Their power over me and God's judgment on that sin. I'm saved from hell. I'm saved from judgment. I have eternal life. I'm going to heaven. That's generally how we look at it. But it's also used In a different way, not just that way. Sometimes the word saved is used in reference to del uh as to deliverance from physical death Now I want to show you a couple verses where I get this. If you would turn to Matthew. Keep your place here in James, and this is where we're going to look at a bunch of verses here. A bunch of them are in Matthew, so keep your place there. Matthew chapter 10 And verse number twenty-one. I got into a back and forth letter writing uh debate with a fellow uh lives in town here. This was years ago, not long after I came, we had put a uh bo put a little plan of salvation um in the newspaper, the Republican, this was years ago, and this guy responded, and he disputed whether a person can lose their salvation or not And he used this. He was saying a person can lose their salvation, and I was wrong in preaching that you cannot lose your salvation. He used this text. Now notice in Matthew chapter 10, beginning in verse 21. And the brother shall deliver up the brother to what? That's important. What's he talking about here? When he says death, what's he talking about? Physical death. The brother is going to have the other brother killed, executed. He's talking about physical death. And the father, the child, and the children shall rise up against their parents and cause them to be put to death. So he's talking about people being put to death. And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake, but he that endureth to the end shall be See, I want to suggest to you that he is not talking about the salvation of the soul, deliverance from sin and its judgment. He's talking about they're going to be uh saved from being executed. They're not going to be uh uh put to death My brother and sister. And I believe the context bears that out. Turn with me over to Matthew chapter 24. Now here is the tribulation period. Very dangerous time, physically speaking, for believers. In fact, the only believers that are during the tribulation are people who got saved during the tribulation. All the church and believers at up to that point are raptured, and so then more people get saved afterward that never had opportunity before. So there's many, many, no doubt millions are get saved. But look at verse, chapter 24, verse 6. It says, Ye shall hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that ye be not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet. For nations shall rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and there shall be famines and pestilence and earthquakes in diverse places. These are the beginning of sorrows Then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted and shall kill you, and ye shall be hated of all nations for my name's sake Then shall many be offended and shall and shall betray one another and shall hate one another. And many false prophets shall rise and shall deceive many, and because iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold. So the context so far, what what kind of death would he be talking about here? He's talking about physical danger and physical death and sorrows. And look what he says. But he that shall endure to the end, the same shall be saved. The context here tells us he is not talking about spiritual salvation from sin and judgment. He's talking about those that endure through the tribulation period and are able, no doubt, hear go into the millennial kingdom. So I I said all that, and I don't mean to open a can of worms, but I said all that to say this. Sometimes the term saved in the Bible is used speaking about salvation from death. They don't die. We talk to people sometimes soul and they'll say, Did you ever get if you ask someone it, have you ever been saved, sometimes they won't understand what you're meaning And I say, oh yeah, I got saved. I was in a car wreck in 1987. And uh man that was left for dead and the uh the EMTs came. Melissa and Stewart came by and they saved me. Uh yeah, I got saved They're talking about physical death. And I believe that's what's referenced here. Then there's a third way I see in Scripture that the term saved or salvation is used, and that is salvation or deliverance from sickness. And I believe that's what he's using here in James chapter 5. When he says, prayer of faith shall save the sick, he's not talking about the salvation of their soul. He's talking about the salvation or the deliverance from this sickness that is afflicting them. Either through miraculous, instantaneous healing, or maybe through the God-given process of healing. And as I said a moment ago, all healing is of God. We thank the doctor, we give them credit for their role, but the glory goes to God. And so deliverance, the prayer faith shall save The sick shall make them whole, shall make them well. Now, salvation from sin and judgment. I hope you'll get this. How many folks are still with me? I hope I'm not dragging this out, but uh it's important to understand. Salvation from sin and its judgment is always priority over salvation from sickness. Always. Let me show that to you. Again, are you still in Matthew? Come over to chapter 9 in Matthew. And here's a classic example that in Jesus' mind, at least. Salvation from sin and its judgment is always a priority over salvation from sickness. Matthew chapter 9, and look with me at verse number 1. Matthew 9 and verse number 1. And he entered into a ship and passed over Uh that's not what I want. Matthew chapter nine verse two. I don't think this is it. Ah yes, this is it. I don't know if it's it or not. Let's read and find out And he entered into a ship and passed over and came into his own city, and behold, yes, they behold, they brought him a man sick of the palsy. So this guy is sick. Palsy's pretty serious Lying on a bed, and Jesus, seeing their faith, said unto the sick of the palsy, Son, be of good cheer. Thy body is made well. Is that what it says? No, that's not what it says. Son, be of good cheer, thy what? Wait a minute, he's sick of palsy. Who brought the subject of sins up? Jesus did. You know what? Jesus was more concerned about the salvation of this man's soul than he was concerned about his salvation from sickness. That was the priority in the Lord's mind. The issue here is this man needs to be saved. And behold, verse 3: certain of the scribes said within themselves, this man blasphemeth And their thinking is, how in the world can anyone forgive sins but God? Well, that's a good concern, but we know Jesus is God. And Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, Wherefore think ye evil in your hearts? Now look at this. For whether it is easier to say, Thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say, Arise and walk? But that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sins, then saith he to the sick of the palsy, Arise, take up thy bed, and go into thy house. And he arose and departed to his house. But when the multitudes saw it, they marveled and glorified God, which had given such power to men. Do you see the difference? Here the Lord says your sins are forgiven. He's talking about the salvation from sin and its judgment They were concerned about salvation from the sickness. And so my point is this salvation may re term saved may refer in the Bible, and I think in James chapter 5, it's referring to the say uh s save from the sickness. But in the Lord's mind, and it is always a priority of the salvation of the soul. That's one of the reasons of many that I have issue with these great healing campaigns and these big things they have on TV and they have these mass healings. Their emphasis is on the wrong thing. Christianity is not a healthcare program. And if somebody gets into Christianity so they can be healthy and wealthy, they got in for the wrong reasons and they're completely misguided. That is not what it's about. And so let's come back to our text, James chapter 5. And so when he makes this salv makes this statement, the prayer of faith shall save the sick. And the Lord shall raise him up. He's talking about salvation from the sickness, deliverance from this sickness. Now, notice something else there. So we have physical salvation. Is in this promise, prayer promise here. But we also have forgiveness of sins. Look again at verse 15. And if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. The word if there, I believe, as I'm studying this, I'm looking at this, I came to the conclusion, the word if there implies That there's that this sickness he's addressing is somehow associated with sins that have been committed. Prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up. And if he have committed any sins in connection with this sickness, they shall be forgiven him. There are some sicknesses that are the result of sin. Now, I want to be quick to point out: not all sickness is the result of sin. Another church member, somebody you don't like or whatever, I'm not associating the two, but uh somebody you don't like they get sick and you say, I knew it, they're living in sin. That's why they're sick. Don't you do that Chances are you're probably wrong, but even if you're right, it's none of your business. That's between them and God. Right or wrong? And so we have to be very, very careful. But there's no doubt that there are some sicknesses That are the result of sin. In Matthew chapter 5, verse 14, the Lord heals a fellow by the pool of Bethesda. Bethesda, remember he couldn't get in, the angels moved the water, he couldn't get in in time, and the Lord healed him, and then he gets lost in the crowd, and later the Pharisees are given a hard time and feet and Jesus finds them And approaches them and they're they're discussing and he says, Your sins are forgiven thee, but go and don't sin anymore And the implication there is pretty clear. This fellow was sick because of some sins that had been in his life. And the Lord associates his healing with the get getting rid of the sin. He associates it I've noticed, now I can't say this 100% of the time, but in my limited perspective, I've noticed several times over the years where when sin was dealt with, the sickness went away I've seen that in some folks. They're living in sin, they're very sick, they're not in fellowship with the Lord, they're not in fellowship with the Lord. Finally, revival meeting or whatever, they get right with the Lord, and lo and behold, that sickness disappears And that tells me, that confirms to me what Scripture says that sometimes sickness and sin, sickness is the result of sin. Now, not all the time. So let's come back to this verse. What's he saying here? The prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise them up. And if he commit any sins, they'll be forgiven of them. Is the Lord saying that if I have enough faith, if I say this prayer of faith, and people run with that, as I said, they'll have say this prayer of faith? Does that mean I'm guaranteed that whoever's sick, and I'm praying this prayer of faith for them, that they'll be made well, they'll raise up, and all their sins will be forgiven. Is that what it's saying? No. It's not what it's saying. This verse is not a blanket promise that all sickness will be cured if we pray in faith or if we have enough faith. I want to point a few things out, and then I'll quit. The mortality rate of the human race is 100%. You say, what do you mean? What I mean by that is 10 out of 10 people are going to die. I mean, this world is not our home. We're here for a temporary period of time. The overwhelming majority of deaths are the result of Sickness. Sickness. If this was a blanket promise, that if I prayed the right prayer That I would not be sick, that any and every sickness I have would be made well, we would no doubt have people thousands of years old. But sooner or later, even those with the greatest faith get sick and die. And so This verse, and there's other passages of scripture, Paul was sick. He had a thorn in the flesh, and we use this text often to refute that idea that God is saying That God will just answer, blanket promise that any sickness is going to be healed if we pray right. Paul asked the thorn in the flesh. And the Lord said, no, you're going to keep that. Until his dying day, Paul had this sickness, this affliction, whatever it was Uh take your Bible if you would. I want to show you this verse. I just came up thought of this just before the service tonight. Go to 3 John. Right before Jude, which is right before Revelation, go to 3rd John and look at a statement here John is writing again under the inspiration of God to this fellow Gaius. 3 John, it's not far from James. Turn over there. The elder unto the well-beloved Gaius, whom I love in truth. Now look at the statement John makes, again, under the inspiration of God. Beloved, I wish above all things, and this is his top of his prayer list. That thou mayest prosper and be in health, even as thy soul prospereth. Now, what does that statement tell you about the physical condition of Gaius? His health wasn't that great. He's saying, I'm praying, my desire is that you would be as healthy and as well physically as you are spiritually. So if having enough faith meant that I will not be sick, that I will be healthy and wealthy, then something's contradictory here with Gaius. Everybody follow what I'm saying? And so this is not a blanket statement. So what is the answer to this? What's he saying? Well, the mortality rate of humans 100%. All healing, all healing is at the best. Even the most miraculous healing is temporary. How many people remember Lazarus raised from the dead? Lazarus, come forth! How many people remember that story? I mean remember you were there. I mean you remember read about it. Lazarus come forth and ooh a miracle. It's amazing. Not only was he sick and made well, he is brought back from the dead Lazarus is not still with us. Lazarus died again. Right? The most miraculous healing you find in the Bible, they all eventually got sick again and died. Every one of them. Physical healing in this economy in this world this time is temporary Even the most miraculous. I don't mean to be kinda maybe shouldn't say this, but I noticed the faith healers on TV. A lot of them wear glasses. Is that not a failure of our physical body? Sure it is. Some of them have glaucoma and other things. I notice a lot of them have gray hair. Some of them have heads of hair. There's something wrong with them. They have a whole head of hair. God does not give a blanket promise. That if we have enough faith and we pray this certain prayer that all our sickness is going to be gone. All healing, even the most miraculous healing, is temporary. This world's not our whole. We're just passing through. Pass away or we'll be raptured. These bodies then will be transformed, never to get sick again, never to die again. But while we're in this body, We are perishing. And sickness is a very real part of it. I want to show you one more verse. Would you turn here with me real quickly? 2 Corinthians chapter 4. Paul, who knows a little bit about sickness, Paul who knows a little bit about the power of prayer and the miraculous power of God, in 2 Corinthians chapter 4, he makes a significant statement. Second Corinthians four, and look with me if you would at verse sixteen. He says, For which cause we faint not? Now he said, faint not there means we don't give up, we don't get discouraged, we don't quit We keep on, we keep on. For which cause we fate not. Now look. For though our outward man, what's the outward man? Physical body. It's our physical body, our outward man. For though our outward man what? Perish. Yet the inward man is renewed day by day. That word perish means has the idea of ruining, coming to ruins is failing. It's translated sometimes corrupt. This old outward flesh, some of y'all can give witness to this, it's failing. Right? Somebody we were talking before. Who who was it, Brian? Uh we don't move as fast as we used to. Somebody was saying that too. The older I get, I don't remember. So it takes me three days to do one day's work now. You know why? This outward man's failing. It's corrupting. The old organs don't work the way they used to. The old body is corrupting. Ecclesiastes talks about. An older man at the end of Ecclesiastes, how the body is failing and and breaking down, uh, corrupting and and coming to ruins The fact is, in this body, sickness is a very real part of life. Can God heal us from sickness? Yes, absolutely. There's no question. Does God heal from sickness? Many times, absolutely. Sometimes he does it miraculously in answers to prayer. But at the best it's always temporary, because in this flesh, this outward man is perishing, is perishing, is perishing. Christianity is not a guarantee of physical health and prosperity. So what's the answer? Well how do I take this verse? This is how I take it. I believe God has told me there that I need to have faith in Him. And when I or someone is sick, I need to come to him in absolute faith that he is able to heal this person and make them well. And when it is God's will, God can and will raise that person up. There's a lot more to prayer than just faith. There needs to be submission. There needs to be yielding to God. And if it's his will, then we thank God for it. So here's my admonition. Let's keep praying. Somebody got sick, very sick, you'd like to see them made well, then you pray and you have absolute faith in God. You keep praying, you claim God's promise. But in the end, here's the point: we always trust God's decision. We always have faith in God This is my request. Paul is a perfect example of that. He prayed and prayed and prayed the thorn would be taken. He claimed God's promises. No doubt. None of us here have greater faith, stronger faith than Paul had. And God said, nope, that sickness, that affliction is good for you. You're stronger with this in your life. I'm going to leave it there. How many folks here believe you have more faith in Jesus Christ? No. Jesus Christ prayed, Let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. Did God let that cup pass from him? No. God said, No. Now we need to understand that. And we take this promise and we hold on to it, we bring it to God, but we also understand That there's other verses that say God may and often does do other things. And so we trust Him. Sherman. I miss Sherman sometimes. I've been thinking about Sherman Harvey. Sherman Harvey lately. Drove the Sunday school buses, got sick suddenly Was a f was something in his heart still? I can't remember. Like a flu or something got in his heart. It's just a matter of days. Old Sherman went home. Just a shock. Paul and Mildred said something to me that I will never ever forget. We're sitting in their little kitchen there and we were talking sorry and we're in the conversation. Of course they were weeping And they Paul said this, as Paul or Mill did, they said this, Pastor, we trust God. Wow. We trust God. That's what we have to do. Pray. Claim the promise. God, I want to make, well, God, you said the prayer faith. But Lord, I trust you. And if this isn't the best thing, I trust you, but this is what I want, and I know you can. And that That's the way we have to approach it. Amen? Does that make sense? Let's pray together. Father, I pray that I hope I did justice to your word here. I believe this is what you mean. Help us not to waver in our faith, but Lord, help us not to take and claim things that you don't promise. Help us not to go beyond what your word teaches. And help us above everything else to trust you. In your decisions, your will Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many tonight would say, Preacher, I have a situation, a need in my life that is great and it's overwhelming And maybe say, preacher, I need to commit myself in a greater way to pray for this need, to pray for this situation. I do pray, but. I need to commit myself and be strong in trusting God. Is there any like that? I have a very specific burden request. Amen. Now I want to throw this on, tack this on, Philip. As we're praying and pouring our heart out to God and pleading with God, let's always be submissive Let's always be trusting, Lord, nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. Now, some things, if he expressly says in his word, this is my will, then we are tenacious. We do not let go. But in other matters we trust the Lord. Father in heaven, I pray you'd challenge us. Or maybe some of us have sin in our hearts and lives. Maybe some of us have some areas that need to be dealt with. I pray you would just do a work as we finish out this Lord's Day that maybe we could just humble ourselves before you and commit ourselves to prayer and faith. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Kathy's going to play a few verses of invitation. I don't know how the Lord might have spoken to your heart tonight, but I think this old-fashioned altar is a good place to come and bring these requests and bring these burdens. And just pour our hearts out to God and say, God, I believe you, I believe your word, and I trust you. Maybe it's a good thing to end the Lord's day and begin a new week. Just on our knees before the Lord and say, God, fill me with your spirit. Give me that hour that the church, early church prayed for. Give me wisdom to deal with these situations I have. God provide for me in this need Lord, this loved one's sick, or I'm sick, and Lord, I'd like for you to make me well. We must not be afraid to ask God and ask God for great things in faith, believing. And God can and often does do miraculous things