I want to help you. I want to encourage you. I want to be a blessing to you. And I'd like to bring a message this evening that I've entitled The Battle for Souls. Our Savior waged a great battle on Golgotha Hill. He took upon him the sins of all of the world. I can't hardly imagine what that must have been like. I know when I fail the Lord and I've got sin in my life, it's certainly a heavy load to carry. It's a burden that you have to face, and uh it's it's not an easy thing to deal with And uh so I can't imagine that that war that was going on. Uh Satan was tugging so hard and trying to prevent him from uh giving his life as a sacrifice But he waged that battle. He waged that war. And triumphantly on that third day he arose from the grave. And we have a living Savior that has ascended to the heavens above and is interceding on our behalf. He won that battle on Galgotha Hill and demonstrated his power by coming forth out of that grave And his ascension to heaven certainly seals that moment of victory that you and I have in and through the Lord Jesus Christ. The thing I want to impress upon you this evening He hasn't stopped waging that battle because he's using you and he's using me uh to be involved for the battle, the battle for souls throughout this entire world. It's a hard battle. It's a vicious battle. It's a spiritual warfare that we are in. But the encouraging thing is we don't go it alone. The Lord said, I will never leave you and I won't forsake you. And as these young couples go to their field of service, the Lord goes with them. The Lord goes before them, the Lord prepares the way, and uh as you and I get involved in reaching others for Christ and getting involved in faith promise giving, waging that war, that battle, that You and I are engaged in that spiritual warfare that we are facing. The Lord is there to help us. It's not what I can do to further missions. It's what God can do through me to further missions. And that requires a yielding, a surrender. But I want to impress upon your heart tonight That we are in a significant and serious battle for the souls of men. We're going to talk about that tonight. But before we do, let's bow our hearts together in a word of prayer. Father, we love you this evening and thank you ever so much for loving us. And as we come to this last and final concluding mission message and conference tonight, Lord I pray that your blessing would be upon it, that your power would be demonstrated here this evening, and that you would work among your people and help us, Lord, to see the fields that are white to harvest. And what you want to use us for and how you want to work through us to reach souls for your blessed Son, the Lord Jesus. Help us tonight, Lord Honor thy word, bless thy word, accomplish what you have purposed to do, and we'll thank you for it because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. The primary purpose that you and I have is not to convince God to do something What God is trying to do in your life and my life is convince us what He wants to do through us. And I think that we have hardly seen We have hardly seen what God is able to do. The Bible tells us in the book of 2 Peter, chapter 3, and in verse 9, the Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness. But his long suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, you're not going to meet an individual this side of glory that Jesus didn't die for. You and I will never meet a person that graces the face of this earth that Jesus didn't love You're not going to meet a person as vile, as wicked, as ungodly as they might be. You're not going to meet a person that God is not willing to save if they'll come by way of the cross. I'm convinced this evening there's not a single soul That our Heavenly Father wants to see perish. He's long suffering. Just think about when you got saved It might not have happened the very first time you heard the gospel. I know that didn't happen for me. Many of us delayed. We put it off and gave it more contemplating thinking and thoughts But the Lord was long-suffering. He didn't give up on us. He kept on our trail. He kept burdening our heart. He kept opening our eyes. Why? Because he was long-suffering. You consider the Lord, he perseveres. He doesn't give up. It's you and I that give up on him. It's not him that gives up on us. And he surely shows us how slow he can work and he comes through at the right time. I'm thankful for that this evening. When he talks about perishing, he's talking about an individual that is utterly lost and and and destroy someone that loses out and is losing in this matter of eternal life. He didn't want that to happen to anybody. No one sitting in this auditorium tonight. No one on the outside of these doors tonight. No one in Oakland, Maryland tonight. That Jesus doesn't want to save, that Jesus didn't die for, and is willing to save them if they'll come by the way of the cross. And you and I are in this battle, this contention that we are in with Satan for the souls Of men and women and boys and girls. We're engaged in spiritual warfare. When you stop to think the desperate condition that man is in without the Lord, the condition we were in before we come to know the Lord, it's not a pretty picture, is it? When I survey the scriptures and look at the scriptures, I find that I was a slave to Satan and under his authority and control. That's where a lost man is He's nothing more than a pond in Satan's hand, manipulating him, controlling him, directing him in the way that he wants them to go. The Bible tells us in the book of Acts, chapter 26, and verse number 18, that the Apostle Paul, in his testimony, said, I've been sent to open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light and from the power of Satan unto God that they may receive the forgiveness of sins The person without the Savior is under that control and domination of the devil. But also, uh, he's a child of the devil. Remember, Jesus said, ye are of your father the devil. So sitting here tonight in this auditorium, the people outside this auditorium this evening They are either pawns in Satan's hands, or they belong to Jesus Christ, because they've been saved by the grace of God. It's a terrible thing to be a child of Satan To be controlled by him, to be manipulated by him. And he'll do everything and anything in his power to keep that darkness, that uncertainty, that blindness keeps gripping them and sending them to a Christeless eternity. People without the Savior are helplessly held by the devil. When John wrote 1 John chapter 5, he was dealing with things that were certain in the believer's life. You and I can be certain this evening of eternal life. I don't have to be concerned about that. I don't have to question my salvation. I've come to Christ, I've received Him as my personal Savior, I have and possess eternal life that will never end. I'm certain of that I'm also certain that God answers prayer. That's what John said. God will answer your prayers. Not only that, he said that you and I can have victory over sin. We don't have to be manipulated by the devil. We've been set free to walk in that newness of life that we can please him. And then we can know with certain that we belong to God. And he said this. And you can be certain. Those without Christ lie in the lap of the wicked one. Lie in the lap of the wicked one. They're controlled By the wicked one. Manipulated by the wicked one. So you and I are in a spiritual battle tonight. And it's our responsibility to bring the good news to them so that they can be set free from that demonic, satanic control that's over them. The Bible tells us in the book of Mark, chapter 3, verse number 27, no man can enter into a strong man's house and spoil his goods. Except he will first bind the strong man, and then he will spoil his house. You and I are here to get the message to the hearts of individuals so that they can be set free from the devil. And with that in mind, I want you to take your Bibles and go to the book of 2 Corinthians, chapter number 10. The book of 2 Corinthians, chapter 10. I said at the onset of the message this evening that we do not enter this spiritual battle on our own. We are not sent out without the help of the Lord. He said, I'll never leave you and I won't forsake you. And here in 2 Corinthians chapter number 10, And beginning with verse number three, we are introduced to the spiritual weapons that you and I have at our disposal. As we enter this spiritual contest, this spiritual battle that you and I have been called to engage in. What the Lord has given to you and what the Lord has given to me are powerful weapons. Weapons that are going to do exactly what God promised them to do. Victory is not only possible tonight, it's promised to you and it's promised to me. Thanks be to God that giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. These weapons of warfare that have been entrusted to our care have the ability to pull down the strongholds. You meet an individual You try to give them the gospel, and you can immediately see the resistance and the rejection that is there. Only the Lord is able to pull down that stronghold And as we use the weapons that God has given to us, we'll see those strongholds that grip and blind the minds of individuals, we'll see those strongholds immediately broken. And the entrance of the gospel makes sense. Makes sense. These weapons of warfare are able to cast down imaginations And believe me, we live in a world that has a lot of imagination, a lot of falsehoods, a lot of lies, a lot of deception And the Lord can straighten that out. He's given us weapons in order to accomplish that. And he's given us those weapons so that we can bring every thought into captivity For our Savior. I tell you, uh the devil's workshop is our minds. That's where he works. He gets us soured in our minds. He gets us questioning in our minds. Things pop in our minds. We wonder where that ever come from. And I'll tell you, it's a it's a constant battle to keep your mind straight. Now, say men or owe me, one of the two. I I feel like uh we're getting to that point I talked about a little bit ago. You're going to sleep on me. I'll dismiss you in a little bit. I'm not going to labor all night here this evening, because I I know your eyes are droopy and and my belly's full. So And then we're gonna after the service of all things, we're gonna go back over there and do some more. We're really gonna have a good night's sleep tonight. Either that or we're going to have dreams like we never thought of before. But God has given us these weapons, these these strongholds that Satan has, these demonic ideologies that are permanent penetrating our society. God has given us these weapons So that we can stand strong in this hour of battle, and it is a significant spiritual battle. The world is a liar The flesh is a liar. And the one that's behind all of those lies is the one that you and I have to go up against. There's a lot of false impressions that are being spread around today. And it's a stronghold that needs to be broken. So what's our weapons? Notice what he says in this passage of Scripture, beginning in verse number three. For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh. It's not a shotgun that you need to go to this warfare. Now, these boys, they were demonstrating their ability to shoot shotgun yesterday. Uh I I personally, uh Mark, I was absolutely appalled. Uh I I I think it was Derek that told me probably every one of those shells is about 50 cents. And so as I was watching them, I was saying, there's one Bible Uh there's there's two Bibles. Uh there goes three Bibles. Uh we we we could have taken those and and got another Bible. And I I I I told uh the the uh missionaries, uh I was planning on sending you literature to your fields, but you shot it all up So Paul said we don't war. We don't war after the flesh. It's not the the strength and the the ability that you and I have to stand up against the the onslaught of Satan's lies. We have something far greater than that. It's not a sword that we need to yield. It's not a gun that we need to have We need the spiritual weapons that God has provided to go up against those strongholds and those lies and those imaginations And those things that Satan has pumped into the heart and mind of individuals without Jesus Christ, penetrating that darkness. The first weapon that I see that we need is the weapon of prayer The weapon of prayer. If you and I try to wage this battle without prayer, we're going to fail. And may I relate that to the commitments that you've made? You better get a hold of the Lord and stay close to the Lord. Because there's going to be times during this coming year, if he terries his coming, if our Lord Terries is coming, uh there there's going to be times that you're going to decide, have to decide. Am I going to give my Faith promise? Or am I gonna go through this? And it's been my practice for many years, many years. Before I ever pay a bill, before I do anything personally for myself or for my wife. I get Mackay in, I get the faith promise in. And then I'll decide what else I can do Satan will try to prevent you from doing this because it's part of our spiritual battle. We are sending some troops ahead. I thought I'd get an amen on that. Could I get one? Well, I tell you, I need a little help tonight. I I'm laboring under a heavy load and a burden tonight. What? Oh yes, I forgot about it. We have the weapon of prayer. We we really we really have the weapon of prayer. We I mean we really have the weapon of prayer. Take your Bibles and flip over to First Timothy, chapter number two. Listen what Paul told young Timothy about this spiritual battle and warfare concerning our our prayer life He says in the book of 1 Timothy, chapter number 2, I exhort, therefore, that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men. Paul was encouraging Timothy, encouraged the church to prioritize prayer in your life. And there's several things that I would say about that. Prayer is intentional. Prayer is intentional. Prayer is inclusive. And not not only that, but I I would say to you this evening that prayer is influential. And Paul is encouraging young Timothy and the church to be prayer warriors, exercise this privilege of prayer. He says the priority of prayer, first of all First of all, before you undertake anything for God, you better pray. You better pray. Not only do I see the priority of prayer here, I see the people of prayer He said, I exhort, therefore, that first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions, giving of thanks be made for how many? All men. So God not only says make prayer a priority, He says, I want you to pray for all people. The people of prayer. All, for all people, be prayed. If there's anything, you ought to be praying for one another. You ought to be praying for your preacher and his wife. You ought to be praying for the Sunday school teachers in the choir. You ought to be praying for the people that make up this church. Praying for the missionaries that you're sending out priority of prayer, the importance and power of that prayer. It's a spiritual weapon that God has given to us. And with that that that priority of prayer in an individual's life and praying for all people, there's going to be peace that comes. He talks about peace in prayer in this passage of Scripture. He tells us there that for kings and for all that are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceful life in all godliness and honesty. Peace. Peace. Do you know that prayer pleases God? Our prayers are not trying to convince God to do something that He doesn't want to do. Our prayers, we're asking God to do something that we know he already wants to do. How many of you have an unsaved loved one in your family? Can I tell you without hesitation, God wants to save them? And if you'll just pray and ask God somehow to get the message to them, somehow to get that truth to them Our prayers can break through that crust of darkness and what seems to be so impossible that it'll never happen can happen. Why? Because prayer pleases God, and when you're asking him to do something you already know he wants to do, it's gonna come pass. I see the purpose of God in verse number four, who will have all men to be saved and to come unto the knowledge of truth. So one of the great advantages that you and I have is in this spiritual battle that we go up against the strongholds of the devil is prayer. It's a weapon. Prayer. And how about this one? We have the precious blood of Jesus. If you look over at Revelation chapter number twelve, And in verse number 11, the book of Revelation, chapter 12, and in verse number 11, the Bible says this about the blood of Jesus. Revelation twelve and in verse number number eleven, uh the the the Bible says this. And they overcame him how? By the blood of the Lamb. Jester, I feel a shout coming on right now. There's not a stronghold that Satan has brought that we can't overcome. Claiming the blood of Jesus, we we can overcome. Would you agree with me there's power in the blood of Jesus? Power The blood of Jesus has delivering power. Delivered me. Delivered you. The blood of Jesus has cleansing power. If we confess our sin, He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another. And the blood of Jesus cleanses us from all sin. Thank God for his blood. Thank God for that. The blood of Jesus has saving power. You can't be saved apart from the blood of Christ We talk uh often about his death, but it's that blood and it's that power of resurrection that has provided the perfect gift of salvation to all who will believe. So it's one of our weapons. We have the weapon of prayer. We have the weapon of the blood. And could I give you this one? We have the weapon of the predominant name of our Savior, Jesus. That's a powerful name. There's just something sweet about that name. Just say it. Jesus. Let me run that by you again. Just say it. Ready? Jesus. Say it again. Jesus. Say it again. Jesus. How sweet is that name? What a lovely name. Jesus, Jesus, and it's in that name hell trembles. It's in that name Satan retreats. It's in that name strongholds are broken. It's in that name that lives are changed. It's in that name that countries can be mobilized. As weapons of warfare against Satan and the demons of hell. The precious, wonderful name of Jesus. Satan trembles at that name. He trembles at that name. And one day, every knee is going to bow, every tongue is going to confess, he is Lord. He is Lord. Then I would say this to you this evening. We have the weapon of prayer. We have the weapon of what's my second one? The blood of Jesus. Number three, we have the the name of Jesus. And then number four Here's a weapon. The word of God. The word of God. Men have written books that inform But God wrote a book that transforms. Men have written books that educate God wrote a book that regenerates. Men have written books that you can read. God wrote a book. That reads you and reads me. It's called the sword of the Spirit. And in the book of Hebrews, chapter 4, and verse 12. The Bible says, for the word of God is sharper than any two-edged sword. I'm going to give you a few things about that sword, and then we'll be finished. He says that it's a quick book. Do you know what that means? The Word is a living book. This book's alive. It has life in it, and it's able to impart life. It's the word of the living God. And you and I, when the Bible says that it's quick and sharper than any two-edged short, it's saying that this book is life-giving. This book called the Bible is life-changing. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. All things pass away. Behold, all things become new. Become new. So it's a living word. I also notice in that passage of Scripture that he calls it powerful. The Word of God is powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. God's word is energetic. God's word is effective. The Bible, the word of the living God, is explosive. I said the other night that When we pass out those Roman booklets and you pass out gospel tracts that has the truth plan of salvation in it, we're passing out sticks of dynamite That the Holy Spirit of God is able to take and ignite them and pierce the heart. Why? The Word of God is powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword. It has the power to confront our sin. It has the power to change our souls The word of God is powerful. And then the third thing that I noticed in this passage of Scripture is that the Word of God is lancing. It's not only living, powerful, but it's lancing, it's sharper than any two-edged sword. I mean the word of God can cut you deeper than any sword could ever pierce. Sitting in a church service like this and the Word of God is opened and just the mere reading of that word all of a sudden can get all over you and pierce into the very regions of your heart, the secret places of your life, and turn your world upside down. That's the power of God's word. That's our weapon. That's our weapon. And then I would say that the Word of God is a look looking word A discerner of the thoughts and the intents of the heart. It searches our motives. It Fifths are minds. That's what the Word of God is able to do. The Word of God was not given for inspiration, it was given for transformation. It's not given for curiosity, but the Word of God has been given for conformity, that you and I would be conformed to the image of His Son, the Lord Jesus. The Bible is not a book to debate. It's a book that requires decisions. Decisions. The Bible is Wandering, wonderful, unbelievable. The lamp to our feet and the guide to our footsteps. As you know, our ministry is Dedicated to the purpose of printing Bibles and sending them around the world. I won't be content as long as I'm in this life. I will not be content until everybody has a Bible and their language around this world. This book has done so much for me. And I believe it can do something for everybody. There's not a single reason why any person should die and go to hell. We have weapons that we need to engage in this spiritual battle for the souls of mankind. Let's get them out. Let's use them. Let's declare victory and not quit in the spiritual battle that we are in. Let's stand with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Well, we've come tonight to the end of Missions Conference 2026. At Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. There still might be decisions that need to be made There still might be a need for clarity to make the right decision. And I would encourage you to use the altar. Talk to the Lord. May maybe you need to come tonight and just thank him for the weapons of warfare that he's given to us and Put them in your arsenal of attack so that when you go up against those strongholds of Satan You can see the victory that comes, the help that is there, the moving of the Spirit of the living God. I know some of you have been praying. I know I have been praying. God had called some young person to the mission field. Maybe it's you. If God is dealing with you that way, I I would encourage you. To come and present your all to the Lord Jesus. You might not know what field he's calling you to. I I don't think that there's a young person in the building tonight. As a matter of fact, I don't think there's a single person in the building tonight that shouldn't on bended knees say, Lord, can you use me? Can you use me? After I pray the penis will play and God's speaking to you Join us at the altar as we go before the throne of grace. Father, we thank you this evening. That we don't go into this spiritual warfare, this battle that we are in, without divine help. And I thank you for the weapons of warfare that you have provided for us. Effective weapons, powerful weapons. Unbelievable weapons that can accomplish the impossible. Lord, for those that Need to make the right decision this evening? I pray that you would help them. Give them the light that they need, the clarity that they need. Lord, if there's some young person that you're dealing with, pray that tonight would be the night of them yielding to you, surrendering to you. While their heads are bowed, our eyes are closed, the pianist is playing, God's speaking to you, you come tonight