Well, uh as uh you can tell and I probably should have said this during uh the welcome, but uh pastor's not here today. Uh he's not invisible, he's just not here. Um that'd be weird though, right? I mean if Pastor was invisible sitting up here the whole time. And just uh just to be like, alright, let's see how you're doing. Which you can pretty much do with cameras nowadays, which is really creepy. Um we've really uh uh raised the need to be invisible because we have tiny cameras. And uh I mean still you could rob banks easier being invisible. Tiny cameras don't help you there. But as far as spying on people, that's easier. Um This morning, uh my the sermon of my message is called the bottleneck. The bottleneck. Um What is a bottleneck? Well, simply put, a bottleneck is, you know, the neck of this bottle. If this was like a fat guy and that little cap was his head. That leading up to it, that would that would be his neck right there And what's important about a bottleneck? Well actually a bottleneck is used in a lot of different definitions. It's used for a bunch of different things. And I'll give you a couple of them. One of them is uh It's what they call uh the impossible bottle. Uh there it's a type of puzzle. What that means is when you see a uh have you ever seen a coin inside of a bottle Where the coin is down here, but it's too big to actually fit through the neck and they're glass bottles usually and you're like, well that's incredible. How'd they get it in there if it can't fit through the neck? Um that's pretty I mean that's actually a very uh simple uh simple thing. What you do is you heat up the glass and then you shove it in there and then you reform the neck and it's a dirty little trick. But then you look at ships involved. Has anyone ever seen a nice ship in a bottle? Those are incredible to me. I never knew how they work until I looked it up. And now I'm disappointed. You see most of the I always thought you built a ship inside the bottle and I guess you can do that, but most of them are just little ships that fold down and then when you put it in there you pop it up. And I was very disappointed. Because that does not take near as much work as actually building a ship inside of a bottle. And so but I was going to just point out, but a bottle like it it's something that they once it's inside it can't get out because the neck is too small Um we also have uh a bottle TV episode. I don't know if you guys have ever heard of a bottle TV episode. I um I I like uh cinematography, I like kind of stuff. A bottle TV episode works like this. If you have a sitcom or a TV show, usually works with sitcoms is a lot better, but if you have a sitcom, it's where the entire episode is filmed in one room with only the main cast. Um it's actually pretty incredible because you don't see a lot of them. There's the I looked, I was on Wikipedia, that great uh beacon of knowledge. And I was on Wikipedia and it only listed like six bottle episodes that have ever been done What they do is they do that because they want to save m because it's a lot cheaper to use the cast that you already have and not anybody else, and you already have a set that's already built. So you just use one or two rooms A true one only uses one room, but some of them use two rooms. One or two rooms and just your main cast members and that's it. It's called a bottle episode. Um and then you have uh you have other stuff we have what we call the bottleneck effect, which is a population uh It's a population effect, uh population graph. I don't have a picture of it up here. But uh what it wor looks like is once a population reaches a certain point, once it gets high enough Something happens every time when it gets when it grows like this. Something happens every time and then it dips down. I guess for a mere guy it's an angle. It grows like this and then uh it just dips down. And like so either a disaster natural disaster happens or we see this a lot with animals. Um, you know, you you hear a lot of times, you know, hey, you should, you know, people who don't like hunting will tell you, hey, you should let all the animals live. Well it's actually better for us to thin out the population because it's better for the animals. Um but it happens with humans, animals. Once it gets to a certain point, something happens, either a natural disaster or a disease, and it drops, and it can never grow past a certain point. It's really quite incredible. Um what's called the bottleneck effect on population. And then it'll slowly build back up and then it'll go back down and it'll slowly build back up. And it's like it's like you can never get It can never get bigger or it can never actually fit through the bottle. It always has to keep going back. So today I'm going to talk about bottlenecks. Bottlenecks. You see, I think, like there's a little bit of diatope that's still in here, every Christian is It starts out in a bottle, if you will. You only saw a lot like a bottle or a series of bottles. What happens is You have some progress. You see, um this is why you should use those pedals, but I mean I just hate 'em. I can't stand lapels. Um I think I don't know I don't know if like when I was young, like someone stuck a lapel on me and then like pushed me into a beehive, but I just can't stand wearing lapels. Um because it's always like like I don't know, I always make noise. I don't know if I'm like a static electric uh like a static electric person, but maybe that's possible. But the fact is the bottle looks like this. And we also always start at this end. And then we keep moving and we get some progress. I don't know when you were first saved, if you uh if uh it happened uh right away, but you you got on fire for God, you're like, you know what, I want to do everything right Jesus Christ, I just found out that God that God uh He died for me, that He's willing to forgive my sins. I want to give myself to God and He allow and we get and we get progressing And it only takes a little bit of will, and we get progressing, and we and we get some progress in our life until We hit this bottleneck. And we're like that ship in the bottle. They can go and go and go and go until it hits this end and you can't move anymore. And something's stopping you. But you do get some progress. The thing about the bottlenecks is just like the bottleneck effect on population, is you do get somewhere, but then you stop and have to go back. And then you get somewhere again, and then you stop, and you have to go back. Because you can't fit through the bottleneck. Now, I'll give you some examples of what this is uh talking about, but uh Maybe it's continuous Bible reading. You know, a lot of people are like, you know, I've been doing this, I've been doing this, I've been growing my Christian walk, and then you try to read the Bible continuously, and it's something that it feels like you just can't do You don't know why, but you just can't do it. You didn't have regular prayer. Some people have a real struggle with regular prayer where they threw out and they just they just they just can't they Man, prayer is just too hard for them. Regularly praying on a daily basis is too hard for them. Some people are soul winning. You know, some people are kept back by their uh By what uh by their uh own inhibitions, by the by their fears, and they just they can't get past soul winning. Yes, you got you listen, you Sure and some people actually it's uh it's it it could be giving to God. Some people will start here, they will they'll pray, they'll read their Bible, then uh then they find out they're supposed to tie it and they they can't fit through it, so they go back Some people do that soul winning, where they'll they'll pray, they'll read their Bible, they'll even tithe, and they get here, and they they just don't want to soul win. So they can't move forward in their Christian life. A bottleneck represents somewhere where you can't move forward. Because it's too tight. It's too hard. You know, this is actually a lot like uh rock uh rock climbing. Is anyone ever rock climbing here? Okay, rock climb wow, we do not have a lot of rock climbers in here. Um I mean this is the least amount of rock climbers I think I've ever seen in a room. Um but uh But I'm not really a rock climber either, but I've tried it. And I'll tell you one thing. I always get like some progress. You see, most of us get some progress. When we get saved, we actually do move forward. You we might give up those uh some like certain sins and that's awesome. We might give up uh we might we might not start doing some things for God. We might start going to church regularly. And that's great. And those are good things. But then we get to a point where we just can't move on. Rock climbing is like that. You start out and it's actually pretty easy. You're like, well there's a foothold here every two feet. There's a foothold here. Oh this is no problem. And then you get like like this. And you're looking and you're like, well if I was Spider-Man this wouldn't be hard, but I'm not. And you're like, if I move this arm, I'll fall and die. And if I move this arm, it doesn't go anywhere anyways. And and it's it's ridiculous. And you just don't know where to go from there. You want to move forward, you want to move up, but it's hard. You don't know how. Something is stopping you. Listen, a lot of people, when they read their Bible, try to read their Bible through a year, and trust me, I know a lot of people. Just can't. And they come to a w and they hit a wall and it doesn't even make sense to them why that wall is there. There are some things you go through where it's ridiculous. You're like, I just you just can't. And sometimes what you willingly just can't do it, you just say, no, I'm not going to do that. I will do everything else for God, but I won't do that. And God says, okay, that's your bottleneck. That's what's stopping you from actually moving forward in your Christian life, is that one thing. Say God I I I will man I'm gonna tithe, God I I I read my Bible, I pray, and I know you want me to go out soul winning, I know you want me to go to Great Commission Day or or to uh Or to uh Thursday night visitation, and I know you want me to just go out on my own, talk to my coworkers, but I'm afraid, so I'm not gonna do that, God. I'm sorry. And God says, okay, but that's that's what is keeping you from going on. That's what's keeping you from going farther. We often don't look at our lives like this. But this is how this is how I really feel it is. Most of the time. Listen, God has a God actually tells you to do quite a bit of things in the Bible. And if we do them all at the same time, all the time, then we'll just have a glorious Christian life. But it is hard. And we think well since I'm doing this and this and this and this, I don't have to do this one last thing and everyone has that thing where they think either I don't have to do this Or it's too hard to do this, or I'm not doing this, or I'm not going to apply myself hard enough. I'm going to try hard enough to do this. And you all have that and we all have that one thing that's just like, I just can't Can't, won't do that one thing, but I'll do everything else. And God says, listen, it's kind of a package deal. To be right with God You don't say, I'm going to do everything, but to be right with God, you have to say, I'll do anything you want me to, God. You see that bottleneck is there where you're like that ship and that bottle and uh before I found out about the trickery in ships and bottles, and you're like, I can't sail out of there. It's not big enough. It's not it I I can't fit through there. That doesn't fit my life. What's stopping you? You see, because bottom lifts aren't only things that you do. You see, um let me read some First Corinthians and uh Hmm. I wrote down the verses, so I'm just gonna read those. I actually didn't write down the reference. Oh I'm sorry, yes it is I did. Sorry. First Corinthians three, one through three, there we go. Um and I, brethren, could not speak speak unto you as spiritual, but as unto carnal, even as babes in Christ. I have fed you with milk and not with meat, for hitherto you were na not able to bear it, neither yet ye are now able neither yet now are ye able. For ye are yet carnal. For whereas there is among you envying and strife and divisions, and ye are not carnal and walk as men. Are you not carnal and walk as men? The fact is, the Corinthian church had a big problem with this. Yes, they knew Christ. And yes, I believe they wanted to move forward in a Christian walk. In fact, they loved Paul, they loved his preaching. But he t but he writes to them and says, Hey listen, I can't preach to you the things that I want you because you won't get past this point in your life You won't stop being so carnal. You won't realize that God is the only one that's important. God is the only thing that matters. You won't just forsake what you don't want to do. You won't get over your strife. You won't get over your underings. You won't get over your divisions among you. You won't get over them. So you can't move forward. You're stuck as a babe in Christ. And they're stuck trying to fit through this bottleneck and they can't. And why can't they? We'll get to that in a second. See because it pro bottlenecks allows some progress in the paths of righteousness. They stop you, but it they allow some progress in the paths of righteous, but they also allow some progress against wickedness You see, some of us when we got saved or when we got right with God, when we turned over our lives to God, we we've defeated some sins. We've gotten some self-control. We've learned not to do things willingly, even though we wanted to when we've conquered some things. But those things that we have not conquered. What if that's our bottleneck? What if that's impeding our ability to move forward in Christ? What if that's what's holding us back? What if that's what's making us not able to fit through? You see, here's the thing. Um you've ever crawled under a house or a bed or somewhere where it's really small, because I have. Um, where it's like really small and it's really cramped. We had a crawl space uh when I lived in uh Colorado and I used to have to get out all the Christmas decorations, which by the way were somewhere to be between fifteen and eighteen tubs from a crawl space by myself because my mother hated me. And um and I used to have to do that. And it was a little time to crawl space it had to be like this and you could walk like this. But usually you crawled because that take that takes a toll. But here's what I never did. Here's what I never did to get in there and get stuff out. I never put on a backpack or an inflatable suit. Never once did I say, you know what? I'm gonna make this harder on myself. And I'm going to be bigger. Now later on I got fatter, but that's a different thing completely. Um but I I'm not gonna I'm and if I put that backpack I get caught over that was not my intention. Some of us, listen, we can all get through that bottleneck. We just have to change ourselves. And that's my next point, but I'm still on this one, so I'll get to that in a second. But the fact is I never was like, oh, I'm gonna try to get big No, it was always like, alright, I'm gonna try to shrink myself down as much as possible. Now here's the thing about wickedness. Maybe that wickedness is like that inflatable suit. It's like that backpack. You can't move forward. You can't do what God wants you to do. Because you're stuck. And you're not stuck because of you, you're stuck because you're carrying all this stuff with you. God will sometimes not allow you to move forward in your Christian walk. Sometimes you won't get peace. You're like, God, I just pray for peace and you're not giving it to me. God, I pray for comfort. You're not giving it to me. And God says, listen, I'm trying to give you a way to that. I'm trying to give you a way to that. And you're like, God, I want to win more souls, but I can't. And God says, listen, I have paths for you to do that in. Well you gotta take off those sins. It's a bottleneck. The bottleneck gets stuck in there. Then when uh Okay, so we don't have a bunch of rock climbers in here, which is okay. But how about uh does anyone ever play Mario? Any Mario. If you've ever played a Mario, will you raise your hand Alright, we have more Mario people. I I like Mario a lot. Mario is actually one of my favorite game series. Anyone who says it's not one of the better game series ever is a liar because it really is. I never sat down to play a Mario game and be like, this is this is stupid. Because I'm always like, this is so awesome. And then you think you're like, so he's a plumber that he eats mushrooms. Never mind. You just got you just got i i but it's a crazy thing. It's a uh and he grows tall and then there's like dinosaurs and you're like, where is this place? Actually they discovered that uh the Mario world um in physics Because of how fa high he jumps and how fast he comes down, it would have to he would have to be superhuman strength he'd have to have superhuman strength as a plumber, and he'd have to be doing this on a small sun Because of gravity. There you guys go. That's that's how Mario works. He's on a small sun and with dinosaurs and mushrooms, and he's a plumber. But there are a lot of pipes everywhere, so actually I think he's you know I think he should just change his profession to Princess Saber. Anyway, but the fact about Mario is I like Mario. Mario games are not easy. I do not believe they're easy. In fact I know this because I play Mario sometimes and I'm like, this game's so stupid. I hate it. And I say that because I'm playing for like four hours. The same level. And I die roughly at the same point every time. And it's stupid. And I just said it there's nothing that makes me madder than not being able to get because you're like, oh man, I'm doing great in this level, I'm jumping here, I got this mushroom, I got this that guy cake thing. That's old school, that's like That's like Super Nintendo, which was awesome. And you're like I got this and I got I'm jumping, I'm ready and then die. Ah. And then you get more success and then you can start over. And you go and you're jumping here and you find and blah blah blah and then die. And then die, and then die, and then and it and you have some success, but then you fail. That's how we often are with sin. We get success, we get through we in our inside of our bottle, we get pretty far with our sin, and then we just and then There's something that we just can't beat it feels like, and we're stuck. And we're stuck, and we can't move forward anymore. It works in doing it works when we talk about the path of righteousness, and it works when talking about defeating sin. Sometimes there's a bottleneck that just keeps us in here when we want to be further along the road. Further down the road. The Christian point actually tends to be pretty easy. The Christian life, it tends to be pretty easy. Um I know we all go through trials, but but day to day it seems to be pretty easy. It's not it's not hard to be kind to people. It's not hard to uh to read your Bible really when you think about it. It's not hard to pray when you think about it. It's not hard. But there always comes in everyone's Christian's life, there's that thing that for some reason You can't get past. Feels like you can't get past. A sin that stops our progress and then many times knocks us backwards Because we sin there and we're like, I didn't want to do that again, we actually feel worse about ourselves. So we back up and we sin more and then we start again And then we back up and sin more, and we start again, and then we fail, then we back up and sin more. And that's how we work in our Christian lives sometimes, because we can't get past that one point. And we're stuck going back and forth. We're stuck in a pickle, if you want to use a baseball term A pickle. It's when you're running between one and two bases because the guy just keeps throwing the ball back and forth. Call it a pickle. Um But I'm not an athlete, so maybe it's not called a pickle. I don't know. I always call it a pickle. Anyone else call it a pickle? Alright. See as long as I got Jerry on my side, I don't care. Um But think about this. Who are these people? Like you think, well, you know, I think and and m maybe you don't have that point, but I think you do. I think your mind can go back to something that just it just stops you. And you're mad that it stops you, and you're angry that it stops you. And you and you can't believe that you can't beat it. But you and but you remember when you were struggling that was you struggled with it the first time, you gave it up the first time, and now it's been years, and you think How can I not get uh why am I still doing this? And we all have that thing that just for some reason so hard to get past. With Samson it was women. Samson's greatest weakness was women. He got married twice. A lot of people remember that he married Delilah, but he married someone else as well. Samson was the strongest man ever. He moved forward. He did more stuff for God, physically, doing when he was one of the greatest warriors in the Bible. He was probably the greatest warrior in the Bible. However, he did have a weakness. And he didn't fall to it once, he fell to it twice, and it was a woman. That was his bottleneck. That is what kept him from going forward unto God. Actually, that's what kept him from going forward in his life. Period. To the point where he actually was not used of God anymore after the second time he fell uh fell to uh woman. What about Solomon? See, Solomon was the wisest man ever. You read Proverbs, you read Ecclesiastes, Solomon Solomon. And I and you fall in love with Solomon. Solomon's a great, great, great teacher, and he was a great man. But you know what his problem was? A lot of people will say women because he got married uh like a thousand times. I don't think so. I think it was power and pride Many of those marriages, if you study them, were not because Solomon was um was uh lustful, it's because when a kingdom wanted to make a deal with you, they say, hey, you have to marry uh this woman. And he'd be like Alright, just tackle on with the other one. That's what he was. And he was so prideful. Now mind you, at this point. Solomon, his uh she had the greatest, the biggest kingdom that Israel ever was. The biggest Israel ever was, Solomon built that. And he made deals with and I believe he ran all the way down to Egypt. He he made deals with everybody. And he pushed his people so hard. So hard that when they when his son became king, they're like, Alright, your dad was really hard on us. You need to let up on us. And Solomon forgot that God was the most important thing. And he let his pride and his power and his wanting to build and be greater. Ambition is a wonderful thing, but ambition That gets in front of God can be your bottleneck. Listen, I hope I I I I've always said this to my teens, I hope everyone I hope everyone in here becomes rich. If that's God's will for you, I really hope you become rich and then you give me all your money. And uh that's that if if you guys and I'm just I'm saying because money corrupts and I don't want you guys to get corrupted, so if you become rich, I'll just take it. And that the church the church will take it. But the fact is, there's nothing wrong with making money. The problem is, is that some people, the first times usually when they're, I don't know, young, maybe maybe si maybe as young as sixteen, maybe as old as eighteen, the first time they put money before God. And they're just gonna do it for a little while and then they'll put God first. But they really have some bills. And then they do it again when they're twenty one. And then they and then they have and then they have uh usually college debt and then so they so then they have to put money before God again because you know they have to pay us back. And they have this whole life cycle of always putting money first and God second. And that ends up becoming their bottleneck. Solomon, it was pride and power. Jacob. Jacob, uh, also known as Israel, Jacob was uh his problem was deception. The guy couldn't quit lying. Couldn't quit deceiving. Not you, Jacob. Um at least we don't think so. But anyways, um, the guy couldn't quit lying. The guy could not quit lying. Listen, he was he was chosen I mean listen, God wanted you guys it's the children of Israel, right? And listen, I'm a biggest Israel supporter there is, but the fact is Israel himself was a liar and a cheater and a deceiver. So much that the name Jacob means deceiver. I mean the guy had problems. Now, by the way, unlike the other two, and and you know, I guess Solomon kind of did Solomon escaped his bottleneck maybe the end of his life when there was When he was just king, but then you read Ecclesiastics and you see how broken the man was because he'd wasted his whole life. Jacob actually got out of his bottle. He actually beat his bottle. He stopped deceiving people, and by the way, God had to hurt him to do it. God had to change him to do it. God had to touch him and it hurt, but he was a different man and had a different name after that. For him to get out of this bottle. Which brings me to my next point. You know the bottleneck? Unlike that stupid penny trick, which makes him mad. Um The b um bottlenecks don't change. You see, my first point was that bottlenecks should allow some progress, but then stop you. My second point is that You often have to change to get through a bottleneck because the bottlene bottles don't change you have to Bottlenecks don't change. They're like that, and life is like that, and and your sin just doesn't go away. You are you just won't feel like going soul winning one day. You just won't change The bottleneck, God won't one day say, you know what, you know, that Great Commission thing, that's not that important. God will never come to you and say, you know that Bible thing that you're supposed to read? That's not that important. That's that's whatever You know, you want to say, you know that prayer? He'll never say, that's not that important. No, your bottleneck, the thing that's holding you back, or the thing that you have to do, but you won't, that thing will not change, but you have to You have to change. And it's a hard thing because that sin that you've been dealing with, you've always wanted it to just go away. And you've even prayed for it to just go away. But the fact is, you need to change yourself. To get past the bottleneck. To get past uh to get out of the bottle. Romans 12, 2 says, and be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed. By the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. How many of us have transformed ourselves through God I think one of the biggest problems with uh American society today, and uh and I listen, I'm part of American society, so I will say one of my biggest problems is I do not change enough. Here's the thing. It's it's it's almost too simple living in America. It's almost too easy. Because the honest uh goodness fact is, if you want to become a soul winner, you can. If you want to become a Sunday school teacher, if you want to become, if you want to become a musician, if you want to become a pianist, you can. You have that freedom. And I think everybody was raised in American here. If you weren't, then I'm glad you're here. But uh the fact is If not everybody has that freedom to say, you know, I'd like to take up piano. You know, you know, I'd like to I'd like to uh I'd like to learn the Russian language. Not everybody has that freedom to do that And we do. The fact is that it's not, and by the way, it's not only in our own lives, but in our Christian life, if you want to be better, If you want to be a better Christian, and I know our America's society, I know we're degrading as a society, and I actually have a message on that tonight. But I know that we're falling apart a little bit, but Our freedom is still intact enough that you can do what you want. You can be a good Christian. You can be the best Christian there is if you want to. But many of us don't want to change. Let me say that again, because many of us probably want to change, but we just don't change. How many times have you made New Year's resolution? I want to do this, I want to be better at this? How many times have you said, you know, I want to be a better Christian, I want to be a better better parent. And how many times you actually followed through? And by the way, that follow through, the fact that you haven't followed through, is probably on you In other words, if it's other things, say, you know what, I want to start a business and it fails, you know what, that's not on you. That's probably not on you. That's not your fault. But the fact is if you want to be a better Christian, if you want to be a better person, if you want to move forward to your Christian life, the fact that you aren't Is on no one but you. And that's mean, but the fact that I'm preaching that to myself, the fact that I'm not a better Christian is on me The fact that I don't do more for Christ, I can try to blame circumstances, but God looks down and he sees me. You see, because I have the power. Be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. By the renewing of your mind. What's that mean? Means you have to change. Means if you really want to move forward in your Christian life, instead of backwards, if you want to move forward, you're gonna have to change. Now how do you have to change? Well says you have to renew your mind. Well how do you have to remove your mind? First of all, I say you have to change your habits. Change your habits. You know, I've heard it takes twenty-one days or whatever to create a habit, and that's not actually true. The truth is it takes uh the it for some people it can take twenty-one days, but it can also take an entire year to change a habit. Or to gain or lose a habit. Most people don't know that. But it takes anyone from 21 days to a year to gain a habit or lose a habit. Change your habits. If you're attempting to beat sin or just move forward spiritually, oftentimes you will lose more battles because of habit than weakness. Let me say that again. If you're trying to beat sin, or if you're trying to move forward in your Christian walk, you will oftentimes lose more battles because of your habits than your weakness. See, sin you see, it's all about opportunity. If you make yourself have that opportunity, If you if you cause yourself to have an opportunity to sin. And listen, I I I guess I and you we can use a a hundred different examples. But say but if you're trying to uh trying to uh Quit drinking and uh which is it's something that a lot of people struggle with. If you're trying to quit drinking You should probably try to uh then either and but then the problem is is that you buy you buy liquor every time you're Such and such. Or when you're shopping, the thing is you don't need to change you don't just need to just try not to, because trying not to is kind of dumb. It's like fight you ever hear play Smarter Not Harder? Or work harder not smarter? Work smarter. If you buy it when you're grocery shopping, then uh hopefully then and find a different way to go grocery shopping. And buy from only Amish stores. I don't know if I'm but I mean, seriously, if but seriously. The thing that you struggle with If you if think about it like this. If you're someone came to you and like, hey, I'm struggling with this thing. Treat yourself as your own friend and say, hey, I'm struggling with this. Think of ideas that you're like, well here's something creative you can do. to get around it, to not have to do it, to not have to sin. If you're struggling with pornography, you know not having a computer Or not having internet access or not or button by the way, the world is so great today. We have great uh software that can just uh it's great we have great filters now for computers if you really want them. But no one puts them on their computer but not no one, but a lot of people don't put them on their computers and then struggle with pornography and then blame it on them and then blame it on their sin nature when reality If you were if it was your best friend, you'd be like, dude, it's easy. It's an easy fix. Be your own best friend. Change your habits. Fix your problems. Proverbs 2813 says, He that covers his sins shall prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy. You will never change yourself until you can admit who you are. Because a lot of us admitted we are a sinner when we talked to God. When you got saved, we admitted we were a sinner. But since then, we've had a lot of trouble admitting to ourselves that we're sinners. We've had a lot of trouble saying, you know what? I fail. Period God, I fail, and I'm going to change. Most of the time we go to God and we give him excuses. Or we just apologize for the sin, but not apologize for the fact that we keep allowing it to happen. Change your mindset. Ephesians four twenty-eight. We'll go there. Ephesians four twenty-eight. And I guess you know what we're gonna start, we're gonna start in uh verse twenty-four. And that yeah, put on the new man Which after God is created created in righteousness and holiness, by the way, that new man that God gave you, he is created in righteousness and holiness. I know we're still I know we still have uh that old man trying to fight against us. I understand that. But God did give us a new man for righteousness. Wherefore putting aside away lying, speak every man truth with his neighbor, for we are members members one of another. Be ye angry and sin not. Let not the sun go down on your wrath, neither give place to the devil. Let him that steal stole steal no more, but let rather let him labor and working with his hands that thing which is good that you may have to give Give to him that needeth. We can keep going. But the fact is, and when Paul's writing this, he's not saying, okay. Stealing is wrong because of this. So therefore you shouldn't do it. No, because they know it's wrong. And you know whatever sin you're dealing with right now, whatever's keeping you from going forward in your Christian life, you know that's wrong. And our mindset, we need to change our mindset because the fact is if we're sinning or if we're not doing that thing that could by the way, not doing righteousness is still sinning, so I'm just going to use the word sin. But if we just aren't doing what we're supposed to. If we're not, if we are sinning, it's not God's fault. It's our fault. And the reason we're doing it is not because of our sin nature necessarily. It's because we have not been put in God first. Because once we put God first and everything else second, if we can truly do that, we will never sin again. You put God first in everything you do, every decision you ever make, and you always put God first. And you second? Then you'll never sin again. Now here's the thing. Will you slip up? Probably. You'll probably accidentally not put God first But if you make a habit of putting God first, of examining everything you, not in light of what it will do for you, not in light of what you want. Or what would it would make you feel good? Not only that, if you put everything and examine it through the lens of what puts God first, you won't sin. We need to change our habits and we need to change our mindset. Because life isn't about us, it's about God. Last thing we need to change is we need to change our surroundings. Matthew 6:13 says, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Listen. This is the Christ, this is the model prayer. This is Christ teaching us how to pray. And one of the things he puts in there, and he doesn't put things in his short prayer willy-nilly. The prayer is like fifty words long, and he puts only a few things and he puts so they're very specific things, is lead us not in a temptation Listen, we need to change our mindset and our habits, but man, we need to change our surroundings. We need to pray to God we need to pray to God saying, God just keep me away from this. But how many of us actually believe in God, believe in his power enough to say, God, keep me away, and then you'll actually do it Where are you putting your faith in? Because if you're putting it in you to stop yourself from sinning, you're in trouble. You're in trouble. Because you have some power, but you ain't got nothing compared to God. Change your surroundings. I believe in a God that does. I believe in a God that does. That changes things, it works in our lives. That isn't some clockmaker who set this up a long time ago and he says, watch the world work I believe in God who said that when his uh people, when his sons and daughters are crying out, God help us do something for us, which includes our sin life, he'll say, Yes, okay, I'll do that. Now sometimes he'll say, No, you need to change yourself, and I'll give you the tools because I've already given you the new man. But the fact is God can help us. God will help us. You need to ask for it. You see, a bottleneck will allow you some progress because that's how the devil works. If you had no progress, you wouldn't even understand It wouldn't make sense. But it but we allow some progress and then we hit a bottleneck. And then we need to change ourselves to get through. But my last point and probably the best point is that victory is just is often just on the other side of that bottleneck You say I felt spiritually dead for a long time. I'm not getting anything out of the preaching. I haven't been to the altar. I haven't cried about I haven't cried over spiritual things for a long time. I don't feel like a Christian anymore. Something's going on. I I I'm having all this trouble. And on and on and on and on and on and on. And you're living in this bottleneck And even Christian life is so hard. Look how squeezed I feel right now. Look how uncomfortable I feel right now. But the problem, the thing is, once you get through the bottleneck. Victory is usually just on the other side. Freedom is just on the other side. You see, a lot of people will stay in their bottle forever. A lot of people will stay in their bottle forever. Because it's too tight to get through. Not knowing that freedom, that openness, that comfort, that peace and joy are on the other side. You know, Paul, after his I believe his salv his his bottleneck, his biggest bottleneck that I've read in scriptures is his own salvation. His own actual coming to grips with the fact that Christ is Lord. I think that was his biggest stopper was actually salvation, which is rare. The disciples Had to get over themselves. You realize after Jesus' death, they they fell into doubt, they fell into fear, they fell into Selfishness and they went back to what they were doing beforehand. But after that, after they broke through that selfishness, after they changed themselves when Jesus came back to them, after they changed themselves, they all died Except for John, although he was really old, so I think he counts. They all died for the cause of Christ. What's stopping you from becoming the greatest Christian in the world? It might be just squeezing through that bottleneck. It might be just that one sin. It might be just that one thing you need to do. What's stopping you from becoming becoming So great like Paul, so great like Peter, so great like John, so great as a Christian, so great like a Spirit. What's stopping you might be the fact that you just can't lay aside one sin What's stopping you might be the fact that you can't lay aside, that you can't start doing one more thing, that you can't go soul winning. That might be stopping you from a world of difference in the Christian life. A world of difference. Moses was one decision away. When he was arguing with God or whether or not he'd let the people go or about or whether he'd go and go to Pharaoh, he was one decision away, you realize. One doubt, one little bit of him saying no to God, one time saying no to God, he was away from the people of Israel, remaining in slavery. What decision are you holding on to that God wants? That God is asking for, pleading for, and you can feel it when people preach, and you can feel it in your daily life. And you can feel it ten seconds after you sing, and you know you're ah I gotta stop this. Ah, God, I'm so sorry. God, please help me. And you can't beat it, and you won't beat it, and you won't make that decision And you don't know what you're giving up. Because victory is just on the other side. I'm going to tell one example and then I'm done. One illustration. Very famous illustration. Um the 300 Spartans. Have you ever heard of uh I believe it's uh Battle of uh Thermopolis or Thermopylae, does anyone remember? Thermopylae. Thermopolis is a place is a hot springs place in uh Wyoming. I've been there so I get them confused. Um but uh but Thermopylae, um here's how this works. There were 300 Spartans, and actually there were about 700 other soldiers that weren't Spartans. Spartans got this great name in history because they were great soldiers, but one of the reasons everyone thinks they were such great soldiers is because of this battle Now, the fact is they were raised to be in battle, and uh and their city, uh Thomopy, was actually in a very strategic location. Where Sparta's actually their city. But the the battle place, it was a very strategic uh location. But there are about a thousand of them, and then roughly, depending on who you talk to, about ten thousand Persian sold soldiers. By the way, whether you ha um our God killed um thirty thousand with like or uh sorry, our God killed a hundred thousand people with three hundred men. So you know I'm just saying our God's way more awesome than their God. But let's just, you know. We're moving on from that point. So, anyways, 300 Spartans, probably a thousand soldiers total, versus 10,000. I'm sorry, I don't care how great of a soldier you are, when it comes to just one-on-one. 10,000's gonna win. That's a lot more people. Ten to one is an extreme amount. And by the way, the Persian army actually had um well over a hundred thousand soldiers. They just sent 10,000. Well what happened was There is this pass, it's a mountain pass, and let's say that the army of Sparta, the small army, the 300 Spartans, are behind me. And you guys, well in uh actually outside the auditorium, would be the uh I want you guys to be Persians, um, were all the Persians. You see, here's what happened. Those 300 uh Spartans took on that army very well. They all died in the end, but they took on the army very well. And the reason they did Is because that pass that they were battling in was n more narrow than this auditorium. And you c it don't matter if you got ten thousand soldiers or if you have a hundred thousand soldiers, if you can't fit more than fifty, sixty, seventy, a hundred, two hundred at a time in, it doesn't matter. And so they were they were in their own bottleneck. And they kept fighting and fighting, and they with only 300 people of the Spartans, they kept defeating all the Persians. Now where I'm gonna take this a little different than everybody else is once the b uh I'm gonna make the Persians the good guys, which I don't want to make either of them good guys. I really want good people. Um Once the Persians got past this narrow spot, this bottleneck, they wiped out the Spartans in minutes. But they had to get past that pass. They had to get through the bottleneck. What are you just a decision A habit change, a mindset change away from. What type of victory in your life are you literally Minutes from, hours from. The God says, man, I want you to overtake them. I want you to win the battle. And the fact is it's just a little thing holding you up. It's just a few sol it's just it's just it's not that many soldiers, it's not that hard, but You don't know. Because here's the thing about a and this was one of my original points in the sermon, here's the thing about a um bottleneck is often you can't see what's around the corner. You can only see what's right in front of you. So it looks like there's a thousand soldiers, but in reality there's nothing behind that corner. You just need to get past it. With your head bowed and your eyes closed Some of you feel like you've made some progress You made some progress in your Christian life lately, and and and you feel and you feel like you're actually doing something right, and then you get to a point Well you just can't move. Either it's a sin you can't get past or a duty of God you just can't fulfill And so you just can't get past that point. My answer to that is: first of all, make sure you're make sure you have the power to change. Make sure you have the power to change. If you've never accepted Christ as your Savior, who died to forgive your sins and give you that new man, you've never accepted that. Then you don't have the power to change anyways. So I so I implore you, if you've never accepted Christ as your Savior, come and get that taken care of. And then sin will be at your It's questioning. You'll be able to conquer sin whenever you want. You'll be able to conquer evil whenever you want. But to those of you who are saved, some of you are stopped right now and you want to get to that victory and you want to get to the other side, but you can't, because you can't. Because who you are right now, you can't fit. Some of us need to lay aside some sins that we've been just holding on to. We've asked for forgiveness, but we've never laid them aside and repented of them and said, God, I will not do this again. Some of us need to say, God, I will do that thing that you're asking me to do that I know you want, Lord, I will do that. And we need to change our habits, we need to change our mindset, and we need to accept God's victory. Yeah. Jen plays, uh would you all stand in now? Please come.