Caught up in sand And so good song, Morgan. That stirred my heart. I appreciate that. Alright, if you would turn to First Thessalonians chapter one. I failed to recognize Kurt has a friend with him here tonight. James, is that correct? Pam, we're glad you're here. And uh others around. First Thessalonians chapter one Thessalonians. Um this series we're doing is um is actually did not begin as an intention to do a verse-by-verse study through the book, which I knew I was going to do that, but that's not the motive. The motive is to study what it means to be a church that is what I'm calling rapture-ready A church or an individual believer that is prepared for the rapture taking place. And we come to the book of Thessalonians, the church there in Thessalonica, and we find a rapture-ready church Now, we've said this before. I want to reiterate it now. We do not know when the Lord Jesus is coming back again. We don't know that. This yard bird from California that's uh says Jesus, he's got it figured out and he's sure, definite. Jesus coming back May twenty first next month, just that would be how many days from now? Twenty So he says in twenty-five days from now, the rapture's gonna take place. He says we're already in the tribulation period. Uh he's got it all convoluted. Uh one thing I uh uh one thing I'm sure of, uh well several things I'm sure of. One is uh I'm sure Jesus is coming back. And I'm pretty sure now I hesitate to say this, but I'm pretty sure he's not coming back May twenty first. Because uh yeah, I'm fine with him coming back. But uh he said in a day and an hour that you think not, he's coming back. So if everybody's expecting him that day, that's pretty good chance he's probably not coming that day. We don't know when he's coming. He may be coming uh today, maybe tomorrow, maybe a hundred years from now. But the important thing is that we be ready. Because once the rapture takes place, there's no time to get our house in order. And so he says, Watch, be ready, beware of things, because you don't Now, here's some of my thinking. There's a lot going on in the world today that in my mind, and my understanding of scripture fits beautifully into the coming of the Lord. Earthquakes, Jesus spoke about earthquakes. diverse places, wars, rumors of wars. We've got countries in uproar all around the Middle East is just uh waiting to explode its seems like. And I've always thought, and I was thinking of this the last few days watching the news. I've always thought, and preachers of said this if the events that are going to take place in the tribulation period with the Antichrist and and the One World Government and the One World um uh monetary system. If all those things are going to come about as we understand them in scripture, then something else has to happen in monetary mind at least America has to be taken out of the picture. Because as of right now, world governments, world finances, and All that America dominates it. Right? And there's no mention, no reference to America I can find anywhere in Scripture. So before those things take place, America has to be off the scene. least as far as our influence. Now, it may be 5,000 years down the road America doesn't even exist. But we're seeing things happen that America Is losing our influence around the world. We're losing our dominion. Financially, militarily, we're pretty still there. But this is what I'm trying to say. I can see us diminishing and think see things coming into place where if the Lord is coming back in the near future, I see see everything in place. You follow what I'm saying? Let me ask this question. I feel like I'm digging myself a little hole here, but let me ask this question. How many signs have to Take place before the rapture of the church. No signs at all. Zero. There are signs for the The Second Advent. When Jesus comes back at the end of the seven-year tribulation period, Battle of Armageddon, we're familiar with that. There are signs for the Second Advent. There are none for the rapture. And so we don't know when Jesus is coming back. There's no signs. Paul expected him in his lifetime. And I don't think we're out of place if we're expecting the Lord in our lifetime. Right? Amen. We're not out of place. Paul expected it. I expect the Lord to come back in my lifetime. In fact, sometimes I look and see, I'm surprised He hasn't come back already. And so, but the important thing is we need to be ready. So that's why we're looking at 1 Thessalonians. Now we've already started getting into it. We've had two messages already. And if you'll remember, last week we began the first several verses of chapter one. Let me read them and We'll pick up where we ended last week. He says in verse one, Paul and Sylvanus, Sylvanus, who's that? Silas. Paul and Sylvanus, Silas, and Timotheus. Unto the church of the Thessalonians, which is in God the Father and in the Lord Jesus Christ, grace be unto you, and peace from God our Father in the Lord Jesus Christ We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers, remembering without ceasing your work of faith. and labor of love and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ, in the sight of God and our Father, knowing, brethren beloved, your election I'm going to stop there. Let's have a word of prayer. Actually, I'm taking the title of the let uh of the message from verse 7 so that ye are in samples to all them that believe in Macedonia. So it is a church that is an example And let's pray. Father, please bless our study in your word. Lord, help me not to get off track, but stick uh to the notes here, Lord, and uh I ask that you would uh take me and fill me with your Holy Spirit, Lord. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. Fill me, I pray, and uh be our teacher tonight. Help us, Lord To be prepared. If the rapture would take place at midnight tonight, I pray we'd be ready. Our hearts would be in tune. And we could follow the example given us here. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. If you remember, I I don't I don't know. I don't think I'm on here, Dave. I think I got it turned on, but I don't have any volume there. Let me try this one. How about now? How about now? I need that thing you're wearing there, Chip, that would work. All right, here we go. Uh anyway, we noted last week, I'll just have to speak up a little bit. Uh we noted last week in verse number one we had the introduction. to the book. And we looked at the customs, you know, of how they would uh uh give who they were writing first and And then they would, uh something happened. There we go. Uh they uh good, I can back off now a little bit. Um the the custom was then is you want you would begin by saying who you were who you're writing to, and then you'd give a little greeting. And we noted that there. Then we noted, second of all, in verse number uh two, uh the intercession of the men of God. Look at verse two. We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers. And if you remember, we emphasize the importance of prayer for the local church. And what a what it's not surprising that we find the church at Thessalonia being a strong church and uh being ready for God and and all the characteristics we're going to notice here in our study. When you had Paul and Sylvanus, Silas and Timothy praying for them, earnestly praying for that church and the spiritual health of that church. And we cannot overemphasize, we cannot overemphasize the importance of prayer For our church, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, we cannot be what God intends for us to be without the prayers of God's people. I say this so often, I believe it with all my heart, that Wednesday night prayer meeting is the most important meeting that our church has of all week long. Sunday morning, Sunday night is important. I'm not diminishing them, but I'm saying we could not see God do some of the things He does on Sundays if we did not have the church praying together as a body on Wednesday And so it's so important. We noted, if you were, that they were companions in prayer. We, uh, the burden for the church was not just on one man. There was Paul and Silas and Timothy shared that burden. No doubt there were people in the church that shared that burden. And the success of a church is never, is never on the shoulders of one person. Dr. Lee Robertson is known, I preached the message recently on this, is known for his statement, everything rises and falls on leadership. And I agree wholeheartedly with that. And leadership is important. In the home, in the church, in the country, in society, it's important. But I tell you, you can have the greatest leader in the world. If you've got poor followers, you're really going to be handicapped. And so it cannot ride on the shoulders of one person. Everybody has to share the burden for the success of that church And so they were companions in prayer. We, uh, he says, give thanks to God always. Then they were continual in their prayer. He said, always. Then we noted they were comprehensive for you all. They pray for everyone in the church. And last week I recommended and I reiterated here, it is a good idea to get a prayer list of every member of the church. If you're just going to go off your memory praying for people in the church, you're going to miss people. And I think it's very good to have a list, jot people's names down as they come to mind. Get you a little, I got me a little uh uh notebook here and I've been uh I have the names down. I'm transferring them over from my other prayer list and praying through that little thing so I don't forget people. And that's what Paul said. We pray for you all Individually. And so we see a powerful church here, and one of the reasons was the intercession of the men of God. Now we get to verse 3 and 4 real quickly. And he points something else out. And this all ties in with them being examples. I notice the integrity of this church here in Corinth. Or in Corinth, in um uh Thessalonica. The church in Corinth was not known for their integrity. Uh the church in Thessalonica was, though You don't hear that word integrity too much anymore. In fact, I was thinking back over the only time that I remember hearing the word integrity used In a news and a news report or any type of media outside a preaching service was when they were talking about the integrity of bridges in the United States of America Remember that bridge up in Minnesota collapsed? Remember that? And you kept hearing about integrity, the integrity of the bridge, and the integrity of that bridge, and the Integrity of this building. I thought, and when they're saying that, I thought, when are we going to start focusing on the integrity of people? And the church here at Corinth was a church of integrity. A church that was respected, a church that was for real. And he points out in verse 3 and 4 some characteristics of their integrity. First thing mentioned here is the integrity of their character. Now it's Wednesday night. We can talk back and forth a little bit. What do you think of when I use the term, I talk about someone's character What comes to mind? How would you explain that to somebody say what do you mean by their character? How would you explain that? Okay. The way they behave themselves? Their reputation. Somebody said something that kind of clicked. Their morals? Alright, you think of that, their character. You think of people having some people having strong character And other people having weak character. To me, a word that in some ways describes character or maybe a little bit synonymous would be their discipline. The quality of their discipline, their morals, how disciplined they are to do right. Bob Jones Sr. said, your character is what you are when no one sees you. Is doing right whether anybody sees it or not. Doing right regardless of what the consequences were I've thought of this before. What if a person had opportunity to do something wrong, and it was guaranteed there would be no negative consequences Would you still abstain from doing that which is wrong? A lot of times we don't do wrong because we're not willing to pay the price that comes with doing wrong. Character is not doing wrong simply because it's wrong. Follow what I'm saying And so he speaks here of the integrity of their character. Three outstanding aspects are given here in verse number three about the character of the church at Thessalonica. And he points these out. Look what it says. He says, remembering without ceasing your work of what? Faith. I circled the word faith. Your work of faith And labor of love. I circled the word love. And your and patience of Hope. I circle the word hope in our Lord Jesus Christ in the sight of God, our Father. Faith, love, and hope. He said that is what described their character. Faith, hope, or faith, love, and hope. I want to suggest to you having faith Having love and having hope is fundamental to the spiritual health of any Christian It's fundamental to the spiritual health of any church. If a church does not exercise faith in God, That church is a weak church. They are lacking in integrity. If Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church doesn't do anything else, we must learn to have faith in God. To trust God to meet our needs, to direct us, to guide us and protect us Faith, love. It's fundamental. I cannot grow as a Christian if I do not have love for God and for my fellow man. It is impossible. Now we'll elaborate on this here in a little bit. But their fundamental hope. Hoping. Now, what does the Bible mean by the term hope? Somebody says, boy, I was where was I at? I stopped McDonald's this morning. I had to run to Morgantown. So before I went by McDonald's, got a uh a large coffee for a dollar. Did you know A small coffee and a large coffee both cost a dollar at McDonald's. Why in the world would anybody buy a small coffee? So I bought a I said, I'll take a medium coffee. I said, no, it's all a dollar, I'll take a medium. How many people are fascinated by me doing that? Who cares what I did this morning? Uh but anyway, what was I talking about? McDonald's. McDonald's. Oh, I was waiting in line. Okay. That's now I remember. And so the one girl said this. Get this. She says, I'm off tomorrow. I hope it doesn't rain. Is that what we're talking about? Yeah, that's very iffy. That's wishing. I hope there's nothing definite. In fact, then she made this statement, it probably will, because it's my day off So that wasn't much hope, was it? So when the Bible said it talks about their faith, their love, and their hope, it wasn't, well, I just hope everything turns out alright. Huh? You know Jesus said he's coming back. Oh boy, I hope so. That is not what it's talking about when the Bible talks about oat When the Bible uses the term hope, God is talking about a confident expectation. In fact, you could write that in the margin of your Bible. Circle word hope, draw a little line over. Confident expectation. In fact, they were convinced. That the future held something wonderful. They had hope. They had a confident expectation for their future. Jesus was coming back. God had a plan for their life. God had a purpose for their church. Their best days were not over, but they still lie ahead for them. And so three, hey listen, if we're going to grow as a Christian, if I'm going to be a mature Christian that has an influence for a positive influence in other people's lives I have got to be confident that God is still on the throne. He can still do great things in my life and through my life, and Jesus is coming back again. You get to the point where you don't have any hope. You get to the point where you say, I don't see anything positive in my future I don't see anything good ever coming out of my ministry or my life or my influence. You lose hope, and you'll lose your spiritual growth and your spiritual strength, your integrity And so he says three things about their character, the integrity of their character. They had faith in God, they had love for God in one another, and they had hope for the future Fundamental to the growth. And by the way, I got looking at this, you know, and I found out these three are inseparable. If you have one without the other, you have an incomplete Christian life Some folks out there, they're all lovey-dovey. You know what I'm tired of? Does anybody care what I'm tired of? I do. I'm tired of all the liberal churches getting the reputation as being loving. That is not true. True. Um, let me ask you a question. Uh who loves uh who loves uh Who loves a person the most? Suppose there's a car driving down a road and the bridge is out and there's horrific Flood going down. And the flood has washed the bridge out. And there's a car driving very, very rapidly in the rain, and they don't know the bridge is out, and there's two people standing And one person says, Man, we've got to go out and warn them about that bridge being out so they don't wreck and drown. And the other one says, you know, if we do that, that might make them unhappy. You know, they've got plans and they've got things. And so I don't think we ought to upset them. I don't think we ought to do anything about it. Let me ask, which of those two loved them the most? The one that says, I don't care if they're happy about it or not, they gotta know. So you say, what does that have to do with liberal churches? I tell you, yeah, the liberal church says we're not going to talk about hell. We're not going to tell people you've got to be saved. That's that's so negative. That just upsets people. We're just going to be positive. We're just going to be wonderful. Everything's good. Everything's great. Listen, if a person dies without Christ, they go off the edge and end up in hell So don't tell me the liberal churches that deny hell and deny that G is the only way and just are our soft soap and uh Noodle mead, I'm trying to think of, and uh wishy-washy. Don't don't tell me they're the ones that love people the most. And so see, I pray the Lord stick to the notes here. So these three are inseparable. If I've got all the love in the world, but I don't have faith in God's word, it doesn't do me much good. If I've got all kinds of faith but I really don't believe it applies to me, my life, then it doesn't do me much good. So what I'm trying to say is these three are inseparable. And this is where I I want to end with and zero in the last thoughts here Is this faith, this love, and hope is active. Now look at your Bibles and follow along when I read this and notice the difference between what it says and how I read it. Verse 3, remembering without ceasing your faith and love and hope in our Lord Jesus Christ in the sight of God and Father. What did I do? I left some things out. He doesn't just say faith, love, hope. He describes the action of each of those characteristics. In other words, faith is active. It's not passive. Love is active. It's not passive. Hope is active. It's not passive. Now, what do we mean when we say something is active? What do we mean by that? There's activity behind it. There's being energy exerted. There's something happening. If we say something is passive, what do we mean by that? The exact opposite. There's nothing taking place. It's it's inactive. It's there's uh what's the Pat's the scientists, uh inertia? What's inertia? mean? You don't know. Man, I'm glad he's not building a spaceship I'm flying in. I don't know what inertia means either, but it's a cool word. Yeah. So that has nothing to do with this, so forget it. Um Do you ever get the idea this guy's just winging it? But what I'm trying to say is this. If I have faith in God, I mean genuine, if I'm really exercising faith in God, it's going to result in something. Something's going to happen. It's never passive. If I love God, if I love my fellow man, it's going to produce action. It's never inactive. And same thing with hope. Now let's look here and see what he says that these characteristics, what action they promote they produce. Look at with me at verse 3 Remember without ceasing, your what? Work of faith. Now, question. We are saved by Grace through faith, that not of yourselves but a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. You say, Brother Leatherman, faith and works must be separated. No, I'm telling you, faith and works can never be separated. In fact, would you take your Bible, keep your place here, would you turn with me over to Ephesians chapter number two? We just quoted it a few moments ago, just a few seconds ago. Ephesians chapter 2, verse number 8 and 9. We've got this thing memorized, but I want you to turn there because we're going to look at a part that you may not have memorized. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8 and 9. Ought to be underlined in your Bible. Look what it says. For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Question: What is that verse teaching us? That we cannot earn our salvation. Right? No trick question here I cannot work for my salvation. That is not what saves me. Question. Should a person, should a Christian be faithful to church? Sure, absolutely. It's Wednesday night, you're here, you're faithful. That's good. Is that what saves us? No. Should a Christian uh be a witness? Sure, is being a witness what saves us? Should a Christian read her Bible? Is reading my Bible what saves me? No. And we could go down the list. So this verse is saying doing things, doing works is not what saves you. But let's read on. Look at verse number 10 Let's read this all together. Let's back up here. For by grace are you saved through faith, that not of yourselves it's a gift of God. Just given to us a free gift. receive it by faith. Not of works, lest any man should boast. Look at this. For we are his what? Wait a minute. We're a workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto what? You know what he's saying? He's saying he doesn't save us by our good works. He saves us so that we can do good works. A lot of people get the cart in front of the horse. The works are not what save me. Faith is what saves me. But when I exercise faith, it always produces works. Faith always produces works. Question: How many folks here were how many folks here you're saved to know it? Say amen. How many folks here you were saved by faith and God's grace completely. Amen. How many folks before you got saved, the last thing you cared about was going to church? Anybody here? Before you got saved. That's the way it was for me. I care less. But how many folks, after you got saved, suddenly something down inside you motivated you wanted to go to church Anybody here? See what I'm saying? Faith. He says they're works of faith. Faith produces works. Remember Hebrews chapter 11, the great hall of faith It's interesting. The phrase tell you what, let's turn there real real quickly, would you? Hebrews chapter 11. Is everybody okay? If I wouldn't tell my stupid McDonald's jokes, we'd have more time to have the sermon. I mean McDonald's stories. Um by the way, did I tell you what happened at McDonald's this morning? Look at Hebrews chapter 11. I highlighted, look at verse 3. First two words. Hebrews 11, look at verse 3. What's the first two words? Through faith. Look at verse 4. First two words of verse five. First three words of verse seven. First two words of verse eight. Verse nine. Verse eleven. Verse seventeen. Verse 20, verse 21, verse 22, verse 23, verse 24, verse 27, verse 28, verse 29. You go on down through here. Verse 30 Verse thirty one verse thirty three Every one of these men that are mentioned there, he says, through faith they did something. Through faith, Noah built an ark. Through faith, Abel offered a more perfect sacrifice. Through faith, through faith, through faith, Abraham left, knowing not where he was going. Through faith, Moses forsook Egypt, despising the shame and and uh um uh the riches And through faith, faith always produces works. I tell you, I am very concerned about a person who says they have faith in God and they're not doing anything for God That's troubling. Because Hebrews 11 tells us, Ephesians chapter 2 tells us, we're saved by faith in God, simply trusting Christ. He forgives us fully, freely, not of any works we do, but that faith. Produces works. Did in the church at Thessalonica. That was an active church. I've said this just recently, I've said it many times over the years. I have more respect For a Jehovah's Witness who is working to be saved, than I have for a Baptist who won't work because they're saved. Huh? Now the Jehovah's Witness is wrong. Doing all that stuff is not what saves them. It's by trusting Jesus Christ, who is God in the flesh, by trusting Jesus Christ, their personal Savior. That's what saves them, but it produces work. It changes the life. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. All things have passed away. Behold, all things have come anew. Things are changing. Things are active. James chapter 2 I'm not going to get through this verse, so we might as well turn there and then we'll end with this. Look at verse James chapter 2, just a few verses back, pages back from Hebrews 11 James chapter 2, look at verse 14. Now you've got to pay attention to the words. Words mean things, and God puts words in the Bible, very specific words, for a reason. Look at verse 14. What does it profit? So he's talking about whether something is going to profit me or not. Whether it's good for me, whether it's going to help me, advance me. What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man, I circled that next word, say he hath faith. And have not works. Can faith save him save him? So what's he talking about here? Right, whether it's gonna do me any whether it's gonna do any good, do any good to the cause of Christ, is gonna to profit the cause of Christ and you've got a person that saying saying I have faith I have faith I have faith I have faith But he doesn't have any works to evidence that faith. Is that going to profit the cause of Christ? No, let's read on. If a man says faith, And have not works, can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart from depart in peace, and be ye warm and filled notwithstanding, ye give them not those things which are needful of the body, what doth it profit? And the answer is nothing. Even so, faith If it hath not works, is dead being alone. Now look at verse 18. Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works. Now here's the solution. Show me thy faith without thy works. And what's the answer to that? You can't. You can't show anyone your faith in God if it doesn't produce anything in your life. You follow what I'm saying? There is no way to manifest faith Other than works. Just saying, oh yeah, I believe in Jesus, that doesn't manifest anything. The devils believe in God It doesn't save them. So I can just say things, but it doesn't produce words. Look what I'm saying. Yea, a man may say thou hast faith And I have worked. Show me thy faith without thy works. You can't. And I will show thee my faith what? By my works. I wrote in the margin of my Bible how to show faith. Let me try and illustrate it this way. Now I'm not trying to confuse anyone. And I've used this illustration before. You're driving down the road. And I use this illustration in another aspect this Sunday morning. Driving down the road and you see a house on fire, and the place is just in flames. It's too late. And you happen to glance through the living room window, and there's a guy that for whatever reason didn't go to church tonight. And he's sitting in the living room on his couch, the TV's on, and he's dozed off. And you say, yikes, the house is on fire. It's about to collapse on him. I gotta go in there and tell that guy. And you come running in there And you say, hey buddy, you kick the door in, hey buddy, you gotta wake up, your house is on fire. Get out, run, hurry, get out of here. And he goes, whoa, whoa, He says, um, uh, huh? He says, your house is on fire. The places you gotta get out. And he says this, oh yeah, the house on fire. I believe that. And he sits there and keeps watching TV. Let me ask you a question. Does it appear like that guy really believes his house is on fire? No, he doesn't believe you. How do you know he doesn't believe you? Because of his actions, his works. Betray that he really doesn't believe what he says he does. You go driving down the road, and lo and behold, here's another house on fire. And you look through the mirror and here's another guy sitting on the sofa sound asleep. And the place is burning. I said, I can't believe this two in one night. And so you go running in it, kick the door in. How do you gotta wake up? The house and but hook And uh and uh he says, Your house is on fire, you gotta get out of here. Good night, grab the cat, let's go, we gotta get out of here Now as a jury, he'd leave the cat there. Question, does that guy believe his house is really on fire? Sure he does. How do you know? By his actions. Show me your faith without your works. Can't do it. Well, you show me your, I'll show you my faith by my works. Listen, somebody says, yeah, I believe there's heaven and hell. Yeah, I know I'm a sinner. I believe Jesus got on the cross for my sins, buried, and rose again. Well, why don't you trust Christ? Uh that's fine. You know what that tells me? He probably doesn't really believe there's a heaven and hell. Because it looks to me, if you really believe that, that Jesus was the only way to be saved, and hell was as real as the Bible says it is, and heaven is as real as the Bible says it is, and when I die, I'm going to go to one of those others, depend on what I do with Christ. Looks like to me, if I really believed that, I would trust Christ. Somebody sa preacher gets up and opens the Bible and shows from the Bible that there's a a judgment seat of Christ coming for everyone. Every believer. The rapture is going to take place, and every believer is going to have to stand before Jesus Christ personally, literally, and give an account of my life as a believer. And a Christian says, oh yeah, I believe that. Yeah, I read that in the Bible, I've heard that before, I believe that. But they're living like the world. And they're living like as if they're never going to die and everything's like it's just all a fairy tale. Question, do you think that person really believes that? No, their works betray them. They really don't believe what they say they believe. But you get another person hears that says, good night I'm accountable. I'm gonna have to answer to God for what kind of Christian I am. I better pay attention. I better take when God says do something, I better take that seriously. When God says don't do something, I better take that seriously. I'm gonna have to give an answer for that I worked at a meatpacking plant. I got saved and boy just disrupted everything, turned my life upside down for good. And one of the first meetings I was ever in, the church held a prophecy conference. And I heard stuff I never heard before. I was a new Christian, I mean a couple weeks, maybe a couple months old. He's talking about rapture and he's describing people disappearing or clothes left there. It's like good night. And the tribulation period and it was eat nights and he had multimedia And he's showing illustrations of what Revelation teaches about the tribulation spirit. And I was just dumbfounded. And I went into work. I would go into work all week long and I'd tell him, you won't believe what the Bible The Bible says rapture and all this and tribulation and battle of Armageddon. I was telling these guys, and they just laughed and hooted and had a time with that On the line we cut and meet. Monday morning following the week of revival meetings, I overslept that morning I told this before. And I was like an hour late. I come flying in there, s logger getting changed, coming in, all those guys, and they just give you fix if you're late because then they gotta work extra until you get And I come flying in there in Jim. I can't remember his last name, tall black hair. He saw me come through this face was pale. He was leatherman, iron so glad to see you. I said, oh I'm glad to see you too. What's up? He goes, I thought that rapture thing took place You know what? What we believe affects our actions. You know what Paul says about the church at Thessalonica? Your faith was for real. Your faith, look what he says. Your work of faith. They believed that there was a heaven and hell. They believed Jesus was coming back again. They believed they were going to have to give an account. You know what? They were busy about the Lord. We've got to tell people about hell. We've got to tell people about Jesus. We've got to live right and do good. We've got to keep our hearts and minds pure. We've got to pay attention to what God says. Because we believe it. It's not just a story to us. We believe it. And it produced works. There is no such thing as passive faith. Faith always produces works. Always. Now those works may fluctuate in their aggressiveness and how active they are, but faith will produce them. Does that make sense? So let's ask the Lord to help us be for real. We don't have time to get to the love and the hope part of their integrity. Let's ask God to make our faith in Him be real and And be productive in our lives. That people, later on in verse 4, he says, your election of grace. You know what he was saying? He was saying, It's obvious you're saved. I can just look at your life And there's tremendous evidence that you're one of the saved. Just look at it. That's a saved man. You can watch him and listen to what he says, the way he talks, what he talks about. That's a saved woman there. Their faith had works. Father in heaven