First Corinthians fifteen, I would like for us to read together verse or I'm sorry, I'd like you to follow as I read, uh chapter fifteen, verse number three and four, and then I'm going to come down and re read verse seventeen. 1 Corinthians 15. 1 Corinthians 15 is the resurrection chapter of the Bible. That's not the only place in the Bible where the resurrection of Christ is addressed. But he the entire chapter just about, Paul is writing to this little church at Corinth and he's addressing the resurrection of Christ. And the reason he is addressing it is there were some folks that had crept into that church. That body of believers, and we're preaching and teaching that there is no resurrection. Well, we have we will not be resurrected from the dead. There's no resurrection for the believer And his argument is, well, we know beyond a shadow of a doubt that Jesus rose from the dead, and if he rose from the dead, then we can be confident that the people that trust him, those that are in Christ, will rise from the dead some day also. So that's the context of this. Defending the truth that the believers will rise again from the dead based upon the indisputable fact that Jesus Christ our Savior rose from the dead And he's appealing to the fact they know Christ rose from the dead, therefore we will no doubt rise from the dead. So that's the context. Now, look with me if you would at verse number three. He says, For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received. How that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. In other words, exactly as the Old Testament prophesied, he died for our sins, and that he was buried And despiritable, they buried him, and that he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures. He came back to life exactly as the Old Testament prophesied he would. So then he addresses their questions there about the resurrection of the believer, and he says, Listen, if Christ did not rise from the dead, now come down to verse 17, he says, if Christ be not raised. If this fact that you all know is true, you're right here, you know, you've met people that saw him. If Christ be not raised, your faith is what? Vain. You're trusting in a dead Savior. I tell you, a dead savior is no savior. He says, your faith is vain. You're yet in your sins. And the point of the chapter is, and we don't have time to study the whole chapter, the point of the whole chapter is Christ did rise from the dead. And our faith is not in vain. And we can have forgiveness of sins, and if our faith and trust is in the Lord Jesus Christ, we do have forgiveness of sins. So I want to take a few moments, this Easter morning, I want to talk about the resurrection of Jesus Christ. So let's pray together, ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for this phenomenal truth That for all these many years has been believed very strongly by your people. Lord, all these many years that this truth of a risen Savior has changed lives Has uh saved the sinners. Lord, you drunkards became sober because of this, and lives are changed and impure, made pure. And Lord, I'm asking, Father, that your presence would be here in this service in a very evident way. We know you're here. Help us, help your presence to be evident to us. I yield my will to you, and I present my body anew, and with all my heart, I pray you fill me with your Holy Spirit, and that you would speak through me this vital truth About the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. And it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If I would ask you, what is the symbol Or the the icon or the uh what is the symbol of Christianity? Most likely people would say what? If there's a symbol of Christianity, it would be what? The cross I think that's pretty much universally accepted that the cross is the symbol of Christianity. I have opportunity over the years, I've opportunity to preach it in many different places around the world. And a pr I've had opportunity to preach in some pretty elegant churches and very, very wealthy churches, big fancy churches And I noticed that in some of the big fancy churches, buildings-wise, talking, somewhere on the pulpit or on the wall, or behind the pulpit somewhere, there's usually a cross I've been in little churches and islands down in the Caribbean and and over uh over uh down in Mexico and different places, just meeting on a cleared out lot. And a little podium there. And often, if not always, there's usually a cross on that little podium. Any uh churches all around down in, I just got back from New Zealand, down there, they have crosses. Uh Christian ladies like to wear sometimes a cross and their necklace or earrings. Um the cross is pretty much universally accepted as the As the symbol of Christianity. And that's okay. But I'd like to suggest that there's a better symbol for Christianity than the cross. And I would say that symbol would be the empty grave. An empty tomb. The cross, that's a great symbol. I'm not opposed to it. But I think the empty tomb is more appropriate, let me be be a more accurate symbol of what Christianity is. You see, a lot of people died on crosses. The crucifixion on a cross, the way the Bible describes Jesus' crucifixion The scourging previous to being nailed to the cross, being left to hang there, to suffocate and bleed out and die over a period of hours, in some cases days. That was standard operating procedure for the Roman Empire. That was how they crucified, that was how they carried out capital punishment for thieves, murderers. Rapists, extortionists, treat uh traitors. I mean any crime you think of, child molesters, most worst crimes you even think of, that is how The Roman Empire carried out their capital punishment. In fact, the history books tell us that hundreds of thousands Of criminals died physically exactly the same way Jesus died. Scourged. Nailed to a cross and left there to die for several hours. And like I said, in some cases, several days. They just hang there until they were dead. So the physical crucifixion of Jesus Christ was not unique. Hundreds of thousands died the exact same way. The thief on either side, they they went through very similar process Jesus did as far as the physical crucifixion. Now, the crucifixion of Jesus Christ was unique in this sense The man hanging on that cross was not a criminal. The one hanging on that middle cross Was the perfect, sinless, holy Son of God that was dying on that cross Now what they did to him physically, they had done to tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of others. It was not the new year. They were very good at it. You read there, the Roman soldiers, man, they relish it. That's what they do. That was their thing. But this time It wasn't a treasonous traitor. This time it wasn't a murderer. This time it was the sinless son of God. The blood that flowed from the thieves on either side of Jesus Christ, the blood that came from their wounds The blood that flowed from their scourging, the blood that flowed from their head and and face and body from the the catenine tails and stained their crosses and dripped to the ground, that blood was just sinful old human blood. Same kind of blood that comes from out of your body and my body. But that blood that came out of the man on the middle cross. That was not sinful human blood. That was the sinless blood of Almighty God. The divine blood. See, Jesus was the Son and is the Son of God. Born of a virgin, lived a sinless, holy life, separate from sinners Godly and pure in every aspect. And yet on that cross, he wasn't dying because he killed a man. He wasn't dying because he traded, he was a traitor to his country. He wasn't dying because he raped somebody or robbed a bank. He was dying. He wasn't dying for any sin he committed. He was dying for the sins you and I have committed. He was the sacrificial Lamb of God who took upon him the sins of the world and offered himself in our place to suffer God's judgment for your sins and my sins. Every unclean word that has ever come off of these lips, every impure thought that ever has gone course through my mind. Every ungodly deed these hands have committed, every wicked place these feet have taken me. Jesus Christ on that cross took responsibility. He said, God, I'll die for Dennis's sins. The things he said, the hatred he expressed, the selfishness and pride Has eaten his heart up. Oh God, I'll take that for him. And judge me in his place. Oh, what a savior. What a Savior. My sin and your sin. On that middle cross, the Holy Son of God offered himself as the sinless Lamb of God Took upon him God's judgment for your sin and mine. Now, the process of the crucifixion, no different than the thieves The beating, the cationine tails, the nails. Oh, that happened tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of people over the years the Roman Empire executed that way. But they never executed a man like Jesus Christ. Now, the cross is pretty much universally accepted as the symbol of Christianity. Now the thing is, hundreds of thousands, as I just said, have suffered on that cross. Deservedly many, if not most of them. They had broken the laws. They had earned the capital punishment. So the cross itself was not unique. Many hundreds of thousands were crucified on a cross. However, there's only one grave that is empty. There's only one grave, there's only one tomb that a man of his own volition Rose up and walked out of never to die again, and that is the grave of the Lord Jesus Christ And that is what makes Christianity unique from all other religions of the world Somebody says to you, what's the difference between Christianity and Islam? I'll tell you major differences, Christianity has an empty grave. Say what's the difference between Christianity and uh Confucianism or Buddhism or uh um what's another one? Hinduism or uh any other is what's the difference? I'll tell you what the difference is. It's an empty tomb. It's an empty tomb. Many hundreds of thousands have died on crosses over the years But only one man, the sinless, holy son of God, took his own life back again and walked out of an empty tomb, never to die again I'm suggesting to you the empty two is would be a good symbol for Christianity. The resurrection, get this statement. The resurrection of Jesus Christ is what makes the crucifixion of Jesus Christ effective. Do you get that? If he had not rose from the dead, if all he was was crucified, he had died no differently than hundreds of thousands of others. Thieves and criminals and and bad people. But he rose again, and in doing so declared I'm not just a sin. I'm not a sinful man. I'm the Son of God. And no man takes my life. And no man gives it back to me. I do that of my own volition The resurrection of Jesus Christ is what makes the crucifixion of Jesus Christ effective. Let me give you a few thoughts here real quick. Number one I want us to notice that the resurrection of Jesus Christ is the foundation of biblical Christianity The foundation of biblical Christianity. In other words, if you don't have the resurrection of Christ, you do not have Christianity Now you can call it Christians. There's different groups out there. Christian scientists, they're not Christian, and they're not scientists, but Christian scientists deny the resurrection of Jesus Christ. I'm here to tell you, they ain't Christian You don't have a resurrected savior. You don't have Christianity. I don't know about you. I like to see things get blown up. Anybody here feel that same way? I like I love it. If I see a little video clip or something and they're blowing up an old abandoned building And you know they clear everybody out and they do this countdown. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Anybody see it? And uh maybe it's a 10, 15, 20, 30, 40 story, the taller it is, the better I like it And uh big old building. And we're gonna blow this thing. And so they clear everybody out and the cameras are set up. Ten, nine, eight, and uh um Six, uh, seven, uh, six, five, four, three, two, one, they mash the button, kaboom, and all these explosions go off at very key places in that building. Anybody know I'm talking about? Just shake your head whether you do or not, isn't it? And you watch that thing, and that thing just collapses on itself. That is the coolest thing in the world. I love it. I'd love to be the guy to mash that button. Or a bridge. Do you ever see they do a bridge across a big river? Three, two, one, ch And that thing just goes. I love it. And uh I tell you what, you blow out the resurrection of Jesus Christ, then Christianity comes collapsing on itself. Without the resurrection of Christ, there is no Christianity The Christian faith is built upon the foundational truth that Jesus Christ is not dead, but he arose again, and he is alive today. The resurrection of Jesus Christ is the foundation of biblical Christianity. You take out the resurrection of Christ, and Christianity collapses. It's the foundation of biblical Christianity. By that I mean this. It's foundational for the integrity of Christ. In other words, let me just put it bluntly, let me just put it in the way I understand a little better. If Jesus Christ did not rise from the dead, then Jesus Christ was a liar. If he didn't rise from the dead, he was a liar. Because he said very clearly, he said publicly, he said unmistakably to his disciples And to all the world I will rise again. He said it over and over and over and over, and it was impossible to misunderstand what he was saying. Now they didn't grasp, how can they grasp it? In their minds, that's impossible. We don't know what he means by that, because rising from the dead with it would be impossible in their minds. But I'm here to tell you, when God is involved, nothing is impossible. In Matthew chapter number 12 and verse 40, he said he would rise again. In chapter 16, in verse 21, Jesus said he would rise from the dead. In chapter 17, verse 22 through 23, he said, I will rise from the dead. In Mark chapter 8, verse 31, he said he would rise from the dead. Chapter 9 and verse 9 of Mark, he said he would rise from the dead. Mark 10, verse 32 through 34, he explained, I will rise from the dead. In Mark fourteen, verse twenty-seven-twenty-eight, he said he would rise from the dead. In Luke chapter nine and verse twenty-two, he said he would rise from the dead. In John 2, verse 19 through 22, he said very clearly he will rise from the dead. In John 10, 17 through 18, he said he would rise from the dead In John 11, 25, he said, I am the resurrection and the Lord. There's no way in the world anybody misunderstood what he was saying. Now they might not have fully grasped what he meant, but they did not misunderstand what he was saying. He said, I will die and the third day I will rise again And what I'm saying is this: if Jesus Christ did not rise from the dead, then he's a flat-out liar. Or he's insane. Jesus Christ rose from the dead. The integrity of our Savior is undercut when someone says, oh, he did not rise from the dead. You're calling him a liar. You're calling him a liar. And by the way, no liar can ever be the Savior of mankind. What I'm saying is this: the resurrection of Christ is the foundation of what Christianity is. Christianity exists because Jesus rose from the dead. It is the result of it. foundational for the integrity of Christ. If Christ did not rise from the dead, he's a liar. Jesus Christ is not a liar. He did rise from the dead. And with thus, because he rose from the dead, when we sincerely put our faith and trust in him, because he did rise from the dead, when we put our faith and trust in him personally, our sins are forgiven. We're reserved a home in heaven. We're made new creatures. We have eternal life. You see, it is a risen Savior that saves the soul, not a dead Savior. It is a risen Savior that changes lives, not a dead Savior. I am not what I am today. I am not the man I am today as opposed to what I was before I came to Christ I'm not what I am because of anything I worked up myself. It is because of a living Savior came in my life and changed my life It's foundational to the integrity of Christ. The resurrection of Christ authenticates Jesus Christ as the perfect, sinless sacrifice for my sins and your sins. If he did not rise from the dead, he is not the perfect Son of God. If he did not rise from the dead, he is not separate from sinners He is not holy, he is not pure. If he did not rise from the dead, he was a liar Jesus Christ is not a liar. He did rise from the dead. And Christianity is built on that fact. The resurrection of Christ is foundational to biblical Christianity. It's foundational for the integrity of Christ. It's foundational for the ministry of Christ. If Jesus Christ did not rise again, then his ministry ended with his death If his body stayed in that grave and eventually decayed to dust and no and is just dust in the soil there in the Middle East in Israel somewhere, if that's all that's left of Christ. If that's what happened to him and his body, then uh uh uh his ministry is over His ministry finished with his death. If Jesus Christ did not rise from the dead, you and I have no access to the throne of God. Now keep your place here in Corinthians if you would. Come with me to the book of Hebrews for a few minutes. Do you bring your Bible with you? I tell you, we got it. We might as well use it, huh? Hebrews chapter 4, and these are key verses throughout the book of Hebrews. If Jesus didn't rise from the dead, then you and I have zero access to the throne of God. Hebrews chapter 4, notice with me verse number 14. Hebrews 4 and verse 14. Notice what the Bible says. Hebrews. Alright, let me get there. It says, seeing then that we have a great high priest that is passed into the heavens. Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession. Now look at this. For we have not a high priest. which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Now, verse 16, he tells us as a result of this living high priest at the right hand of God. Making intercession for us. It says, let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in the time of need. If Jesus did not rise again, I have no high priest at the right hand of God, and I have no access to the throne of God. How many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. If that's true, you and I can go directly to God Himself, the Creator, the Eternal, Omnipotent Jehovah God We can go directly to God's throne in our prayers, in our hearts, we can approach Him boldly Because Jesus died, shed his blood, rose again, and is at that throne as our high priest, a living priest. You follow what I'm saying? I don't want to be unkind. Please don't misunderstand. I don't want to be unkind, but I do want to be honest and I'm going to preach the truth. And there's not a man in this world that you and I have to go through to have access to God's throne. Not a preacher, not the pastor of a Baptist church. not the deacon of a Baptist church, not a priest in a Catholic church or Episcopalian church or any other denomination you want to name Every individual believer, because we have a risen Savior, can come directly to God in our prayers and our supplications. If Jesus Christ did not rise from the dead, we have no access to God's throne. He's the living Savior. He's the living priest that makes that possible. I'm here to tell you, he did rise from the dead. And we do have access to God. And you can take your heartaches and you can take your burdens. And you can take your failures and you can take your sins as a child of God and come directly to God and do business with God, you and God alone. Isn't that a wonderful thing? I'm glad you don't have to come to me for you to go to God. I don't want to hear your stinking sins. Pastor, I have sin. Oh my brother, what'd you do? I don't want none of that business. I want God to take care of that. Amen. I got my hands full with my own. I don't need to deal with yours. Amen. We have a risen Savior. We have a living priest at the right hand of God that shed his blood so my sins can be cleansed. And stands there representing me, and I can come directly to God because of what that living priest standing at the right hand of God did, I can come directly to God. Oh, what a Savior. The resurrection of Christ is foundational of biblical Christianity. It's foundational for his integrity. If Jesus is a liar, we don't have Christianity, we don't have a Savior. He's not a liar. He did rise from the dead. Uh if Jesus didn't rise from the dead, then uh we have no current ministries of Jesus Christ going on. His ministry ended when they But when he said it is finished, he gave up the ghost on the cross, his ministry is over. But he did rise again. Uh because he rose again, we have access to God's throne. Because he rose again, we have an intercessor, an interceder for us. Go to chapter 4, or chapter 7, verse 25. Hebrews. I love this. Verse 25. Wherefore he, Jesus, is able also to save them to the what? Uh it doesn't say save them to uh pretty far. Uh save them pretty much. I mean all the way through to the othermost. I mean kitten caboodle. Uh I I never understood what kitten caboodle means. But whatever it is, Jesus paid it all. He saves to the what? Uttermost. Now look what he says. That come to God by Him, seeing He ever liveth to make intercession for them. For such a high priest became us, who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, made higher than the heavens. You and I can come directly to God because Jesus Christ ever liveth to make intercession for us. Now, this is what that verse is telling us. Now I'll simplify it in my own words. This verse is telling us that those of us that know Christ as Savior, born again, were in the family of God. That Not if we sin, but when we sin as a child of God. We have Jesus Christ before God, and He steps in and He makes intercession for us. In other words, Dennis Leatherman It's working trying to get the stupid Xerox printer to work on Sunday morning Now this Easter 2023 is going to go down in my mind as the morning I got really mad at the Xerox machine. And Dennis Sutherman wants to hurt the Xerox machine. And we're told to do violence to no man. I don't know if that includes machines or not, but I wanted to do violence to them. And the old devil steps up to God and says, huh. Some kind of preacher he is l getting mad at a machine. What a what a sorry testimony that is. I have to say, yeah. Lord he's right. That's stupid of me to get mad at a machine I got a living Savior. He steps over and says, let me intercede here. I paid for that sin. I died on that cross for that sin. That's all paid for. That's on my account. God, don't you judge him for that, because you judged me in his place for that sin. If Jesus was not rose from the dead, he's dead and gone, and I have no intercessor to stand on my behalf and plead for me before a holy God. You follow what I'm saying? Now, by the way, let me throw this out. That doesn't justify getting mad at the Xerox machine. Say, well, I got an intercessor, I can just do it. No, no, no. That's not what it talks about. That's a whole nother subject. But I tell you, we deliberately sin against God as a child of God. We've got to deal with God's chastening. That's Hebrews chapter 12. But I thank God that I Jesus rose from that grave. Now he stands before God, and when I mess up I do something stupid, I do something sinful, Jesus steps in and says, hold it, hold it, I already paid for that sin. It's paid for, paid in full He rose again to stand on my behalf. If Jesus had not rose, if not risen again, all his current ministries that he has would not exist We would have no help in temptation. Real quick, come back to chapter 2 of Hebrews, real quick. Verse number 17. Hebrews 2. Wherefore in all things it behooveth behooved him to be made like unto his brethren, that we might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God To make reconciliation for the sins of the people. Look at this. For in that he himself has suffered being tempted, he is able to secure them that are tempted. That word secure means to help, to come to their aid, to strengthen, to enable them. Jesus Christ rose from the dead, and now he lives, and when you and I, as a child of God, are tempted He can come to our side and help us and strengthen us and overcome that temptation. I tell you, if we didn't have the living Savior, you and I would fall for every temptation. that came along. We already fall for enough of them. But we would have zero strength. You follow what I'm saying? I'm glad. Anybody here now Maybe you don't want to admit this. Anybody here since you've been saved, I'm talking to saved people. Anybody here since you've been saved, you were tempted to do something wrong? Anyone like that? Don't respond Because if if I had everybody that was tempted to wrong since they were saved raise their hand, some of y'all wouldn't be wouldn't raise your hand and you'd be sinning. And I don't want to make you s I don't want to enable you to sin. I want to help you not sin. But every one of us have anybody here you ever in a situation you say, oh I know it, I don't know what I know it, I know it And you do something like this, Lord help me. God help me. And you're able to turn and walk away from that. Anyone know what I'm talking about? That's a living Savior enables us to do that. If He didn't rise from the dead, we would not have we wouldn't have Jesus Christ to secure us when we're tempted He comes down and helps us. You know what our problem is? We don't look to him for help enough. We just plow right through. But if we'll stop, say, Lord help me, God help me. He'll help us. Resurrection of Christ is foundational for Christianity. It's foundational for the integrity of Christ uh for the ministry of Christ. It's foundational. Oh, by the way, if uh uh uh if Jesus didn't rise from dead, we wouldn't have any mansions in glory He says, Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were in so, I would have told you. I go and prepare a place for you. Where I am, there you may be also. That doesn't sound like a dead man talking to me. That sounds like a living Savior, a living God that is now preparing a place in heaven for those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, a mansion in glory. Because Jesus Christ rose from the dead. It's foundational to our faith as Christians, our Christianity. A dead savior, would you get this statement? A dead Savior is no savior. A dead Savior is no savior. A living savior is a powerful Savior. And he lives, he lives. My first point is resurrection of Christ is foundational to biblical Christianity. Real quick, resurrection of Jesus Christ. is foundational to New Testament preaching, to the focus of New Testament preaching. In Acts chapter 2, verse 24, they preach the resurrection of Christ. In Acts 2. 32 they preach the resurrection of Christ. In ch Acts 3. 15 they preach the resurrection of Christ. Chapter 4 and verse 10 they preach that Christ rose from the dead. Chapter 5 and verse 30 of Acts they preach that Christ rose from the dead. Chapter 10 and verse 40 of Acts they preach that Christ rose from the dead. Chapter 13, verse 30 of Acts they preached that he rose from the dead. Verse 35 four of chapter thirteen they said he rose from the dead. Chapter 17, verse 18, they said he rose from the dead. Chapter 17 verse 31 They said he rose from the dead. Over and over and over, every message recorded in the book of Acts, they preached the resurrected Savior That was the message of the New Testament church. He died for our sins, was buried, and rose again. And the New Testament church was born in the preaching and the truth and the reality that Jesus Christ rose again. You can trace the roots of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church back 2,000 years to an empty tomb. We exist today. And churches around our area, around our country, around our world. Because Jesus Christ came out of that grave alive. It's the focus of New Testament preaching. That's all they preached. It was their fearless and competent preaching of Christ, the resurrection of Christ. That established the New Testament church. I got a couple minutes. Would you turn real quick to Acts chapter number four? Real quickly with me. I want you to see this. Acts chapter 4 and verse 33. I'm about finished here. Acts chapter four and look at verse thirty-three. And with great power gave the apostles witness of the what The resurrection of the Lord Jesus. That was their message. That was the truth that the church was built upon. The church was born. But the preaching of the resurrection of Christ. Look at this. And great grace was upon them all. Resurrection of Christ. It was the focus in New Testament preaching. By the way, you can't preach the gospel without preaching the resurrection. If someone is preaching the death of Jesus Christ, and they do not include on the message of the death of Christ, The resurrection of Christ, they are not preaching the gospel of Christ. The good news of the crucifixion of Jesus Christ Is based upon the resurrection of Jesus Christ. That was the focus of New Testament preaching And by the way, the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ ought to be the focus of current church preaching. Nothing's changed. That tomb is still empty. Jesus Christ still lives. He's at the right hand of God the Father. He's just as alive and alert and aware of you and I and who we are and what we are and what we're doing and what we think. As he was, he walked the shores of Galilee. Just as alive. It was the focus of New Testament preaching. It is the foundation of Biblical Christianity, and last of all, it's the faith of the New Testament believers. The resurrection of Christ is what makes salvation possible. Without a living Savior, there's no salvation for a hellbound sinner. By the way, without Christ, we are hell-bound. I know that's not popular, and I know that's not positive, and I know that's not pleasant, but I'm here to tell you the reality of hell is still as true as it ever been. And if we don't have a risen living Savior, we don't have a Savior. And as old rotten sinners, we don't have any hope of salvation if Jesus Christ did not rise from the dead. But I'm here to tell you on Easter morning he did rise from the dead. And we do have a Savior. And every sinner, doesn't matter what we've done, doesn't matter how perverse or wicked or obscene Our sin may be. We have a living Savior that we can come to in humility and faith, and He promises He'll forgive us and cleanse us and give us new life Resurrection of Christ. Salvation is not in a religion Salvation is not in a church denomination. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot save a person's soul from sin in hell. And by the way, neither can any other church. It's not in a religion. It's not in a denomination, a Baptist or Methodist or Brethren or Catholic or Episcopalian or Mennonite or you name it. It's not in a denomination. It's in a living savior is where salvation is found. Salvation is not found in a Baptist street. And baptism is important for a new believer, but that's not where salvation is. It's not in that water there It's not in a church. It's not in a preacher. It's not in some ritual. It's not in good deeds. It's not in any lifestyle. Forgiveness of sins and salvation from hell and new life and a home in heaven is only found in the living Savior, Jesus Christ. That's it. And by the way, I do not apologize for preaching this. And I don't apologize for preaching it a lot. It was the message of the New Testament church. It was the focus of the New Testament believers' faith that Christ rose from the dead. They knew it was true. The disciples saw with their own eyes. Five hundred people went out testify, hey, I saw Without the resurrection of Christ, this is a little aside, we don't have salvation from sin in hell. And by the way, without the resurrection of Christ, we don't have an indwelling Holy Spirit. That's one of the greatest truths of salvation, that God Almighty, the person of the Holy Spirit, indwells my body. Jesus said, except I go away, I cannot send the Holy Ghost. If he died in the grave, we have no Holy Ghost indwelling us. Do you agree with me? Resurrection of the truth of the resurrection of Christ is pretty important to our faith. In fact, without it, we have no faith. We have no Christianity. Biblical Christianity exists today because Christ rose from that grave. Paul said, I know whom I have believeth. And then per se. He didn't say, I know what, I believe, or I know whom. He's talking about a living Savior. Salvation is only found in a living Savior. You've heard this so often you're sick of it. On May 7, 1979, to simple old wretch, I knelt by my bed. I'd become a man I did not want to be. I was so appalled by my lifestyle, my sin. I tried to change. I tried to clean up. I tried everything I could to change what I was. I was a sinner. And I hated him. Finally, in desperation, after reading my Bible, I got on my knees. And I'll tell you what I didn't do. I didn't call on some preacher to forgive me and save me from my sin. I didn't call some church denomination. I didn't put my trust in some doctrinal creed. All those things have their place. Ten thirty that Monday night, I knelt. I called on a living Savior. And he heard me. And he answered my prayer, and he came in my life. That wasn't some dead personality that's been rotted away in a grave 2,000 years. That night I was trusting a living man, the Son of God. I was putting my faith in. And he heard me and saved me. And gave me new life. I was reading this suite the largest man-made structure in all of history. is a tomb. One of the pyramids over in Egypt. It's a tomb The oldest, if I understood the article correctly, the oldest man-made structure is still in existence is a tomb in Egypt. Um uh the the largest structure, the oldest structure, and the seven wonders of the world Anybody ever hear about the seven wonders? There's only one in existence still. You know what it is? It's a tomb in Egypt. And one of those one of those pyramids there. I forget the name of it. Largest, oldest, only wonder of the world still in existence, but I'm here to tell you There's a tomb even greater than any of the oldest or the biggest or the existing one, and that's the empty tomb of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And if you're unsaved, if you do not have assurance, your sins are forgiven. You're on your way to heaven and not on your way to hell. I'm here to tell you, we have a living Son of God. Who can and will forgive you and save you and give you eternal life and keep you out of hell and get you to heaven A living Savior. And you come to Him and trust Him just like you come to an airplane, step on an airplane, trust that airplane to fly you to Atlanta. You come to Jesus Christ and you trust him, put your faith in him, and he gets you to heaven. And those of us that know Christ, How about we live for him? How about we act like his salvation means something to us? Father in heaven, this Easter morning. I pray you'd renew in our hearts and minds the significance and the importance and the reality of the empty tomb. The resurrection of Jesus Christ. I wonder how many this morning say, Preacher, I'm saved. I trust in Christ. I can tell you when and where it was. Biblical basis for my salvation. I'm sure of it. But you'd say, preacher, I'm not living really like I should as a Christian. There's some areas in my life that really want to line up. If Jesus is alive, as the Bible says, and he is, say, preacher, there's some adjustments I need to make in my Christian life. There's some There's some things I need to face and deal with. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. There's some areas there I really need to give attention to. And you know what they are. It's between you and God. Maybe there's some this morning say, Preacher, I know God saved me and I'm I'm trying to do right and I'm trying to look for the Lord's best I can. But I've got a friend of mine, a family member, a co-worker, a neighbor Somebody that's significant to me, somebody that means something to me. And they're not saved. You're not trying to be judgmental, it's just reality. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'll be a good witness I'll be a good testimony that they'll come to Christ and be say, Is there anybody like that, preacher? Somebody I'm burdened for. God bless you. I tell you, a a sincere, pure, godly testimony is about as powerful a witness as you're going to get. Maybe there's some this morning say, preacher, I'm concerned about my soul. Oh, I'd go to heaven, but I'm not sure. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I gotta get this settled. Preacher, pray for me. I want to know for sure my sins are forgiven. I'm going to heaven, not to hell. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. God will help me get that settled. Any at all? Preacher, pray for me. Pray with me. God will help me get that settled. Father in heaven, bless our invitation now on this Easter morning. Help us to respond to what you spoke our hearts about in Jesus' name.