Trying to find the microphone here. Here it is. Give you a minute to turn there, Philippians chapter two. We're going to read verses 1 down through 12. A little bit of reading this evening, but um I think it's all important. Uh so we're going to read verses one down through twelve just so nothing gets taken out of context here Philippians chapter 2, verse 1, I'll give you just another minute to turn there, so I have an excuse to take another sip of this water. Verse one of Philippians two says, If there be any consolation in Christ, if any comfort Of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bows and mercies, fulfill ye my joy, that ye be like-minded. This is where we'll spend a lot of our time tonight. That you be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own needs, but every man also on the things of others. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God. But made himself of no reputation, took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. Being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself. And became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name. That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, the things in heaven and things in earth, the things under the earth, that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling Let's pray and then the message this evening, the mind of Christ, the mind of Christ. Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you for this day you've given us, Lord, just the testimonies tonight, the missionary uh biography, Lord, the the The music, just it it's it's already been so good just to be here. Lord, I ask that you would bless the this uh service tonight. Lord, I ask that you would preach to us. Lord, I ask that you would just hide me behind you. And that you would be the preacher tonight, Lord. Fill me with your spirit. Lord, I ask for just a supernatural energy and power that can only come from you, Lord. In Jesus' name. Amen. I mentioned this morning, but there were several people that were out, whether you were down uh stairs or uh you just weren't able to make it out. Uh what we'll be doing uh for the next few weeks here is we're going through a study on the book of Philippians. And I really enjoy just studying it A short little book towards the end of the New Testament there. But there's a lot of nuggets of stuff we can get out of here, a lot of nuggets of information that I think will bless you that we can get out of this book. This morning we covered chapter one. My intention is to cover a chapter per service, and then one just to summarize the whole book Um, I guess you could say, but uh we covered chapter one this morning, the confidence in Christ, and um we saw where we can be confident in Christ. If there's anything we can be confident in, it's the Lord. And um I wrote this down in in in the little margin on the side of my b uh of my Bible here. It's almost as Paul was saying this in chapter one, looking at what Christ has done in my life, I'm confident that Christ will do it in your life as well. And we looked at verse six as our main verse there. But for sake of review, I'm going to ask a couple questions here, and if you can answer me, that would be great. So who is it that uh wrote the book? Who's the tenement of Philippians? Paul. Good job, Paul. And we looked at that, and that's an amazing thing in and of itself that God would use someone uh like Saul, save him, and then um use them to write portions of the scripture and plant churches and so on Who was it written to? I think this is obvious. The Philippians. Yes, the church at Philippi, the the Philippians. And uh we talked about um a little bit of their background, Roman colony there and and and whatnot, and we looked at the the some of the members of that church. Um who remembers when it was written? Who said sixty-two? 61, 62, right in that time frame while Paul's in prison, known as one of the prison uh epistles. Um and the theme uh we mentioned was joy, uh the overwhelming joy of of Christ Sometime go through Philippians, underline and highlight, or however you want to do it. Every time you see the word joy or rejoice or some form of that found And um if you do that, you'll have underlined that word sixteen times. And it's just a few short pages here. Um but joy is uh one of the overlining themes of this book. So now let's focus specifically on chapter 2 this evening. And in chapter 2, I've kind of titled this The Mind of Christ. and thinking like Christ and um having the mind of Christ, being like-minded um by being By having his mind, it's kind of the theme of this chapter. Verse 2, he starts out saying, Fulfill ye my joy that ye be like-minded. Verse 5, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. And this whole chapter He talks about having a mind like Christ and having uh and thinking like Christ thinks. And um understand this is uh how we think affects how we act. And uh sometimes we focus so much on actions and we should focus on actions, but our actions are a result of our thinking. And we need to think about what we think about, and we need to think on um our thoughts, if that makes any sense. But um that's kind of what the overlying uh message of chapter two is here, thinking um like Christ. And if we are acting the way Christ would have us to act, we're doing what He tells us to do, then we're At that time, we're thinking the way he wants us to think. Contrast that, if we're not living for God, we're living our life against his word, and so on, it's probably because we're not thinking like him. Does this make sense? So Chapter two discusses thinking. Now understand this Part of having the mind of Christ, what Christ the way Christ wants us to think when we think about our mind, he wants us to be like-minded Verse 2 says, Fulfill ye my joy that ye be alike minded. Paul is writing to the church at Philippi here, and in the first chapter we saw he talked um about his memories of the church. Thank God for their um for the memories, the fellowship uh that he had and and displays his confidence about what God is doing in them and he's confident that God will perform a work Later on in the chapter, we saw in chapter one we saw where um some preached out of envy, but uh goodwill and contention, but nonetheless the gospel is preached. And I'm kind of trying to fly through that here just to get to chapter two But when we get to chapter 2, he says, Fulfill ye my joy that ye be like-minded So we see the word joy, which is kind of the theme of the book, and we see the word like-minded, which is kind of the theme of this chapter of this book. And these things go together. Thinking like Christ and joy are related. Directly related. Being like-minded with each other and joy. are related. Can I say this? It's it's kind of important that we all agree hump things. It's kind of important that we all think the same way. And we have the same mind, and we'll look at this here in a moment. But Paul is saying, you know what would really make me happy? You know what would just fulfill my joy. Yeah, I'm glad the gospel is being preached. I have joy when I just think about you, but what you know what would just absolutely fulfill my joy. It just puts her right over the top is if you all were like-minded. We could almost even say it this way, if you all got along. We need to get along. Tolerate each other, not just tolerate each other, but be alike-minded, have the same goals, have the same desires. I think it's important that we all have the mind to see people saved. It's important that we all have a mind to read God's Word. I think it's all it is important that we all have the same mindset in living for Christ. Same desire, same standards, same goals, be on the same page. When we are like minded with each other, when I'm when my mind is working like Tom's well maybe I shouldn't say that I'm just kidding, brother. When my mind is working like Randy, he's a good man, I'll use him. When my mind is working like Randy I'm sorry, brother. When my mo when our minds are working together, we'll see things accomplished a little faster. We'll see things accomplished, period. When we work against each other, things don't get done. When w when we're not like-minded and we're single-minded and we think, you know, I don't care the w what he thinks about this, I'm going to do things the way I want to do them and so on, then then things don't get done. We can become at a standstill. We need to be like-minded We see some examples of that in Acts. Acts chapter 2 in verse 1, we see where the disciples were one accord and the church ignited. That's uh Pentecost there. Uh we sa uh and it's spread out. Acts chapter five, uh when they were performing miracles, is when they were all of one accord. When when the disciples worked together and they had the same goal and they had the same mindset. They got some things done. The church really blew up fast. People were getting saved pretty quickly. The church was growing very quickly. Churches were being planted. Because everyone worked together. They had the same mind. When we are one mind, it brings joy. Verse 2, fulfill ye my joy, but I think it brings the Lord joy. I think it makes God happy when he sees us getting along. Um those of you that have uh many uh children, I think you'll understand that you like it when your children get along. It brings you joy. When your kids don't get along, it hurts you. It brings you sorrow. I can't help but think how much joy or sorrow are we bringing to God? When he sees us not getting along and we're not like-minded, wonder if we don't break God's heart a little bit. But when he looks down and he sees us uh uh uh gathering together, having the same mind, working working together for the same goals, I I think we bring the Lord joy there. We bring joy to those that are in authority over us. And again, we've mentioned Pastor several times tonight and how grateful we are for him. I think that it brings him joy when he sees us working together. When he sees several men in the church that get together on a project and get something done real quick, and he says, I think that blesses our pastor's heart. But there's a contrast to that. What what what do you think does to his heart when he sees people in the church not getting along When he sees two families in the church that are against each other, when he sees the same family in the church that's against each other. Yeah, it hurts us, but I I think it hurts him a little bit as well. When we are of the same mind, I think it brings joy to ourselves. I I don't know about you, but I'm happy when I have joy When I w when I get along with whoever it is I'm talking with, I'm happier, and when I'm in disagreeance with someone, I'm not as happy. I don't have as much joy when I'm fighting with someone. Again, I think this is common sense. But joy comes as a result of being like-minded. Now, we've got to be careful because obviously we can't be like-minded with everybody we come in contact with. And we're going to see exactly who it is we're supposed to be like-minded with here in just a moment. But when we are not like-minded, things don't get accomplished, things don't move forward, but rather go backward. How many church splits have happened because people aren't like-minded? How many families have fallen apart because husbands and wives aren't like-minded? It's a bad reputation of the world. It's a bad testimony We see backbiting, bitterness in churches, bitterness in homes and workplaces, and so on, no joy, no peace, high stress levels, and so on. Um When we aren't like-minded, it's not good. I think that's a simple way to put it. It's important for us to be like-minded. Now you might be thinking Well, I thought the title of the message tonight was The Mind of Christ, and I thought that this chapter you were saying the theme of it is the mind of Christ. It is. And how is it that we can become like-minded, and that is by having the mind of Christ. Understand this. I pick on Tom. I love you, brother. I like him a lot. I c I I can be myself around Tom and I can cut up and and and whatever else, you know what I mean. Get mad at get mad at him 'cause he didn't plow good enough or something, I don't know. But uh we can cut up and we have a good relationship. But understand this. If my goal is like, oh man, I want to be like Tom, that's bad. It's nothing against you brother Because he's a person. People are bad. People have a fleshly nature, and we will, if I try to pattern myself after another person, there'll be something about that other person that I probably shouldn't be patterning myself after. See, we can think of good traits from people, but if we say I want to be just like so-and-so, well so-and-so's got some flaw somewhere. Does this make sense? We don't become like-minded by trying to be like each other. We come become like-minded by Trying to have the mind of Christ. See, if we think the way he thinks, then we'll all think the same. An example, uh, illustration I heard once was that of a guitar tuner. You can tune a guitar to another guitar. And you can tune the next guitar to the next guitar and so on and so on and so on. But by the time you do that a hundred times The last guitar is not going to sound like the first one. They're not going to be in sync with each other. And if I say I want to be in sync with Tom, and Tom says I want to be in sync with Ben, and so on down the line By the time we get to to to the back corner, we're not gonna match anymore. You ever play that game of telephone? That's what that is. But if each one of us says, I want to get in tune with the tuner, then all of us will match. When you take a hundred different guitars and you tune all of them to the same tuner Then all of them will sound the exact same. So how is it that we are to be like-minded by trying to be like each other? No, by trying to be like Christ. And I'm uh and please don't misunderstand me on understand me. I'm not saying we shouldn't have role models, and I'm not saying we shouldn't look up to people. I think we should, but ultimately it's Christ we should want to uh to be like. We don't try to be like-minded by trying to be like each other. Each other can be wrong. I just dropped a coaster. Well now I'll just put it right there. So we shouldn't try to be like-minded by trying to be like each other. We shouldn't try to be like-minded by trying to be like the world. If we get along with the world, we would we we think we would uh a lot of uh churches they try to get along with the world. Thinking that, oh, if we could just get along and think like them, they'll accept us and we'll all get together and it'll all be great. It won't be Because now we're compromising the mind of Christ to try to be like the world. And and it won't go good that way, obviously. But the right way to be like-minded is to tune into Christ, and then we'll all be in tune with each other. He wants us to have this mind. That's why he says, let this mind be in you. Let it happen. So how do we become like-minded? First of all, by having the mind of Christ, second of all by having a spirit of humility. A Christ-like mind. Is a humble mind. A Christ-like mindset is a humble mindset. Verse 8 of Philippians 2 says, In being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself. That's Christ. This was his mindset. This was his thought process to humble himself. And if we are to be like-minded, that is, we are to have the mind of Christ, then we have got to humble ourselves. Be willing to take on the form of a servant, verse 7. Go to uh hold your place here, but if you could go to Proverbs 13 A Christlike mindset is a humble mindset. An attitude of pride is not an attitude of Christ. Proverbs thirteen, verse ten. Only by pride cometh contention. What's the opposite of like-minded contention? What's the opposite of pride? Humility. You understand what I'm what we're see what we're seeing here? If we want to be Like-minded, and we want to have the mind of Christ, we have got to put away pride. Only by pride cometh contention. 1828 No Webster's dictionary, the word contention means strife, struggle, a violent effort to obtain something or to resist a person. Claim or injury, contest, quarrel. The very definition of this word screams pride. Because of pride, we see strife. Because of pride, we see struggles. We see violent efforts to obtain something. To resist each other, to resist a person. We see contests because of pride. And I couldn't help but think how many homes How many families, jobs, relationships, and even churches have been in contention due to pride? Pride is a serious issue of the flesh. And if we don't work on it, it will take over. And if we let pride take over, contentions will happen. Fights will happen You will fight with your spouse because of pride. Your children will fight with each other because of pride Understand this, that misunderstanding is not what brought up the quarrel, not what brought up the contention. It was pride. Bad circumstances, lack of finances, other things that come up in a home, a marriage. Circumstances is not what caused the contention. Pride is what caused the contention. Say, well, I just don't believe that. Well then you don't believe the Bible, because the Bible says only by pride cometh contention. And we just saw that. We need to be willing to take the low position. Verse 3 of Philippians 2, let each esteem other better than themselves. If you're still here in Proverbs 16-18 Proverbs chapter sixteen, verse eighteen, a verse that's misquoted very often It says pride pride goeth before destruction in the haughty spirit before a fall. Many times people say, Oh, pride goes before the fall, but it says pride goeth before destruction in the haughty spirit before a fall. Same concept, I guess. The pride goes before destruction. When we think of the word destruction, we would think of the word destroy. I think of a wrecking ball that's about to demolish part of a building and it brings destruction. I think of dynamite that's underneath of a bridge and it's about to blow up this bridge. for some construction project and they're about to destroy the bridge. This dynamite brings destruction. You know what brings destruction just as much is pride. Pride comes before destruction. You know what has destroyed homes? Pride The destructive situation that's going on in the home, pride Why is it that there is destruction going on at your work, going on at school? Right. Only by pride cometh contention, and when pride comes, it brings destruction right behind it. It sounds harsh, that's reality. We've got to learn to accept the fact That if our pride takes over, it will destroy our relationships, it will destroy our job, it will destroy our families. I say this will destroy the church I'm thinking of a couple of different churches right now that split because of someone's pride. Because of many people's pride. And it brought great destruction to those churches I'm thinking of. Can I say this? I love you. I don't want your families to be destroyed. I don't want your relationships to be destroyed. Can we all disagree we need to swallow the pride? Well, it's not my fault. It's irrelevant. We gotta get rid of this pride. Well he started it. Well she started it. That's irrelevant. We need to swallow our own pride and get right what we need to get right. We need to go to that person we need to go to and say, I'm sorry. I was wrong. Well, I don't think I was wrong. Well then swallow your pride. I'm getting a little bored here, aren't I? But pride comes before destruction. Kind of got off subject here a little bit, but that's okay. We need to have the mind of Christ. The mind of Christ is to be like-minded. How are we to be like-minded? Rather than thinking like someone else or thinking like the world, we need to think like Christ. We need to have a spirit of humility. We need to have an obedient spirit. A Christ-like mind is an obedient mind. We're to obey God. Jesus obeyed God. And for sake of time, we don't have to go there. But Luke 22, 42, remember Jesus is in the garden and he's he's praying the sweat, as it were, great drops of blood. And he said, if it be possible to remove this cup from me, nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done. That was Christ's mindset. He became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. And if we're to be in tune with each other. And we're to be in tune with God. Obedience is a part of this. We have to be willing to obey God no matter the cost. Well, if I obey God, my family will turn on me. Well, if I obey God, I'll I'll just get in in trouble for doing right. Well, do you want to have the mind of Christ? Because his mind was obedient, no matter the consequences A Christ-like mindset is an obedient mindset. A Christ-like mindset is a mindset of humility. So I'm just going to wrap things up. We have some fellowship here after in a minute. So I don't want to take too much longer, but let me ask you, do you all have joy? The theme of Philippians is joy, right? We've seen that. Say, well, this doesn't sound like a very joyous message. Well, the point is you can't have joy until you get past the step. We can't have that peace that passes all understanding if we refuse to give peace. If we refuse to swallow our pride. If we refuse to forgive, then we we we can't have this joy Pride is a dangerous thing. I I again I don't mean to get hung up on this pride, but it's a dangerous thing. It's very destructive. It's very destructive. And we need to be o obedient. So do you want to please the Lord? Do you want to move forward? Do you want to um all of us have the same mindset and every we'll have the the the testimony and the community, of being a like-minded church, we'll see souls saved, we'll see uh more missionaries took taken on, uh we'll see that just that the everything explode because we're all like-minded I'd like to see that. And can I say I think we have a very strong element of that? I was thinking about it before I saw uh I came up to this pulpit tonight and I was thinking Well Lord, I think we're already pretty like-minded here. But can I tell you not completely Why don't we search our hearts tonight and figure out what it is we need to get right with God so we can be right with each other? Maybe we need to get right with each other to be right with God. We've got to be willing to set pride aside. We've got to be willing to be obedient, no matter what it takes We've got to have the mind of Christ, and once we all have the mind of Christ, we will all be of one accord, all one spirit. We'll all be like-minded. It's bowed, eyes closed, no one will look around for just a moment. If you could please stand as well. A little f uh tough subject tonight, a little forward, but it's something that needs to be dealt with Don't want to look around for just a moment, heads bowed, eyes closed. Maybe you're here tonight and you say, you know what? God spoke into my heart. There's something I need to get right with God. Maybe there's something I need to get right with someone else. Maybe there's someone else in this very room you need to go to and get right with. That would involve getting over pride. Maybe it's obedience. And I left a lot out of of this section. Maybe it's uh maybe it's obedience. I haven't been obeying God and doing what it is He wants me to do. You understand there's some things we don't have to pray about. We just need to do But if m if if you're here and you say, you know what, God has spoken to my heart about something, I need to get it right. Would you raise your hand? I I'll pray with you. My hand's up Let me put your hands down. How many of you would say this? Talking about having the mind of Christ, I don't even know Christ. I'm not even saved. And you say, I know I'm not saved. And if I were to die, I I'm not I I don't think I'd go to heaven. But I'm concerned about that. Would you raise your hand? I just want to pray for you. Pastor Melana, I'm sure I'm saved. Would you raise your hand? Now still no one will look around. There's a few hands that went up and you said, you know what, I I I've got this pride issue, or maybe there's an obedience issue. Or maybe something totally different that I don't even know about, and God dealt with you about it tonight. But if God spoke to your heart If she starts playing the piano and you decide not to come f forward, or at least not to get it right with God Can I tell you that then we can't be like-minded? And I'm not trying to twist someone's arm into coming to an altar, but I am saying this. If we have any hope of having the same mindset as each other, we have got to get right with God on some things. And if God's dealt with your heart, I beg you, get things right with Him. Do business with God. God's death with your heart, the altar's open