We're looking at the fruit of the Spirit. Of course, we find the fruit of the Spirit listed in Galatians chapter 5, verse 22 and 23. There's nine characteristics of the fruit of the Holy Spirit. Tonight we're going to look at number five in just a moment, but I want to show you something I think that is important to understand When we're considering what this fruit of the Holy Spirit is, and there's a whole lot more to it than just affecting my behavior, I believe. In Genesis chapter 1, notice with me if you would verse 26. The Bible says, and God said, of course, this is an account of creation. And God said, verse 26, let us make man in our image. Question: How many gods are there? There's one God. But he uses a plural term here: us. Of course, it's a reference to what? The Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. Great 3 and 1. He says, let us, now notice what he says. Let us make man in our what image after our likeness And let them, mankind, have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the fowl of the air, over the cattle, over the earth, all the earth, over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. Then he says, verse 27 And so God created man, look at this, in his own image. In the image of God created he him, male and female created he them. There's a lot of information in those two verses there that could take a long time processing. But he says that God created man, mankind, you and I. In his image. He repeats it in his image, in his image, in his image. Now we're going to look at the fruit of the Spirit, and particularly the fruit of gentleness. But I want to lay some groundwork. I want us to notice something before we get to that. So let's pray and ask the Lord to teach us something I think is very important here. Father, I ask now as we look at your word Your plan and purpose for our lives and what you're doing in our lives as believers. And Lord, I pray your spirit would help us cooperate with you and not resist you. And not and not harden our heart or stiffen our neck against what you're trying to do, but we would comply And we would yield and let you make us into that person you intend for us to be. Fill me with your spirit. Lord, guide my mind as we consider something here that I think is very helpful. I asked all of this in Jesus' name. So we're told in Genesis chapter 1 here that we are created in God's image. Now among Bible students and scholars There's debate about what that means to be created in the image of God. One thing we know it does not mean, it does not mean we look like God, right? Say, how do we know that? Because God is a spirit. He doesn't look like anything. Jesus became flesh later on, but the Bible's clear: God is a spirit, he's invisible. And so when it says we are created in God's image, it cannot mean in our appearance. We don't look like him. Jesus was made in the image of man when he became flesh But we are not physically in God's image. Some suggest that to be in God's image means that God is God the Father, God the Son, and God the Spirit, the Great Trinity, the Great Three and One. So man is body, soul, and spirit. We are a tripartite is the word that is used to describe us. So in that sense, we are in God's image. That may or may not be what he's talking about here. I'm sure it's uh No doubt part of it. Some suggest we have a self-conscious, we have a will, we have an awareness, we can we have an appreciation for artistic things, and we have this sensitivity to our surroundings, our our uh uh environment in ways that other creatures do not And so in that sense, we're like God in our self-consciousness and our volition, our free will, and all of that. And that that no doubt is part of it. But I want you to notice something. Come with me, if you would, to Romans chapter number 8. And I see a process in Scripture. Genesis 1, we are created in God's image. In Romans chapter number 8, And verse number twenty-nine, Romans chapter eight and verse twenty-nine Give a chance to find it there. Notice what it says. For whom he did foreknow simply means God knew ahead of time who would believe on him, who would trust him. And those whom he foreknowed, those whom he knew would trust him as Savior, he also did predestinate them He's not talking about heaven and hell here. He's not being talking about predestinated for heaven, predestinated for hell. What did he predestinate? Those who he knew would trust him, what did he predestinate them to be? What? Conformed to the image, there's that word, of his son. God knew who would believe on him. Those that trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, he'd predetermined ahead of time. that they would be conformed to the image of his son, Jesus Christ. His son, Jesus Christ. God determined that. Every person that trusts Christ as Savior, they will be conformed to the image of my Son. Come with me over to 2 Corinthians chapter 3. So we're creating God's image. God decided, determined That those who we foreknow would trust in him, that they would be conformed to the image of his son. Well, I thought we were created in God's image. 2 Corinthians chapter 3 And notice with me, if you would, verse number eighteen. But we all With open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord. Now I don't want to take time to go into great explanation. I think what he's talking about, we're looking in the Bible Beholding in the glass of God's word, James refers to as the Bible as his glass or mirror. And we're we're seeing God. Now look what it says. Are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as, look at this, by the Spirit of the Lord. So I'm looking in the Bible, I'm seeing God, what God is like, and he says the Holy Spirit, that's the Spirit of the Lord, is changing me Into the image of the God that I'm seeing here. Alright? Now, come with me to 1 John chapter 3. Way back towards the back of your New Testament, 1 John chapter 3, and verse 2 and 3. 1 John 3, 2 and 3. Give a moment to find it. 1 John, not the Gospel of John, the epistle. 1 John. Notice verse 2. Beloved, now are we the sons of God. Now look at this. And it doth not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when he shall appear, what's he talking about when he shall appear? Who's he talking about and when is he talking about? So about Jesus, when he comes back, when we see him We know that when he shall appear, we shall be what? Like him. We shall be in his image. For we shall see him as he is. And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, makes himself clean and pure like Jesus. He's working with the Spirit Then I'll be like him, even as he is pure. But notice it says, we shall be like him. We shall be, when Jesus comes back, when we're in the presence of Jesus Christ, We will be like him. We will be perfectly in his image. All right, everybody with me so far? I hope your mind's working here. This is what I think is taking place. And this ties into the fruit of the Spirit, what this is all about. This is what I think is taking place. Number one, God created us in his image. Adam and Eve before the fall of man, Adam and Eve were in the image of God. Now I am absolutely convinced in studying the scriptures that At least part of it, probably a major part of us being the image of Christ, means that this fruit of the Spirit, these nine characteristics That the Holy Spirit wants to bear in our life, that Adam and Eve were created with those nine characteristics as part of their very nature. The fruit of the Spirit is the characteristics of Jesus Christ. And when God created us, He created us in His image. With these characteristics, I mean it was part of our nature. We're in his image. We have the characteristics of God. Not the all-powerful and all that, but we had his moral characteristics. And sin came. And sin defiled that fruit, that image that we were in Christ, these Goodness and faith and patience and joy and longsuffering and gentleness, temperance. That was part of what we were. It was just natural And sin entered, and all that fruit died. All that fruit was corrupted. And in its place came the works of the flesh. It replaced the fruit of the Spirit in man. Now I'm using the New Testament term fruit of the Spirit, but the works of the flesh replaced Those characteristics of God that we were created in the image of. And if we whenever we get back to Genesis 5, we have the works of the flesh listed there: murder, hatred, strife Variance, adultery. And if you'll read Genesis very carefully, after the fall of man, it was within one generation Hatred, murder, adultery, multiple wives Every one of the works of the flesh manifests themselves almost immediately after the fall of man. And that fruit, those characteristics that Galatians is describing, withered and died. They're no longer part of our nature. Our nature now is corrupted. How many people know our nature is corrupted? Yes. Paul said, in me, in my flesh, there dwells no good thing. There is absolutely no fruit. None of that characteristics of God is true in my flesh, in me. So God created us in his image. I believe those nine characteristics were part of man's nature, very nature He disobeyed God, that fruit withered and died, the works of the flesh took over, and from there on we see the works of the flesh being manifest over and over and over and over and over. Second of all, God's plan for salvation was to, I believe, is to bring mankind, you and I, back into the image of God. What he originally created us to have those characteristics true in our life, to bring us back to that. That's why it says there in Romans that we are predestined to be conformed to the image of Christ, to be brought back to that image we were initially created in. And the characteristics we had in that creation. To bring us back to that. Listen, salvation is much more than just escaping hell. It's much more than just a stamped ticket to heaven. Now it is that. Thank God when we get saved, we don't have to worry about hell. Thank God we get saved. We have assurance of heaven. But listen, it is so much more than that. It is part of God. Bringing man back to what he initially created us to be. And those characteristics of Christ that were innate in us. And we're part of our nature. Sin destroyed it, works of the flesh took over. Jesus Christ comes. And those that believe in him, God wants to conform them back into the image of Christ, the image of God. And then in 2 Corinthians 3. 18, we read, The Holy Spirit is given to us, and He is the one That that works in us and molds us and changes us Into that image of Christ. That's what 2 Corinthians 8 said. He will change us into his image. The Spirit does that The moment a person trusts Jesus Christ as Savior, the Holy Spirit of God moves into our body. How many people know that? We've emphasized that. That is so important. How many folk how many folks here tonight you're saved to know it? Say amen. You may have been saved one week. Jeffrey trusted Christ last Sunday night. You may have been saved uh 50 years. Regardless of the case, the moment you trust in Christ, the Holy Spirit of God dwells within you. The ministry of the Holy Spirit Is to mold me and change me and convict me and lead me and encourage me and help me be transformed into the image of Christ so that I can have these characteristics that God originally created us with. Everybody follow my rationale here? So the Holy Spirit's in me and you, part of His major part of His ministry in our lives is to change us into the image of Christ, the way God originally created us. And that's a process that takes place. That's a lifelong endeavor. I cannot reform myself into Christ's image. I can't do it of myself. The Holy Spirit is doing that. And here's the thing. And I may be off on this, but I don't think so. With the Holy Spirit of God dwelling within my body, right here, right now, the Holy Spirit of God is in me. That means within me is that image that God originally created man to be. You follow me? There's nine characteristics that Galatians 5 gives me. Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, temperance. Those are all already in me, latent. They're there. I don't have to go get them somewhere. They're here. They're in me in the person of the Holy Spirit. And that is the way God created man initially, that those would be part of our nature. It's already in us. And the Holy Spirit is working in your life and my life to try and develop us and And mold us and transform us back into what we originally were designed to be Now, as long as we're in the flesh, and Galatians 5 says this, there's this conflict. The flesh lusts against the spirit, the spirit against the flesh. There's this Constant conflict. So as long as I'm in this flesh, this whole simple nature, I am never going to be perfectly conformed to the image of Christ. Because I always had that old nature dragging me down and messing me up. How many people understand that old nature messing you up? But first John tells us there's a day coming. When this old flesh will no longer be a factor, and I'm going to be made perfectly in the image of Christ. And these nine fruits, these nine characteristics of the fruit of the Spirit will be part of my very nature. Just like now my nature is corrupt and sinful, then my nature will be the fruit of the Spirit. That'll just be a natural part of me, perfectly in the image of Christ. So, when we talk about the fruit of the Spirit, we're referencing the process of God bringing us back to our initial condition. Of love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, kindness. Against such there is no law. That's God's plan, that's his purpose And so when we're looking at the sprue of the Spirit, it's not just some, oh yeah, those are nice characteristics. That would be nice if it was true in my life. No. It's more than that. It's the very image of Christ that He's trying to develop in us. The characteristics of Jesus Christ. We mentioned this multiple times, but in the book of Acts, they took note that they had been with Christ. They saw the characteristics of Jesus Christ in them. They called them Christians. Why? Because they had the characteristics of Jesus Christ. Not perfectly. That won't happen until the return. But in the meantime, as we grow and the Spirit works in us, and again as we cooperate with the Spirit, And we submit to the Lord's leading and we agree with him when he convicts us and he directs us and he leads us in changes that need to take place. We allow him to have his way. We comply And then he changes and he produces this fruit. And we stand before the Lord complete in him, the fruit of the Spirit. And so it's an amazing thing. So it's up to me. Until that point, when Christ comes back, it's up to me. This conflict goes on in my life every single day. I've felt it today. I dealt with my old sinful nature today, this afternoon. The whole the the Holy Spirit in me trying to lead me and direct me, no old sinful nature. No no no and the Holy Spirit, yes, yes, yes. And the Holy Spirit and the old sinful nature, do this, and the Holy Spirit says, no, no, no. And the f Plus as yes ites And so it's up to me to decide Do I yield to the Spirit, let him do what he needs to do in my life, or do I indulge the flesh and give in to the base desires of the flesh, or do I yield to the spirit? I need to walk. Galatians tells us, walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. The Holy Spirit of God. So now, having said all that, come with me to Galatians chapter 5. And I want us to notice this fifth fruit of the Spirit very quickly. Galatians 5. But the fruit of the Spirit, this characteristics that the Spirit is one and produce in my life, make true in my life And he lists them. We looked at four already: love, joy, peace, long suffering, and now this matter of gentleness. Gentleness. The concept of gentleness, what does it mean? What is gentleness? Well I looked it up in Webster's dictionary, old uh 1828 Webster's dictionary, best dictionary ever, English dictionary ever given. Webster said that to be gentle in the biblical sense means to treat someone with meekness. It means to be, it means moral kindness. I'm kind to somebody. I'm morally kind to people. I treat them right in a kind way. He had this definition, I thought this was interesting, having a sweet disposition. Did you ever know somebody that they just had a sweet disposition? You walk away, that's just the sweetest person I ever met. That's the idea of gentleness, the English word. It has the idea of a tender kindness. I have empathy for somebody and I treat them kindly because my heart goes out to them. I care about them. I have compassion on them and I humble myself and I want to treat them kindly. That's what the Holy Spirit wants to produce in us, a characteristic He wants to produce in us. It has the idea of being delicate. In my treatment of others. Delicate. Now I go to the Bible, and the term gentleness in the Bible And again, it fits along with the English definition, but it has this idea to behave myself in a humble, kind way. Now we contrast that with the works of the flesh. Come up here to verse number 19. We've done this with previous fruit. The works of the flesh are manifest, and you come down this ugly, ugly list. It's awful. And we come across words like verse 20, hatred. Wrath, strife, seditions. You get down to verse twenty-one, murders The polar opposite of gentleness. The flesh. The flesh. Remember, in the Sermon on the Mound, Jesus took it to a whole nother level. When he said this, he says, if you have hatred in your heart towards somebody, it is just as condemned by God as if you actually killed them. Now let me ask you a question. Would you rather somebody hate you or they kill you? I'd rather them hate me, because there's a number of people that do. I would rather be hated than killed. So the consequences, we always point this out, the consequences are not the same, but the condemnation is the same. God condemns them both together. So gentleness is the exact opposite of hatred, murder, strife, wrath. Gentleness is a humble kindness, a tolerance, a graciousness humility, a compassion, an empathy for someone, being gentle with them. That's what the Holy Spirit Wants to produce me. You say, preacher, I'm just not naturally that way. I know that's the point. That's the flesh. If I submit to, well, that's just the way I am. So what you're saying is, well, I'll just give in to the flesh. No, no, no. I'll mortify the flesh. I want the Holy Spirit to make me gentle. It's one of the purposes of an altar call. To come and confess the flesh, living in the flesh, and submit and let the Spirit fill me. The opposite of gentleness is hardness, harsh, rough, unkind So that's the concept of gentleness. Number two, the characteristic of our Savior is gentleness. I looked up the word gentle. I encourage you, get your strong concordance and look up the word gentleness. In the Bible, you will find it's used four times. Once in Samuel, I think it's 1 Samuel's uh First, 2 Samuel chapter 22, David is writing a psalm and he uses the term gentleness. In Psalms chapter 80 Psalms 19, verse 35. Again, it's the exact same Psalm that we have in 2 Samuel. And David uses the term gentleness. In 2 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 1, Paul uses the term gentleness in his letter to the church at Corinthians. And then here in Galatians, with the fruit of the Spirit, we have the word term gentleness. It's used four times in Scripture. Now here's the interesting thing, and we don't have time to go and look at each of these, but if you'll look at them very carefully Every single one of them is referencing God's gentleness. It is a characteristic of God. It's a characteristic of the Lord Jesus Christ. So he says, well, being gentle is just weakness. Let me ask you a question: Is God weak? Good grief. Is Jesus weak? Good night. He stopped storms just with his word. Gentleness is not weakness. I submit to you. It requires the power of God to be biblically gentle. It's the Holy Spirit. Gentleness is a characteristic that is uniquely godlike to be gentle. Harshness, unkindness, abrupt Hard that is uniquely flesh like that is not of God In Matthew chapter 11, verse 29, Jesus said this. He said, Take my yoke upon you and learn of me. Listen to this. For I am meek and lowly. You know what he was saying? I'm gentle. It's a characteristic of God. Number three, and last of all, I want us to consider the conduct of gentleness. When I'm filled with the Spirit. And the Holy Spirit is producing these characteristics in my life. I'm not working them up. I'm not. No, the Spirit of God is doing this. I'm totally yielded to Him. mortified the flesh, I'm yielded to the Lord, and he's he's producing these characteristics in my life, and he he causes me to be gentle. How does that portray itself? How does that manifest itself? What does it look like? Well, in my conversation, it means I'm going to speak the truth. Sometimes people say, I'm going to tell the truth whether you like it or not. Well, God bless you. I'm going to preach the truth, whether anybody likes it or not. But if I do it in gentleness, According to Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 15, I speak the truth in love. I do it kindly. I do it graciously, compassionately, with empathy. How many people believe a preacher ought to preach on the truth of hell? Amen. That's scriptural. But how many people believe the preacher ought to preach on hell with compassion and not harshness? If my doctor has to tell me that I have cancer, I want him to do it compassionately. I want them to do it kindly. I don't want to walk in and say, well, Dennis, I got bad news for you. You're going to die of cancer. How about if he comes in and he sits down beside me and he weeps? He said, I've got bad news. We're gonna do our best. I want when we're gentle, we speak the truth, even hard truth, but we do it gently. We do it in love and compassion. When the Holy Spirit fills me and He bears this fruit of gentleness in me, I speak the truth, I don't compromise, I don't cover the truth, but I do it with a tender heart. I do it with empathy and concern and compassion, humility. My conversation, it means I'm going to give a soft answer. Proverbs chapter 15 verse 1, gentleness, give a soft answer, turneth away wrath. I tell you, there's so much wrath, there's so much arguing and fights that would not have to happen. Only by pride cometh contention. How many churches have been destroyed? And didn't have to be, if somebody would have just used a soft answer, just been gentle. How many homes would have the peace and the joy of the Lord if we just learned to let the Holy Spirit make us gentle? And have a soft answer, not a harsh answer. You don't know what they said to me. Doesn't matter. The Holy Spirit produces gentleness in us. So in my conversation, I speak the truth, but I do it in love. I give soft answers, not harsh, hard answers, and it'll turn away the wrath Take your Bible quickly, and I know we're we're out of time, but if you would, I want you to notice in Timothy, 2 Timothy chapter 2. I think this is so needed in our day and age. 2 Timothy chapter 2, and I'm glad you're bearing with me a little bit here tonight. But notice, if you would, verse number 24. 2 Timothy 2, 24. Notice what it says. And the servant of the Lord. Now, this is a very clear-cut statement. You can't miss it The servant of the Lord must not strive. Whatever else we do, one thing we make sure we do not do is strive, fuss, and fight. Servant of the Lord must not do that. Must not do that. But look what he says. But be what? Gentle unto all men, apt to teach, patient. Look at this. In what? Meekness, instructing those that oppose themselves. You say, preacher, they're wrong. Okay, but I I approach it, I deal with it in meekness, in gentleness. If God preadventure will give them repentance unto the acknowledging of the truth. How does gentleness, the Holy Spirit, produce that? What does it look like? How does it manifest? Well in my conversation, I say the truth in love. I give a soft answer, turn away rat. I use meekness when I'm dealing with an issue In my conduct, we bear one another's burdens. Ye which are uh if any brother be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one in the spirit of meekness. Gentleness say somebody's not they're not right with God. Well, I just need to show them. I'm gonna show them they ain't right with God. That's the flesh. That is not the spirit. My Bible says, Galatians says, in meekness, helping them, lest I also get caught up in it. And so gentleness is a fruit of the Spirit. It's already in us. It's already in us. Gentleness is not weakness, it is the Holy Spirit given ability. To keep my words, my attitudes, and my behavior Christ-like. And keep that flesh mortified, mortified. God created us in his image. I believe that includes, and probably is a major part of all this fruit, was part of our very nature, gentleness. I think Adam and Eve before the fall were very gentle. They were compassionate, loving, and caring. And sin came in and it withered and died, and the flesh took over. And we trust Christ now, the Holy Spirit's working, bringing us back. To what we originally were created to be. Father in heaven, please help us to mortify the deeds of the flesh. Help us. To be filled with your Spirit. And Lord, that this fruit, that you could produce this in our lives. And I have no doubt your Holy Spirit's dealing with many of us right now. Areas that we need to address. You're convicting, you're challenging, you're encouraging. And I pray you'd help us to comply, help us to cooperate. And let you have your way. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, praise your Holy Spirit stealing with my heart right now? Is there any like that? Holy Spirit's dealing with my heart. Say, I can sense it. I'm sensitive. The Holy Spirit's dealing with my heart. Let's agree with him. Let's let him have his way. Whatever he's dealing with, let's just let him have his way. Father bless Our imitation now. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the imitation. How about an old altar on a