The Bible says, Jesus said unto him, 923, Mark chapter 9, Jesus said unto him, look at this, if thou canst believe All things are possible to him that believeth. If thou canst believe, all things are possible to to him that believe it. I'm going to speak this morning on the dynamite of faith or the possibilities of faith. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now or study your word. I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray, Lord, that you would generate in our hearts a genuine faith in you A confidence in your word, in your will, and your plan for our lives. I pray, Lord, that you would convict us of our doubt and uh stir us to go forward. Lord, I have nothing to say in and of myself. And Lord, I present my body to you anew. I yield my will, and I ask with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And speak through me and challenge us. I pray you'd help the person today that uh feels they're in an impossible situation. I pray for maybe that mom. Or uh that man or that lady, that young person that just doesn't see how it could possibly ever work out, that you would instill in their hearts faith in you. And uh help us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. In every situation in life that we find ourselves, and I'm I'm believing I believe this more and more as every day goes by, That every situation we find ourselves in life, the issue is not can God help me? That's never the question. The question is never, is God able to help in this situation? The question is always, am I willing to trust Him in this situation? It's never God's ability. It is always our willingness. Did you catch that in verse 23 here? Mark chapter 9. Jesus said to him, if thou canst believe, All things are possible to him that believeth. Pastor Grant read from Luke uh chapter one uh in our scripture reading time, and there we had the the event where Uh God approached uh the the angel approached Mary and informed her that she's gonna have a child. She's a virgin, she never knew a man. This is a miraculous event And of course, as anyone would, when this message comes to her, she uh uh she uh uh says, How can this be? I never knew a man. How could I have a child? And the Lord points out there, he said, listen, that which is impossible with man is possible with God. And now here in Mark chapter 9 we have uh it's not a mother, it's uh uh a father in this case. And he is a child that is tormented with devils, he is a child that's been afflicted spiritually This child is is uh behaving in in self-destructive ways. He is doing things that are destroying himself And it's all spiritual behind it. It's all a uh uh a devilish uh assault on this father and his son. We don't know how he ended up in this circumstance, we don't know what decisions were made to lead to this situation. But it's a dire situation. This boy is literally doing things that is destroying him. Of course, the father is very concerned, and he brings his son to the disciples. And he says, if you can't help me, uh my son is he casts himself in the fire. He's doing all these destructive things. The Bible says the disciples were powerless. They had no answer. They had no solution. There was nothing they could do of themselves that would change this boy's destructive behavior. And so he brings them to Jesus. Hey, it's always a good thing to bring our children to Jesus. So he brings them to Jesus. And Jesus surveys the situation. And I like what the Father says in verse 22. I mean you can feel the you can you you can feel the father's heartache here He can sense his anguish of soul for his child. And he asked the father, verse 21, how long ago since this came unto him? And he says, of a child. And the statement there implies, very small child. This kid had problems from very, very young. And all times it kept it had cast him into the fire and into waters to destroy him. Look at this. You can feel his anguish But if thou canst do anything, have compassion on us and help us. And the father asks the question, he says, if you can do anything. Help us. And then the Lord responds back and he says, basically the Lord says, oh, it's not if I can do anything. He says, if you can believe. It's not my ability in question here. I can help this child. I can turn him around. I can change his life. I can give this child peace of mind and purpose and deliverance. From the spiritual oppression, the spiritual uh attack on him, I can do that. Can you trust me to do that? Can you look to me and have faith in me? So every situation in life we have there, Mother Mary, and she I don't understand what you're doing, God, this is impossible. God says, no, it might be impossible with me. It's not impossible with me. Here you have a father whose son has destroyed himself. The father says, can you do anything? God says, yeah, I can do. I can solve this. This isn't impossible. Can you trust me? Every circumstance, every situation we find ourselves in, it's not whether God can help us or not, it's will I trust Him to help me or not. No matter how great the need, no matter how big the mess I may have made of my life, no matter how complicated the situation may be. Sometimes you ask folks, how are things going? Well, it's this, well, what's going on? They'll say this. Well, it's complicated. Anybody ever hear that? Anyone ever feel that way? I'm gonna figure the way out of this maze. Listen, there's no situation, there's no mess so complicated we get ourselves into that God can't get us out. There's no circumstance so hopeless that God can't turn it around and make things right if I will trust him. You say, what do you mean by having faith in God? What do you mean that, all right, I got a situation, I got a circumstance here, I don't see the answer to it, I don't know what the solution is I don't have the resources to meet this need. It's overwhelming. It's impossible. God says, if you'll trust me, if you'll have faith in me, what does that mean? It simply means this. It means if I will follow God's instructions. If I will just trust him, let him lead me and direct me. If I'll claim his promises, if I'll trust his leadership, if I'll heed his warnings and do what he says to do God can take that situation and turn it around. And turn it around. We get this idea in our heads that having Faith in God and trusting in God simply means I've got a mess, I've got a situation, I've got a circumstance, it's not right. Uh I don't see how to how to correct this And say, alright, I'm going to trust God, and we think it means I'll just sit back, kick back, and I'll watch the pirates game, and uh and uh God will work it all out and I don't have a role in it because I'm just trusting Him. That's not what trusting God is. Trusting God is saying, God, listen, you know what the solution is. I don't show me what to do. God, you lead me. God says, don't do this. Be sure you do that. I promise this, claim this, trust that. And if you'll follow my leadership, if you'll follow my instructions, if you'll do what I say, I'll turn this thing around. That's what faith in God is. Trusting that God's instructions, God's plans, God's promises, God's warnings apply to me, and then I act accordingly. God is concerned about every detail of our lives. I was thinking sometimes during a service Um sometimes you get uh some young people or whatever, they'll get a little restless and they'll start talking or texting and doing little things and horsing around during the preaching and And um I believe it's important that when the Bible is being preached, everybody give their attention to the Word of God. I believe that's really, really important. I believe this is more important than what's going on in Washington He said, Boy, you really think you're something? No, I don't think I'm anything. I know that book is something. And when I was small, my dad's here made me think about this. When we were real small, we might go to church. And um I would sit there innocently and my sisters would horse around. And they would do stuff and try and provoke me, and I would always just stare and listen to the preacher And I refuse to be distracted. But my parents didn't understand that and sometimes they thought it was me horsing around I remember a number of occasions where they'd be sitting there and my mom would my mom was pretty good at this. She would reach over. Of course it was my sister's, but she thought it was me And she get just a pinch of skin at the base of my neck. Anybody know? And pinch that Anybody ever have that years ago? She take just it's like a hornet stinging you. And you don't make any noise. Are you really got it, Steve? Or, or she'd do something like this, she'd reach over, and she'd grab my ear, just kind of rub it a little bit, and then Anybody anybody know? If you've never experienced that, you're missing out. And I remember one time in particular This had to do with my dad. I doubt he remembers it, but I again it was my sisters. I don't know what they were doing. They were doing something, but Dad thought it was me. I got the warning, got the warning, and we were in a Mennonite church, pretty good size. And we were s oh I remember I was very young, we were sitting on this side And you went out the back of the church, you went down the steps, remember, and you go out and there's a f there was a graveyard out in the back, Rock Hill, and they had a big graveyard, and there was a bunch of trees, there was a train track went across. And finally My sisters wouldn't listen and they blame me. And so all right, that's enough. He took me out the back. out the back door, out to the big oak trees. It was summertime. All the windows were open. And somebody bro was it Brother DeLong And maybe this made me think of it and that belt came off so fast one. Shh I'm telling you and then you fold it. Brother DeLong was talking about this, but you fold it and then you don't just fold it, but before you apply it, snap, snap, snap, that hurt And everybody's in church and preacher's preaching away Henry was his name, he's preaching away and out in the Wow Wow And you know when you come back in all the eyes are on you. So I was taught at a young age to respect the Word of God I know this has nothing to do with the message. I just dad sitting there made me think of this. But God's concern about every area uh and by the way I probably shouldn't say this, but I think some of that practice would do a heap of good today. Huh? Might not hurt. Maybe the preacher wouldn't have to stop what he's preaching and say, hey, give me your attention. Huh? So anyway, I got that off my chest. God's concerned about every detail of our lives. He really is. If you read the Bible very carefully and you go through, He talks about every area of our life, what kind of friends we have. The Bible talks about the type of dress we should wear, it talks about the place we have, how we use our money, talks about our anger. You know there's some place the Bible talks about our hair. I don't talk as much about mine as others, but And God has a plan for every single one of our lives. He really does, detailed. And he will lead us. And if we follow God's plan, if we will trust him. And we will do what God instructs us to do in His Word. And if we will heed His warnings, And follow his instructions and claim his promises. God will bless us. Now, I did not say he'll make us rich, and I did not promise he's going to give you a huge mansion, but I do know this: God's blessing will bring peace to your heart, will bring purpose in your mind, it will bring fulfillment to your life. And you will know who you are and why you're here and where you're going. That's the blessings of God. I see so many folks, young and old, they don't know who they are. I mean it blows my mind that we have people today that say, I don't know if I'm a man or a woman. How messed up have we become as a people? How far have we gotten from God when we are that confused that we don't even know what we are? If we will listen to God, if we will trust him and follow his leadership and his instructions, if we'll heed his warnings and claim his promises, we won't have problems like that. We'll have purpose in our life and direction and meaning and clarity of thought. We won't be so confused. God will bless us if we will trust Him. The power of faith in God brings purpose and meaning to my life. If we do not Follow his instructions. If we disregard his word, if we ignore his warnings and we ignore his promises. And we're just going to take it into our own minds, and I'm going to lean on my own understanding, and I'm just going to work this out the way I think it should be. You know what you're going to end up? You're going to end up messed up Because God knows the end from the beginning. God knows what is right and wrong. God knows what is truly good and what is not good. And I see our world, and I see our nation, and I see our churches, I see our young people and our families going down a road that is headed to destruction. And we're disregarding what God has said, and we're not trusting him. We're doing things our own way. God has a plan for our lives. God has a purpose. There's meaning to each one of our lives And regardless of what the circumstances are, regardless of what the situation may be, God can and will take us and lead us and direct us and bless us if we will trust Him. Living a life of victory, having a life, living a life of fulfillment and blessing, having studs the spiritual power upon my life begins by living a life of faith. Every area of life begins with trusting God, having faith in God. Here's the problem: too often we talk ourselves out of trusting God. You've you've been there, I think. Uh probably the debate starts going on in your mind. Maybe you go to a church service like this morning and God speaks to your heart and you see a passage of scripture and the Holy Spirit applies it to your life in your situation. And you say, oh, huh. And that little tinge of conviction hits. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Yes. And immediately the old mind starts working. Ah. That's not talking about you. You don't have to pay attention to that. Nah, that doesn't mean there, nah, you're doing fine. Hey, it's going to work out all right for you. Oh, that happens to other people, but it won't happen to me. And we talk ourselves out of trusting God. We talk ourselves out of claiming his promises. Oh, God would never do that for me. I'm happy the way I am. It's fine being messed up. No, it's not fine. God has something better than that. I put this down. To live by faith, I've got to do three things. Number one, I've got to stop doing three things. I've got to stop leaning on my own understanding. I tell you the classic passage on living the Christian life. I love this passage. Proverbs 3, 5 and 6. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart. and lean not into thine own understanding in all thy ways, in every area of life. Acknowledge him, do what he says, follow his instructions in all thy ways, acknowledge him, and he will direct your paths. He'll guide you, He'll lead you, He'll bless you, He'll meet your needs. Um Proverbs chapter twenty-eight, verse twenty-six, and we don't have time to turn there. But it said he it says this, he that trusteth in his own heart is a fool. I didn't say that. God said that. Hey, that's some strong language there. How many people here, if I walked up and seriously looked at you and said, you're a fool, how many people would be a little taken aback by that? How people your f how many guys your fist would ball up a little bit? Mine would. So he comes out and says, You're a fool. That's not me saying it. God says he that trusteth in his own heart is a bull What he's saying is you take your life in your own hands, you think you've got all the answers, you've got it all figured out how it works. You're crazy You're a fool. And that word fool there, I did a little study on it uh this week. That word fool means this. You're stupid. Simple in your head. Ouch. So what I'm saying is this, and what the Bible teaches is this. If we'll trust God, there's incredible power in that. If I'll follow his leadership and claim his promises, if I'll heed his warnings and follow his instructions, God can and will bless me and He'll give me peace and direction in my heart and mind. He'll meet my needs. But if I say no, I'm going to do things my way, if God's instructions contradict what I think, and I'm going to leave, I'm going to trust my own thinking rather than God's, I'm going to take it my way. God says it don't work out so well. And history has proven that to be true. Live by faith, three things. Stop leaning on my own understanding. Number two, stop listening to the world. The world, has anyone figured this out? The world is self-centered. What we're seeing in America What we're seeing happening in society in America is the removal of God's wisdom and the injection of man's wisdom. Let me ask you this: how's that working out? Let's go let's get out and visit Baltimore. That worked out fine. You know what? If every person in Baltimore, and I'm not picking on them, I'm just using that for an illustration, we'd go to any number of places. If every person in Baltimore would trust Jesus Christ their personal Savior and live and have faith in God, live by the instructions God has given in his word, none of that would have taken place. Right or wrong? So stop listening to the world. Yeah, but preacher, I watched Oprah Winfrey. You're nuts. You're nuts. Well, uh you know this world is full of advice. Pull the buttons. You can't turn on the radio. People on there telling you, this is what you ought to think. This is how you ought to think. I despise rock and roll music. I don't like country Western music. But if you listen to all the words in there, if you listen to those words, every song is giving advice. Oh, my dog ran off with my wife. The only thing I can do is go get drunk and shoot a raccoon I got better advice. Trust God. Go to the Lord. Find what the Bible says. Do what God says. Stay out of the bar for Pete's sake. Don't listen to the world. Stop leaning on your understanding. Stop listening to the world. And stop allowing the devil to mess with your mind. You know what the devil's ministry is? We're told in Revelation, the devil's ministry is this: the accuser of the brethren. You know what the devil's ministry is? Going around accusing you and me, you and me, you and me, running us down, running us down, running us down. You're no good, you can't do this, you're you're s you're sin too much, you're this, you're that, accused of the brethren, accused of the brethren, accused of the brethren, Well the hard thing's going into the ministry and I'm not trying to get anybody to feel for bad for me. I love it. I only work one day a week, so it's great, you know. I tell you one of the things I struggled with was people accusing me of stuff. You know, Brother Moyer, you know what I'm talking about. Man's like, man, I am that ain't true. That's not that's wait. And I finally had to realize that's not of God. That's of the devil. That's his ministry. Accusing other people of things, going around accusing. I challenge you, get your concordance out. And you look up, particularly in the New Testament, look up the word accuse, accused, accusers And without fail, look at every person who is doing the accusing. Look it up in the Bible. I challenge you. You know who it is? Pharisees, enemies of the gospel, the devil. You never find Paul, you never find Peter, you never find Jesus Christ, you never find a spare-filled godly Christian in the Bible going around accusing other people of stuff. That's the devil. Stop listening to him. He will run you down. He will convince you that you cannot be a good Christian, that you cannot be what God saved you to be, that God cannot meet your needs. That God cannot give you victory over sin, that God cannot change your life, that God cannot give you a good family, that God cannot fix your marriage. He will convince you That God cannot do what God has promised to do. Stop listening to him. Stop allowing him to mess with your mind. The power of faith in God. Thomas Edison, how many people recognize that name? Ingenious. You know what he said? There will be no in 1880 he made this statement. There will be no commercial value for record players. They first came out with record players. He says, nobody's going to buy these things. Guess what? Thomas Edison was wrong. He was completely wrong. A fellow by the name of Thomas Watson. 1943, he was president of IBM, with International Business Machines. They started coming out with computers, and somebody floated the idea that maybe someday we'll have computers in every home. He laughed and he said there will never be a market for personal computers Now that you can wear them on your watch. Thomas Watson was wrong. What I'm trying to say is this. Stop listening to the world. Stop leaning on your own understanding. Stop letting the devil mess with your mind. Take God at His word. If God says something, it's so. If God says it's possible for you and I to be what He saved us to be, if He says it's possible for Him to lead us and meet our needs and help us and give us victory Believe him. Trust him. Do what he says. Let him work that out. Every every person in the Bible that leaned on their own understanding, that listened to the world's wisdom, that allowed the devil to mess with their mind, ended up in a desert. Every person. But every person in the Bible that trusted God, that lived by faith, that followed His instructions, God blessed them, and they had fulfillment. Now some of them paid a price for it, but they did so praising God with the joy of the Lord in their heart and life. Faith in God, faith in God. Let me give you real quick, I want to encourage you to jot these down. Number one, faith in God overcomes impossibilities. Overcomes impossibilities. In Romans chapter 4, I wanted to turn there, but we won't. Drop this down, Romans 4, 18 through 21. God promised Abraham and Sarah that they would have a child in their old age after Sarah was beyond the age of having children. And God promised them that they would have a baby. And the Bible says in Romans chapter 4, in that passage I gave you, Romans, verses 18 through 21. The Bible says that Abraham, I like this statement, listen to this, who against hope believed in hope. In other words, what God had said to Abraham was humanly impossible. But he wasn't going to allow that to cause him to doubt God. He's going to trust God That God, even though the situation looked hopeless for them to have kids, God had promised they will have a child. So he against hope is going to believe in hope. He's going to trust God. He's going to believe God. God it was humanly impossible, but he believed God. Now, let me put a word of caution here. There's a bunch of yardbirds on TV And they'll come around and say, God can and will do whatever you want Him to do. That is not Bible. God doesn't promise that he'll do whatever we want him to do. God promised that he can and will do whatever he has promised to do. See, God doesn't God didn't promise Kathy and I a child in our old age. Praise the Lord And so don't come and say, Well, I'm I'm seventy five and I'm gonna claim God I'm just gonna trust God to give me a child. When you're crazy, I don't know why you'd want that. But uh Two, God didn't promise you he would. You follow what I'm saying? God promised that to Abraham and Sarah. That's not a general promise out there to everybody. And so when I come to the Word of God and I see something in the Bible where it says that I can live a good and pure and righteous life, that I can have peace and purpose in my life And they say, I don't see how that is. I've messed up so bad. I've sinned so deeply. I've got myself in such a complicated mess. There's no way. But God says that He can fix that. And God can overcome. Faith in God will overcome impossibilities. People who exercise faith in God never view any situation as hopeless. I feel fairly certain, I'm talking to some folks today, that maybe you have a child or you have a parent that's unsaved. And by all human appearances, it doesn't look like that person's ever going to get saved. And as heart-wrenching as this thought is, we get in our heads, my child is probably going to die and spend eternity in hell. Because I don't see how they would ever get saved. I'm here to tell you, you put your faith in God, God can save even the hardest heart. You say God won't save anyone against their will. You're right. God will never save anyone against their will. But I've been around long enough. God sure is good at making people willing. God can show I'm telling you, God can back an old sinner into a corner and break them down to the point where they'll say, Yes, Lord, I'll accept you as my Savior. As pastor, I pray for the church members. I have every member broken down into a prayer list on my phone. It reminds me every day I pray down through that. There's some folks that have been here and through the church over the years. I tell you, they've gotten away from God. I see them, their hearts are hard. And humanly, I think, you know, I just don't see them ever coming back and getting in fellowship with the Lord again. But I gotta remember, God sure, God is sure is good at bringing wayward children back into fellowship with him. Did you ever read about the prodigal son? At any given point, the father could have said, that kid's never coming home. That kid's never getting right with God. But God was working. God was working. So my first thought is this, and I've got to abbreviate it. Faith in God overcomes impossibilities. I've got a list here, I wanted to read all these, I've got a list here of verses that say expressly that nothing is impossible with God. Ask questions like this. Is anything too hard for the Lord? And the obvious answer is what? No. I don't care what your situation is, it doesn't matter what your need may be. I'm telling you, God can change it. So uh faith in God overcomes impossibilities. Um uh Ed Will, anybody recognize the name Ed Will? I got a message yesterday on a computer from a fellow, D. A. Waite, is a pastor in New Jersey. He writes a lot of books on the King James Bible. We've used them in our institute here. D. A. Waite used to vacation here at Deep Creek Lake back in the sixties and they would attend this church when Ed Wilt was here. And I and his wife texted me this morning and wrote back Ed Wilt showed up in Oakland nineteen sixty-two three. Has a handful of people meeting. He says, once I showed up, he says, you know what everybody told me, told me this before he died. He says, You know what everyone told me? I think Brother Miller knows this. Everyone told me you can't build a Baptist church in Oakland, Maryland. It's impossible. Guess what? Ed Wilt did not build a Baptist church in Oakland, Maryland. God did. You know what Ed Wilt did? He trusted God. In 1993, a young preacher, never pastored before, had no idea whether he was coming or going, but he knew God called him. A beautiful wife and two ornery kids. It showed up in Oakland, and there was a handful of people still attending this church. And I'll tell you, I had people tell me, I had people tell me Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is done. They told us that. It's over. And humanly speaking, if I if I knew what I was coming into, I probably wouldn't have come here to be honest with you. But there's a handful of people who believed that God could do the impossible. There's a few folks that said, you know Let's just look to God. Let's call a pastor and let's trust God to turn this thing around and make this place something again. And God did it. What I'm saying is this faith in God overcomes impossibilities. Let me give you the second one. Faith in God generates influence. Generates influence. Akim Debkoda. We met him last week. Cool guy or what? I like a keep. Didn't hear a word I say, but I like him. He made a statement last Sunday. We made a big deal about it. He said, I thank God that I was born deaf. He said that, I thought in my head, what are you enough? And then he explained. He said, if I wasn't born deaf, I'd have never moved to the city. If we'd never moved to the city, I'd never heard about Bible college and Georgia. United States of America. So if I'd never heard it, that come over here, I'd never heard the gospel. If I'd never heard the gospel, if nobody explained the gospel to me in sign language, I'd have never gotten saved. And I would have die and go to hell, I'd have stayed lost. Not only that, he said the home village where he grew up in, where he would have stayed living had had he not been deaf. That village two weeks ago was the epic center of the earthquake. The whole village is devastated. Everyone there was killed. He said, if I had not been born deaf, I'd have died in that earthquake and gone to hell. I'd be in hell now I thank God I was born deaf. Wow. You know what that does? You know what that did? That stirred my heart. That stirred my heart. You know what? I'm going to start thanking God and rejoicing in what God's doing to me. His faith in God influenced me to exercise greater faith in God. And when you and I will trust God, when you and I will do what God tells us to do, we'll heed his warnings, we'll claim his promises, follow his instructions, if we will have faith in him, that influences others. To do the same thing, to do the same thing. Hey, but when I don't trust God and I ignore his word and I disregard his warnings, I disregard his promises, I don't pay any attention to his instructions, I just do my thing. I influence others to do the same. You know what every child needs? Every child needs a mother that has great faith in God. Every child needs a daddy. Every home needs parents, needs folks in that home that will trust God and say, I'm not going to lean on my own understanding. I'm not going to do it the way I think it should be. I'm going to trust God and do it the way God says. I'm going to claim his promise, heed his warnings, follow his instructions. And that influences others. I've got to quit influences others, overcomes impossibilities. I put it down, it becomes infectious, and it produces integrity I don't I don't my dad's gonna cry when I say this. I don't mean to do that. My dad's sitting over here. I've talked a lot about him over the years. I could honestly say, I'm not saying this to flatter him. I'm not saying this so that he'll take me out to eat for lunch this afternoon and pay for both Kathy and I's for us Not saying it for that reason at all. I tell you what, I am where I am today. I'm on my way to heaven. I'm enjoying the blessings of God because that man had unfailing faith in God. He believed that God could save his punk kid. He believed. He refused to give up. And he prayed and prayed and prayed and prayed that God would save his son. Impeccable integrity. In church, reading his Bible, doing right, trusting God. I don't mean to put him on the spot and I'd say this whether he was here or not. And even if he doesn't buy us lunch, I'll But I'm telling you The power of having faith in God. Looking at some young people, I look out over the audience, I see some young people, you don't have Christian folks. Maybe you rode the bus here. Your parents don't come to church. They don't pray. They don't read their Bible. I mean they're just whatever. I'm telling you, a teenage boy or girl that will trust God and put their faith in God. Many a parent have been saved because a kid had faith in God. Amen. Many a marriage. There was horrendous circumstances. It looked hopeless. But one of those partners decided I'm going to trust God. That marriage is spared. A need so great, maybe I don't know what it is, so far in debt you can't even breathe. I'm going to trust God. I'm going to do what God says. God turned that thing around. Napoleon Said, the word impossible is not in my dictionary. Now that's him, but I'm saying for a Christian, that's a good statement. Not when God, not when you factor God into the situation. It's not impossible. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I pray you'd take this few thoughts this morning, maybe you challenge the heart. Lord, maybe there's someone here this morning that never really gave thought about their soul where they spend eternity, if they'll go to heaven or hell when they die. Lord, I just ask. That you would touch that heart and help them to see that they need to trust you as their personal savior and get that matter settled. God, maybe there's a Christian that's out of fellowship with God and gotten away from the Lord and it's such a mess. That peace is gone There's guilt. God, I pray that your Holy Spirit would touch that heart. Today they'd say, you know, I'm going to trust God. I'm going to come back and live a life of faith. Believe in God, letting Him lead and direct me. Maybe there's some need here, some heartache that is overwhelming. Pray you'd touch that heart. They'd have faith in God. Maybe bring it to an old-fashioned holder and say, Lord, here it is. Here I am, God. Take me. I'm going to trust you. I want you to lead me and direct me. With our heads bound, eyes closed, how many will say, preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. But my faith in God has been weak My faith in God has not been what it ought to be. I need to heed his warnings. I need to start claiming his promises. I need to start following his instructions. You'd say, preacher, pray for me that God would help me. Trust him and obey him. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, God's Holy Spirit has spoken to my heart. God bless you, hands all around. That's the Holy Spirit speaking to our heart. I wonder if there's some here say, preacher, I've got some need, I've got some circumstance, some situation. I really need God to help me You'd say, preacher, pray with me. That I'll be able to trust them to help me with this need, a very specific need I really need God to help me. Is there any like that? Padlay uplift the hand. Very specific on my heart. God bless you. Many other hands all around. Is there someone here this morning who said, preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die, go to heaven and not to hell? Trust me, you do not want to risk going to hell. And you'd say, praiser, pray for me that I could get that settled in my heart, that I could know for sure that when I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. Don't risk another day Pray for me, preacher. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I want to have that settled. Any at all? How about it? Any at all Now Father, bless our invitation. A lot of hands raised. A lot of needs here this morning. Help us to bring it to the altar, bring it to you, cast that care on you and trust you, I pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand again.