Galatians chapter 5, we're looking at the fruit of the Holy Spirit, and we're up to the seventh fruit here now, in uh Galatians 5. Let me get my spot here. And um Bear with me a moment. Going the wrong way. Galatians is the New Testament, correct? There we go. Galatians chapter 5 and uh verse number 22 and 23. This will be a good passage to memorize, really, for Christians. The Bible says, but the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness. Now tonight we're going to look at the fruit of faith. Then it goes on, verse 23: meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. The fruit of faith. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to teach us and help us tonight. Father. We thank you for a good day. We just love the Lord's Day. And Lord, you blessed us, I thank you, in a special way today, and visitors and and baptisms and altars and and just the joy of fellowship we've had. We've laughed. Prayed, we've sung. And now, Lord, as we look into your word, I pray that you would teach us about this matter of the Holy Spirit bearing fruit in our life And um and so I ask that your Holy Spirit would fill me now as I try to teach and preach Pray you'd speak through me and guide my thinking, Lord, guard my thinking, and uh empower me as I yield myself to you and and uh help us. I pray that every one of us Would be able to walk in the Spirit and that these fruits would be for real in our lives and they'd be evident in our family and our homes, our community, our church Lord, we need that. I believe that's what you intend for us. And so, Holy Spirit, do what I can't do. And open our hearts, make us willing to do what we need to do, that this would be true in our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We've been looking at this, and one thing we've learned, we've come to the conclusion in our study here. Back in Genesis, the Bible says that God created man in his image. Back in Genesis chapter one, I think, chapter two. created in in his image. Now we know, as we've said numerous times already, we know that that does not mean that God created us in God's Likeness, I mean as far as appearance is concerned, physically. And we know that because why? Because God is A spirit. He has no physical makeup. No man has seen God at any time. And so God does not have a physical appearance. He's spirit. He's invisible, the Bible says. And so what does it mean when it says he created us in his image? The conclusion we've coming to is this: that God created it with the characteristics, particularly, of the Lord Jesus Christ. That initial creation, when he first made man, formed him from the dust of the earth, he breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, man became a living uh creature, but a living soul And he had the characteristics. Adam, before the fall, had, I believe, the characteristics of Jesus Christ. His behavior, his morals, his nature, it was in the image of Jesus Christ. And of course, sin came. And uh altered all of that. Now we come to the Galatians and we see that God, through the Holy Spirit, wants to bear these this fruit in our life, these nine characteristics of this fruit in our life. I the more I'm studying this, the more convinced I'm becoming That this fruit is the characteristics of Jesus Christ that we were initially created with. And that sin killed. And that withered and died when sin showed up. And now, with the indwelling Holy Spirit, one of the ministries of the Holy Spirit, one of the things that the Holy Spirit wants to do in our life is to restore us back to that initial condition, that initial image that we were created in. And we gave some references, Corinthians, various places, I think bear that out. And so the Holy Spirit is trying, wants to, desires, to use the terminology here in Galatians 5, the Holy Spirit lusts Intensely desires to bear this fruit in our lives. If we don't have the fruit of the Spirit in our lives, it is not because the Holy Spirit is unwilling to bear it. It is because we are unwilling to cooperate with the Holy Spirit and allow him to do that. Are you with me, everybody follow? And so this fruit, these characteristics: love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, all these things are already in us, in the person of the Holy Spirit. And I keep repeating that because to me that's a profound truth. I don't have to go to some seminar. I don't have to It's already there. The potential is there. I just need to cooperate with the Holy Spirit and let the Holy Spirit bear this in my life. And as we do that, we grow into the image of Christ. Of course, someday we'll be like him, we'll see him as he is, and we'll be like him perfectly, and these things will just be natural in us. But until then, we got this old sinful nature, we need to cooperate. We need to submit and yield to the Spirit, walk in the Spirit, as the Bible says here, and then the Holy Spirit does these things in us. Now, before we look at this one particular fruit here, it's important to distinguish between the gift of the Holy Spirit And the fruit of the Holy Spirit, the gifts of the Holy Spirit, and the fruit of the Holy Spirit. In 1 Corinthians chapter 12, we have the gifts of the Holy Spirit, and they're listed there. Here we have the fruit of the Holy Spirit. Now there's a distinction between these two. I want to just touch on this. The gift of the Holy Spirit is the supernatural ability To d serve God in some particular way. And again, I'm not going to try and list all the guests, but teaching uh exhortation, encouragement, uh all these types of things. There's these various gifts, gifts of giving. We hear a lot of talk in certain circles about the gifts of tongues and healing and all of that. Those were temporary y it's interesting. You hardly hear anybody talking about the gift of helping others. You know, we want the gift of all these sensational things. The gift of giving. But the gift of the Holy Spirit, God gives a supernatural talent, if you want to use that term, or ability in some area to serve the Lord By the way, the Bible is very, very clear. Every single one of us have a gift of the Holy Spirit, at least one. Every one of us have some supernatural ability that God has given us Designed for the to serve him and in the church and advance the gospel. And so those are the gifts of the Holy Spirit. Everybody has them. They're various. They're not the same for everybody. Brother Mark's gift of the Holy Spirit is not necessarily the same gift he's given me and Pastor Matt and Evan and whoever These girls here, they're all gifted by the Holy Spirit. He's given them particular gifts. May not be aware of it yet. It needs to be developed, perhaps, but it's there. We've all been given these gifts And so they vary from one to one. They're not all the same. The fruit of the Holy Spirit, on the other hand is um is something that is has to do with my character. The gift the the gifts of the spirit has to do with my service, my action, my My service the Lord. These have to do with what I am. The gifts have to do with what I do. The fruit has to do with what I am. How the Holy Spirit bears this in me. Now here's the thing I'm trying to get at. The gifts vary from individual to individual. Not everybody necessarily has the same gift. However, we all have the same fruit. This fruit is true for everybody. Nobody can say, well, I have the fruit of love. But I don't have the fruit of long suffering, I don't have the fruit of goodness, I don't have that fruit. Somebody else says, Oh well I've got the fruit of faith, but I don't have the fruit of love. No, no, no, no We all have this fruit. Everybody does. It's there in the person of the Holy Spirit. Are you with me? And so we think about this. When I preach on the gift of one of the gifts of the Spirit, it may only apply to certain people who have that gift. But when we preach on the fruit of the Holy Spirit, it applies to everybody. It applies to everybody. And so here we are. We're at the seventh fruit. Of the Holy Spirit. And uh notice again, he says the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith. Faith. I believe two of the greatest things that can be said about a Christian, two of the greatest things that anybody can say about a Christian, number one, he has great faith in God. He has faith in God, a visible faith, where people can see that I have faith in God. James chapter 2 says, if any man say that he hath faith Uh well, let's turn there. Well, it's not that far away. Would you come over to James with me? James chapter 2. Everybody alright out there? Good. James chapter two, and notice verse number eighteen. To have faith Verse 18, he says, Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith. Say that. He says it. And I have works. Now look what he says: Show me thy faith without thy works. And the implication there is, he's saying, all right, you say you have faith, show me your faith without any works. Is that possible? No. I cannot display my faith. The only way my faith is displayed is by my behavior. It's by my works, what I do. I can say I have it all day long. But the only way I can show my faith, the only way I can display it is how I live my life, how I talk, my works, my behavior, my service. He says, Show me thy faith without thy works, and I will show thee my faith by my works. And so I think one of the greatest things can be said about a Christian woman, a Christian man, a young person. They have faith in God. I wonder if there's anybody in the world, wonder if there's anybody in the world that would say about you Man, he has that guy, he has faith in God. You can see it in his life. And see how he lives, his priorities, his values, what he does and doesn't do. You can see she has faith in God. I wonder if there's anybody that would say that about me They observe my life. And they come to the conclusion I have faith in God. I wonder if anybody in school says that about our young people. Boy, he has faith in God. She has faith in God. Now, be careful, it's not a show. Amen? It's not a show I put on, but it's a result. It's something that comes naturally of having faith in God. I can't think of anything greater be said about a person than to have faith in God. Faith in God. I think the second thing, greatest thing that can be said about a Christian, is they are faithful to God. They are faithful to God. Tell you something that could go on a tombstone. He was faithful to his God. Wouldn't that be something? And I think the two go hand in hand. I think having faith in God produces faithfulness to God. Genuine faith in God will produce faithfulness to God. So faith. Faith. Now I'll be honest with you. I got looking at this faith as a fruit of the Holy Spirit. And I struggled with that I thought, how is faith a fruit of the Holy Spirit? And so I got looking at this carefully and um I want to give a few thoughts here. Number one, I want us to consider the simplicity of faith. The simplicity of faith. Everybody doing all right out there? Alright. Okay, good The simplicity of faith. What does it mean to have faith? Somebody talk to me a little bit here. I need some class involvement, some feedback here. What does it mean to have faith? To trust someone, trust someone, what else? Any other way you put it? Somebody said something. To rely upon something or someone? Any other To take God at His word, believe He'll say what He can do, to believe is often used as a synonym for faith, believe in God, have faith in God. To be in step with God, line up with him. How about this one? To have confidence. I have faith in God. I have confidence in God. It's kind of what we've been saying So the simplicity, it's not very complicated. The fact of the matter is, every single one of us here had faith. An atheist has faith. Right? He's something he's trusting in. There's something he's relying on. There's something he has confidence in. Now for the atheist, he says, well, I don't believe there's a God. There is no God His confidence, his reliance, his faith is on his own understanding, his own reasoning, his own limited knowledge. I was talking to a guy when I was preaching for Steve up in Connecticut a number of years ago. We were out knocking on doors one day and this guy came and he was an atheist and And he was uh uh going on and um uh I I said to him, I said, How did you come to this conclusion that there is no God? How did you How'd you come to this conclusion? He goes, well, I just don't see anything. There's no evidence. And he was adamant, absolutely certain there is no God. I said to him, listen, you would have to know everything that you would have to be omniscient To know that there is no God. Is it possible there may be a God and you just aren't aware of it? And he said, No, that ain't possible. I said, well, you're an amazing mind That's like saying there isn't any gold in West Virginia Now, how could you possibly say that? You would have to know every inch of ground on every mountain on the whole state. You'd have to know what's in everybody's mouth. Right? You would have to know what's in every little s uh uh uh safe and every little safety deposit box, and you would have to know everything there is about West Virginia to say there's no gold in West Virginia, right or wrong? And so to say there is no God, you would have to know everything there is about everything, because if not, then there's always that possibility that maybe God is there and you just don't realize it. Right? You with me? Everybody has faith, even the atheist, he has faith in his own understanding, his own reasoning, his own limited knowledge So faith is a very simple thing. Everybody has it. Over and over and over, Jesus emphasized to his disciples the importance of having faith in God. God has given to every one of us, and we'll mention this in a moment, but God has given to every one of us a measure of faith, we're told in Romans chapter 12. Every single person, every little Caleb back there, he was born, God has given to him a measure of faith Everybody has faith. Saved, unsaved, everybody. All y'all, everybody has faith. Um But Jesus emphasized taking the faith that God has given to us that we're born with, we had faith, and putting it into the Lord Jesus Christ. Putting in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the simplicity of faith. Jesus used a little child to illustrate. Listen, trusting and having faith in God is just like this little child. It has faith in its parents, trust in its parents, depends on its parents. Take care of it and do what's right. And it doesn't know. It's so limited in its understanding, this little child And uh she doesn't uh comprehend everything, and so she trusts mommy and daddy. She has faith in them, and Jesus said, just like that, is what you need to have in me Is have trust me, depend on me. You don't have all the answers, you don't know yet. Trust me, depend on me. The simplicity of faith. Jesus' sharpest rebukes were to his disciples when they failed to exercise faith. When they would not trust God, they lean on their own understanding. He says, How are we going to feed all this 5,000 men? How are we going to feed all these people And they got thinking, oh well, uh, we need money, we don't have enough money, and we'd have to send them home. And and and they started the immediately trusted in their r reasoning Jesus had that little boy and come and said, Let me let me show you what we can do. Took that lunch and fed him. Isn't that an amazing story He's teaching them, have faith, have faith in God. And so the simplicity of faith, God, uh we're told in Scripture, faith is necessary for salvation. It's faith in Christ. For answered prayer. He said we're supposed to pray in faith believing. For victory in my Christian life. Faith is the victory that overcomes the world. Trust in God. My faith in God. To please God, without faith, it's impossible to please God. So number one, faith, the simplicity of faith. Number two, I put it this way, the supply of faith. I mentioned Romans twelve verse three. God has given to every man the measure of faith. That word measure there means the allotment of If I understand this correctly, well I understand that. Let's see, I'll pick on Stuart. Stuart, the faith that God has given to Stuart may not be, may be more faith than he's given to Dennis Leatherman. And the faith given to Joe Clemens may not necessarily be the same amount of faith that God has given to Mark Heinball. He gives to each man the measure, the allotment. God knows the end from the beginning. He knows how much faith Dennis Slotherman is going to need. in his lifetime. Do you ever have somebody that went through a really difficult time, they stayed faithful to the Lord and they just stayed true? And you ever said to yourself, how in the world do they How in the world do they go through that with such faith? Anybody know Thomas? God gave them that measure of faith He knows what we're able to deal with, and so the things we go through, he gives us enough faith to deal with that And so the supply of faith, God gives everybody faith. We had a fellow, I mentioned this often over the years, but uh he comes Sunday nights. Raise his hand. I need to be saved. I'd give the invitation. He raised his hand, needs to be saved. He'd come forward. His back years ago. Marvin would take him back there. They'd be back there for a half hour, 45 minutes, sometimes an hour. Counseling come out and said, Did you get it settled? Nah. And uh I mean we did this four or five times. Six times. Every time he'd come out, nope, he didn't get saved. Nope, he didn't next week we'd do the same thing over and over and over So finally, where everybody's gone, they come out, and I'm standing back. I said, Well, listen, what's the problem? What's holding you? What's the hang-up? And he said, My problem is I don't have any faith. I said, that's not true. I said, you had faith. You had faith in your car to drive here. You trusted the brakes. You sat in the pew. You had faith. You just sat on that pew. You give your put your I said, do you have a bank account? He said, yeah. And I said, you trust that bank. You have faith in that bank that they're going to hold that money for you. I said, your problem isn't well that you don't have any faith. The problem is you're not willing to put your faith in Jesus Christ. That's what it comes down to. And so God gives every one of us a measure of faith. Everyone has faith. Not everyone has the same measure of faith. And I don't get any more faith. Well, I need God to give me more faith. If only I had more faith, then I could be this, and then I could have victory. Then I could uh if I just had more faith The problem isn't the amount of our faith, the problem is the exercise of our faith. Jesus said, if you just have faith the size of a grain of a mustard seed, you could say to this bounce and be removed. And his point was this, it's not, don't go around looking for more faith. What we need is stronger faith to exercise the faith I have and trust God. Trust God. And so the supply of faith. Everyone has faith. Not everyone has the same measure of faith. We don't get any more faith, but we need to exercise the faith we have. Now I want to come to this fruit of faith. Now, what in the world is this talking about? The Holy Spirit is going to bear the fruit of faith in my life, but I already have faith It's a decision I make to trust. So, how how does the Holy Spirit bear faith in my life? This faith, I believe. Now I'm going to give you Leatherman's understanding of this. I believe this faith as a fruit of the Holy Spirit is the supernatural ability to faithfully trust God and just keep on trusting Him, keep on trusting Him. In other words, I have faith, I'm trusting Christ, I'm trusting God, I'm trying to live for Him, and I find myself in a situation that is absolutely overwhelming I find myself in a situation where it is really difficult to understand what in the world is going on. And I asked myself, I don't know if I can trust God in this situation. I don't know if I can have faith in God in this situation And I yield to the Spirit, I'm walking in the Spirit, and the Holy Spirit bears the fruit of faith that enables me to trust God when it seems overwhelming. Follow what I'm saying? It's the supernatural ability given to me by the Holy Spirit when I'm in impossible circumstances. And yet, I can still trust God. I can still trust God. It's a supernatural ability to remain faithful to God when it seems like everything is against me. Anybody here ever get in a situation in your Christian life where it seemed like God was not listening to you? Anyone know what I'm talking about? I've been there. It seems like the sky is made of brass. You get on your knees and you pray and you pour your heart out to God, and it's like silence. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Have you ever been there? David did. Read the book of Psalms. Over and over. He would say often, he said, you know, where are you? Or have you forgotten me? Have you abandoned me, God? When we get in situations like that, if we will make sure we do not lean on our understanding, if we'll die to self and say, God, it seems like you've abandoned me. But I'm going to keep trusting you. And I believe the Holy Spirit, this fruit is the Holy Spirit He'll enable me to just keep trusting God and keep trusting God. When it seems like everything is dark and it seems like God is silent, the Holy Spirit enables me to keep on trusting Him. You follow what I'm trying to say? The supernatural ability to trust God. Come with me. Let me illustrate what I'm trying to say. Let me give you some scripture. Go with me to Romans chapter number four. Now, one of the greatest examples of somebody in the Bible that had faith in God was Abraham. He's referred to as the father of the faithful. And a tremendous faith. And look with me, Romans chapter 4, look with me at verse 18. And Paul, again, he's writing under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, but he references Abraham's faith. Now notice what he says. Verse 18, speaking of Abraham, he said, who against hope. Now, when he sees that phrase against hope, what would he be saying? It's what? It's hopeless. There's no hope in this situation. Against hope. Look at this. Who against hope believed in hope. Seemed hopeless, but he still believed. He still believed. That he might become, who against hope believed in hope, that he might become the father of many nations. It's impossible. There's no way this could happen. But he still had hope in God. That he might be the father of many become the father of many nations according to that which was spoken, so shall thy seed be. And look at this, verse 19. And being not weak in faith He considered not his own body now dead. That wasn't even a factor in his thinking, the fact that he's a hundred years old. His body now dead. What he means by that is his body is no longer able to reproduce The ability to regenerate is not there anymore. It's gone. His body, as far as that's concerned, is dead. But he still believed. Consider not, that wasn't even a factor in his thinking when he was about 100 years old, neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb That wasn't even a factor, not even considering that. Look at verse 20. He what staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief. God said it, it was settled, it's going to happen. Didn't even stagger, didn't even waver in that. He was strong in faith, giving glory to God. Look at this. Being fully persuaded that what he, God, had promised, he was able also to perform. Would you agree with me? That's great faith. I'm convinced that this fruit of faith that Galatians talk about is the faith that enables you and I to do exactly that what Abraham did. To trust God against hope. All the circumstances, situation seems in impossible But Lord, I yield to you, and God, I I I die to self and I submit to you, present my body to you. And Lord, I just ask that you'd fill me with your spirit and the Holy Spirit empowers my faith to trust God. even when something doesn't make any sense. We have an illustration of that in the Gospels. A father experienced that. Come back to Mark chapter number nine. And I tell you, I prayed this prayer that this father prayed many, many times. Mark chapter 9 And notice with me, if you would, verse number 20. Now this is where Jesus was up on the Mount of Transfiguration with a few of the disciples. They come back down. And there was a father that brought his son that was uh possessed of a dumb spirit, verse 17. Master, I have brought to thee my dumb s uh brought to thee my son, which has a dumb spirit. Now I've met some boys that had dumb spirits But that's not what he's talking about here. Alright? The blue boys devil possessed He has a dumb spirit, and whithersoever he taketh him, he teareth him, and he foameth, and gnasheth with his teeth, and pineth away. The guy's destroying him. The devil's destroying this boy And I spake to the disciples that they should cast them out, and they could not. Hopeless. Hopeless. Not even the disciples could help him. He, Jesus, answered verse 19 and said, O faithless generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? Bring them unto me. Jesus rebuking them for their lack of faith. And they brought him to him, and when he saw him, he straightway the spirit tear him and he fell on the ground and wallowed foaming. Do you agree bad situation, right? Can you imagine the heartache of this father? The heartache of this father. And Jesus asked the Father, and he asked his father, Jesus asked the Father, how long ago How long is it ago since this came unto him? And he said, Of a child since he was little. And oftentimes it cast him into the fire and into waters till he would drown. That was the idea. The devil would cast him in a w Water so he'd drown to destroy him. Now look at this. But if thou canst do anything, have compassion on us and help us. And Jesus said unto him, If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth. What a promise. Now look how the father responds. Straightway, the father of the child cried out. He's in agony, emotional agony. And he said and with and said with tears, Lord, I believe, look at this, help thou mine what? He says, I do believe. I do have faith. But this situation is beyond my ability to believe. Spond, my ability, my faith cannot match this circumstance. Help me I believe that's what the Holy Spirit does. When we get to a situation where it seems so far above what I'm even able to trust God for. If I'll yield to the Lord, if I'll let God have his way, if I'll just do what he says, the Holy Spirit will enable me to have faith. You with me? I prayed that prayer. I don't know if you ever have. I prayed that prayer, Lord, I believe, help my unbelief. I find myself doubting. I found myself uh not ha not trusting and uh god help my unbelief and that's when the holy spirit comes in and goes all right i'll help you have faith i'll help you believe i'll help you stay faithful Do you ever get to the point where you said, I just want to quit? There's more, I this is too much. I I just want to quit. Anyone know what I'm talking about? And the Holy Spirit, if we'll just trust God, if we'll be yielded to Him, the Holy Spirit steps in and says, nope, I'm going to keep you going. I'm going to keep you going. I'm going to keep you going. Anybody recognize the name Cory Tenboom? What a story. Every Christian ought to read that gal's testimony of years in the concentration camps there in Germany. And overwhelming. Um one instance, and I I'm I'm I'm gonna try and give this discreetly but also as accurately as I can. I'm just going by memory here. But there was one instance where they had an uh an infestation of fleas And she was just eat up with fleas and all the horrors of what they were living through. And now this on top of it. And she started to get upset with God. Why would you do this to me? After a while she realized God had allowed that to happen because then that would keep the guards from raping the women. Because they had fleas. And she made this statement. She said, in that picture yourself in that situation, she said, I learned to thank God for fleas in a concentration camp. Would you agree with me? That's not natural faith That's not human. That's that's that that's not what happens. You know what I believe that was? I believe that was the fruit of the Holy Spirit. bearing fruit, bearing faith in her life. And she was able to not only just trust God, but to rejoice in that situation and thank God for it. I'm telling you, the filling of the Holy Spirit in the life of the Christian is so vital We have got to put aside our own reasoning. We've got to put aside our own self-confidence and trusting and my thing. And come and say, Lord. I have faith in you. I yield myself to you. I trust you in all of this. And Lord help me when my faith is weak. Help me when unbelief comes. And I believe if we're sincere, the Holy Spirit will help us have faith. That's something. So the supernatural faith of the Holy Spirit, and then last of all I am with this, the consequence of faith, what happens? When I'm able to walk in the Spirit, and then when my faith gets weak, it comes up a little short, the Holy Spirit steps in, and helps me through in my faith and gets me through that circumstance, helps me to stay faithful and stay true. Then what's the consequence? How does that affect my life? I put one word down, stability When my faith is secured in the Lord and the Holy Spirit is empowering it and enabling me to continue to trust God, then there's a stability in my life. Anybody notice this in your Christian life? Now some of us have been saved a long time. It's pretty obvious, and maybe if you're newly saved, but anybody notice this in your Christian life? Up and down Up and down. Up. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Sometimes, uh, you know, man, it's gone great. And then we get down. And uh what happens when the Holy Spirit bears this fruit in my life, those ups and downs level off, and it's stable. I learned a long time ago, and I haven't been able to practice this perfectly, but I've tried. Don't get too high when things are going great, and don't get too low when things are going bad. Just trust God. Just have faith in God. Stay the course. Say, preacher, my heart's so broken. Just stay the course. Holy Spirit will help you. You yield to them. Don't get in the flesh. Don't get bitter. Don't get all worked up. Don't walk away. You just let the Holy Spirit fill you, and He'll enable you to stay steady and stay the course. Amen? Yesterday I And and this is given as a tremendous testimony to a what I believe a woman of great faith. Yesterday morning we had the funeral in the afternoon. In the morning I went up and I visited with Roger and Ruth Paul. Ruth is waiting on Heaven's call. She's right there. So we went in and talked with Roger and we cried. We stood in the living room there and her her bed's right by the kitchen by the living room We stood there and we talked and we cried. We laughed a little bit and we cried some more. And we went over and I I was ready to go and I said, Well, I w I want to pray with y'all before I leave. So Roger and I held hands and I said, I want to hold Ruth's hand. Her daughter, their daughter, I think, was there. And so we went over and I held Ruth's hand. When I took her hand She roused the wake and she looked. I said, Ruth, it's Pastor Leatherman. She said, Hi. And I said, Ruth, I just come by, let you know we love you. I love you. And we're praying for you. And I'd like to pray with you right now. Is that okay? And she shook her head a little bit. So I prayed and we cried and we held hands and we prayed for God's grace and God's presence. Thank God for her testimony and her faithfulness. I said, Amen. We let go and by then I she was back asleep or just unresponsive. And I started to say something to Roger, and then Ruth said this She said, In Heavenly Father. In Jesus' name, Amen. That was her prayer. I told Kathy, I said, I think that's one of the greatest prayers of faith I think I've ever heard. She has put herself in God's hand, Heavenly Father, in Jesus' name. Romans 8 talks about the Holy Spirit taking our prayers, groanings that cannot be uttered. The Holy Spirit brings them before the Lord. You know what I think that was? I think that was a Holy Spirit-empowered prayer of faith. She was saying, God, here I am. I'm yours. I'm yours. I don't know what you're going through. Maybe you're not going through anything right now, but I know this. Life is full of heartaches and sometimes it gets so overwhelming we don't even know if our faith is enough to see us through. But God has given us a Holy Spirit that dwells within us, and when our faith gets weak, He can step in. And empower our faith. Amen. I hope this makes sense. But it's a great resource. We need to walk with God. We need to stay close to the Lord. We need to stay yielded to the Lord so the Holy Spirit can produce us in us. Father, I pray you take these thoughts and help us. Lord, if we could just learn to trust you and be yielded to you and let you fill us and enable us to be For us to be. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there'd be some tonight say, preacher, sometimes I feel like my faith is almost gone. I feel so weak in my faith. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me trust Him to enable me to have faith, to let the Holy Spirit empower me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? I need God. To bear this fruit in my life. Now I've got to be right. I can't harbor sin. It's going to quench the spirit. I can't harbor this stuff. I can't re uh uh resist the spirit. I've got to be yielded. And then the Holy Spirit helps me trust Him. Father bless our imitation I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.