You know we always uh each year we come this time when when uh usually we're celebrating Veterans Day and and that's always that's uh always been a you know a privilege uh to be a part of that this whole celebration. And uh today in instead of preaching on soldiers and and veterans and so forth and so on, I I I want uh Just bring a message that I think is needful today. We're living in a time when things are changing. I've never I've never seen such change in a in a country as I've seen in the past uh well actually you know past several years actually we've we've seen it happening And uh it's it's scary when uh When you see that change taking place in churches like ours. And when I say like ours, I'm talking about fundamental independent, Bible-believing Baptists, you know, premillennial, uh all those, all those good names. But uh we've seen changes as the pastor pointed out earlier changes in the preaching and changes in it in some of the churches. Some churches that I've gone to that I don't go to anymore And uh that and that's the the reason they've changed their doctrine, they've changed their their Bible and so forth But I want us just simply to get away from all that and and and just uh get into a a simple message that that I think will uh apply to all of us and help all of us. And I think pay particularly the the young people if uh uh if you have a mind to listen So let's take our Bible and turn to John chapter 2, if you will. And we'll just read a couple of verses. John chapter 2. And we're starting reading it verse nine. Well, uh I tell you, we might as well might as well read uh uh about ten verses here. So we'll start verse one. It says the third day There was a marriage in the in Canaan of Galilee and the mother of Jesus was there. And both Jesus was called and his disciples to the marriage. And when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus saith unto him, They have no wine. And Jesus saith unto her, Woman, what have I to do with thee? Mine hour is not yet come. So his mother said unto the servants, Whatsoever he saith unto you, do it And there were set there six water pots of stone, and after the manner of the purifying of the Jews, containing two or three firkins a apiece. And Jesus saith unto them, Fill the water pots with water. And they filled them up to the brim. And he saith unto them, draw out now, and bear unto the governor of the feast. And they bear it. And when the f the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine, and knew not whence it came, but the servants which drew the water knew The governor of the feast called the bridegroom, and he said unto him, Every man at the beginning doth set forth good wine. And when men have well drunk, then that which is worse. But thou hast kept the good wine Until now, let's pray. Our Father, as we uh as we approach this message, we just pray for your enlightenment. Your help, your power, your presence, and certainly, Lord, your influence and what you want us to get out of this message. Lord, I thank you for this church. I thank you for this pastor who has a love for you and love for his people. And I just pray that you'd continue your shower of blessings upon them. And I ask you especially to help me this morning as I preach. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. And amen. So this is the first miracle that Jesus is is performing. He's uh at a marriage, he and his disciples at a marriage, and uh Somebody says, hey, we need some wine, and and uh Jesus' mother comes up to it to Jesus and says, hey, they have no wine. And uh her uh having the faith that she had in her son, says, Why don't you uh do something about that? And he says, Well, what have I d to do with you? What I mean what why you And so uh she said she tells the services to do what he says to do. And as a result, why uh he he says, all right, uh Bring the the you know the jugs and and put water in them. So then the governor of the of the feast Uh uh says when the ruler of the feast had tasted the water, why he said, wow, this is pretty good stuff. I'm not going to get into this thing of whether the water was was alcoholic wine. I just don't believe that. I just believe that uh I don't believe Jesus would put the you know the uh uh the bottle up to the uh anybody's lips and tell 'em to drink. You know. So I I just think it's just grape juice, okay? It's uh it's But it's good grape juice. It's so good that the that this ruler said, Hey, this is really good stuff. And so he goes to the head guy and he says, you know, the bridegroom, he says, you know, this is really unusual. Usually the bridegrooms like you, he said, well, they they say that they they give the good stuff first and you they save the the worst stuff last. And uh That's what I want to talk about. Because what I want to talk about is how the world has a way of doing things. The devil has a way of doing things. God has a way of doing things. And God's way is always the best comes last. We always think about uh, you know, uh, you know, all the things that God does for us. And, you know If the Lord just would take me out right now, there's so many blessings in my life. There's no way I can thank him enough. Even with the little heartaches and the headaches and the knee knee aches and and only getting a six point buck. Stuff like that, you know? Even with that, you know But uh the thing that I've I've noticed in my life is that that all those things, you know, they're they come into everybody's life has them. Everybody has problems And so the question is, are we going to give God the acknowledgement that He deserves in our life? Now, so let me let me uh uh get to what I'm what I'm trying to get at. Uh Many years ago, I started out in evangelism. It was uh 1974, and uh I was a gospel magician. And most of you don't even remember that about me because I don't think I, I'm not sure that I did gospel magic in this church. I'm not sure, I don't think I did. But back in those days, uh I did uh magic tricks that illustrated Bible truths. And I would quote I don't know how many verses of scripture th throughout the evening to back up what I was doing. And of course, uh there's easily to make applications, you know, with the magic because it seems supernatural and And you have a you know, we're we're talking about the spirit world and so forth and and uh uh you know um Like no like one trick. I I'll just tell you one tell you one trick. I'm not gonna show it to you because I that's all past, you know, I don't do that stuff anymore. Haven't had any uh hadn't had the ability to do some of it. But uh uh I had a I had a uh a tide box Yeah, tied, you know, T I D E that uh soap for dishwasher uh I don't guess it's dishwashing, it's probably clothes, whatever, laundry. And uh and I would uh I would take uh uh s silks uh silk scarves that are so big that are stained black. They they ha they're white but they have black spots all over 'em. And they're it's an ink And I take those those three and I stuff them down in this tide box, which is previously showed empty. And I stick them down in the tide box. And uh and I talk about sin and how it's uh you know, all sin comes short of the glory of God, you know, and and I had all these verses and and uh and then I talk about how the blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth us from all sin. And so I would uh do a little magic thing there, you know, that which uh represented uh the blood of Christ. I have a red scarf and I'd make a wave over this uh tied box And then I would reach inside and pull out all the scarves and they're just, they're all perfectly white. Good illustration, right? Blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin, and I show the box, and I tear the box up and show that it's empty. And uh So that was that was just one of the tricks. I uh and I I I tell you this because the uh Magic was was used for good, but magic is deceptive. You know what I mean? I I tricked them. You know, I made them think one way and the other. That's the way Satan is. Satan uses conniving, deceptive devices, snares, traps, I you can you name it. But Satan uses all that this this uh uh all this stuff to uh to fool people and getting them involved in something they shouldn't be involved in. We call that addiction in some cases. And that's what we want to talk a little bit about this morning. Remember. Uh you can play the game with with Satan. Uh there was a there was a uh a card game it's called uh uh three card monty. Anybody ever heard of that? Three card Monty? Okay. Three card Monty. I'm educating you today on the vices of of uh the magic world. Three card Monty is where a a guy has a uh has three cards. It doesn't make any difference that you know the the nature of the card. But like playing cards. Three cards. And uh he takes those three cards and uh in his hands and uh he waits or he gathers a few people on the streets there. It's a way to make money. And so he takes these three cards and uh he shows all three of them what they are. Maybe there's uh maybe there's two aces and a queen. Let's do we'll just use that. And he said, okay, if if you can point out the queen. After I mix them up, you point out the queen why uh you you you know they make a bet, five dollars or ten dollars. He said if you could if you name the queen, then you get the money And so he takes the three cards in his in his hand, all three of 'em, and uh, you know, and he and he goes like that and drops the cards, and then you're supposed to pick out the c the you know, whatever uh is the queen. And he lets you win a couple of times. Isn't that the way Satan does? He lets you win a couple of times. He lets you be satisfied a little bit. And it draws you in. Oh well this is easy. Alright. So next time the guy he picks up the cards, he says, You ready? He says, Yeah, okay. And he goes like that, lays them down, and the guy says, uh, alright, what's the bet? Now where is the queen? And you've been watching close. He says right over there. I know that's where the queen is, and I bet so much money that that's where the queen is S guy sorry, here's what where the king queen is. That was an ace. You made a mistake Huh, I must have made a mistake on that. Maybe I'll get it this time. And so he's drawn in closer and closer. That's the way Satan does. That's so that's his one of his methods is is to give you a little bit in order to get a lot. And he's really good at that stuff. In fact he is so good he he these guys that are on the street can make uh thousands of dollars. in a day's time just uh by dropping the card in the right place. They they have that ability to do it. It's it's uh it takes a little bit of skill, but it's yeah. I'm saying that that we If you play a game, if you play the devil's game, you're going to lose. And young people are most vulnerable. It's so easy to get sucked in. Okay, I'm going to tell you a story. Not about the deer. I'm not gonna tell you that story. I I don't know how long. Uh Couple uh a few years. I I don't remember I can't remember exactly when it was. But uh we were still living here uh in Oakland. Uh had a couple of kids by that time And it was a carnival came downtown. And so we went to the carnival. Well, I was just intrigued with all this going on there. And this one guy, he had he had a wheel. That he would spin. And then it would stop. If it was stopped like on a $20 bill, well, you'd get that $20 bill It cost you a dollar to take a chance. Alright. I got enough twenties, enough dollars that I can eventually all win one of those. And so I put my money down. He spun the wheel No, it didn't hit it. Hmm. Hmm. So he blocked that one out. He said, okay, now if you land on that one. Or another one that you've met on, I'll give you your money. And so in other words, next thing you know I listen, I know, stupid, all right? Loser, whatever you want to call it. My whole sh I my whole paycheck. I'm serious. My whole paycheck. For that weekend, it was on a weekend, my whole paycheck went to that stupid thing. And then like uh then I became a crybaby and went to the manager and uh they gave me part of it back. Stupid. You can't win the game against the devil. That's something I found out. You know, I never had a gambling problem. And the when I was in the army, the guys, you know, they they do the card playing, not me. I'm not touching that stuff. I learned a lesson when that when that happened It's a hard lesson to learn. Part of a paycheck, a good portion of the paycheck. We got enough money out of it to pay the the the rent, I think, for that one What's Satan got you tricked into? You see, he can pull you in into drugs Into sex. Uh into drinking, smoking. You can name all the the vices And Satan has a way of getting you involved in it. Satan has a way of getting you to a place where. There's several steps that he uses on people to get them to the final thing. And what is the final thing? Wages of sin is death. That's the finality of the of the games the devil plays. It's just a game of death. And you can't, I mean Facebook folks, you you can't win that game. Because everyone dies There has to be something to take place in order to keep you from losing your soul. And dying and going to hell. There has to be something take place. I found out what that was when I was about 29 years old I was uh at a church revival meeting, not unlike the one that's going to take place here next few days And when the preacher gave the invitation that night, I walked forward to an old-fashioned altar like this and prayed and asked God to save me. And you know he'd hit it. He changed my life. No more gambling, no more drinking, no more cussing, no more, no more. But he filled my life with so many things. With a uh a sweet, wonderful wife, truthful, true. I couldn't say enough about her. She is, she is. She is the most precious thing that I own. And I say I own because she's mine. She's my wife. And that's better be it too, just my wife All right, I what time am I supposed to be finished here? Whenever you're done. Huh? Whenever you're done. Well we haven't even got to the message yet, I'm sorry to say. That's why he likes me to come because I don't preach, I just talk Always get the gospel out, that's the important thing. He'll bring you to the place where many have entered and been entrapped. And eternally lost. Do you remember that? The end game is the lake of fire when you play the devil's game The end game is a lake of fire. That's it. You say, well, I'm a Christian. I don't have to worry about that. Well, I want to tell you that you don't you You may not have to worry about going to hell, but I can tell you, he can make it mighty miserable for you here in this world. When Christians get caught up in in uh uh in various things, there there's always a payday. The wages of sin is death. Uh whatsoever man sows, that shall he also reap. You know all those verses. That I could quote, you know them all. But we still get caught up. He'll bring you to he'll bring you to that night nice shiny uh table Has all the pretty things on it. You said, boy, wouldn't you like to have that? And you say, wow man, I would like to have that. Every commercial. I say, you know, we ought to get one of those But the devil has a way of enticing by by uh using the eye gate. He knows how to get let you see things that you want. You want He knows what uh you guys want. He knows how to use manipulate the eye gate to get you to see what he wants you to see and to keep you from seeing the things that you ought to be seeing. There's a cup of satisfaction that he offers to you You know what the couple satisfaction is? Well, it could be uh it could be drugs, or it could be alcohol, or as I mentioned, sex, or uh it could be any one of a bunch of things But he gets you involved with it where you just get a taste. I say just a taste. Maybe it's the taste of wine. Taste of alcohol. Tastes pretty good. Yeah, it's not bad A little pleasure involved here. Well, there's there is pleasure in sin for a season. Remember that. Remember that. Pleasure in sin. Doesn't stop there for a season. You see, he gets you it started By giving you a little pleasure in what you want to get involved in. And the next thing you know is, well, you know, that was really good. I think I'll I'll take another step into that. uh at that table and uh you get in a little bit deeper and then you get a little bit deeper and next thing you know uh It's overwhelmed you. And now and now if this is not addiction where we we're at this point This is just as the desire now becomes, hey, you know, yeah, I think I will try this one more time. Maybe it's that waitress there at the bar, you know, that you you uh stop in every once in a while and you you see her and and you sort of flirt around a little bit and she flirts back and and uh then it gets a little bit too far and a little bit farther and then next thing you know why uh You're sneaking around and find a motel and all this kind of yeah, all these little things that you know how Satan gets you jammed up in the worst situations where it makes almost impossible to get out of Bible talks about the devil and his his snares. Did you ever notice that? The snare? Preacher and I were talking about trapping when we were young young fellows And uh we were always taught that the snare is too cruel. So I never used a snare. We always used box traps. How many have ever used a box trap after rabbits? Some of the old folks back there, maybe a couple of new ones in. But Satan's snares is so cruel. Why? Because it they whenever an animal like a rabbit gets caught in a snare, it's usually in the head. He puts his head through and and uh he's going sneaking down through there and puts his head through the snare and keeps on and it's tightened around his throat now And so now he struggles to get out of it, and he can't get out of it. And that's exactly what Satan does to us. He gets us trapped by the use of these pleasures that are just for a season. And the next thing you know, this the snare is around your throat and you're trying to get out of it and you say, well I I can't do this, why? And this will ruin my marriage, it'll ruin my home, it'll ruin everything that I and but the snare's tight. It's strangling it. It's hard to get out of it. You see that was that was the best wine. Now the struggle to get out of it. Now you've now you've come into that area of addiction. The best wine was the pleasure. Now we have what I call the cup of satiety. How many know what that means? That's what I thought. I didn't either. I had to look it up. But it starts with an S. That's the important thing. It doesn't make any difference what it means Satiety, it means uh it means to be saturated to the point where you're just bloated to where you hate it then. You know a lot of lot of uh flings that take place in people's lives. They call them flings. It starts out pleasure. And then they becomes to this place of satire. It's not just satisfaction that the person wants. But now it it's I have to have it. I have to I have to be with that individual. I have to and it becomes a uh Saturated to the point of hatred, because that's what all ends up You talk to the alcoholic or the uh drug addict or the sex addict or whatever addict it is, and you find one thing that's in common. There comes a place where it's no longer pleasure It's no longer just a hatred for it, but it has become such so ingrained and there's They it just hey they hate it, they can't stand it, but they have to they can't quit. No it's just I I I I look at people then uh I the people who smoke maybe there's somebody in here that you've you've have a problem with the with tobacco I remember how that was, because I s I smoked quite a bit. I enjoyed uh uh what was that? I forget. It was uh oh cherry blended tobacco. I smoked a pipe. And cherry blend tobacco. Boy, I love cherry blend tobacco. Smelled so good. It tastes like the devil, but it smelled good. Even after I quit that smoking, uh I if somebody I smelled somebody that was smoking cherry bin, I'd follow them all over the store just to smell it. It was so good. You know what I mean? Yeah, I'm just telling all these stories and yeah. I won't have anything to tell tomorrow night Who hath woe? Who hath sorrow? Who hath contentions? Who hath babbling? Who hath wounds without cause? Who hath redness of eyes? They that tarry long at the wine. They that go to seek mixed wine It's like a dog that returns to his vomit. Returns, goes back and gobbles it up. And that's pretty much the story of satiety. Where you're full to the loathing, where it's disgusting. You're involved in something that you can't stand, and yet you have to do it. You have to be involved with it. Then there's this cup of suffering. You must drink and drink. And though it's like fire to your bosom, when you drink it, it's just like a fire, and yet yet you have to do it Realize this he that sins suffers. That's just a simple thing. He that sins suffers And if you're going to play with sin, you might as well figure it out. Somewhere down the row, you're going to have to suffer as a result of it. He who rebels against God's law must reap the harvest. Whatever a man sows, that shall he also reap. That shall he also reap. Remember that. The best first, the worst last. Then the final thing. Didn't you like to hear that final final thing? Yeah, okay. Quit shaking your head, yes. I saw that brother. I call it the it's the cup of separation. The cup of separation, death, and damnation. The sinner has brought himself finally to the grave. All these hopes and all these dreams are gone. You know, if there was no hope, if I preached this message and stopped right now and everybody got up and walked out You'd say, well, what was that all about? But there is a remedy. It's not uh God does not leave us in the dark in this matter of sin. Because he gave us a Savior. Because God so loved the world. Don't you love that verse? I hear it and I quote it. And it never loses that ring of sweetness, that ring of purity, that that ring of love, it's always there. And that word so is just it just kind of grab you and and does something for you. God so loved the world. My oh my. He looked at this world that's being been taken over by Satan. Little by little we realize that this world is going down the tube. We know that, don't we? It doesn't make any difference whether you're a Trumpite or not. It's going down the tube. Eventually it's going to go up in the in a blaze of fire. But God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. Isn't that a wonderful thing? He didn't leave us to the drudgers of Satan. He didn't leave us to the devices of Satan. He didn't leave us to the delusions of Satan, but he so loved that he gave his son. For what purpose? For for salvation. John chapter what fourteen In my father's house are many mansions. That's what he saved us for. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for it. If I go, I will come again. I know about you, but I look forward to that day when he'll split the clouds of light open and the trump of God will sound. And the dead in Christ shall rise first, and we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with him in the air. I look forward to that day When I see Jesus face to face, behold what manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us that we should be called the Sons of God. I can't wait for that day to take place. Heavenly Father, I pray that you take all the ramblings of this old preacher. And she'd put it together in such a way that these young people sitting here in this front row would get the message. That that middle-aged person and that older person might hear the message that you want them to hear. It'll head them away from a trap that Satan has set for me even perhaps this very day. God, I pray that you'd work in our hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Let's all stand to our feet with our heads bowed and their eyes closed. Pastor, you want to take this?