Sixteen through uh nineteen and then uh we'll we'll jump into the message this morning. Verse sixteen these six things doth the Lord hate, yea seven are an abomination unto him. Proud look, lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood, and heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in running to mischief A false witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren. Now there's a lot in those few verses there. Seven things are an abomination unto the Lord. We will not preach on all of those this morning, but I did want to highlight that last one in the list this morning, he that soweth discord among brethren. We'll pray and then and then the message this morning. Lord, we thank you for this day, this opportunity we have again just to be just to be assembled here in your name Lord, uh it's a privilege. We thank you um for allowing us uh to be here. Lord, uh we thank you for giving us your word and inspiring it and then preserving it for us and making it so easily now for us to have our own copy and And uh to study it and memorize it, Lord. I pray that uh you would now use your word this morning uh to bring conviction where it's needed. Lord, I ask that you would just hide me behind you, Lord. I just want to get out of the way. I ask that you would take control of the service. If there's anything that I'm about to say, Lord, that goes against your word. I ask that you keep me from saying it, Lord. And likewise if there's something um that needs to be said that you would have said, Lord, that I don't have written down, Lord, I ask that you bring it to my mind. Again, just the best way I know how We're asking that you would take over the service now and speak to our hearts. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to start out with just with this observation. There there there's people and I I know what they mean when they say this, but there's you'll hear the the the phrase, all sin is sin. And I think I know what a lot of people mean when they say that, but um well all sin is sin, yeah. I mean I mean all bad things are bad, but there are different degrees of sin. Um not all sin is equal, I guess is what I want to say. Now it's it's true that um all sin is bad. Um and if we We keep the whole law and yet offend in one point, we're guilty of all. Um and that is true. And the wages of sin is death, uh, regardless of what the individual's sin is. And um All sinners have their part in the lake of fire, and there's verses like that. So I'm not trying to diminish any sin, but there are sins that have greater consequences. Um there are sins that that um do have different outcomes and that that is obvious. Um and if we and if we study scripture, um go back to the Old Testament even, different sins had different punishments. Um in Old Testament law, our society today is the same. Um, you know, you if you get a speeding ticket, you're not on death row And I'm grateful for that, uh, because I have had a speeding ticket. It's been a few years, but that would you get the point. Um there's different um there's different consequences for different sins. Now um Jesus even mentioned this. Hold your place here, but if you go to Matthew chapter 10, let me turn there really quick too. If you go to Matthew chapter 10 Jesus makes this statement, and you'll recognize it once you get here, I'm sure. If you look at verse uh 14, we'll start there. We'll start in verse 13, Matthew chapter 10, verse 13. And if the house be worthy, let your peace come upon it, but if it be not worthy, let your peace return to you, and uh whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear your words When ye depart out of the house or city, shake the dust off your feet, verily I say unto you, it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city. So the day of judgment is going to be more tolerable. That doesn't mean it'll be easy, obviously, for Sodom and Gomorrah, but it'll be more tolerable. So he makes that comment. Go to chapter 11. Matthew in verse twenty-one Woe unto thee, uh Khrazen, woe unto thee Beseda, where for if the mighty works which were done in you had been done in Tyre and s and Sidon, they would have repented long ago and stacked cloth and ashes. So if the same works that w were done in these cities would have been done in um Uh tire and sign they would have repent. Now if you jump down to verse number twenty four, I believe Well verse 23, excuse me, it says, and thou Capernaum, which art exalted unto heaven, shall be brought down to hell for the mighty works Which had been done in thee had been done in Sodom, it would have remained unto this day. Verse 24, but I say unto you that it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment. than for thee. So i th there's I don't know what that looks like. I don't know what the different levels of to of of punishment look like. I've heard people say, well maybe the fire is just a little bit hotter. I don't know But I do know that different sins um might have bring greater consequences and greater forms of punishment. But but again, it's it we we saw that in the Old Testament law, different Um there was different uh levels of breaking the laws. Some were uh punished by death, some you had to uh go through different rituals and stuff like that. But in our culture today, I mentioned that like a streeting ticket, it's not the same fine, it's not the same penalty as murder Um obviously. Um and I'm grateful for that. Um so like and and and I I heard this example once, you know, if I um lie to my wife, that would be really bad But I probably wouldn't go to jail for it, right? But if I lie to a judge, then I'd probably go to jail for it. Right? So there's so there there's and I'm not trying to diminish anyone's sin, please Don't misunderstand me and God hates it all. But the reason I wanted to bring that up is because of the way this verse starts in verse 16 of Proverbs chapter 6. These six things doth the Lord hate, yea, seven are an abomination unto him. God hates more than seven different things, obviously. But this list is highlighted for a reason. And so that's that's we're good we're gonna highlight it today for that reason as well. And there's something else I want to mention. God's hatred is not like our hatred. A lot when we when we hate somebody or we hate something, that's driven by um more times than not, that's driven by pride. Or self-centeredness, and so you get the point. God's perfect. God's holy. His hatred does not look like our hatred, but he particularly hates this list here. And um so I'm not gonna preach on all of them like I said, but I did want to start out with that. And the way I'm I'm told That the way this is worded, six things doth the Lord hate you, seven are an abomination unto him. It emphasizes the seventh is what I've been told. Whether that's the case or not, this list is emphasized. And the seventh thing on this list is he that soweth discord among brethren. I want to point out one more thing. I'm trying to get all the by the ways out of the out of the way. As I studied this verse, and I would quote it, I would always say, He that soweth discord among the brethren. But the word does not end there. It's discord among brethren. Now there's other places where Jesus mentions that, but in this verse it says discord among brethren. So that could include families, that could include church family, that could include brethren. It's brethren. God hates when someone says discord among brethren. So Different sins, yes, have different consequences. Now all sin is bad. God hates all of it. Christ died for all of it. But there are different Not all sins are equal, if you will, if you will follow me there. So with that in mind, I want to go through the first six real quick And then highlight this seventh thing on God's hate list that's an abomination unto him. And that's he that soweth discord among brethren. So the first one in verse 17 is a proud look. God hates pride. That originated with Satan, of course. God hates that. God hates pride And um, you know, God actually works against the proud. God resisteth the proud, giveth grace to the humble. We know that. And if you study uh this list, all of the other things on this list are a symptom of pride. someone that's quick to take someone's life, it's because they think that life is less valuable than their own. For example. So just moving on from there, God hates a proud look, arrogancy. Dishonesty is mentioned twice on here, a lying tongue. And then also verse nineteen, a false witness that speaketh lies. Both forms of dishonesty God hates, whether it's habitual lying or actually out to get someone with your lies. Um God hates it. And then also the shedding of innocent blood in verse 17, hands that shed innocent blood, God hates murder, obviously. Um mankind is made in God's image, and when man is murdered, God's image is murdered. God's image is destroyed when man is destroyed. Now not all killing is murder, so there's some times where it's necessary a capital punishment or d defense of war or something like that. But uh shedding of innocent blood, taking a life without cause, it's murdered God hates that. Um Verse 18 A heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, um trying to scheme up new ways of wickedness, trying to Come up and Romans one uh mentions, inventors of evil things. Um God hates that. Uh verse 18 again, feet that be swift in running to mischief. Now God hates all mischief, right? God hates all sin, but especially when somebody can't wait to do it. Right? And um I was kind of joking around about this, but the difference is is if someone, you know Later on in life they they make a mistake and they get right with God. God hates that they did something wrong but they got it right and that's good. We all sin, is what I'm trying to say, not to excuse it, so we continue and say grace may abound, God forbid But the difference is when somebody can't wait, I can't wait to get out on my own and I'm gonna do this, this, this, this, and this. God hates that. God hates that. I can't wait to send. Anyway, moving on Verse 19, a false witness that speaketh lies again. And that brings us to the thought today. He that soweth discord among brethren. He that soweth discord among brethren. I'm going to do this. I'm going to present just a few facts, some things that are just plain, with black and white, and then we'll make some observations from there. But the first obvious fact is God hates this sower of discord among brethren. It says that in the Bible, what I just read. God hates that. And again, like I said, it does not necessarily say the brother, and it's not specifically talking about the church, although that applies, because we are brother. But that would include families. And God hates that when someone tries to um inject themselves into a family to split it up. To cause uh contention there, to cause discord there. God hates that. Brothers and sisters, spouses, grandparents, families, whatever. That God hates that. That's on the list. But also, we're gonna and more so we're gonna apply that to the church this morning because we are brethren. But I'm what I'm trying to say is not just limited to just us, just to the church. But um we're as much brothers and sisters, if not more so, than than any biological family. So A sewing second second just observation here, something just fact is uh sewing discord is rooted in pride, and it talks about that. Um really from verses twelve on, but this list here starts out with pride. And If I am sowing discord among brethren, it's because I have an eye problem. You know, it's because of I think that it should be this way. Or I think that I'm better or they're worse or you know, somebody really needs me to just interject myself into this. That's self-centeredness, right? That's pride So um, you know, it it it kind of cracks me up and we see this. Um maybe we see it more with younger people, but then again we s we see it with all ages. Um Someone might get jealous, and um I I used this example the other day, but um well let me use you Dylan. Dylan's my friend, just so everyone knows, I have friends Okay, I really do. Uh but Dylan's my friend. Good to see you, Dylan. Um so let's just say me and him are gonna hang out, we're gonna go eat wings and pizza because I don't know what else to do. Like that's just the only thing I could think of at the moment is food. But let's just say we're gonna go go hang out. Um whatever. And then all of a sudden, Jed says, in his mind, well, I want to hang out with Dylan. Who does Pastor Matt think he is? So then he goes to Dylan and starts spreading some discord and making some stuff up and now all of a sudden Dylan's like, whoa, I don't want to hang out with Pastor Matt anymore. Why did that happen? Because somebody got jealous, Jed got jealous of my time with my friend. That didn't happen, okay? That was the only analogy I could think of at the moment. But that happens That happens. It really does. We get this jealousy or envy thing going on. Not envy, but but jealousy. And it's that's not fair. That's not the way it should be. So we'll sow some discord so we can have things our way. Guilty, right? Um that could be just one example. Um maybe you just don't like the person. So you sow some discord. Again, pride, I I don't like them. I think I'm better than them. I think they're worse than they're weird Right? Whatever. So you sow discord. You you spread some rumors, you spread some lies just because you don't like them. That's pride. Um maybe because you just think you deserve something, whatever the case may be, but no matter how you look at it, when someone sows discord, and we'll look exactly what that is in just a second. Somebody shows Discord, it's a pride problem. It's a pride problem. Um so anyway, there's that. Next thing I just kind of want to point out, again, this is black and white, you can't really deny this. Most of the stuff on this list, with the exception of what's in verse 19, is referring to body parts. Proud look, the way someone looks, a lying tongue. Uh-huh. So that's referring to the tongue. Hands that shed innocent blood. Heart that deviseth wicked imaginations. Feet That be swift and running to mischief. But verse 19 doesn't just mention the hand, the foot, the tongue. It mentions the person. Does that make sense? Look at it. Verse 19, a false witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren. I think that emphasizes it maybe even a little bit more. Does that make sense? Now I don't know about you, but I don't want to be on God's hate list. I don't want to be there. I don't want to go there. I don't want to be an abomination to him Again, when we think of hate, God's hate's not our like our hate. Does God love me? Yes. But could I still be on this list? Absolutely. Absolutely. And I don't want to be there. I don't want to be there. So that's again just an observation. So let me ask you just three questions real quick. And then I'll make a couple applications. But question number one is this: what is a sower of discord? And I'm going to try to answer these questions. What is a sower of discord? What does that mean if someone says he's sowing discord? Because I think a lot of times we'll say it when it's not true. A lot of times it is true, but we won't say it. You follow me? So what what is a sower of discord? I got out the dictionary, because that's good. I like Webster's dictionary, 1828. I love it. That's I I just that's just the one I like to use. Okay. But um one reason I like to use that so much is because in a lot of his definitions he uses scripture to define words. So it it helps For example, he referenced Matthew chapter 13, verse 3, when I looked up the word sower. So the word sower means. He that scatters seed for propagation, and he quotes Matthew 13, 3, behold a sower went forth to sow. One who scatters or spreads as a sower of words, a breeder, a promoter. That's what Webster said. One who scatters, spreads, as a sower of words, a breeder, a promoter. So a sower When we talk about sowing discord, a sower is one who is planting something with the expectation and hope that something will grow where they planted. I mean if you plant something, you do it because you want something to grow there. I mean that's It's not like you go put the little tomato seeds in in in the ground or in your wherever you grow them at. We grow those on the balcony. Whatever. So um I put the seed in there because I want something to come out of it. Last year we grew a bunch of green beans on the balcony. And so uh the reason I put that little bean in there And then I bring it in at night and I'd take it back out because I don't want it to freeze and whatever. The reason I did that is because I I wanted eat green beans. Because they're delicious. And here's my problem. I'm just going to share a problem we'll we'll heart to heart here. I eat them as they grow and so I can never really you know what I'm saying? I I go out there and then it's always just taking them off and so by the time like Like I anyway. I can never wait until they're never mind. I like green beans, okay? I I love I love And somebody uh brought us some green beans and we we canned a bunch of them, so that was that was great. If you don't like 'em, I'll pray for you. But the reason that I put those little beans in there is because I was expecting and hoping for s the plant to grow. That's obvious. So a sewer is putting something there with the expectation and the hope that something will come out. So if you're sowing, Discord. It's on purpose. You're purposely putting something in, planting a seed, a phrase, a word, a thought, post, a text. With the expectation that some sort of contention will come out of that. With the expectation that some sort of struggle We'll come out of that. Again, back to the silly illustration. But we're gonna go hang out. Me and Dylan are gonna go hang out. We're gonna eat eat wings with blue cheese, because it's great. Um and then, so Jed will sew some Discord. Make something up, I don't know, just whatever. And because of that, there's going to be some sort of conflict between me and Dylan. That was the goal in the sewing of discord. I hope this makes sense. I know it's a terrible illustration. I hope this makes sense. So When we sow discord, when we plant that lie Even if we just plant that twisted truth, if we plant something that's true, but maybe no one needs to know about it. And we put that in the ground. We're doing that because we want some sort of contention to come out of it. That's what a sower of discord does. A sower is one who's planting something with expectation, hope that something will come out of it. You plant the corn to get the corn stalk, you plant the words, the phrase. to get something out of it. Your words have purpose. Words aren't idle Words aren't meaningless. They have meaning. They mean something. And when you say that hurtful thing, when you say that lie, or when you say something that's true, that maybe no one needs to know about it, and you're planting discord. You're sowing discord You're doing it on purpose. And then when someone says, Oh, I didn't mean it, yes you did. Or you wouldn't have said it. Or you wouldn't have done it. You you understand what I'm saying. So what is it, what does it mean to be a sower of discord? And then the rest of the definition was a breeder or a promoter. A breeder or a promoter, someone who is reproducing. There's a contention there, there's a strife there, whether it be in the home or in the church or whatever that group of brethren is. There's a there's a contention there and the s the sower of discord wants to keep that going Wants to promote that, wants to multiply those problems. So that's what a silver of discord is. That's what it means. Um someone who likes to start things. Someone who likes to start things. So, question number two, how do you spot the sewer of discord? How do you know who this person is? How do you know if you are? How do you spot it? Well, that's why I read verses twelve through fifteen. Catch this, if you will. Verse 14, the last phrase says So we're going to read this whole section here. Verse 12, a naughty person, a wicked man, walketh with a froward mouth He winketh with his eyes, he speaketh with his feet, he teacheth with his fingers, frowardness is in his heart, he deviseth mischief continually, he soweth discord. That's describing the person that's those discord, is those verses. That's the symptoms, I guess is the word. That's how you can tell. That's the characteristics. So I think it's important that we know who the sowers of discord are. One, because more than likely it's myself, so I need to fix that. Right? If I'm the one doing it, I need to stop Um and I think one reason this is so important is a house divided against itself can't stand. Whether it's your family unit or the church family. We're divided against ourselves, we can't stand. So if someone's trying to divide us, that's bad. Come on. Verse 12, excuse me. Yeah, verse 12. A naughty person, a wicked man, walketh with a forward mouth. Uh forward. They're rude. They're confrontational. They're upfront. They're rude. And the idea of this word forward, it's not forward, it's forward. Kind of similar, but kind of different. Uh the word forward kind of has the idea of the outward appearance, the countenance even. If someone looks like this and is mad all the time and rude, That's one way. Now, I have a naturally rude looking face, don't I? Yes. I've been told that. I've been told that if I if I'm just Sitting looking at the computer typing away. I I look like I'm rude. I really do. It's kind of funny. Um but don't laugh. That's rude. So um But but but if someone has that kind of air about them, that's one way to spot 'em. They're not happy unless they're mad. You know what I'm talking about. Um someone that has that froward uh countenance as it says in verse um At the end of verse 12, and then verse 14, forwardness is in his heart. He just has that heart of root, and he's going to let you know about it. Verse 13, he winketh with- This is interesting, winketh with his eyes, speaketh with his feet, teacheth with his fingers. Speaks with his feet, teaches with his fingers. That has the idea of communicating without talking. Some people are good at this. I uh uh I've talked to the the girls about this. They are they are pros. They can carry on an entire conversation and accomplish something, get somewhere with it, and not never talk. Like just like I don't know if they're using Morse code with their eyebrows or what they're doing But they have whole conversations and know exactly what he said. Am I right? That's how y'all yeah, yeah. It it's it's creepy It's like weird. So like if I like like like dudes, if we talk it's like a couple words and we know what we're talking about and it's like net food. Okay, cool. Sleep. All right. Yeah. Hurry. Okay. We understand. Girls they look at each other and make these facial expressions and sometimes they don't. I can't even figure it out. Sometimes they just look at each other and their eyes move. And they know what they're talking about. It's weird. Okay, girls are weird. Girls are weird. It's true. Yeah. Um but then again, guys are really weird. So there's that. Um so the idea is someone that's communicating without talking. But look at this. It says he winketh with his eyes. That has the idea of deception. So if somebody is communicating with you in a deceptive way without speaking And you y your mind's probably going all kinds of places right now, and that's fine. Let the Holy Spirit take take you where uh where he needs to But if someone's trying to communicate in a sneaky way, sneaky behavior, and trying to get around the rules, trying to get around the authorities, trying to get around people knowing what's going on Probably gonna be some discord being sown. That's a good indication. So like if you're walking into a room and there's people whispering And then you walk in and they stop whispering and then they start making motions with their eyes and like like that guy you know I'm talking about, th then you know they were probably talking about you. They probably were And you all experienced that, I'm sure. So anyway, that that's one way to tell. And by the way, do you do this? Because if you do, you might just be So for awardness is in his heart. It's their desire. They're just bent on it. I'm gonna be upset. I'm gonna cause problems. You try to stop me. It's in their heart. That's how you can spot one. Look at this verse again, verse 12, 13, 14, a naughty person, a wicked man walketh with a forward mouth. Winketh with his eyes, speaketh with his feet, teacheth with his fingers. Forwardness is in his heart. He deviseth mischief continually. He's always trying to devise Mischief, come up with problems, trying to start stuff. I mean that's what sowers of discord do. So Third question goes along with it, are you a sower of discord? Is that is does that describe you? You ever you ever read something get convicted? Yeah. Does this describe you? If it does Stop it. I mean that's really deep, isn't it? Just stop it. Just don't quit quit spreading discord. Quit casting it out. Quit planting those little subliminal Lines. Now, we can sow words in a positive way. When you hand a tract to somebody, we call that sowing a seed, right? That's a positive thing. You share the gospel with someone. We we we refer to that as sowing. You know, a and a and a psalm that mentions that. Um he that goeth forth in um Weep bearing precious seeds. Isn't the word sowing in there? It might not be. But you get the what you get what I'm saying. Um and the the the parable of the of of the sowing that was quoted there in Matthew chapter thirteen uh soul or went forth to sow. It it has the uh it can be used as a good thing if we're sowing good words, if we're sowing the gospel, if we're sowing Positive things, sowing words of encouragement versus words of tearing each other down. Does that make sense? A house divided against itself can't stand, so why would I go around trying to divide my own house, the church, or at home, my own house? Why would I do that? Um do you guys remember um that that I forget his name, but he used to have the you might be a redneck j if uh if joke you know what I'm talking about? Oh yes. So I got some you might be a sewer of discord if So you might be a sower of discord if you think more about yourself than others. You might be a sower of discord if you're always trying to be deceptive and sneaky. You might be a sower of discord if you have a forward attitude. You might be a sower of discord if you are any of the other things here on God's hate list, proud, look, heart deviseth, wicked imaginations, feet, swift running mischief, etc. So I have two points that are really quick and I'll be done here. Like I'm towards the end First application. What can with all this information? This is what it means to be a sewer of discord. This is how I spot, this is how I know if I am. Number one is this: don't trust a sewer of discord. If there's someone that's come to your mind, don't say who it is, please. We don't want to sew any more Discord, right? But um if someone if there's someone that you know that this is it, and then they tell you something, don't believe it Like, don't believe a liar, right? So if someone's trying to sow discord, just ignore it. Because that's then because then if you Listen to it, and then you take action according to what you heard, then they've accomplished their mission of sowing the discord. Don't let them win, is what I'm trying to say Someone who's trying to cause problems. So like we should be such a tight-knit group. We should be such a tight-knit church that if someone comes in and starts telling lies about us, we'd be like, yeah, we don't believe that. That's wrong. You know? Someone says, Yeah, did you hear Randy Ringer, he robbed the bank. I'd be like, Yeah, right. Um you'd be like, yeah right, I don't believe it. Someone told lie about I don't believe it. Okay. Um So that would be the first application. Quit entertaining, quit listening to those that have your hurt at interest. That makes sense to me. Um and then the second thing was don't be a sower of discord. Like I said earlier, stop it. Just don't do that. Quit telling lies. And by the way, sowing discord is not just telling lies. It could be telling the truth. But a truth that doesn't need to be told. Just because I know something doesn't mean I have to tell everyone. It would be bad. We don't need to know everything. So just because something's true doesn't mean I need to tell everyone the juicy secret. Don't be a sower of discord. Don't do that. Stop it. Quit making up lies. Quit talking about each other behind your back. Quit and families. Quit trying to split families up. Don't talk to a husband about his wife in a negative way. Don't talk to a brother about his sister trying to get him mad at his sister. Don't don't don't do that. It's on it's on the the hateless here. But equally so, and probably more so, we should not be doing that to each other here. We should not be doing that. He's my brother. Oh yeah, I really do have friends. Okay. He's my brother. And it would be so wrong for me to take my brother Evan and pit them against each other. God hates that. So, has there been some discord you've been selling? Is there some lies or truth that just doesn't need to be said? That you've been planting. Why have you been planting it? Because you're expecting something to come out of it And if there has been, please stop it and please get that right. If you don't want the plant to grow, pull the seed out. Pull it out. Go to that person that you've lied to or about. Tell them you lied. Swallow the the humble pie, just do it. Let's get things right. Let's get things right. Um so that that's the thought this morning. A lot of things God hates, but this was really emphasized Verse 20 says this: My son, keep thy father's commandment. Forsake not the law of thy mother. We know that Solomon was writing this to his son. He's saying, Hey, listen to me. So it's almost like, I mean, God's saying to us, listen, listen. Take this advice, stop showing discord. Stop trying to pit church members against each other. There should never be this mentality of my side, your side. There should never be this mentality, well, oh I thought you were on my side. What is that? We're the same we're we're just one side. We're just this is it. Alright, so heads bowed, eyes closed, no one look around for just a moment. Mentioned a lot about how we're a family. We're brethren. We I I don't know everyone's circumstances, but if you say, you know, I sure would like to get in on that family, how do I do that? Well, we're all adopted into God's family. When we tr put our trust in Him to save us from our sins and have punishment in hell, and put our put our trust in what Christ did for us on the cross. We're we're adopted into his family. We're born again into the family of God. And uh you could have that. I didn't talk much about that this morning. I probably should have said more about that. But that's kind of really the whole reason we're here, actually, is because Christ died for our sins. And if you've never placed your trust in him and you don't know for sure if you died right now, you'd go to heaven. But you're interested in in that could I'm not going to call anyone out and make you give a speech or anything like that. I just want to pray for you. That's all. Say, you know what, Pastor Matt, I'm not sure I'm saved. Not sure I'm in that family of God. Could you pray for me? Would you just slip your hand up and put it right back down? Just real quick, slip it up, put it down. I just want to pray for you, that's all. Don't want to embarrass anyone. Not going to point you out or anything like that. Slip it up, put it back down. Next question is this. Thank you. Next question is this. You say, you know what? The Holy Spirit's dealing with me. I think I might be on that list. There's some discord I think I've been sewing. And I need to get that right. Could you just slip your hand up, put it back down? Pastor Matt, pray for me. I get that right. My hand's up. Amen. You may put it back down. Thank you. Last one's this. Maybe you're a victim. Somebody's lied about you. Or spread something, rumors or something about you. And you're a victim of if that's you. Could you raise your hand, Pastor Man? I'm I'm kind of a victim of this. Yeah. Put him back down, thanks. You know what we can do with that? Forgive. Ye which are spiritual, re restore such a one. So we're family, let's get together. As we stand to our feet, uh the piano starts