Genesis chapter 31, if you would notice with me and keep your Bibles handy here. Genesis 31, look at verse number 13. God says, I am the God of Bethel. Where thou anointest the pillar, and where thou vowest a vow unto me. Now arise, get thee out from this land, and return to the land of thy kindred. I and the God of Bethel. If you would come back to Genesis chapter 12. Keep your place here. Genesis 12. And I'd like to read a couple verses, Genesis 12, and verse 7 and 8. Genesis chapter 12, 7 and 8. This is where Abraham is called out from his people, or the Chaldees. God has spoken to him and he's calling him out and he's directing him to go to a land that he doesn't know where it is or how it's all going to play out And notice in verse number 7, this is as he's traveling to this unknown land, the Lord appeared unto Abraham and said, Unto thy seed will I give this lamb, and there builded he, Abraham, builded he an altar unto the Lord who appeared unto him And he removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of where? Bethel. There's Bethel. To the east of Bethel. And pitched his tent, having Bethel on the west, and Hai on the east, and there he built an altar unto the Lord, and called upon the name of the Lord. This is the first time this place, Bethel, is mentioned in the Bible. And Abraham builds an altar there to the Lord. If you would, come over to chapter number 28 of Genesis. Now we have Jacob is fleeing from his brother. We'll talk about that here in a bit. And he stops. And uh he has this vision in his sleep. God reveals himself to him. He has this ladder. How many people are familiar? Jacob's ladder. You've heard about that. And he gives them various promises there. And notice verse number 10. It says, And Jacob went out from Beersheba and went toward Haran. And he lighted upon a certain place and tarried there all night because the sun was set. And he took of the stones of that place and put them for his pillows and lay down in that place to sleep And he dreamed. Behold, a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven. And behold, the angels of God ascending and descending on it Behold, the Lord stood above it and said, I am the Lord God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac. The land whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed. By the way, the land in Israel is Israel's. God has promised it to them. So anyway And thy su uh verse fourteen, and thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, to the south, and in thee, and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed. And behold, look at this, I am with thee, and I will keep thee in all places whither thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land, for I will not leave thee until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of. Jacob wake him out of his sleep and said, Surely the Lord is in this place, I knew it not. And he was afraid and said, How dreadful is this place! This is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven. And Jacob rose up early in the morning and took the stone that he had put for his pillow and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it, and he called the name of that place what Bethel. And the name of that city was called Luz at the first. Bethel. If you would, chapter 35. Genesis. Chapter 35. We have this place, Bethel, mentioned again. Now Jacob, uh uh Abraham's called of God, come out of Ur of the Chaldees. He's going to land he doesn't know where. God says, I'll direct you, I'll leave you, you just trust me. He gets uh he gets this place Bethel, he builds an altar there. It's Bethel. And then years later, Jacob now is swindled his brother out of the birthright and uh inheritance, and he's fleeing from his brother. He stops at this place, Bethel. He has this vision, this dream. God reveals himself to him, gives him some tremendous promises And then he's leaving. He was fled to his uncle's place, and he gets the wife and family, gets a fortune there, and he's leaving there, and God shows up and says, I'm the God of Bethel. Go back to where you came from. Go back to your homeland, your family, your father. And now notice here in verse number chapter 35 and verse number one. And God said unto Jacob, now he's on his way back, but he hasn't gotten where he needs to be. And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel and dwell there. And make there an altar unto God. This is the second time God tells them to go to Bethel. So what I want to talk about a little bit this morning is the God of Bethel. The God of Bethel. Let's pray together. Father, I ask now you bless our study of your word as we look at this place called Bethel and the significance of it. And I pray you'd use your word to help us to grow in our faith, to be stronger in our commitment to you, and bolder in our witness for you. Lord, I ask that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I have nothing in and of myself of any spiritual value. God, I acknowledge that publicly And so, Lord, I'm asking you to fill me, my body, with your Holy Spirit, and that you, dear Lord, would speak through me your word. I yield my will to you and pray that your will would overpower my will, and everything that's said would be according to your will, Lord, according to your word. So again, feel me, speak through me, I pray. Have your way in our lives. In Jesus' name, Amen. There are times in every one of our lives, and I think this is without exception, young and old. Where we come to some sort of crossroad and we have to make a decision whether I'm going to go this whether I'm going to do this or whether I'm going to do that I have to make a decision whether I'm going to go down this route or I'm going to go down that route. The decisions at these crucial times in life, and maybe some of y'all are thinking right now, times in your life Where you had to make a decision. You were in a circumstance. You had a situation. I've got to decide one way or the other. Which way am I going? Um and these decisions we make at these Crossroads in life very much determine our future. And we can give many, many uh illustrations. For instance, would you agree with me? The person you marry very much determines what your future will be like. Amen. Come on, talk to me. Y'all are frozen. I told the Sunnyston class. The decisions we make affect our future at these crucial times. The decisions we make at these crossroads of life will often affect our spiritual well-being. Am I going to trust God and do what God has instructed me, or am I going to lean on my own understanding? Am I going to go my way? And the decisions I make are very much going to affect my spiritual well-being. My spiritual strength, my walk with God. These decisions that we come to in crossroads, especially those of us maybe are a little older, but it's true, I think, for the young people also The decisions make will affect my family's well-being. Every person in a family is part of that unit. And every decision made by individual units that make up that family will affect the rest of the family. Am I right or wrong? Sure. A young person in a family, child makes a decision to go do a certain thing, it affects the family, dad, mom. And so what I'm trying to say is this: every one of us in life We come to crosswords, we come to points in our life where we have to decide, am I going to do this or am I going to do this? And a lot of times those decisions are not easy. A lot of times the decision to do right Maybe what I want to do, whether the opportunity is there, the enticement may be down this road, but the right thing is over here, I've got to make a decision. Sometimes that's not always an easy decision And sometimes it takes character on our part to do what is right, whether we want to or not. Come on now, that's an important point. To do right. Decide to do right whether it's what I want to do or not. We still have an old sinful nature. How many people have found that out? Yeah. And sometimes that old simple nature desires once things Something that might not necessarily be best, might be contrary to the will of God, and so I've got to make a decision. Takes character. Sometimes it takes courage To do the right thing, maybe on a job, maybe in a workplace, maybe in a family. I gotta decide to do what's right, and it's not gonna be popular. And it's not going to be uh I'm not going to be voted most uh uh popular person of the year. And so it takes courage sometimes to make the right decisions, the right decisions, to do right, to do God's will. I think decisions we make, I'm talking about decisions. I think the decisions we make at these crucial times reflect the values we hold to. What's valuable to me, what's important to me. My values will determine the decisions I make, my priorities in life. Those things that are high in the priority list of my life are going to affect what decisions I make at these times. My relationship with the Lord. Is going to have a profound impact upon the decisions I make in life. Is everybody with me this morning? You all with me? Okay? Everybody alright? I was studying my Bible and um I noticed that Daniel took a nap in the lion's den. And um Peter uh took a nap uh in Garden of Gethsemane when Jesus was praying. How many people remember that? And uh uh and um uh Jesus took a nap in a boat And so what I learned from that study was you can take a nap anywhere, anytime. It doesn't matter. But church is not the place to take the nap. Are you with me? Alright, there's life. My relationship with the Lord. You follow what I'm trying to say? My relationship with the Lord, my walk with God is going to affect the decisions I make in life, especially at these crossroad points These critical times of life where I got to decide one way or another my relationship with the Lord. If I don't have a relationship with the Lord, if I'm away from God And I'm not walking with the Lord, and I don't have the mind of Christ. That's going to affect the decisions I make. If I'm walking with the Lord, I'm submissive to Him. I I I uh I'm yielding to Him, God's directed me, and uh that's gonna affect the decision I made. You see this all through scripture. All through scripture. Abraham, we just read there in chapter twelve of Genesis. Abraham's going about his business, apparently by all The information were given. He was a very successful there in Ur of the Chaldees. He had his wife, no children at that point, but he had his wife. He had extended family He appears to be a very wealthy man at this point. He gets even wealthier later. And so he's living his life. He's got his routine. He's he's uh successful in what he's doing. And God And somehow or another reveals himself to him and says, Abraham, I've got a plan for you and all your offspring. And I'm calling you to leave your home and leave your family and leave everything. Back up and you just follow me. Where are we going, Lord? You'll find out. You just trust me and follow me. Abraham, would you agree? Abraham had a decision to make Is he going to trust the Lord? Is he going to do what God's calling him to do? Or is he going to say, no, I'm happy here. I like what I have. Everything's going fine. Thank you, Lord, but no thanks. A decision to make. And that decision affects his future, affects his family. Would you agree with me? Abraham, we probably wouldn't read about Abraham if he'd have said, no, thank you, God, I'm staying right here. But he trusted God. He had faith in God. And he made the decision. Okay, Lord, I'll let you lead me. I'll let you direct me. And God did amazing things. But that decision had to be made. He would he had his relationship with the Lord His values and priorities affected that decision he made, and he made the decision, trust the Lord and go with God. We see it all through scripture. I was thinking about Moses. We're familiar with Moses He's uh raised up in Pharaoh's household. Of course, his parents put him in the little ark there in the Nile and is found by Pharaoh's daughter. He's raised up in Pharaoh's household Moses could have just sat tight in Pharaoh's household. He had the best of it of the world had to offer, no doubt, incredible, fabulously wealthy, best education, best of everything. But he wasn't Egyptian. He was a Jew. He was the offspring of Abraham. And when he saw one of his Jewish brothers being mistreated, he stepped in, he intervened, he made a decision. I'm going to stand with God's people. I'm going to defend God's people. I'm going to be loyal to Jehovah. Of course it all plays out and he ends up at the uh uh the burning bush and God's calling him to go down and lead the people of Israel out of Egypt and he has a decision to make Am I going to trust God? Am I going to let God? Now he struggled a little bit, right or wrong. Said, Lord, you got the wrong guy. And he bantered about there a little bit, but finally he capitulated. He said, Yes, Lord. I'll do it. I like the way Hebrews puts it. It says this about Moses. He chose rather to suffer affliction with the people of God rather than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. I'm telling you what, it's better to be persecuted with God's people than enjoy the pleasures with the ungodly and wicked. I'll take God's people over the world's people any day. I lived that. I was in that. No thank you. I had plenty of what the world has to offer. Give me God's people. So Moses had to make a decision. And his values, his priorities, his relationship with the Lord affected what decision he made. He says, okay, Lord, I'll trust you. And God used them. We go all through Scripture. Joshua. He said it in Joshua at the end of the book of Joshua, he says, choose you this day whom ye will serve. Whether God of your fathers on the other side of the flood, the pagan false idols, imaginary gods, if you want to serve them, then choose to serve them. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. And make a decision. Who am I going to am I going to trust God? Am I going to serve God? Or am I going some other route? What I'm trying to say is this. We see it in scripture, we see it in our own lives. We come to crossroads where we have to make a decision. Am I going to follow God's way or am I going to go my way? And it affects us Uh Joshua. Others, you think about uh David when he came out to his brothers there on the battlefield and uh just a young boy and he's got He's got some snacks. His dad sent him to check on his brothers and about it. And Goliath is out there. And Goliath says, I defy the armies of Israel. David makes a decision I'm going to get involved here. Nobody else is. I'm going to step in. We're going to confront this guy. And it had a profound effect upon him. His relationship with God, his priorities, values affected that decision he made. Paul at his salvation, God reveals the Lord Jesus on the road to Damascus, Acts chapter 9, the Lord reveals himself to Paul, and Paul says, Who else? Who art thou, Lord? And he says, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest. And then Paul made a decision. He said, thus, what wilt thou have me to do? If you are Jesus, if you are the Messiah, if you are God, and I've been fighting you, Lord, what do you want me to do? A decision. A decision. And so we all face these. Our success or failure in life depends upon the decisions we make. My spiritual well-being is dependent upon the decisions I make. Decisions. So we come to Jacob. Jacob's been away from his father, and he's been away from his God for nearly 20 years in Genesis 31. He had left his father's home. He had swindled his older brother. He had swindled his older brother out of the birthright. That would be the inheritance. And he got E Esau to sell the inheritance for a a pot of uh of uh beer meat. Actually it wasn't even beer meat Uh it was like oatmeal. And um he su he sold his birthright, the inheritance. He swindled his brother out of that. Then later he swindled his brother out of the blessing. Now the father's blessing in that context, in that economy, was very significant. And he gets the blessing from steel, he swindles the blessing from Esau, he swindles the birth rate, the inheritance from Esau, and boy, Esau's mad. He says, I'm going to kill him. And Jacob's mother hears that and says, You need to get out of here. Go back to the land where we came from. Find your uncle lives there. And you need to get away. So he goes. And for 20 years, he's been away from his father and his family. For 20 years, he's been away from his God. And during that 20 years, Jacob establishes a family, a very large family. During that 20 years, working under his uncle Laban He amasses this huge fortune. He is these great herds of sheep and goats. and uh great cattle, great herds of cattle. And so he establishes a family. He's away from God. He's away from his family. He's over here. uh with Laban and uh he gets his family. He's got a large family. He's got a large fortune. Uh he's a mass, this great of herds, but he had a rough time It was difficult. It took its toll on him spiritually. And God shows up. And God says, Jacob, it's time to come home. Jake, it's time to come back. Let's get things right. You need to come back. Make things right. You've been away from God. You've been away from your family. It's the time to make a decision. You got to come back. You got to come back. So God instructs them to return home. Look at verse 13 of Genesis 31. I'm the God of Bethel, where thou anointest the pillar, where thou bowest a vow unto me. He's reminding him, Jacob, remember we met at Bethel. You made some vows there, and it's time to come back. It's time to come back. And he says, now arise, get thee out from this land, return to the land So Jacob has to make a decision. Is he just going to stay here in this environment he's in? It's getting more hostile all the time Or is he going to trust the Lord and go back home? Go back home. Now what caught my attention here, everybody's still with me? You need another joke? I got more. Getcha? Caught up. And that's enough. Now it's interesting what caught my attention, I was reading this in my devotions about a week ago. A couple weeks ago, says, I am the God of Bethel. God identifies himself as the God of Bethel. And he mentions the significance of this place called Bethel. He said, that's where you anointed the pillars. That's where you vowed a vow unto me. God's reminding Jacob. I'm the God of Bethel. Now, the name Bethel, the word itself, Bethel, comes from a Hebrew word, of course, and it means the house of God. Beth is the English form of the Hebrew word house, and El is the English abbreviation for the Hebrew name Elohim The house of God. Now, what I find interesting here is God says to Jacob, he says, I am the God of the house of God. I am the God of Bethel, the Bethel. That place is significant. You made some big decisions there. He made some uh uh uh spiritual decisions there that are very, very significant. But it's not the place, Jacob, it's the God of the place that makes the difference I love 1005 Broadford Road in Oakland, Maryland. And people know where that is. Yeah, you're you are here. I love this place. I love this building. I walk around and and j I I'm telling you it has to be two, three times a week. I look out my uh window or I'll walk over here, I'll see our new building And I'll see the buses and I'll see all this. And I think, man, what a wonderful blessing. God has blessed this with these facilities. Amen or not? But I'm here to tell you, it's not the buildings that we've dedicated to God. It's the God of the buildings that changes lives and makes the difference. And God says, I want you to come back to Bethel. He tells him later on, go back to Bethel. But it's the God of Bethel That makes the difference. It's the God of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that saves souls and changes lives and gives direction and helps us. It's not this building in and of itself And so he says, I am the God of Bethel. It's interesting, he tells them twice to go back. Chapter 31, chapter 35. He says, I want you need to go back. Jacob, go back to Bethel, go back to Bethel. And you've got to get back. Get back where you need to be. Get back to where you're supposed to be. The song says, prone to wander, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. Here's my heart. Oh, take and seal it. Seal it for thy courts above. How many people can relate to that phrase, prone to wander? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Man, we're just prone to wander away from the Lord. I need to keep coming back. Keep coming back. Keep coming back. I may be talking to someone on this snowy January morning And you're far from God. Oh, you can put on the show. Oh, you carry your Bible, you dress up, you go to church, but in your heart and soul, God's saying to you, you need to get back to where you need to be You need to get back to where you used to be. You need to get back to the presence of God in your life. You need to get back to the blessings of God in your life. You need to get back to a peace of heart and mind, a clean heart, a clean mind, a walk with God again. Get back to Bethel. That's what he's telling Jacob. And I'm there, I'm the God of Bethel. Come back to me. And so he tells them twice to come back. Three thoughts here, real quick. I'll give them to you, and uh we'll be done. Number one, I want us to notice Bethel is the place of salvation. Look with me, come back to chapter 28. We're going to jump back and forth here a little bit. Come back to Genesis 28. This is when Jacob first gets to this place called Bethel. God reveals Himself in this ladder to heaven. And I notice here it is a place of salvation. Look at verse 13, 28, 13 And behold, the Lord stood above it and said, I am the Lord God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac. The land whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it. And thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth And thou shalt spread abroad to the west and to the east, the north, and south, and in thee and thy seed shall all the families be blessed. And he goes down, he gives these ser uh he gives uh these uh uh series of promises. And I believe that this point here, I believe this here is when Jacob is saved I believe this is where he comes and he meets the Lord and he establishes a personal relationship with God Almighty No doubt Jacob had heard about all that God had done. He had no doubt heard from his grandfather Abraham. how God had called him out of Ur the Chaldees and led him to the land of promise, Canaan. No doubt he had heard how Abraham had failed when the famine showed up, and Abraham didn't trust God. He ran down to Egypt and God delivered him from there and he made some mistakes and God forgave him. Re-establish them. No doubt he had heard about how his daddy as a boy was offered up by Abraham as a sacrifice And God intervened and spared him and taught a great lesson there. He had heard all about Jehovah. He had heard all about the power of God and the goodness of God and the plan of God He had heard all about it, no doubt. He had heard from his father Isaac, how God led him and miraculously provided a wife for him. He had heard all about God. He knew about God, but he didn't know the Lord. It's one thing to hear about God, but it's another thing to encounter the Lord personally. Are you with me? He heard all about God, but at Bethel he met God. He met God. Listen, he had a good family. Abraham was his father. Good heavens. Isaac, or Abraham was his grandfather, Isaac was his father. What a lineage. But you know, a good family lineage never saved the soul. I thank God for my daddy. I I just praise the Lord that for about fifteen months he was able to move down here from Philly. and uh and church got to meet him. I spent more time with my daddy in that 15 months uh that he was here than I did in the previous 40 years I got to know my daddy again. And he sat right there, about behind where Austin's sitting. How many people remember dad sitting there I thank God for my daddy. He was a man of tremendous faith, a man of tremendous humility, loved the Lord, a good testimony. But I tell you, having a good Christian daddy never saved anybody. What my daddy had, I needed to come and experience for myself. And you may have some great Christian parents. You may have a good Christian daddy. You may have a good Christian mama But I'm telling you, you cannot get to heaven on the coattails of a Christian mom and a Christian daddy. You need to meet God yourself. Jacob had heard about God. He saw God in the life of his grandfather. He saw the Lord working in the life of his daddy. And now at Bethel he meets God personally himself. Regardless of our background. Maybe I'm talking to somebody say, preacher, I never had a good par uh Christian parents. I never had a good home. I didn't come from a godly home. I come from a broken home. I come from a sinful home. I'm here to tell you You need to be saved just as much as the church kid does. Follow what I'm saying? I'm trying to say this. You get saved the same way. If you come from a drunkard's home, you get saved the same way you come from a deacon's home By the way, there's a difference between the two. You can you you can you can be a you can grow up in the church but never know Christ as Savior. You can memorize the Bible. You can win all the Master Club patches that are available, but if you never meet Jesus Christ personally, you're unsaved. Are you with me? You get baptized 95 times. But if you don't trust Jesus Christ as Savior, you're an unsaved person. Jacob had to get to the point where he had a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. It wasn't just something our church does. It's not just something my family does. It's personal now. I've trusted of myself. And so Bethel was a place of salvation. He came to a place where he personally established a personal relationship with the Lord. And we need to come to a place where we personally trust Christ as Savior. I love church. I'm all for church. We ought to memorize Scripture. We ought to do that. But if we don't know Jesus as our personal Savior, it doesn't do us a bit of good. Doesn't do us a bit of good. Number two, Bethel is a place of salvation. Number two, Bethel is a place of security. I love verse 15 of Genesis 28. This is God speaking to Jacob. Notice what he says. And behold, I am with thee. And will keep thee in all the places whither thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land. Look at this. For I will not leave thee until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of. He says, I'm going to be with you and I'm going to keep you. Two great promises. I will be with you and I will keep you. God's saying, Jacob, listen, he says in so many words, he says, you're stuck with me now. Whatever you do, wherever you go, whatever you get yourself involved in, I'm never leaving you, Jacob And I'm going to keep you and what and you may make a mess of your life. I'm just going to keep you. I'm going to bring you back. I'm going to straighten you up I tell you, one of the greatest, there's two great promises in the Bible. Number one, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Praise God for that promise. Amen. Whosoever. But there's another great promise. He says, I'll never leave you nor forsake thee. When we trust Jesus Christ as Savior, you mark this down. When we trust Jesus Christ as Savior Jesus Christ will never let go of us. He said in John chapter 10, he says, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. I am my father one, my father great, and neither shall any man pluck them out of my father's hand. Listen, my salvation is not dependent upon me holding on to God My salvation, the security of my salvation is not dependent on me holding on to God. It's dependent upon God holding on to me. And he says, I'm never letting go. I'm never letting go. I'm telling you, if I could lose my salvation, I would have 40 years ago. But God keeps us. God keeps us. They shall never perish. God says, I'm going to be with you. Once a person trusts Jesus Christ as Savior, we have these exact same promises that He gave to Jacob. I will never leave thee. I'll be with thee. I love Hebrews chapter 13, verse 5. We used to teach this to the little kids when I was in the children's ministries back in Philly. And then down in Chattanooga, Hebrews thirteen, five, for he hath said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. And you've I've done this many, many times over the years, but we used to teach the kids to get their hand out, and we would show them that verse. When they trust Christ as Savior, we would say, Now, Jesus said, I will never leave thee. And then we say, all right, take your hand. The ones who do it this way this time, Jesus said, I will never leave Dennis. And take the thumb and point like that. Alright? Let's do it. We've done this before. Come on now. Group participation. If you don't do it, I'm going to call you come up front here and do it. Got it? Say it with me. Jesus said, I will never leave Dennis. Don't say Dennis, say your name. Let's try it again. You got it, boys? You good? Get it out there. Come on. I'll call you up here Jesus said, I will never leave Dennis. Isn't that great? That's a promise of God. You say, preacher, what if I mess up? I will never leave thee. Say, preacher, what if I do something I shouldn't do? I will never leave thee. Say, preacher, if what you're saying is true, if I trust Jesus as my Savior And I can't lose that salvation, and God keeps me, and he's never going to leave me under any circumstances at all, whatsoever Then that means I can just go out and live in sin and the Lord won't ever leave me. Oh, you're seriously mistaken. God never gives a Christian or anybody a license to sin. Say, oh well if I can't lose my salvation, I can live however I want, it doesn't matter. Oh, you're wrong. You're not stunning your Bible. Now, if a person gets saved and they live it and they go into sin, they do not lose their salvation, but God doesn't let them get away with it. And if we had time, we go to Hebrews chapter 12, where he goes at length Explaining that if I'm saved, I'm a child of God, and God, because He loves His children, if we indulge in sin, He will chasten us. Now, chastening is not murder. If I got saved and and I'd s uh I sinned, and we all do. If I got saved and I sinned, and God would take away my salvation, I'd go to hell, that'd be equivalent to a parent murdering their child. But God says, no, I'm not going to send you help, but I will chasten you. What is chastening? Chastening is discipline. Chasen in is uh what we called when I was little getting a whooping. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Anybody here ever get a whooping? And uh uh it's more than a spanking. It's a whoopin'. Uh we used to say it this way, now I don't think these Yay kids, you guys don't know nothing about this But uh they used to say, you're gonna take them out to the woodshed. Anybody know what I'm talking about? God told Jacob, says, I'm never gonna leave you You're secure. I'm going to keep you. You cannot lose this relationship we have. And if you go out and mess around, I'm going to chasten you I will discipline you. I will correct you until you come back to where you ought to be. How many people have ever experienced the chastening hand of God in your life? Yeah, if you've been saved any length of time, you know what I'm talking about. We get out of sorts, we make some stupid decision, we get involved in something, and man, God starts working us over. God starts working us over So don't misunderstand these promises to Jacob and the promises to you and I as a believer that he will never leave us, he will never forsake us That he will keep us, that we're kept not by our lifestyle, but by the power of God, that is not a license to live in sin. God never gives anybody a license to live in sin God does chasten us. God does just like a good father corrects his children when they're doing wrong, just like a good father chastens his children when it's necessary. God Almighty chastens his children. He corrects us when we're away, when we're wrong, but he does not take our salvation away. He corrects us. He corrects us. So Bethel for Jacob, Bethel was a place of salvation. This is where he met the Lord. This is where the Lord became real to him, not just stories he heard about from his grandfather, not just accounts he heard from his father, but now I've met the Lord myself and I have a relationship established with him And it's a place of these tremendous promises. God says, I'll keep you. I'll secure you. I will never leave thee. I like Philippians chapter 1 and verse 6. And I um I love that verse. Philippians. Alright, let me turn there. I know this verse. Being confident of this very thing. That he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. You know what that's saying? That's saying what God starts, he finishes. God saved you. God began something good in your life. You trust Him. He'll carry it through. He'll work it out. Paul said in 1 Timothy 1 and verse 12. He says, for I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. He says, and I know whom I have believed. And am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. Paul says, I know God will keep me. God will keep me. So Bethel is a place of salvation. It's a place of security. Uh was visiting yesterday with uh Betty Paul Betty Paul in the nursing home back here. Sw just swung by, stepped in and visit with her and she's so happy. And we're talking a little bit, and she'd been there for many years now, and uh she made a statement to me. It was kind of interesting because I'm preaching along these lines. She said, Pastor, I sure miss the old house. Out in the country, way out there. She goes, I miss it. She says, but I understand. Out there by myself, far away from town, I couldn't stay there. It wasn't safe. She says, I'm here now. And she made this statement. She says, I know God is with me, and God will keep me. Isn't that a great confidence? Great peace in the heart. God is with me. God will keep me. How many folks here you're saved to know it? Say amen That's true. And you can claim these promises. God is with you. And God will keep you. Place of salvation, place of security. Then last of all, give this. It was a place of service. Look at verse number uh twenty in in Genesis twenty-eight. He says, and Jacob vowed a vow Saying, if God will be with me and will keep me in this way that I go, And will give me bread to eat and raiment to put on, so that I come again to my father's house in peace. Then shall the Lord be my God And this stone which I have set for a pillar shall be God's house. And of all that thou shalt give me, I will surely give the tenth of to thee. You know what Jacob was saying here? I think Jacob was dedicating himself to the Lord. I've thought for years I took this as yours, as Jacob was trying to bargain with God. In fact, I put it in the margin of my Bible. He's bargaining with God. God, if you do, if you do this, and I'll do that. I'm here to tell you, we don't bargain with God. But the more I studied this, I think I misinterpreted what was taking place here. I don't think Jacob was saying, Lord, if you do this and this and this and this for me, then I will do this and this, then I'll live for you, I'll serve you, I'll give to you. If you do this, then I'll do that. If you keep your end of the bargain, then I'll keep my end. I don't think that's what he's saying That would, would you agree with me? That'd be foolish. To bargain with God. What a fool. I think this is what Jacob was saying. Are you with me? I think this is the way of saying. I think it was saying, when he says, if thou do, I think what he was saying was, Lord, you're going to do all these, you're going to do what you said? You're going to be with me. You're going to not leave me. You're going to take care of me. God. With that being the case, I'll give myself to you. I don't think it's a bargain. I think it's like, Lord, since you're doing all this for me, my only response would be to give myself back to you. I think Jacob's dedicating himself to live for the Lord. I think he's dedicating himself to serve the Lord. He's not bargaining with God here. He's saying, Lord, since that's the case, you gave me all these promises. And since that's the case, my only response is to give myself back to you. As I studied this, I couldn't help but think of Romans 12, verse 1 and 2. I beseech you therefore, brethren. By the mercies of God, God had poured his mercies out on Jacob. I'll save you, I'm going to keep you, I'm going to be with you. By the mercies of God. That you present your bodies, a living sacrifice wholly acceptable unto God. God, every one of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, God's been awfully good to us, yes or no? The fact that he's saving me from hell. If God never did another thing for me in my entire life, if God never did another thing for me, if he just the fact he saved me from eternity in hell God, I want to live for you. I want to give you my life. I want to serve you. I want to dedicate my life to you. Since that is the case, God, since you've done all this for me, then you're going to be my God, and I'm going to live for you. I'm going to serve you. I think the most selfish person in the world, the most self-centered person in the world, is a person that will receive Eternal life is the free gift of God. Yes, Lord, I'll believe on Jesus. I'll trust you as my Savior. And you forgive my sin. And save me from going to hell and give me a home in heaven someday. Lord, I'll accept that as a gift. I'll receive it by faith. But I'm not going to live for you. And I'm going to do my thing. And I'm going to do what I want. That's the most selfish mentality in the world. If somebody saved your life, if you were out in Deep Creek Lake drowning, and you're going down for the last time, and your life is about to end, and somebody rescues you And gets you to shore and revives you and saves your life, would you not feel like you owe them something? Yes or no? Yes! They saved me from drowning. We have a savior that saved us from eternity in hell Lord, I owe you my whole life. All to Jesus I surrender. All to him I freely give Lord, I'm yours. If we know Christ as Savior, the only proper response, I believe, is to dedicate ourselves to the Lord Jesus Christ. Hudson Taylor said his favorite verse. Was Mark 11, 22? How many people are familiar with Hudson Taylor? Great missionary to China, years gone by, powerful. God used them in phenomenal ways in China, hundreds of years ago He said his favorite verse was Mark 11, 22. Have faith in God. He said this. He said, I've struggled with fear. And I failed time and time again, but God has never failed me. I say that fact in itself is worthy of us dedicating our life to Christ. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I pray you'd you take these thoughts this morning, and I pray, dear Lord, you'd stir our hearts. Number one, that we know for sure our sins are forgiven. We're on our way to heaven. Number two, help us to claim your promises that you'll be with us and not fail us. You'll help us. And then Lord stir us to give ourselves to you, to live for you, and make those decisions. Heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, preacher I thank God that Jesus doesn't give up on me. Any like that? Thank God for those promises. Where would we be if it wasn't for the promises of God's presence, his protection, his keeping us Maybe there's some say, preacher, I'm away from God. I'm not where I ought to be. I know in my heart I should be closer to the Lord. There's some things there that God spoke to my heart about. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me this morning. There's some areas in my Christian life. I really need to get back in line with the Lord. There's some areas in my heart and mind. I really need to bring back to the Lord. Is there any like that on this snowy January morning? Any, God bless you, hands around. There are areas, I know. Maybe it's attitude, actions, I don't know It's between you and God. You say, I need to come back to Bethel. I need to come back to where I need to be. Are there some this morning, say, preacher, God's been awfully good to me I want to dedicate my life to live for Him. I want my life to count for Jesus. I want my life to be completely committed. To the Lord Jesus Christ and His will. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, pray for me. That's what I want my life to be. God bless you. Hands all around. Maybe there's some say, preacher, I don't know. I'm saved I don't know for sure that my sins are forgiven, that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell. God wants you to know that. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, pray for me, I can get that settled. That I can know for sure that God has forgiven me. And that I have eternal life. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I need that settled in my heart and life. Any at all? Any online? If you don't have that settled, contact us. We can help you. We can show you how to have that settled. Father, bless now our invitation I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.