First Corinthians chapter 15, if you would read with me. I'd like for us to read together verse number 52. 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Verse 52. Do you have it there? Now you folks at home. I hope you got your Bibles open. You read along at home there with me. Ready? Verse 52. All together. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump, for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed Now, if you would, you got Thessalonians, go over to 1 Thessalonians chapter number 5, last chapter of the book of Thessalonians. Now keep both of these places marked in your Bible because we're going to be going back and forth a little bit between these two. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. I'm sorry, chapter 4. And then if you would, I would like for us to read together verse 16 and 17. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. Verse 16 and 17. You have it? Let's read it together. Ready? For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout. And with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Now look at verse 17. Read it with me. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so shall we ever be with the Lord. Then he adds on verse 18, wherefore comfort ye comfort one another with these words. I want to speak this morning on the trumpet sound. On that trumpet sound. Let's pray, ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, that we can assemble together here and gather together in your name as believers. I pray and ask, Father, that you would use this passage, these truths about the trumpet sound to stir our hearts As we go into a new year, I ask, Lord, that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew with all my heart. Lord, I pray you speak through us, through me, to each of our hearts and lives and change our lives. Help us, Lord, to be established, to have anticipation As we begin a new year, anticipation for your return. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. For the last several weeks, we've kind of been looking backward in history Back to the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ, the incarnation to use a theological term, the incarnation of Jesus Christ When God became man, I made the statement on Christmas Eve. By the way, we had a wonderful Christmas Eve service. I'll tell you, that stirred my heart. That was a blessing. But uh I mentioned on Christmas Eve that uh the incarnation of Jesus Christ, God becoming man, was the best thing that has ever happened to humanity And we could spend a long time just discussing how Jesus Christ is showing up, not just for the salvation of our souls, and that was the whole purpose of it. But just all the residual benefits from that, that has helped mankind, the good for mankind. Best thing that ever happened to mankind was God becoming man. So we've been looking back the last couple weeks at that event when the Lord Jesus Christ was born and what that means for us. This morning, I would like for us to shift our focus from looking backward in the past to the first coming of Christ. I want us to shift our focus to the future and the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. I believe the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ could be the most earth-shattering event uh in all of history. Uh you think uh a virus, a pandemic, you think something like that shook this world, you wait till Jesus Christ comes back again. This world ain't seen nothing yet. Uh when Jesus comes back again, the impact it's going to have. Um I grew up in a in a denomination when I was young. We attended or we grew up in a denomination and they believed the Bible. little different uh approach on some things than what I understand the Bible to teach now. But we grew up in that denomination. Uh they taught, and I didn't pay a lot of attention at the time. Looking back now I understand But they taught that when Jesus Christ comes back again, it's just going to be a general return of Jesus Christ. It's going to come back and uh come to earth and He's going to judge the world, the good and the bad, the saved, the lost. He's going to judge everything. That's the end of the world. He makes a new heaven, new earth. Uh they just kind of simplified it down to what I call a general uh uh return of Christ and a general judgment of man. Now I understand to some extent um why they came to that conclusion. In fact that was pretty much the approach of churches and students of the Bible for hundreds of years uh leading up. There's just this general eternity just shows up one-time event, uh the world's judged, and he goes on from there And I think one of the reasons, I don't want to get off on this too much, but I think one of the reasons they came to that conclusion was this. If you took the Bible literally about the return of Christ, the teaching of the return of Christ At the a hundred years ago, you couldn't see how those things would play out. For instance, the Bible teaches that unless somebody has uh at uh there's going to be a point in the tribulation period unless someone has a mark of the beast in their hand and on their forehood uh forehood uh forehead Uh unless they have the mark in their hand or on their forehead, they're not going to be able to buy or sell or do anything. A hundred years ago you'd say, how in the world could that be? That could that couldn't work out. There must be some spiritual meaning to that. However, uh we've come a long way, baby, huh? Brother, we can see exactly how that plays out. In fact there's a lot of Christians, uh I've had a number of Christians last month or two uh very concerned about with this uh virus and all, getting marks, putting things in their hands and head I just want to remind you, this is not my message. I just want to throw this out. Christians will not be around for the mark of the beast Alright, we're going to be raptured out of here. It's not going to be an issue for Ili and I. Now we're going to have plenty of issues, no doubt, leading up, but uh we don't have to worry about how whether we're going to get the mark of the beast or not. We will not be around for that. And all God's people said Amen. Praise the Lord for that. So I was taught in the church, and some still do, taught that there would just be a general return of the Lord Jesus Christ. But we believe the Bible. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we take the Bible literally. It means what it says and says what it means. Now, is there symbolism in the Bible? Yes. Is there uh is there a now uh is there uh uh uh just uh uh uh symbols? Yes, there's symbols in the Bible, symbolism there But we can take it for what it says. We can take it literally. And when we study the Bible literally, particularly on the second coming, prophetic events, take what the Bible says literally We learn that the coming of Jesus Christ is not just a one-time event with a general judgment and go on from there. We actually find out that there are a series of events that take place With the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. And we've preached on this. If you've been around Bible preaching, you've been around Mountain Lake any length of time. You've heard us preach about the prophetic timeline that the Bible gives us. for the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. For instance, the next event on God's calendar, if we study the Bible and take it literally for what it says, the next event on God's calendar is what we call the rapture of the church. That's what the passages we read here a moment ago. We read together, referring to the rapture of the church, when the trump of God shall sound, and uh the Lord returns with a shout and the voice of the archangel And believers are caught up off the earth in what we call the rapture. It's what we're going to talk about this morning. But as we study the Bible, prophetic teaching of the Bible, We take it literally, take it for what it says. We find that the rapture of the church is just the first event in a series of events of events that are associated with the return of Christ. He comes in the air, the trumpet sounds, the church is caught up, believers are caught up off the earth, and then after that we go into what we refer to as a seven-year period called the tribulation period, the Great Tribulation, Jacob's trouble, the 70th week of Daniel. It's referred to with a number of different uh titles there, but it's seven years of unprecedented tragedy, catastrophe, and judgment of God Upon this old earth. I tell I don't know about you and and we don't know uh we're getting a little ahead of myself here. We don't know when the Lord's coming back But I'm telling you, I can't help but look out on this old world and can't help but sense this old world's trembling as it anticipates the seven-year period of the judgment of God upon it. You just kind of sense this whole world is heading to that. So we have the seven-year period. So you have the rapture of the church. We don't know when that'll be. Could be this afternoon. We have no idea. When the rapture will be. Then you go into the seven-year period of tribulation period. That's when the Mark of the Beast and the Antichrist and the uh uh and all those events at the end of that seven year period uh the battle of armageddon breaks out. How many people ever heard of the Battle of Armageddon? Sure uh Hollywood likes to use that and make movies out of it they're completely wrong. Uh the Battle of Armageddon, all the armies of the world against the Lord's uh against the Lord's people, Israel And right as they're about to wipe out Israel, the Lord returns in the sky visibly. That's what we call the Second Advent The Lord returns, he wipes out the armies attacking Israel, he judges the nation, and he sets up his millennial kingdom, one thousand years Where Jesus Christ reigns literally from Jerusalem right here on the earth, reigns, rules all the nations of the world, and uh for a thousand years. At the end of that thousand years Satan is uh well during that thousand years he's bound. At the end of the year, the Lord lets him loose a little bit. He wreaks havoc. God deals with that immediately. Uh they have the great white throne judgment where the unsaved are cast in the lake of fire And then we have the new heaven, new earth. Everybody got that? Did you write that down? That will be on the test. So you need to know the prophetic timeline that the Bible gives us. So when we study the Bible We take it literally. We take it for God means what he says and says what he means. We realize that the return of the Lord Jesus Christ takes place over a period of time and uh with these various uh uh just amazing events associated with his return The next event, as I said, as you and I sit here this morning, folks at home sitting there in your living rooms, wherever you're at, as we sit here, the next event that God tells us is going to take place is the rapture of the church. For the church is caught up out of here. The next event on God's prophetic calendar is the rapture of the church. Notice with me here, if you're in Thessalonians Verse 16, he says, For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and the trump of God. And the dead in Christ shall be rise first. And then look at verse 17. Then we which are alive and remain shall be. What's those next two words there? Say it with me. Caught up. I circled those words in my Bible, and in the margin of my Bible, I wrote this word, raptured. Raptured. That's what the word caught up here. So we have these things. The shout of the Lord with the voice of the archangel. I don't know what that'll sound like. I don't know. I got thinking about that I wonder, is the whole world, is everybody going to hear that shout of the Lord? Just worldwide? Is it going to be earth shat uh ear-shattering shout of the Lord? Or Will it be like uh uh only the believers hear it? I don't know. Will unsaved people hear that shout of the Lord with the voice of the archangel? I've got a sneaking suspicion, I I can't say for certain, but I've got a sneaking suspicion Suspicion, it's only going to be the believers that hear that shout. I've got a sneaking suspicion that you and I will be doing our business, whatever we are working on, or maybe we're sitting in church, maybe I'm up here uh preaching away And in our ears, in our heart and soul, we hear this shout down in our heart and soul. And the trumpet blast. And boom! We're out of here. Isn't that something? I don't think the rest of the world is going to hear it. Oh, the rest of the world will know it when it happens, I believe. You talk about chaos You talk about uh questions and politicians coming up for answers and everything. Um and so uh the trump of God, the shout of the Lord, the trump of God and the rapture of the church. I want us to give a few observations about this rapture. When that trumpet sounds, and we're raptured out of here, let me give you a few, you might want to jot these down. Number one, I put this down. The rapture will be a time of departure. It will be a time of departure. I already pointed this out. We which are alive and remain shall be caught up. To meet uh together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air. Caught up, raptured out of here I had somebody say to me years ago, they said, Pastor, uh, preacher, uh, that word rapture is not in the Bible. I looked it up, I can't find it. I thought, well, let me look that up. I looked it up, you know what? They were right That word rapture is not in the Bible. Oh, it can't be true if the word rapture is not in the Bible. Did you know the word Trinity is not in the Bible either? You look it all over there, but the Bible clearly teaches the Trinity of God. Did you know the word substitution is not in the Bible? But the teaching that Jesus is our substitute is all through Scripture So just because the word, the term that we use to describe an event that the Bible teaches, because that word is in there, doesn't mean that truth is not in there. You with me? And so the Bible clearly teaches that there is a rapture, there is a catching up. In fact, I looked up that phrase caught up We shall be caught up together with them. I found it means exactly what you might think it would mean. It means to seize something very quickly. It means to uh Snatch something up uh uh very very quickly. When um when uh we were um young uh we would put something in our hands. I would uh get with my sisters. They were so easy. But uh I'd put a little pebble or something in my hand, I'd hold it there. I say, all right, try and grab that out of my hand. And they grab and I couldn't get it away and they never could get it because I was so fast And uh they were so slow. And uh I could do that. But that's the idea of that word catch up. Try and snatch that thing as quick as you can. Boom. We shall be caught up together to catch away, to pluck out. In a moment, in a twinkling of an eye, go over to 1 Corinthians. Now keep your place in In Thessalonians, we may end up back here, but come back to 1 Corinthians. We have very similar wording here, a little different, but same concept. 1 Corinthians chapter 15, look at verse 52. Notice what it says. In a what? Moment. I got looking up that word. Moment. It means this. This is amazing to me. I can't understand this. This is the meaning of the word that the word moment comes from. It means a time so brief that it cannot be divided. A time so brief that you can't divide it any smaller, any briefer period of time. I don't know how that works. If you have a minute and you divide that minute in half, you have what? 30 seconds. If you have 30 seconds and you divide that in half, you have what? 15 seconds. You have 15 seconds, you divide that in half, you've got what? Seven and a half seconds. You have seven and a half seconds, you divide that in half. I don't know what you have, just a little shorter little time. Uh three minutes and some three seconds and something And you divide that in half, and you divide that in half, and you divide that in half. You get down to one second, you divide it in half, you have a half a second, divide that in half, you got a Quarter a second divide that in half, you got an eighth of a second And you get it down such a short, brief period of time you can't divide it anymore. That's what that word moment means. How many people agree with me? That's pretty quick. Wow. But then he goes on. He says, and in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye. Now I don't know, uh uh you ever see somebody, their eye just sparkles. They just have a little twinkle in that eye, they're a little granddaughter's children present, their eye just kind of uh well her eyes just twinkle all the time. She's so beautiful. But uh you follow what I'm saying? I thought, what in the world is the twinkle of an eye? So I got looking at up, how it's used and what the word means. means that it came from and all that. I found out this is what the tweak of an eye, the idea behind that is this. A time so brief you can't measure it. A time sober, in a moment, in a twinkling of an eye, we're going to be caught up. are gonna be booed. I mean it happens so quick your eye can't even can't even catch it happening. Um uh you can't slow you can't get slow motion maybe uh I just thought of this Maybe when the rapture takes place, this world's gonna have security cameras everywhere. Everybody see that explosion down in uh uh uh Nashville and boy they have cameras and they're show and boy they slow it and show uh s uh show it in slow motion and try and see what h I wonder if this whole world people just vanish if they're gonna go to security cameras and put it on slow motion. and see if we can figure out what exactly happened to them. And it's going to be so fast the slow motion won't even get it. I mean there, then boom, gone. I mean just vanish. In a moment, a twinkly of an eye with so brief a period of time, can't even measure it. There's going to be a departure When that trump of God sounds, believers are going to be caught up. Millions of true believers all around this world are going to be caught up in a split second to be with the Lord. Now, that means all believers, the Bible teaches all believers, no saved person is going to be left behind when the rapture takes place. There used to be, I don't know if it's still out there or not, there was kind of a teaching going around that only people that are spiritual, only Christians that are right with God are going to be raptured out of here, and those that are backslidden or out of fellowship with the Lord, they're going to be left behind. That is an ungodly, unscriptural teaching. Every single believer is caught up out of here. Whether they're right with God or not. Whether they're spiritual or carnal, whether they're mature or babes, every single person that's been born again into the family of God is going to be raptured out of here in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, when the trump of God sounds, boom, we are out of here. Oh, and by the way, only believers are going to be raptured Every unsaved person, every person that's never trusted Jesus Christ Savior is left behind. Go through the tribulation period. No unsaved are going to be raptured. Only all believers and only believers are going to be raptured. A worldwide evacuation of all genuine believers in a moment at the trump of God when the trump of God sounds. So there's going to be a departure. It's going to happen quick By the way, this twinkling, this moment, this brief period of time, you know what that tells us? You and I don't have time to get prepared. We're not going to have any forewarning other than God telling us in his word ahead of time, hey, I'm coming back. When that trump sounds You're out of here. Saved people are going to be out of here. You're not going to have time to go get things right. You're not going to have time to go and uh get that stuff out of the house you're hiding from everybody. You're not going to have time To go and make things right with a brother or sister. You're not going to have time for that. Boom, we're out of here. In the presence of the Lord. The presence of the Lord. By the way, if a person's not saved, They're not going to have time. That trump sounds. Not going to have time to get on your knees calling the Lord. Not going to have time. Say, oh Lord, I'll trust you. I'll trust you. I'm telling you, if you're not saved now, you're not saved before that trump sounds, you're not going to have time to get saved when the trump sounds. You follow what I'm saying? So you better be saved. If you're not sure, if you got doubts about it, you better settle. If you've never trusted Christ, I'm telling you, you don't want to be left behind. You don't want to be left behind So number one, the trump of God sounds, there's going to be a departure. The rapture is a time of departure. I put this down, number two. The rapture will be a time of disclosure. Now let me explain what I mean by that. Now come back to 1 Thessalonians. I know we're jumping back and forth here a little bit. Come back to 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 And notice again verse number 17. A time of disclosure. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up, raptured. Together with them in the clouds. Now look at this next phrase. To what? Talk to me. To meet the Lord in the air. Now I don't know how you think of that or you anticipate that taking place. When that trumpet sounds And we're raptured up out of here. There's going to be a disclosure, and this is what I mean by that. We are going to see the Savior that we have loved and trusted by faith for all these many years. I mean, we're going to see him face to face, literally, physically. We are going to meet the Lord in the air. As I study the Bible, and as my since I've been saved and walking with the Lord I've come to a conclusion. God wants his people to be with him. God wants his people to be with him. I don't think, and as I was studying this, it just kind of dawned on me again, and just hit me again. God does not desire to be separated from his people. I think us living by faith. Now he wants us to live by faith, but I think us here and the Lord decide separation that there is between mankind and God, I don't think God likes that. I don't think that's uh uh his intention And I go all the way back to the Garden of Eden when Adam and Eve sinned and disobeyed God and they hid themselves from the Lord. What was the first thing the Lord did when man sinned and hid himself with the Lord? What was the first thing God did? He tried to restore that relationship. He went and found Adam, and he did what needed to be done to get that relationship back. God doesn't like it when you and I are out of fellowship with him. God wants us to be in fellowship with him. In fact, he'll chasten us and convict us. We're living in sin and uh we're living out of fellowship with the Lord as a believer. God steps in. He starts intervening. He starts chastening and doing what he needs to do to get us back. And I think the Lord wants us to be with him. Turn with me if you would. Keep your place here. Turn with me if you would to the Gospel of John. There's a couple statements the Lord made in the Gospel of John that tells me that he wants us to be with him, where he's at. Physically, seeing him, interacting with him. John chapter 17, if you would. John chapter 17 And I want you to notice with me, verse 24. John 17, verse 24. Jesus is praying here, and we talk about the Lord's Prayer. John 17 is really the Lord's Prayer. And he makes this statement. John chapter 17, look with me at verse number 24. He says this. He's praying here. He says, Father, this is Jesus praying to God the Father, I will that they also whom thou hast given me, that saved people Look at this. I will, but they also now it's given me, be with me where I am. He's praying, saying, God, I want my people to be with me. Wherever I'm at, that's where I want them to be. Look, then go on. That they may behold my glory, which thou hast given me. For thou lovest me before the foundation of the world. I put in the marks of my Bible, Jesus wants his people to be with him. He wants us to be with him. When the rapture takes place, that trumpet sounds, and you and I are caught up out of here in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, we're going to see Jesus. It's going to be disclosed. This God, this Jesus that we've trusted and loved. served and and uh known all these years. Now we'll see him. We'll meet him face to face. We'll meet him. And that's the way he wants us to be. He wants us to be with him. Go to John chapter 14, just a few pages earlier here in the book of John. He's speaking to Peter. If you read the last part of chapter 13, he's addressing Peter and some of Peter's concerns. And he says in verse number one: he says, Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. Now look at this carefully. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again. Now look at this next statement. And what? Receive you unto myself. I believe the Lord is referencing the rapture. When he says, I'll receive you I'm going to take you up. Now look what he tells us why. I will come again and receive you unto myself. Look at this. That where I am, there ye what? Maybe also He's telling Peter and and Peter and then the other disciples with him and through them he's telling you and I, old believers, he said, listen, I'm going to come back again. When I do, I'm going to receive you to myself. I'm going to catch you up to be with me. So that where I am, you may be also. You know, you got someone you like, you got someone that you think highly of. You want to be with them. You want to be around them, right? You want to interact with them. The Lord wants us to be with him He wants his people to be with him. So there's going to be a disclosure. We're going to see the Lord as he is. Did you ever wonder this? Uh uh help me out here. Uh uh play along with me. How many folks here ever wondered what Jesus really looks like? Physically human. Did you ever think about that? You know, he's Middle Eastern. He's he's Jewish, so he probably has the olive color skin. maybe brown eyes, dark hair. I don't know. Is he tall, short? He's just an average. The Bible says he's average looking. We get there and we'll get and see him. And see his eyes and his face, hands, and hear his voice. You ever wonder what his voice sounds like? What would his voice sound like? We have all these preconceived ideas, but when that trumpet sounds, we're out of here. Boom! We're gonna hear his voice. We see his face. There'll be this disclosure. We'll see the one whom we've loved all these years. Jesus longs for us to be with us. I think it's a heartbreak to the Lord. He loves us so much. He wants us to be with him so badly. He's longing for that. And then here we are, his people fall in love with this old world that crucified him. We fall in love with the things of this world, and we think more highly and we long and desire the things of this old world more than we do the Lord and He loves us and He longs for us to be with Him and here we are in love with that. How many of you agree with me? That would be heartbreaking, wouldn't it? We love this old world and the Lord loves us so much. So when the trumpet sounds, the rapture happens, it's going to be a time of departure. We're going to be out of here. It's a time of disclosure. We'll see the Lord in person. Oh, by the way, in 1 Thessalonians 4, come back there. I told you we're going to jump around here a bunch. Come back to 1 Thessalonians 4. This time, look with me if you would at verse 13 and 14. 1 Thessalonians 4. Verse 13 and 14. Notice what it says. But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep. That's people, believers that have died. Concerning them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others which have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again Even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him When the Lord comes back for that, trumpet sounds and the Lord uh tr the shout of the Lord and the with the voice of the archangel And um uh the dead in Christ are going to be raised, the bodies are going to be resurrected, and those that have died and gone ahead with the Lord, their bodies are buried here But they're in the presence of the Lord. He's bringing them back with them. Now follow me. He's bringing them back with them. And you and I are raptured up out of here in that millisecond, that Brief period of time, boom, we're out of here, and we see the Lord, and guess who's with the Lord? Our loved ones that have passed on and gone on ahead there How many folks right now you're thinking of someone you know and love that's passed away? Knew the Lord, they were saved. Anybody here thinking of someone? Guess what? They're gonna be there when we show up. We'll get up and we'll see the Lord and we'll uh view him as he is and his face and we'll hear his voice and we get I don't know it plays out this way, but we start looking around and and uh there's my grandpa And grandma have been going all these years. There they are. And there's daddy. And uh there's Aunt So-and-so. And there's my mother. There's my brother, sister, there's my child Loved ones that are saved, going ahead, we'll see them again. I don't know about you, that stirs my heart. We'll see some loved ones again We'll be with them. He'll bring them with them, and we'll get to see them. I tell you, it's very important we win our loved ones to Christ, huh? Very important we get them saved. We'll see them again. We'll see them again. So it's a time of disclosure. We'll see the Lord. We'll see the loved ones. Our faith will become sight. I like that song, What a Day That Will Be When My Jesus I shall see, when I look upon his face, the one who saved me by His grace. To see the Lord Jesus Christ. What an amazing thing that will be. There will be a departure. There'll be a disclosure. Number three, I put this down The rapture is going to be a time of displacement. Now let me explain what I mean by that. A time of displacement. By that I mean this. When we get raptured out of here, our bodies are going to be changed. In a moment, in a twinkling of an eye, we shall be changed. We shall be transformed from this old sinful body This old body wearing down, stained and cursed by sin, we're going to have a glorified body in that split second We're going to get up there and we're going to have a glorified body. This old sinful nature is going to be put off. This old corrupt flesh is going to be put off. Come over there to Corinthians. I told you we're going to jump back and forth Come over here to Corinthians and look with me if you would at verse 52 again. In the moment, the twinkling of an eye, the last trump, the trumpet shall sound, the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be what? Changed, changed. How many folks got something about your body you'd change if you could? Oh brother Wilbur, how about it? Uh old arthritis and uh all these diabetes and heart disease and And uh some of y'all with hair all over your heads, you know, that's all going to be changed. And it's going to be perfect. It's going to be wonderful. Uh we shall be changed. Look at verse forty-two, same chapter. So this is the resurrection of the dead. All that takes place at the rapture, the resurrection of the dead. We're caught up. It is sown in corruption, boy, this whole body's corrupt. Anybody find that out? It's old bodies corrupt. I mentioned when uh Christmas Eve, it just stirred my heart. We were doing the Lord's Supper and I'm sitting there and uh I'm telling you sometimes The old devil will bring the worst thoughts come to mind. This old flesh will come up with the most wicked thoughts in the world can come up. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And you say, what in the world, where did that come from? I tell you, when that rapture takes place, this old corrupt nature, this old sinful nature is going to be put off, and none more of that business. No more of that struggle going on between right and wrong. No more dealing with the sinful desires. Oh, every desire is going to be pure. Every thought is going to be holy. Every motivation is going to be just and pleasing to God, no struggles, no battles in our heart and soul anymore. My soul, what a day that be. This old flesh will be put off, displaced. Put off, and in its place, a new body, a glorified body, a new nature. Go to Philippians with me. Now don't lose Corinthians. We'll end up here sooner or later, I'm sure. Go over to Philippians chapter number three with me. Philippians chapter 3. And I want you to notice a couple verses that Paul makes under the statements that Paul makes. To the church at Corinthians. It makes it under inspiration, under the inspiration of God. And verse 20, Philippians chapter 3, verse 20. Look at this. If this don't stir your heart, brother, I don't know what will. For our conversation is in heaven, from whence also we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. He says, we're looking for that rapture. We're looking for when we can see the Lord, that trump sounds Oh, I'm looking for it. I'm longing for it. And then notice what he says in verse 20. Who shall, there's that word, change? displace, take off the old, put the new on, who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself. You know what? We're going to have the same kind of body, a body that This glorified body is fashioned just like the resurrected body of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now we don't have time, but I tell you, that's a fascinating study. You look at the resurrected body of Christ in the Gospels. And the things he could do and uh and how that body was, he would just appear and disappear. He'd go through uh doors. He could just go through doors. One thing I'm really glad, the resurrected body of the Lord Jesus He was he would eat fish and stuff. He ate in the resurrected body. Praise the Lord. We will be able to eat in the resurrected body. And I I hope there's blueberry pie in heaven. We'll see. But um uh but displaced this old sinful body with its aches and pains and its sinful tendencies and its And uh its weaknesses and its struggles all put off and have a body like the Lord Jesus Christ. And Paul said, we long for that day. Oh, we look for when we'll see the Lord as he is And he longs for it. I wonder, I wonder how badly we long for the rapture of the church. I wonder how many of us just aching long. Oh, I want it to happen so badly. I thought of this. I might get some people mad at me. I hope not. I think you understand what I'm saying. But I'm telling you, if we would long for the return of Christ as badly as we long for the return of our president We might have revival in our lives, huh? Now listen, don't misunderstand what I'm saying. You know, I understand what's going on. But I tell you, this world's not our home. Our kingdom is not of this earth. Our Savior is not a man. Our Savior is the Lord Jesus Christ. And we need to get our hearts and minds and love off of this whole world and get it focused on Christ. And start longing for that. It's going to be a time of departure. We will be out of here. It's going to be a time of disclosure. We're going to see the Lord. We'll see loved ones that saved loved ones that have gone ahead It's going to be a time of displacement. No more struggle between pleasing God or pleasing myself. No more struggle between doing what's right and doing what we know is wrong. Paul mentioned that in Romans chapter 7. We're going to have a glorious, sinless, perfect body. But number four, I put this down, it's going to be a time of delight. Go to Titus chapter number two with me, if you would. Titus chapter 2, what a day that will be when Jesus I shall see. Titus chapter 2, notice how Titus, again, under the inspiration of God, refers Right before Titus, verse of 2 Timothy, Titus and Philemon. Titus chapter 2. Look at verse 13. Notice how he describes this rapture, this trump of God sounding. Looking for that, what's the next two words? Blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ. All he's looking for, and he refers to it as a blessed hope. I tell you what, there's not going to be, you and I have never experienced the joy that we're going to experience when we see Jesus. The happiness of being in the presence, the immediate physical presence of Jesus Christ, there's nothing this whole world, there's no happiness this world could produce. The happiness, the joy, the contentment of being in the presence of Christ, the fulfillment. Of now being with everything I trusted, everything I've lived for, everything I put my faith in, I see it now in the person of Christ, in his presence. Oh, what a time of delight that will be. We will be everything God originally created us to be. Our lives will be everything God originally created our lives to be. When we're in the presence of the Lord. The ladies were saying, my wife and some of the ladies, they went on this ladies' getaway here about a month ago, and they got a house. Some of you ladies were there. I got a house down there in Harper's Ferry and uh rented this big fancy mansion. And uh I tell you, the men, we sleep in a little cabin. These ladies get these fancy houses And uh we'll have to address that. Uh but anyway, uh uh Kathy was so excited, oh this house is gonna be amazing. This house is gonna be something else. And they got down there, you know what she said? You know what she said? She said it was even better than she thought. Because man alive, that thing had an indoor swimming pool. Man, now with a place the men go, we've got to go outside in the jacuzzi It's cold and wet and we have to go out there in the jacuzzi and they could go inside. And uh and uh she said it was she said it was even nicer than I expected You know what? How many people ever think have anybody here ever give some thought about heaven? Ever think what it's like? Oh, I'll try and picture what it's like. I'm telling you something, it's going to be better than we even dreamed. I heard an old preacher years ago, he said this. He said he was preaching on heaven one time. He got carried away describing heaven. And just got carried away in his imagination uh what heaven's gonna be like. And afterward he said the next day he was thinking about it, he said, Well maybe I exaggerate a little bit about what heaven be he said there was an old preacher there he was talking to, and the old preacher told him now he was a This guy was old preacher at the time. The old preacher told him, he said, you just go ahead and exaggerate and imagine all you want. There's no way in the world you're going to think, uh come up with something better than what God already has in place. Follow what I'm trying to say? Trumpet sounds. Then in Christ rise first, you and I which are remained are caught up together to be with them. We meet the Lord in the air. That blessed hope, all that experience that we've anticipated, we're going to experience it. And then last of all, I put this down. It's going to be a time of discernment. It's going to be a time of discernment. Judgment seat of Christ takes place. We'll be held accountable for how we lived our Christian lives. We'll be held accountable. We'll be rewarded accordingly. By the way, salvation is not a reward. Getting to heaven is not a reward. That's a gift we receive. But there are rewards associated with living for the Lord and giving myself to the Lord and living by faith. The Lord will uh will give out those rewards. He'll judge us at the judgment seat of Christ, how we lived our Christian life. And uh but what I mean by that term discernment is this. The very fact that the rapture can take place at any moment Nothing has to happen. It could be at any moment. It is eminent is the term we use. The very fact That the rapture can take place at any moment, or to cause us to stop and use some discernment in our lives. How am I living my life as a Christian? The Lord used this truth, the rapture of the ch of the church, the rapture of believers, the Lord used this truth to help me Make a decision in my life, early in my Christian life, that there are some places I'm just not going to go. There are some places I would hate to be, I would be ashamed to be That rapture took place and I was there. You follow what I'm saying? There's some things I just want to be careful about as a Christian That because that rapture could happen at any moment, wouldn't it be awful to be in an argument with another believer and the rapture takes place right in the middle of that argument? Wouldn't that be a shameful thing? Or be in certain places, worldly places of amusement, sinful places, that rapture takes place It's a time of discernment. We need to stop and think about, wait a minute, how am I living my life? What am I allowing into my heart and mind? What am I engaging in? That rapture takes place. Would I be ashamed at his coming? Would I be ashamed? And here's another area of discernment. I need to stop and ask myself: am I saved? Do I know Jesus Christ as Savior? Have I been born again? If not, the rapture takes place, left behind, tribulation period. I always try and point this out, and that needs a little explanation. But the rapture takes place if a person has an opportunity to be saved before the rapture. They hear the gospel clearly, they have an opportunity to trust Christ, and the rapture takes place. Thessalonians tells us. 2 Thessalonians tells us that that person who knew, had a knowledge of the truth, and rejected it, refused it, will not have an opportunity to be saved after the rapture. Now, will there be people saved after the rapture? Yes, millions will be. Person who hasn't heard the gospel, a person that hasn't had that opportunity After the rapture takes place, they'll be able to be saved. But those that had the knowledge of the truth and refused it will be left behind. Left behind. And so is a time of discernment as a believer. Am I living my life pleasing to the Lord? Are there things in my life that I'd be ashamed? And if I'm not a believer, if you're not never trusted Christ as Savior, you're playing Russian roulette with your soul. Every day goes by, every minute goes by. You need to be saved. Today is the day of salvation. Now is the accepted time. We must be saved. We must be prepared. There was a fella years ago Came to one of our wild game dinners, got under conviction. About two weeks later, he trusted Christ, came in, told me he trusted Christ. Man, he took off, started living for God. He witnessed to his wife, witnessed to his wife, witnessed to his wife. She never would get saved. She refused it, rejected it. He eventually died. He's with the Lord now in heaven. Here's what I thought. That wife doesn't get saved. She'll never see her husband again. She doesn't trust Christ before the rapture. Never see him again. Never see him again. Brother Jerry Vogue and I were out in Krellan, Snowy Creek Road. And we're up there just knocking on doors one time summertime years ago, just knocking on doors on a Thursday night, witnessing the people going house to house, working our way up there We knocked on the door of a fella, an older fella come out. Well at the time he seemed older. Now at this point in my life, he wasn't that old. But um uh I knocked on the door and told him who we are. And Pastor Lomas, Jerry, we're from the Mount Lake Baptist. Just out wanted to invite you to church. He said, well, come on in, fellas. So we went in, sat in a little breezeway there. He had a little uh sofa type thing. Um what are those things called? Coasters? Is that what the the little sofa that What is it? No, it's the one that's on like a track. You can kind of rock back and forth. Flyer. What is it? Glider. That's what I said. Glider He had one of those gliders there in the breezeway. We sat down and we're just gliding away and um we're talking with them and we asked him, we said, Sir, do you know for sure that when you die your sins are He began to weep. He said, No, I don't. He said, My wife was a godly Christian. He said, I never paid no attention to it, never bothered, never worried about it at all He said this past year she died. He says, I told her to her funeral. I said, I told my wife that at her funeral. He said, I told her that I'm going to figure out how to get to heaven one way or another I know you're in heaven. He said she was a good Christian. I told her I'll figure out one way or another how I'll get up there and be with her. Hmm. We said, Well we we can tell you how you can get to heaven. He says, Can you Can you tell me that? We said sure, and we took our Bibles. We opened and showed them through down through the Romans Road. That dear man bowed his head, called Lord Trusted Jesus, Savior. I don't know if he's still living or not. I lost touch with him years ago. I know this. Because they're both saved, they'll be together. They'll be together. Listen, if you're not saved, I plead with you. The rapture could happen any moment. Trust Christ as Savior. Those of us that are saved, let's take this Christian life seriously Let's just stop and use a little discernment. How am I living? What's my relationship with the Lord? What's my spiritual well-being? Because that rapture could take place at any moment. Father, bless our invitation now. I ask you'd help us, Lord, to love you and long for that return of Christ, that blessed hope. And help us, Lord, to live in faith. When I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many this morning would say, preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I've trusted Christ, been born again, exactly as the Bible says. I know that the Lord saved me. If you say, you know, there's some areas in my life that I really need to give attention to. If that rapture took place, well, I'd be ashamed. There's some things that are not what they ought to be And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me as we start off a new year here this week. You'd say, Preacher, pray with me that I can walk close to the Lord and keep those short accounts and live a life that would be Pleasing him. Is there any like that, preacher? There's some areas I really need to give attention to. Some things that really need really need to be addressed in my life. God bless you, hands all around. At home, I trust you're responding also I wonder if there's some here this morning say, preacher, I know somebody that's unsaved, maybe a family member, a friend, a neighbor, someone dear. You can say, preacher, I just can't stand the thought of them being left behind. And you'd say, pray with me that I'd be a good witness. Lord would give me boldness and wisdom and share the gospel with them that they could be saved. Is there any like that, preacher, pray with me? I've got someone I'm burdened for. I want to see them come to Christ for it's too late. God bless you. Tell you prayer is powerful. In the book of Acts, they said, Lord, grant it to us that with all boldness we speak the word as we ought. Pray. Ask the Lord to help you. Ask the Lord to help you. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm saved. Not honestly say I've ever been born again. I need that assurance in my heart that I've been saved and that When the rapture takes place, I'll be with the Lord. If there are any here this morning, or maybe online, you say, I'm not sure about that, pray for me that God will help me settle that. Any at all? And he had all around. If online, if you're not sure about that, please contact us. We can show you from the Bible how to be saved and know it. And be prepared for that trumpet sound. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. Have your way. Revive us, we ask. In Jesus' name. Amen.