Looking at tonight Philadelphia. And um Philadelphia, of course, we would when we think of Philadelphia, we think of Cream cheese. Who said Pennsylvania? That was weird. I think of cream cheese, don't you? Strawberry? Everything bagel? No? No. What do you put it on? Never mind. Um anyway, so Philadelphia. Um we'll look at this church tonight. And uh chapter 3, verses 7 through 13, I'll give you just another second to turn there and I'll read through this real quick. Revelation 3 Verse 7, and to the angel of the church in Philadelphia, write, These things saith he that is holy, he that is true, he that hath the key of David. He that openeth and no man shutteth and shutteth and no man openeth. I know thy works. Behold, I have set before thee an open door, and no man can shut it. For thou hast a little strength, and hast kept my word, and hast not denied my name. Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say they are Jews, and are not. But do lie, behold, I will make them to come and worship before thy feet, and to know that I have loved thee, because thou hast kept the word of my patience. I also will keep thee from the hour of temptation, which shall come upon all the world to try them that dwell upon the earth. Behold, I come quickly. Hold that fast which thou hast, that no man take thy crown. Him that overcometh, will I make a pillar in the temple of my God, and he shall go no more out, and I will write upon him the name of my God, the name of the city of my God, which is is New Jerusalem. Which cometh down out of heaven from my God, and I will write upon him my nude name. He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith, unto the churches. I know it's only thirteen minutes here till eight o'clock, so I won't go too long uh this evening. And um but there uh there is some really good things I think that we can gain from looking at this church in Philadelphia. So let's pray, and then uh we'll look at this uh this sixth church. Lord, we thank you uh again for allowing us to go through this uh series here and um learning so much it seems um from each city, each church that's in each city and Lord, mainly we want to learn from your word here, so I pray that you would take over the service again this evening. Lord, if there's anything I'm about to say that goes against your word, I ask that you keep me from saying it. Likewise, Lord, if there's something that needs to be addressed that I don't have written down. I pray that you would bring it to my mind, Lord. I pray that you would just take over for the next little bit here and just have full control. Bring conviction, Lord. Show us what it is we need to do uh to change, to repent, to be more like you, and it's in Jesus' name. Men. So, real quick, I'm gonna get a drink of water. And then I'm going to talk pretty fast here. So what we've been doing is we've been looking at the city first and then going back around the city, then we've been looking at the church and talking about uh some things about the church. Uh we're going to follow that same uh format here kind of this evening. Um so the city of Philadelphia, um a few things about it Just to kind of point out, of course, the the the name Philadelphia, if you study American history, you'll know that the name Philadelphia uh the city in in Pennsylvania, the meaning of the name Philadelphia means brotherly love. It's a city of brotherly love. And that kind of fits the theme of the church uh there in Philadelphia uh there in Asia Minor. It kind of actually fits pretty well. Uh the they were kind of known for that. Um but then also there was um some some um of the community there that that that shunned them and they craved that love and attention as well. But We'll look at that here in just a moment. But the city as far as the architecture and stuff replicated Athens. They were known to be a little Athens, a very very, very Greek in their architecture, very very Greek in in in their systems and things like that. Uh they were known for to be l a little Athens From the temples to the architecture to the way the city was laid out, um that was something that they were uh known for, uh was was Little Athens. Um it was i i it was known for its wine in wineries and uh uh vineyards and grapes and things like that. Um so they they they that was their main business was their vineyards. So the uh wine, both new wine and fermented wine, that's what the city uh made money off of was the vineyards. And um so what's interesting about that is a few things in in terms of the background of the city, it wasn't necessarily a very, very wealthy city, it wasn't considered to be influential or or sophisticated at all or anything like that. But that was kind of what they were known for. In fact, they were known for their grapes, for their vineyards around the world And to the point where the emperor got a little jealous that they were more popular than the vineyards in Rome. And so, doing what dictators do, he said, okay, well, yours are better, not anymore, because pull them out. And he actually ordered the the the all of the vineyards there in Philadelphia to be taken out And so the main income, the main s uh economy for uh Philadelphia here was was just cut off And so it wasn't necessarily a a booming city before, but it was okay and the but their economy came from from the vineyards until the Emperor Domitian uh ordered them to be taken out. Um so needless to say they probably felt a little bit betrayed by by Rome, I would think um that they were probably unhappy with them to say the least. But Rome did a few nice things for them. Not really. That was kind of sarcastic there. What that one thing that uh Rome did for Philadelphia was it didn't tax them for five years, so that's good. Um so in other words, we you lose all your money, but you just don't have to pay us for five years, so whatever. Um nice of the government to do that, right? Of Rome. He wasn't exactly much better than the Emperor Nero. If anything, he was a little bit worse even in the persecution of the churches and persecution uh of Christians, but also just anyone that didn't see eye to eye to him or with him and anyone he didn't like, he just sh exercised the sword there and so did that with them as well. There was a major earthquake. Um in Philadelphia 80 sevente, so you know, Jesus teenage years, uh uh there was a major earthquake in Philadelphia, and a lot of the city was just left in ruin and it was never rebuilt. And then by the time Domitian came along, they took he took away the vineyards. And so it was a city that was doing pretty good, nothing nothing super influential, but um at this point it was it was very, very poor uh during the time of its writing. So The city, Philadelphia, brotherly love is what that means in the Greek. And of course, that's what Philadelphia, Pennsylvania was named after William Penn. uh uh and and all of that uh history there. Moving along very quickly, we'll look at the church here um in Philadelphia And there isn't much mentioned, actually I don't think that there's anything mentioned in Scripture here other than Revelation chapter three. Um and if there is, I'm I I I'm not familiar with it. I don't think there is. But um not much is really known about the church or the founding of it or anything like that But we do know that it was important enough to be included here in this uh addressing of the seven churches. So but here's something that's interesting. You know, most of what we're looking at here that out of the seven, there's always something good and bad to be said about both. There's two churches. where there was nothing negative said about them. One was Smyrna and then one here was Philadelphia. And so even though they were in that type of a city And actually also in a very oppressive environment with persecution and things like that. There wasn't any any negative remarks about them, so that that's pretty cool. But I think again what is interesting is the city felt betrayed by Rome, but the church also, I think, kind of felt betrayed by the city. And here's where I get that from. If you look at chapter three and look at verse number seven It says, these things saith he that is holy, it is true, he hath the key to uh of David that openeth and no man shutteth. Shutteth no man openeth Okay. Verse nine or verse eight, excuse me. I know their works. Behold, I have set before thee an open door that no man can shut, but has little strength and has kept my word and has not denied my name. Now we look at verse nine. Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say they are Jews and they're not. And so we can gather a few things here that there was evidently some Some persecutions and some shut doors uh to them. And we can we can gather that by the From the wording that's being used. Jesus is saying, hey, I know that those of the synagogue of Satan, they say they're Jews. They claim to be, you know, they claim to be you. They're not. They're not Jews. They're not and they're shutting the door to you. If you do some studying During that time frame, Judaism was recognized as an official religion by Rome. And so you didn't have to burn incense to Caesar and say, Caesar is Lord if you were a Jew. And there were certain areas where Christianity was seen as a part of Judaism, which of course it's it's not, but the Romans would recognize that. Oh, that's a uh what we would use the term denomination, but that's a uh uh a a type of of Judaism and so there were certain areas where um if you were a Christian the Romans viewed you as a um you know a branch off of the Jews. Okay? But the problem with that was this. The way they would find out who was a a Jew and who was not, and who was part of the official state recognized religion, so they didn't get their he you know their heads cut off and stuff like that. was they would go into the synagogues and look at the register and see who see the member list basically and see who was etched into the the the the the book there. And so if you were a Christian in Philadelphia And there's some of that said they were synagogue of of Satan, but they say they were Jews. They were there in the synagogue, but they weren't re they weren't accepting you. They say they're Jews, but really n you know they're not So there were some doors being shut to the Christians from their own nation, their own people, but there were some doors being shut from the city as well. And so now not only am I excommunicated from the Jews, but I'm also excommunicated from the Roman Empire, which means now I have a price on my head and I'm you know I'm guilty of breaking the Roman law. So this was some intense persecution from all fronts, not just from the Romans Also from the Jews as well. And so it's pretty intense, is what I'm trying to say. But despite all of that, there is nothing negative said about the church's behavior itself, which I find fascinating. I find fascinating. And so there is evidently some shut doors to them simply because of their faith in Christ. We c we can't relate with that to the level that they had, but we can a little bit. I mean, you know, there's I I I I I had uh one specific instance where I mean my life wasn't threatened or anything like that, but we're I I've lost out on some positions in in the workplace and things like that and I was threatened to be fired once and things like that. Um nothing Nothing to the extent what they were going through, but some shut doors, for sure. And so I don't know what doors have been shut to you or not, but I find it encouraging here where Jesus says in verse number seven These things saith he that is holy, he that is true, and he that hath the key of David, he that openeth, and no man shutteth. And I'm glad that the Lord opens and shuts the doors for me, and I'm glad that um Um he's the one that is in control and even though that there might be some that uh shut doors to Christians, not just here, but around the world, and in some cases the shut door might be their family, in some di uh cases the shut door might be their life. But Jesus says, no, I have the key of David. David, of course, was king of Israel, and he has his key. And so that they would recognize that as, okay, he really has the key of the door of the Jews, and even though um they say their Jews are really not. And you can kind of put all that together there and see kind of what the church was going through But um with all of that persecution, both both from the uh Jews and from uh the Romans as well, uh some things that are really, really cool here. Um Verse 8 he says, I know thy works. The fact that they were working in this environment is awesome. They weren't getting tax breaks, right? If anything, they were getting hunted. Um they they they were known for that. And the name Philadelphia means you know brotherly love and they were demonstrating that by working in their community and serving in their community, no doubt They were a serving chur church and even though the people had doors shut to them, they had their doors open. Um and I think that's pretty cool. They love people, wanted to help people. Now, verse 8, it says, I know thy works, behold, I've set before thee an open door, no man can shut it, for thou hast a little strength, and hast kept my word. And hast not defiled my name. There's a couple really big compliments there. That hast a little strength. There's been some people that look at that and say that's the negative point here, is they only had a little bit I I'm not sure w that that was what it means. It might mean this, that they had a little bit of strength. Like when you use it in that phrase, you know, hey Have a little strength here. Get through this. Does that make sense? And so they definitely were standing. They weren't caving at all. They were standing up for what was right. I think it's because they had a little bit of strength. They had a little backbone And um we applaud that, and the Lord applauds that. He says, Thou hast a little strength and hast kept my word. It takes a little bit of strength to keep God's word in that society It would take a little bit of strength to stand for your faith when your family just rejected you and when your uh the Roman Empire is, you know, out out to hunt you because now your name's not on the the register, so you're You better offer incense to Caesar or else die. And of course they didn't, so they were persecuted pretty heavily. But they had a little bit of strength, and they had some backbone. And I praise the Lord for that. Um, you know, I think about that. I'm getting a little ahead of myself. It doesn't take a whole lot of strength. It just takes a little bit of strength to stand up at work. It just takes a little bit of strength to stand up for the Lord. You know, we are we're really not persecuted that much here compared to some other places in the world and compared to these people we're reading about here in Revelation. It just takes a little bit of strength really to stand up for what's right. You know, I th again maybe this is just from the youth pastor's perspective, but you're in you know you're at school, you're in the lunchroom or something like that or locker room and someone does something just foul or off colored, doesn't take a whole lot of strength to say, dude, come on. That's messed up. You know, or maybe you're in the workplace and someone just says something a little off or someone blasphemes the Lord's name, uses his name in vain, doesn't take a whole lot of strength to say, come on. Is that necessary? It doesn't take a whole lot of strength. And so a little bit of strength here, they could stand in that kind of society. I think we could stand here with a little bit of strength. So, anyway, um also has kept my word and has not denied my name. This was a uh the it says here in verse number eight that they have kept his word and not denied my name. That doesn't show weakness to me. It shows a little bit of strength And and I I I want that for me. I'm sure you want that for you. And we want the the church to be known for that strength. For standing. We talked about compromise this morning when we're looking at uh the other church there at Sardis and you know we don't we don't want to be known as that kind of a of a church, as that kind of a Christian, as a compromise. We want to be one that has a little bit of strength. and has kept the word and has not denied my name. So, what are a few things I can learn? That we all can learn, I think. I'll just give you a few of them here. I won't give you all all of these points, but number one, I think it's important to know that Jesus loves us when no one else does Jesus Loves Me is an awesome song and there's some variations of it. Me and Aubrey have our favorite variation of that song and I mean it's not just a little kid's song. It's truth. Jesus loves us. Jesus loves me. You know, you might have some family that's kind of separate Separated from you a little bit. Yeah, they might not have disowned you or excommunicated you or anything like that. But since you've gotten saved, your family might be a little, hey, you're weird, you know. Kind of keep their distance from you. Hey Jesus isn't doing that Jesus loves you. Anyway, look at this verse, um uh what verse was it? Verse 9. It says somewhere um in the verse, Behold uh oh halfway through I will make them to come and worship before thy feet and to know that I have loved thee. He's saying listen I love you so much that those people that They've kind of shut the door on you, they're gonna know how much I love you. That's a big deal right there That's a big deal. You know, it's one thing to tell someone you love them, it's another thing to show them you love them, it's another thing to show everyone else that you love them. I think that's pretty cool. You know, a little bit ago we had testimony time and James let everyone know how much he loves his wife. That's a good thing. This is what Jesus is saying for here for the church of Philadelphia, the the the the the city of brotherly love, the church of brotherly love, Jesus is saying, hey. I love you, but not only that, everyone is going to know it. So I find that so encouraging. Jesus loves me. Jesus loves you. He loves his church. He loves the church there at um Philadelphia and he loves church here at Mountain Lake. He loves the church in Accident. Jesus gave his life for the church. Here he loveth no man than this. A man lay down his life for his friends, right? The greatest form of love he ever showed us is when he gave his life for us. God commendeth his love toward us. And while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. You talk about some serious love. God loves this church. Jesus loves this church. And when it feels like people don't, who cares? Because he does. I'd rather him love me than someone else, and he does, so I'm happy about that. So anyway, that's uh application number one. Secondly here, I'm only going to go through a couple of these, but um Something else I can get from this is that trials are going to come, even if Jesus does love me, trials are going to come. We look at a church that's doing everything right. And just because you're doing everything right, we've seen this example already, but just because you're doing everything right doesn't mean everything's going to be alright. You're gonna get some persecution. You're gonna have some people shut the door on you. You're gonna have maybe even the the the Rome, maybe even the government's gonna shut the door on you. Just because you're doing everything you're supposed to be doing doesn't mean life is peaches and roses. Trials will come. Trials will come. And we look here. It says, Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say they are Jews and are not. There was some persecution there from those that claimed to be Jews, but weren't. There was some persecution there. We'll face it. We'll face opposition, no doubt about it. But I'd rather do things God's way and face the opposition than to just kind of go along and get along, like we've seen with some of the other churches in this study. You know, um I we look at some of the other churches in this study, there's only two that had no rebuke. The others did. I'd rather have rebuke from man than have rebuke from God. I'd rather have that. So anyway. Last point is this, and I'll wrap up. I have some more, but if anyone wants them, I'll give them to you I can give them to you. But my last point is this. Look at verse number. Let me find my spot here. I lost it. Verse number seven. About halfway through he says, He that is true, he that hath the key of David, that he that openeth and no man shutteth, and shutteth, and no man openeth. Okay. And if you look at this uh language throughout this letter He's saying there's doors that are open. Doors that are open. And the point I want to make here is that door represents opportunity. And this is this is my my my final point here. We have a wide open opportunity to serve the Lord here I I don't remember if it was this past Wednesday or or the Wednesday before, but I made the statement with the with the teenagers downstairs, there's really no excuse to not be in the ministry here. There's really no excuse to not be involved. The opportunities are wide open, and they're open still. There is plenty of opportunity for you who say you love the Lord to work. The doors are open. We've got so many different ministries here. There's one that you can be in. There's one that you should be in. And if you're not in one Then someone's missing ya. Some ministry is missing ya. We have visitation on Thursdays, we have bus visitation on Saturdays, we have bus routes, we have four of them. Like to start another one, um that would be fantastic. Well, we have the blankets for babies. We have Teens Alive, Master Clubs, Nursery, Choir. Um, there's a bunch. I don't know. Fingerprints, that's a huge one. Of course. Fingerprints, yeah. There I mean there's just there's there's so much and there's a lot I'm leaving out. I know. Bible Institute. Um Blankets for babies. Yeah, not for us, right? Hey, we'll start a new ministry. Great. I love it. Uh but we have uh the the widows ministry. Uh my wife and uh Ms. Trish are are doing that and and and and there's just so many Sunday school classes It's wide open. Let's do it. Let's do something. Faith promise. Just look at the prayer cards. Go through our missionaries You can spend a lot of time, if you go through our missionaries, that'll take you a while to pray for all of them and pray for their needs to go through that list. The opportunities are wide open And I see that the door is open. So let's go through it. Let's do it If you see a ministry or you see a need in a ministry, or maybe it's a ministry that we don't have yet, but you see a need for it, tell Pastor. Go to Pastor, let them know. Go to the leadership in that ministry. Let them know. Say, hey, I'd like to be involved in what do I need to do? I mean the opportunity's wide open. It's wide open. The door's open. There's a you know I I really like that. The door's not shut. If you want to find, I mean if you want to serve the Lord, you don't have to look too hard to find it. The opportunity's there. The opportunity is here. So going through the list. There's different things we can do. We can go door knocking, we can be an example, we can take uh one of the younger people under under your wing. You I mean there's the opportunities for the Lord are just is just wide open here There's no excuse. There's every ministry you can think of, and if there's not, we'll we'll we'll we'll find another one. You know, we'll we'll just add days on the calendar. Next year we'll have 380 days. It'll be great. It'd be great. So the opportunity is wide open. So looking here, we're we're we'll wrap this up. The church in Philadelphia definitely had uh some persecution, had some doors shut on them there in the city um or from the city. The city itself felt betrayed. The church felt betrayed uh as well. Um but Jesus is encouraging them and I think that would have been a great comfort to them with all these shut doors The the Roman Empire is pushing the city aside and the city's pushing the church aside and all those doors being shut. Jesus says, No, I have the key. I have the key, and I'm going to open that door, and no one's shutting it. So let's serve the Lord with and go through that open door, right? Let's do it. Ted's bowed, eyes closed, no one looking around. Just a couple questions real quick. I guess the first question is this, of of course, and I don't want to neglect this or overlook it, but if there's someone here and you say, Pastor Matt, I'm not even sure that I'm saved, then then you're not even really part of the church. So if you're not sure you're saved, You know, that's that's kind of the most important part. But if that's you, g you know I don't want to embarrass anyone make a speech or anything like that, but if you say, you know, I'm uh you not even sure I'm saved. If I died right now, I'm not a hundred percent certain I'd go to heaven, but I'm concerned about that. Could you just slip your hand up and put it back down real quick? Pastor Matt, I'm not sure I'm saved, but I'm I'm concerned about that. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven, but I'm very concerned about that. Alright, next question is this. Um how many would say, you know what? The Lord spoke to my heart tonight about maybe one thing or another and you know I want to I see some open doors and I need to just go through 'em. The Lord's dealing with me about an open door or two or a ministry or two, and I just need to go through that. Pray for me, Pastor Matt. The Lord's deal with me about something. Could you could you slip your hand up? Can you slip your hand up? Amen. Amen. You may put your hands down. As we stand to our feet, I don't know how the Lord's dealt with you