Of this series here we're calling it. And uh for anyone that was not here last Sunday night, I'll just tell you what's going on here real briefly. Um pastor was gone last Sunday night for the missions trip and he's out of town uh today for the missions trip as well. And then there is three Sundays. Uh coming up towards the beginning of next year that he asked me to fill in for him. And so with that in mind, I had um this series that I had been already been working on and things like that. And so over last week, this week, and then picking up again Towards the beginning of next year, we have this nine-part series that we're doing. And on the it's on the uh seven churches in Revelation. So what we did last Sunday night is we just kind of, it was basically just an introduction. And I'll go through some of that real briefly here. Basically, and I think most people know these things, but uh the book of Revelation, of course, was penned by the uh Apostle John uh while he was um Exiled on the island of Patmos. And of course we see that in chapter one. And um uh the book of Revelation, of course, is dealing with uh things uh that are to come. And um he tells him to write down the things that will shortly come to pass and things like that. So um we looked at pretty much all of chapter one last Sunday night. He specifically then mentions um in verse eleven uh that there are seven uh churches and he names them um that he wants John to write a specific letter to And we made a little bit of application there last week. Of course, we know that God has had men write down a letter to give to us, and it's called the Bible and on how important the Bible is to us and we can't really function actually we can't at all without the Bible. We need God's word uh to live the life that He wants us to live. And um of course we know that But then we looked um just briefly at what those seven churches were, where they were. Of course they were um in Asia Minor, which is modern day Turkey. We looked at uh the emperor during that time was the Emperor Domitian and um Very, very intense uh persecutor. Very, very intense persecution was going on in those seven churches, some more so than others, of course. Uh but the church that we're going to look at today, of course, had persecution as well And it was a very hostile environment towards Christians, but of course the Lord used that in the gospel spread as a result of the persecution So anyway, we're going to start out today looking at the very first church that he writes to. And I'll just read this again and we can kind of keep this all in perspective. Again, towards the end of chapter one, uh he mentions the seven stars and seven candlesticks. We saw what what those were, and uh at the end of of the of uh chapter one, verse twenty, he says, the seven candlesticks which thou sawst are the seven churches. Very plainly puts that out. Just keep that in mind. And we will uh look at verse 1 of chapter 2. And I'll just read it again here real quick. It says unto the angel of the church of uh of Ephesus, right. And of course we talked about that. The angel is most likely referring to the elders there, the pastors. So he says, these things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand. uh which again was a symbol of power, walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. Verse two, this is uh Jesus' words to the church at Ephesus I know thy works and thy labor and thy patience. How thou canst not bear them which are evil, and thou hast tried them which say they are apostles and are not. And hast found them liars, and hast borne, and hast patience. And for my name's sake hast labored and hast not fainted. Nevertheless I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast left thy first love Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen, and repent and do the first works, or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will remove thy candlestick, which the candlestick was the church, out of this place, except thou repent So I'm going to speak on just the title. If you have a title for it, it's The Church of Ephesus. This is part two in the series. Tonight we'll look at the second one. Smyrna, and then later on we'll pick up with the other churches. But let's pray, and then we'll take the next half hour or so here and look at the church of Ephesus. Lord, we we we love you. We thank you for loving us, Lord. Lord, if i i i if nothing else, just the fact that you've offered us salvation, Lord, and we have a home in heaven with you, it it certainly is Certainly is amazing, Lord, and we're very, very grateful for that. And uh but Lord, besides that, you've you've blessed us. You've given us this church. I thank you for this church. Lord, as we look at the church now at Ephesus, you've inspired this writing and you've given it to us. Lord, I pray that we would be able to learn what it is you have for us to learn. But not just to learn the facts, Lord, but to uh uh apply and um Lord, I pray your spirit would guide there. Hiding me behind you, I pray, Lord, I ask that you would just take over the service now. And I ask that all of our hearts would be open and receptive to whatever it is you have for us. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. So specifically here that this morning, we're gonna uh well yes, still morning. We're gonna look at the church at uh Ephesus. And all all of these cities were very, very unique, and uh some of them the persecution was more intense, uh others less intense If you if you um from a worldly standpoint, if you were not a Christian and you had to sum up what Ephesus was, it would be booming. It would be an economic epicenter. It was it was uh there was a seaport that was there and uh there was goods from all over the world really coming into Ephesus and have one of the biggest marketplaces or Gore as they call them. And um it was it was a very wealthy city. And um th there was only um uh s I forget the exact number, but there was only a few emperors that um actually had a a temple built to themselves, of course 'cause they thought they were gods. um outside of Rome, but Ephesus got two temples to uh Caesar's because that's how uh Rome felt about Ephesus. They were a very, very wealthy city. Um and ec definitely economically they were booming. Trade was great and things like that. But if you had to explain it as a Christian, you would call it a very spiritually dark place If you remember back in the book of Acts, when Paul was on one of his trips and he was there in Ephesus. Um there was uh the the the because people were getting saved, the uh the silversmith was put out of business. He was making the uh little s uh statues to Diana of the Ephesians And so they called him into the the Coliseum there and they were yellow chanting Great is Diana of the Ephesians. Um so that's the city that we're talking about. Uh very, very uh paganistic. They were steeped very deeply in Caesar worship, also other pagan gods as well. I found this interesting. Actually I just found this out last night as we were looking at some stuff Um Caesar had his statue built on top of the other pagan gods because he thought he was better than them. Of course, he was he all those Caesars were just arrogant. But anyway. Um uh the the the Caesar, the emperor, was um Domitian, very, very ruthless guy. We mentioned this last week, I think. He was uh the younger brother to Nero, and so he was um uh right on par with Nero's persecution there. Um hated Christians, hated him, hated him, hated them And be well the part of the reason is because they would not say Caesar was Lord. They would only say Jesus is Lord. And so because of that, there was obviously persecution that went on in uh Ephesus for the Christians there If you look at their history, they had great leadership. Paul was there, of course, on one of his trips. Timothy was there. John was there, and they had great leadership there at the Church of Ephesus And it shows. Um and and they get complemented in several ways here, and we'll look at those in just a second. Um but the the the the the temple to uh the goddess Diana was kind of like the epicenter of the city and um if you wanted to participate in commerce you had to participate in um Um the the the rituals that went along with that and of I'm not gonna get too into it, but it was very, very awful pagan worship. It was bad And um the Christians wouldn't do it. So they were persecuted because of it. And also, um, if you wanted to buy or sell or trade in the agora um in the big marketplace there on the at the entry to one of the gates there were um they had these little things where you would like pinch off uh the spices and burn incense and say Caesar is Lord then you could go in Of course, the Christians didn't do that, so they were not just persecuted physically, but also economically as well. And so anyway, persecution was definitely a thing. So there's that. But we look at uh the first few verses here, and I mean the the the the church here at Ephesus I I think if we had to sum it up it would be a powerhouse church. I mean it was a it was a a big church but also it had a big ministry And he talks about um the things that they're doing here and and and Jesus applauds them. Um he rebukes them for some things here in a minute, but he applauds them. And as we look at these different churches, we see that Jesus does this. points out their strengths and weaknesses, which is good. But anyway, he starts out in verse number two, I know thy works. And right off the bat, to me that's encouraging. Because picture this, if you will. They're in that pagan environment, and it is just wicked, sinful, and dark. And Jesus says, I see you I see you doing right. I know your works. They were being persecuted, but they did right anyway. Um and And Jesus sees that. And a lot of times we we say and we you know we quote Proverbs fifteen three, the eyes of the Lord are in every place beholding the evil and the good. And we say, Oh, that sin you're doing. God sees that Well it's true, but he also sees the good you're doing. And I I I find that very encouraging. Um you do something for the Lord and no one notices it, hey God does And uh to me that's encouraging. He says, I know thy works. Um and he mentions the next thing, uh labor. I know thy labor. I can't imagine what the labor for the ministry would have been like in that city. I mean the city was obviously hostile towards them, the culture was obviously hostile towards them. But evidently they labored, he mentions labor twice in this list, once in verse two, then also in verse three. And in verse 3, he points out, and for my name's sake has uh labored. So it wasn't just that they were working just to do it. They were doing it in Christ's name, you know, and there's a there's a they uh that's that's good and and and the Lord's pointing that out And um I find that that encouraging that even in the midst of that awful, awful, wicked, sinful pagan society, there is a church that is that is standing right And they were. And um they they they they were working hard and they were doing it in Christ's name. Goes on down the list and thy patience. Impatience is mentioned twice. I can't imagine what level of patience you would have to have to to uh be a uh a Christian in that city You were you couldn't you couldn't do banking like everyone else could. You couldn't go to the same marketplace. You were kind of outcast. Not kind of, you were. And the patience that that they must have had um had to have been great. Um I I I again I I can't imagine what exactly they were facing, but I know it was definitely not an easy environment So anyway, they were patient. The next thing he says, and how thou canst not bear them which are evil. And I I I kind of put it this way, and I got this from a few different uh qu um phrases here But but they were a separated church. They were they they they really emphasis uh emphasize on that as well. Um it says, can't not bear them that are evil. They were against sin And they were in the middle of a lot of sin, and they took a strong stand against it, and I praise the Lord for that. I applaud them for that, and Jesus is pointing this out as well. That would have been hard to do You know, it bro it would have been pretty easy just to go along with what uh the societal pressures were, and you could come up with good excuses too You know, in order to take care of my family, I have to go along with this. I have to get into the marketplace. I gotta buy food. I gotta buy stuff. We gotta get into the marketplace. But they didn't. They they couldn't bear evil, uh then which did evil. And um They they they were separated from sin, they were separated in their doctrine as well. They were attacked on all fronts. They were attacked um uh on the on the from with fleshly lust, they were attacked with uh false doctrine There were some cults in the area, and of course it was pagan worship was everywhere, Caesar worship was everywhere. But they stayed firm in doctrine. And we see that in a few different places here. He says, um, again, verse 2, thou hast tried them which say they are apostles and are not, hast found them liars. Um You know, the Bible says, try the spirit, see whether they be of God. And then if you go down to verse number six, this thou hast that thou hatest the deeds of the Nicol Nicolaitans or the Nicolaitians, which I also hate. He hates their deeds. And what that was What the Nicolaitans taught was um that since we're a a spirit and a soul, we just have a body that's just temporary, what goes on in the body doesn't really matter So we can do whatever we want to do with our body because on the end they were just the spirit anyway. And so they would use that excuse to go along with the pagan worships and Ephesus and things like that. Really, really bad stuff. And there the church's ephesus is like, no, that's that's wicked. That's bad. That's a bad doctrine. So they had they had good standards, they had good separation. Um then they worked hard, they labored. I imagine like if if they would have had buses, they'd have been running buses, maybe they're running wagons or something, going pick I don't know. Um but um they they got after it. And um they had a very uh strong presence there. Pretty cool stuff. And um they were doing great. They worked hard, they labored. Labor is mentioned twice, patience mentioned twice. And then this really stands out to me. They um they were firm in their separation, firm in their doctrinal stance and all that. But I notice their consistency as well. Look at verse number three. For my name's sake hast labored and hast not fainted. Wow. We I think we faint too easily when we compare what we're going through to what the church at Ephesus went through. We faint pretty easy, don't we? Say we, I mean me too, you know. But the church at Ephesus to be able to s to not faint, to keep the services going, to keep the the labor going, to keep the work going, to keep the outreach going. To keep going. Now who was writing this? John. He before he was there, he was one of the elders at Ephesus. So they've seen their pastor taken off and exiled. Still going. You know you know what I mean? So like this this is a statement that they haven't feigned. They're not allowed to have commerce with the rest of the city. But they haven't fainted. They've been through intense persecution and they haven't fainted. They've lost their jobs, they've lost their livelihoods, really, and they're still there meeting together Being a bold witness in Ephesus. They have not fainted. And I find that super encouraging. And um that is awesome. That is just awesome. If we lived take us right now and went back to Ephesus, I I I like to think that we wouldn't faint. That we stand strong against it. But I mean I don't know, but they did. They did. And uh so that's encouraging. God blesses that, God honors that. And when you're in the middle of a society that is totally against you, and Caesar, who claims to be Lord, is won't have anything to do with you. But then your real Lord says, Hey, I see you. Can you imagine the comfort that that must have been? Not just to Ephesus, but to all the churches that he wrote to at this time. And there's something else just interesting here. Um In verse seven, uh to him that overcometh, will I give to eat of the tree of life which is in the midst of the paradise of God There's um in the the temple to Diana there was a uh a marble statue of a tree coming from the the goddess Diana, and it was supposed to give you life. supposed to renew you and so there's a tree of life there in the temple and so of course it's not really, it was just Some marble. And so um there's several references here that I think would have been very encouraging to the church there. And um God's going to give you the real tree of life, which is in the midst of paradise of God. Yes. So we look at these things and their works, their labor, labor mentioned twice, patience mentioned twice, their their their stance against sin, against false doctrine. And they haven't fainted. They keep going. That is kind of like just looking at it that from that perspective, if we didn't read any further, that would be a big challenge to us. Let's be like Ephesus. And I and yeah, let's do it. In this regard, let's let's and I think in a lot of ways we we are here. I mean we're doing something every day, it seems like. Um this past well this past week Uh Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church was in three states and two countries. So that's just how we rolled. I mean we're staying busy. We gotta we gotta work, we gotta labor, we gotta keep going, we gotta stay consistent And and we see that, and that is very uh uh very good, very uh true, and we we need to be that way. And he doesn't really stop there though, does he? And and I think a lot of people already know where I'm going He said, you worked hard, you're patient, you're on guard against false doctrine, all these things, but he says, nevertheless, in verse number four. I don't want to hear that. I don't like that. We don't like that. Nevertheless, that means But you're doing something wrong. Nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee. And I mean uh we were riding back in the car yesterday. Um Paul, Derek Jamie and me were all riding back. We went to the Sword Men's Conference and um we were riding back and I was working on this and it kinda I mean it just kinda hit me here And I think I knew this, I just never put it together like this in a sentence, but it's very possible to do everything right, but still not be right. It's very possible to do everything right, but still not be right. And say you're not doing it right, but you're not right. And and now now does God want us to do right? Absolutely. And they're praised and applauded for doing right. God says, I know your works, you're doing good. And that's good. But God also cares about the heart. God also cares about the motive. You can do the right thing with the wrong motive. Very possible. And we see that here. He says, Nevertheless, verse 4, I have somewhat against thee. What was it? Because thou hast left thy first love. First, most important. First thing. Most important thing. First in in place and priority. First love. What was their first love? It was God. It was Christ. Why did that church exist? Because of Christ. What was the bond that brought them all together? Was it Paul? No, it was Christ. Was it the Apostle John who was an elder there? No, it was Christ. And their love for Christ is what brought that church together, and that church then was started and started growing because of their love for Christ. And because look what Christ had done for them. Christ had saved them. Before they were saved, they were probably involved with that worship to Diana of the Ephesians and also to uh Caesar, they were probably involved in that I doubt all of them got saved at six years old. In fact, probably not. They were already conducting business in the agora and then had to stop. They were already involved in that temple worship and already used the temple to um exchange their money and use it for their banking and all of that. And so they God saved them out of that awful, awful lifestyle. And because of what God saved them out of, there was a love there for Christ. And the church grew, obviously, and that makes sense. But now we get to this point where they are still doing the same things. They're still working hard, they're still laboring, but for whatever reason, they left God out of it as a motive. They left their first love. The problem at the church at Ephesus was not that they didn't do anything right, but they were doing everything for Christ, but leaving him out of it. And they were even doing it in his name, but they weren't doing it out of a love for Christ. Maybe they felt just obligated at that point. Um you know, maybe maybe it had got to be routine. Maybe it was um just the way they had been brought up because this was um quite a bit after the church was established. Maybe these people that were there now were the ones that did grow up in a Christian home. I don't know. I don't know. Why they left their first love. There's a lot of different things you could say, speculation-wise, but we do know they were doing the right thing without the right motive They're doing the right thing without the right motive. Now, routines aren't bad. Routines are good things. And maybe they were just in a routine and it's a good routine to be in. But be careful if you get in a routine to not it just be routine, if that makes sense. You should have the routine of doing your devotions every day, especially with your family. On your own, of course, but also with your family. You should be in that routine. Is that a good routine? Absolutely. Definitely. But let's be honest, are there times we've gone through that routine and have no clue what we just did? So yeah, God does want us to do right, but he wants us to do it with the right motive. Um so there's that. So as I'm thinking about this, I'm thinking about a few questions here. And I'll get to my three points here in just a second. But I got to asking myself this question, and I'm gonna I'm gonna ask everyone, why are we doing this? Why are we doing this? Why are we here? Now, should we be in this routine and have a mindset of we go to church, that's what we do? Well sure. But that shouldn't be the extent of it. Of course this is routine. Of course this is what we're supposed to do. We're supposed to do this. But is that the only reason? Out of a sense of obligation. Should we be obligated? Yes. Should we have duty? Yes. And we were we were listening to a um uh uh audio commentary last night driving back and he gave this illustration, so I'm gonna use it. Um Courtney's dad once said, Hey if your bullet fits my gun, I'm firing it. So that's what I'm doing. Okay? So this is what he said. Um If if so if my wife goes away for a ladies trip or something, I struggle with that by the way, totally unrelated, but I was not married to be alone, okay? So anyway, so say she she goes somewhere and um I decide while she's gone I'm gonna get the house perfect You know, wash the dishes, wash the clothes, which is a lot of work because for me one pair of pants is like a whole load, you know. So um stay away from denim, it'll mess up the washing machine. Anyway. So Um, I decided everything's straight. Well, d everything looks perfect. And then she comes home and she notices it. She says, wow. You got the whole house clean, you got all the dishes done, oh look, you even decorated and things look good. Why why did you do this I'm not going to say because I'm committed to a serious legal binding agreement between you and me on this date. We got married. It's legal, and I'm committed to this legal arrangement. No. What am I gonna say? Because I love you. Right? Now, am I legally committed to her? Well yeah. Biblically, legally, absolutely. But that's not gonna fly if that's my answer, is it? Now is I mean, don't get me wrong, it should be both It should be both. But if I leave love out of my marriage, that would be really bad. That would be really bad. So am I obligated to my wife? Am I do I have a sense of duty to my wife? Yes. But it better be more than that. And so I think that is the point that they were at, though. It's like we're Christians, this is what we do. We're committed to Christ. He did this, so we're going to do this, and this is what he said to do, so we're going to do what he said to do. But the love wasn't there like it used to be. So that's the point they were at. So why do you do the things you do? Is it because I have to? Or is it because I get to? I I tell you, I can I I'm just going to share my heart with you a little bit this morning. I love these teenagers here. Your kids, I love them. I mean, when they cry, I cry. When they laugh, they'll be quiet unless no I'm just kidding. I I love them. I really do. They they are my world. Um next to my wife, they are probably the most important people in my life. My wife, my dad, the teenagers. I mean I love them. I really do. And I mean that. And I think they know that. Okay, so but here's the thing. If I didn't love them, would I still be doing this? Probably. Because God called me to, and I'm going to do what he said. But would it have the same outcome? No. Would it look the same? No. Am I gonna do what God said? Yeah, I'm gonna do what he said. I'm gonna be here. Do what Pastor tells me to do? Why? Because he said so. Do what God told me to do. Why? Because he said so. I mean that that that is me. That is what I'm gonna do But I sure do love them. And because I love them, it's definitely a little bit different. If that makes any sense. I hope it does. I hope it does. But we look at the church at Ephesus and that's where they're at. So why you do what you do? Why are you running the bus route? Why are you teaching a Sunday school class? because I've taught a class for this many years and that's just what I'm supposed to do. True, good, great. God called you to do that? Absolutely. But do you have the love in it? Do you love the kids? Do you love your Lord, the one you're teaching them about? Why are you singing in the choir? Just for something to do, just maybe just to uh be like to sing, or are you doing it for the Lord? Why is it you're doing what you're doing? Is it good to have duty, obligation? Yes, but there should also be love involved with that. So as I ask you these questions and ask myself these questions, Why are we doing this? You might s I mean I I I was getting a little convicted, really. I don't want to ever lose my love for Christ. Not going to lose my salvation. I'm gonna keep doing what he's calling me to do. But I don't ever want to lose my love for him. And as I'm thinking about this, I'm talking about how much I love my teenagers, my wife, I mean the church. I better love him more. Because if I get to a point where I love the ministry for more, I think I'd be at the point where Ephesus is at. And I'm talking to everyone. Your ministry here that you do, and we should all be involved in something. Maybe it's soul-winning choir, whatever. Do you love that or do you love the Lord? Hopefully it's both. Hopefully you don't leave your first love. And I'm just I'm just kind of sharing my heart a little bit this morning, but If I did not love the Lord, would I still be doing what I'm doing? Probably, because I'm going to do what he says. I guess that's just the man to me. I'm do it do what he says, you know, I don't know. Maybe that's just because my dad taught me to do what do what you're told. You know, I don't know. I'm gonna do what he says. But if I don't love him, it won't look the same. The thing about our pastor, if he he loves the Lord, it's obvious. Pastor Leatherman has a very tight-knit relationship with the Lord, I think. And you can see it. But I also kind of have a suspicion that he would do what God says anyway. Can you imagine what it would be like if his heart wasn't in it, if his love wasn't in it? It wouldn't look the same In fact, I think the reason the church is as successful as it is, is because of his love for the Lord. So I th I thank the Lord for that. But anyway, if you're thinking, you know what, I might be in this boat. This might be me. And if you're uh as you're listening to to the church at Ephesus this morning and what they were like, if you're thinking, I think I'm in that spot. I'm doing the right things, but it's just not like it used to be So, what are three things we can do? Well, he tells them what to do, so let's do what he tells them to do. Look at this. Verse 4. Nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast left thy first love. Verse 5: here's the step-by-step plan. to getting um our love back for Christ. Verse five, remember, therefore, from whence thou hast fallen. Number one, remember, remember from where you've fallen. One reason we might start loving our Lord less is because we start forgetting how bad we were and what he saved us from. Or what we deserved. You know, if if um i i if amber was you about to like die or something, get hit by a car, or someone's about to do something, and I saved her life, she wouldn't forget that. Maybe 30, 40 years from now she might start to forget it. I don't know. But um okay, let's think about your relationship with your spouse, with the first time you met them. When you first got married, it was like exciting. It was brand new. There was love. And then as you go on, you forget about what it was like in the beginning. Hopefully not. If that's the case, James and Diane will talk to you. Right? Yeah. Um but you get you get the point. And so I think that's where they were at. They left they lost their first love. What does God tell them to do? Remember. Remember before Paul showed up and told you about Christ, the one that you fell in love with? Remember, you were the ones that were involved in that sinful practice that you're standing so hard against. You were the ones that were involved in that awful, filthy temple worship. You were the ones involved in burning incense to Caesar, and you had all these just awful, filthy lifestyles that went along with that. You were the one that was involved in that that you're stand now standing against. See, I think what happens is we take a hard stand against sin, and we should, we should, don't get me wrong. But we forget that we were that. Remember from whence thou hast fallen. Remember who you were. Remember what you deserve. Remember what Christ did for you. For you to save you from that. If I start to think about Christ on the cross a little bit, I think that's one reason communion is so important. If I start to remember what he did to save me from hell. I might start to have a little bit of that love come back. Number one, remember. We have got to remember. Don't ever get so caught up in your Christian life that you forget about what Christ has done. Don't ever get so caught up in your Sunday school class bus route that you forget why you're doing it Because Christ died for your sins, because he saved you, and now you have a home in heaven, that's where you're going, that's why we do what we do. Remember the verse that reminds you the verse says we love him because he first loved us. And when I start to remember from whence I have fallen, I think some of that love for Christ might come back. Every now and then you might get some letters out. Um f from w from when you first started uh courting your spouse or whatever and you get letters and You pull them out and memories come back. You look at pictures. I got a picture of of me and Courtney on my desk in my office and it's the day we got married. And um We we were good looking, weren't we? I've gotten fat. I I've gained a lot of she's still good looking, but uh never mind. So But I like to remember that. I really do. And um there's other pictures that we look at and stuff like that. And and when I remember that, I remember Ha, I'm going on a memory trip. This is good. And my love's coming back. No, it's kid. Okay. So um I remember um I I sat on like this side all the way in the back, the church that I met her in And she sat like up here. So every service I would move one row closer. You know what I'm saying? Because I didn't want to like just move all the way up front and sit with her. creepy, you know. So it'd be much safer to be a little bit s soccerish, you know. And just every Sunday I would move up one row closer. And then I finally got to the road behind her and she wasn't there. I was like, oh man But anyway, so I remember that and it's kind of fun. I really do. I remember uh every night w a quarter, we didn't date, different sermon, different time. But anyway, um every night After I'd get off work, worked at a furniture store. Every every night I'd get off work. I would drive to her house. Her mom had this big dinner every night. It was great. Because I was broke. So that's really what I went. No, I'm just kidding Um so I would go I would go and um man that was I I remember that. And um anyway, and I'm smiling. You see this? But this, what I'm doing now with her, is what we're supposed to do with the Lord. You see this? I remember. When he saved me. I remember the state I was in, and I was a mess. I was I mean everyone's testimony is different for me. I remember I was a little kid. And I remember my teacher, Mrs. Sneeringer, teaching me um, I guess that had been first grade. Yeah. Um and it was I wanna Like Masters Club but but different. You know, it's a w and and I remember this and I'm like, huh. I really don't want to go like Burn? That doesn't sound like fun. Fire? Away from God? Can't see my family? That was really bothering me And I remember her telling me about that. And I remember her she led me to the Lord, and I got in the car. And you know how you have like these really weird random thoughts stick out in your mind. I remember uh um we had like s a bag uh a bag from Sam's Club or or I think up in the front and there was like b anyway, you have these really weird memories stick out in your mind from date from things like that. But I remember telling my mom and dad about it. They were excited. I remember it was a couple weeks later, I got baptized, and I'm remembering these things. And as I'm remembering them, I'm remembering what Christ did for me You know, I think we ought to study the whole Bible, you know, read your Bible every day. But I think periodically we ought to just go back and read the crucifixion story again. I think periodically we ought to just go back and read what Christ did for us again And as we remember the first love, the first things that he did for us, I think our love will start to come back for him. I mean that's how it works with everyone else. I think that's how it worked with with me and him. So if you find yourself in that state where I'm doing everything, but I'm just frustrated, I'm hitting this rut. I'm just doing it because I'm supposed to do it Whoa, whoa, whoa, back up, remember. Remember from whence thou hast fallen. Number two, repent. Number two, repent. He says um He says the something here. Oh, verse 5. Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen and repent. What does that mean? Change of mind. Uh it means there's something to repent from. That means there's a reason to repent. We have to acknowledge that leaving God out of it's wrong. Just like I didn't plan on using this, but uh marriage example seems to fit real well. Just like if you're in a a marriage relationship And you've been doing all the things right, but you there's no uh love in there. You've got to admit that before you can get it fixed. You know you're still together, we're still but there's no love there. That's a problem, and you gotta admit that. Right? Makes sense? Okay. So it's the same thing with the Lord. See, the danger is we could have this attitude, what are you talking about? I'm in church every s every single service, I go to every single event I tithe, I I'm I work i in in a ministry. I'm what are you talking about? I'm doing everything right. All right, but we still have to admit if we have left him out of it, we still have to admit the problem You know, if if if you know, same scenario, she's gone, they make everything, she comes back, oh you did all this stuff, why'd you do this for me? Because of our legal binding agreement, you know. I've got a problem and I gotta admit that. Okay? If you have been in that rut, just admit there's something you need to repent from. And that's what he's telling them. So anyway, it's a sin to not love God. Um greatest commandment, right? Love the Lord thy God. So verse uh no number three. Excuse me. Number one, remember, number two, repent, number three, repeat. Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen, repent and do the first works. Do the first works. Do what you did at the beginning. Again, uh this wasn't the plan, but it seems to fit. Marriage relationship. It gets stagnant, go on dates again. I mean, what'd you do in the beginning when you got all of you and stuff? Do that. Do the first works. Leave a note in his lunchbox again. I like those. Those are cool. Yeah. Um she had a jar. Should I tell them about the jar? Okay. I won't tell 'em never mind. So she had a jar, a little mason jar, and one day I come downstairs And um it's sitting on the table, it's got a bow on it. But we ne guys, we would never think to put a bow on anything. That's just weird. But when a girl does it, that's cool. And you're like, oh that's pretty. Yeah. So there's a bow on it And inside there was fifty notes. And I was supposed to take one out every day. I didn't do that. I just I read them all of course, you know. But actually for a while there I did follow the rules And um but that's kind of special, isn't it? I mean, and now that was this past year. This same type of thing we did at first. You follow me? This is turning into like a marriage counseling thing, isn't it? Um and if you have If if if you're having that struggle, then that's what you would do. You do the first works. You know, guys, win your wife. You know, now if things get to where you're doing the right things, but there's just the the the loves out of it Do the first works. Get your suit on. Go take her out somewhere nice, like Denny's or something, you know? I mean do the Do the first works. I'm having fun up here. Um What were the first works you did as a Christian? I mean, like the first week you got saved. You couldn't wait to get back in church. You read your Bible more than one verse a day. You couldn't wait to figure out more. Everything you had so many questions. And because you were reading so much and had so many questions, you talked to the pastor more and asked him questions. But now you don't really read as much as you used to, if at all. Man, you talk to God all the time when you first got saved. Now it's thanks for the food. I mean that's good, but where's the love? Just like I can communicate with my wife, I can do so without love. It's like, what's for dinner? Cool. You know, we communicated. You know, but that's that is important though. But when's the last time we actually like, you know, sat down and had a conversation with God? The first works. First got in your Bible, first started praying. When you first got saved, you you couldn't stop talking about it. You told people about it. You know, if you talk about someone, you tend to love them more. I love my wife more already. I've talked about her so much this morning Um when's the last time you told someone about your savior? You know something I I really appreciate about uh uh Derek. Um Past uh few days we went to that conference and w uh twice we went out to eat somewhere and both times h he stops the waitress And says, hey, we're getting ready to pray. Thank the Lord for our food. How can we pray for you? Oh tell you, that's awesome. What a great way to witness. It's awesome. So, but what's he doing? He's he's working the one he loves the most into every conversation. When you first got saved, that's what you did. But now it's like eh. Whatever. So if you find yourself getting stagnant Number one, remember. Number two, repent. Number three, repeat. If you don't do these things Verse 5: Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen, repent and do the first works, or else I will come quickly unto thee. And we'll remove thy what? What's the candlestick? Look at verse 20 of chapter 1. Seven stars, the angels of the seven churches, seven candlesticks which thou saw are the seven churches. God's not obligated to keep working through a church that doesn't love him You with me? God's not obligated to keep using a church that's left him out of it. I don't know what that means. I don't know what that looks like, but that's what it says. So I think this morning, and you can close your Bibles, I'm done. I think this morning what we need to do is really search ourselves. Am I in love with Jesus like I used to be? There's some good points we can learn from Ephesus. There's some bad points we can learn from Ephesians. From Ephesus. We ought to learn from both the good and the bad. We ought to see where their strong points were. So yes, that's what we need to do. We need to labor. We need to be patient. We need to work hard. We need to love the Lord. But also watch out To make sure we're not doing it maybe for the title, oh we're the best church. Make sure that you're in love with your Savior. Make sure you spend time with your Savior. Make sure you remember what He did for you. Make sure you do the first works. And if not, you might need some repentance. Remember, repent, repeat. Heads bowed, eyes closed, and we're gonna look around for just a moment here. First question is this. How many of you say, you know what? Therefore we don't have to go to hell and we can have a home in heaven because of what he's done for us. I've mentioned that. But if you died right now Is there a doubt in your mind on whether you'd go to heaven or not? If you say, Pastor Matt, you know I'm not sure that if something happened to me, I'm not sure if I'd go to heaven or not, but I'm very concerned about that. Can you just lift your hand up? No one's looking around Pastor Matt, I'm not sure that I'm saved. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven. But I'm very concerned about that. I'm not going to call you out or make you give a speech or embarrass you or point at you or anything like that. I just want to pray for you, that's all. Pastor Matt, that's me. I'm not sure that I'm going to heaven. But I'm concerned about that. Next question is this. So you know what, Fashion Man, I know for sure I'm safe, I know for sure. But I think that I've maybe lost a little bit of my love for Christ. I'm not saying you've been doing the wrong things. Maybe you've been here every single service for the past however long and You're doing everything right, and that's good. I applaud you for that. I praise you for that. But how many say, you know what? God spoke to my heart about this this morning. There's some repentance that needs to be done. There's some remembering that needs to be done. SU, can you just slip your hand up? My my hand's up, by the way. There's some things I need to get right. Put your hands down. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this um Verse uh these few verses here, this passage, I pray that we would take uh uh this to heart, Lord. We remember um what you've done for us, repent when we done when we've left you out of it, and do the first works. Repeat, Lord And in the strong points of Ephesus, Lord, I pray that we would learn from those as well and try to replicate that where it's right. Lord, I ask now that you would bless this invitation and have have your way, we pray, in Jesus' name. As you stand