Number twelve is our text for this morning. I'd like for us to read that together in unison. My attempts at humor this morning are not going very well. And uh I think I better abandon that Verse 12, 1 Kings 19. Let's read this together in unison if you would. Are you ready? Here we go. And after the earthquake of fire. But the Lord was not in the fire, and after the fire, a still small voice, a still small voice. And Elijah heard that. And he responded. And let's pray. I'm going to speak this morning, a still small voice, on that one little phrase there. Let's ask the Lord to speak our hearts and help us. Father in heaven. We bow to you this morning with very grateful hearts. You've blessed us this past week. And Lord, now we begin a new week in your house. And I'm thankful for Lord for the folks that have come out and the fellowship we've had this morning already. The singing's been a blessing. Lord, it's just been a joy so far to be in your house. And I pray now, as we look into your word, Lord, I ask you would help me and all of us to put aside the cares of of the world, or put aside our schedules and whatever else we'll have going on later on throughout the week, and open our hearts and minds to your word And Lord, I pray, myself included, I pray that all of us would be able to hear that still small voice of your Holy Spirit. And that you would give us faith to trust you and respond and follow your leadership. Speak to us through your word is my prayer. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew this hour And with all my heart, I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. And you be the preacher, Lord. Just preach through me is my prayer. In Jesus' name, amen. I think many, if not most of us, are somewhat familiar with Elijah. Now, this is a fascinating chapter 18, chapter 19. Is a fascinating event in the life and ministry of Elijah. We're going to look at it a little bit. We're not going to be able to just cover the whole thing. But a fascinating thing. We don't know a whole lot about Elijah. We're told a few things in the Bible. We don't know much about his background or his family. I do know this. The name Elijah means this. Jehovah is my strength. Boy, what a great name. Jehovah, the Lord God, the true God, He is my strength. He is my strength. How many folks this morning you're saved? You know it. Say amen. How many folks have found the Lord to be strength for you? God's helped you. Just his presence. Maybe some scripture verses that you've learned And you're going through a tough time and those verses come back to mine. And God reassures you, hey, I'm with you. I'll strengthen you. I'll help you. What a tremendous name. And if you would take time and study the life of Elijah, you would see that the Lord truly was his strength And God enabled him and empowered him to do some wonderful things. I believe, my personal opinion, is that Elijah is one of God's greatest prophets recorded in the Old Testament What an amazing, amazing man of God. And the power that God gave him and the miracles that God performed through the ministry. Of Elijah is just an amazing thing. He was one of Israel's, I believe, one of Israel's most fearless prophets I mean the guy was fearless. Um did you ever see a pickup truck and they have on the back window? Um no fear. Anyone ever see that? Uh uh one, I think that's stupid You ought to be afraid of something. If nothing else, we ought to fear God. Amen. But if anybody could have a bumper sticker on their chariot, is Elijah say fearless? This guy, man alive, he would uh face, he'd face uh the false prophets of God fearlessly. He was fearless in his defense of God's word. His defense of God's word. Now, we really don't need to defend God's word, do we? I think we ought to speak up when it comes under attack and people are trying to change it, people are trying to deny it, the evolutionists are trying to undercut the teaching of the Word of God. We ought to speak up about that. Amen Go speak up. We had years ago, we had uh brother Clyde, Dr. Clyde Box with us, and what an elegant speaker. And he uh stood right down front here, I still remember, he stood right down front here, and he says, you don't need to defend a lion. He said, all you've got to do is just unleash it and let it go. That line will take care of itself. And his point was this: the word of God take care of itself. Amen. You just preach it, you just proclaim it. But Elijah was a fearless in his defense of God's word. For Elijah, if God said it, it was so. Thus saith the Lord: if God said something, there wasn't any debate, there wasn't any negotiation, there wasn't any compromise, God's word was so. What a prophet he was. He was fearless in this defense of God's word. He was fearless in his defense of God's worship. Israel rejected, was rejecting at this period of time what we're the where we read our passage from, that context, that period of time, Israel uh was rejecting the worship of the Lord of uh of the Lord and uh they were turning aside to the false worship of idols, Baal in particular I mean just little things made by man, uh gods that were the figment of man's imagination, and they were turning away from the true and living God, the worship of the true and living God, the creator of all the universe, the God of all man, and they were worshiping these foolish false pagan gods that uh man had come up with that did not exist. They were they were just uh little metal idols and statues they would make and imaginary gods behind that. And Israel was turning to that and Elijah was confronting that As Israel drifted away from the truth of the Word of God, the truth of the true and living God, as they drifted away, God raised up Elijah to stand in their way. And he would lift up his voice and he would warn them and he would appoint them back to the true and living God. You know what I found in my own life, and I've observed it and I see it in Scripture And that is this. God never lets his people go astray without intervening in their drift. You follow what I'm saying? God never lets his people go away. Hebrews chapter 12, we referenced this last Sunday night a little bit. Hebrews chapter 12, the Bible says that when a person trusts Christ, when we accept the Lord Jesus Christ Savior, We are born into the family of God. We become the sons of God. God is our Father. How many people agree with me? God is a good Father. God's a good father. He loves his children. He loves you and me. And a good father, hear this now, a good father never allows his children to go astray without stepping in and saying, hold it, hold it. We need to address this. We're going to correct this. Right or wrong. Right or wrong. The father just lets the kids go. Just let them go on. That's not a good father. Our heavenly father is a good father. And all through scripture, and I see it in my own life Prone to wander, Lord, I feel it. Prone to leave the God I love. Here's my heart, oh, take and seal it. Seal it for thy courts above. We tend to drift, we tend to wander, but thank God he loves us enough to step in and say, hold it, we're not going to let this go any further. I wonder what kind of mess our lives would be if God didn't step in. Wonder what kind of mess our lives would be if God didn't intervene and say, hold it, I'm not going to let you go any farther. And that's what he's doing for the nation of Israel. They're drifting. They're getting caught up and they're believing the lie of these pagan gods. They're believing the lie of these false prophets. Boy, it just seems so enamoring. And by the way, these false gods, Baal and all that, says, hey, you can worship our God and live however you want. You can worship our God and enjoy the sensual pleasures of life in the world, and you can worship our God. And the true God says, no, no, sin is sin. And God raised up Elijah to stand between Israel and this false God, these false worships that would destroy them, and declare, thus saith the Lord. What amazing man Elijah was. And let me just make this statement again. Thank God he intervenes when we start to go astray. Thank God for that. Elijah was a man, one of God's greatest prophets, in my opinion. He was a fearless prophet. I put this down. He was a prophet of great faith. He trusted God. He trusted God. And when the food was scarce and God would lead him in ways that really humanly didn't make sense and and uh but without fail you follow Elijah and he trusted the Lord and God provided for him and God protected him Even when humanly speaking, it didn't look like there was any provision, humanly speaking. I mean the cupboard was bare and God would send ravens. and take care of him. God took care of him. What a man of great faith. What a man of great prayer. I think of Elijah, I think of prayer If you would come back to chapter 18. Your Bibles are open here to 19. Come back to chapter 18. And notice with me. I'm going to begin reading in verse 22, and I'm going to read an extended portion of scripture here, and this is a record. Of one of the most amazing prayers and the most amazing answers to prayer in Scripture. Now, there's a lot of amazing accounts of prayer and answer to prayer But this is an amazing thing. Verse number 22, the Bible says this. You follow along as I read. Then said Elijah unto the people: I, even I only, remain a prophet of the Lord. But Baal's prophet are 450 men. See here, they're shifting. They're getting away from God. So Elijah's speaking up. Look what he says, verse 23. Let them therefore, these four hundred prophets of Baal, this false, phony, imaginary God, let them therefore give us two bullocks. Let them choose one bullock for themselves, cut it in pieces, lay it on wood, put it no fire under it, and I will dress the other bullock and lay it on wood and put no fire under it And ye, you false prophets of Baal, ye call on the name of your gods. I will call on the name of the Lord. Look at this. And the God that answereth by fire, let him be God. Wow, what a challenge. Huh? Now look what happens. And all the people answered and said, It is well spoken, we'll pray to this Baal. And he answers by fire, then We'll we'll he'll be the true God, we'll worship him. But you pray to your God, the true God, Lord, and if He answers by fire, then we'll worship Him And Elijah said unto the prophets, verse twenty-five, prophets of Baal, choose you one bullock for yourselves, and dress it, and ye uh for year many. And call in the name of your gods, but put no fire under it. In other words, don't sneak a little fire, don't sneak a little cigarette lighter underneath there. It has to be legit, no sneaking around You but the cigarette lighters in the Hebrew, if you study it there, is where you get that. But uh his lesson, no what he's saying is this No cheating Don't you put any fire underneath there. You pray down fire from your God. Alright? And um, but no fire under verse 26. And they took the bullock which was given them, and they dressed it, they cut it up. They called on the name of Baal from morning even until noon, saying, Oh Baal, hear us! I underlined the next phrase, but there was no voice, nor any that answered. You know why there wasn't any voice or any that answered? Because there wasn't any God like that. It was imaginary. It was phony. And they leaped upon the altar which was made. Verse 27. And it came to pass at noon. I like Elijah. And it came to pass at noon that Elijah what? He mocked them. You know what he's doing? We call it trash talking. Elijah mocked them and said, Cry aloud, for he is a god. Cry aloud, for he is a God. Either he's talking or he's pursuing or he's In a journey, or per adventure he sleepeth and must be awakened. Call Louder. He's on the phone with someone else. Oh, he's on vacation somewhere. He's taking a nap. You gotta call Louder. Boy, that set them off. Look at verse 28. And they cried aloud and cut themselves after their manner with knives and lances. To the blood cush po gushed out upon them. They had an idea, well, if we injure ourselves, then we'll really get his attention You know what I found? I found that people get away from the worship of God, the true God, they end up hurting themselves. Destroying their cells, destroying their lives. That's what you see here. Now look what happens And it came to pass, verse 29, when midday was past, and they prophesied until the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, that there was neither voice nor any to answer, nor any that regarded. Nothing happened. Nothing happened. And Elijah said unto all the people, Come near unto me. All the people came near to him, and he repaired the altar of the Lord that it was that was broken down. That's a good thing. And Elijah took twelve stones according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob unto whom the word of the Lord came, saying, Israel shall be thy name. And with the stones he built an altar in the name of the Lord. And look at this. And he made a trench about the altar as great as would contain two measures of seed. So he built this big trench around this stone altar, and he builds this big trench around it. And he put the wood in order and cut the bullock in pieces and laid him on the wood. And said, fill four barrels with water and pour it on the burnt sacrifice and on the wood. And he said, Do it the second time, and they did it the second time. And he said, Do it the third time, and they did it the third time And the water ran around round about the altar, and he filled the trench with water. Now why would he do that? Nobody said anything about water. He told them, you say, build an altar, put wood on there, put your bullock on there, cut it up, and you pray, don't you cheat, don't put any little lighters under You pray and you see if you ask your false God to bring down fire. Nothing happens. So uh he goes, alright, it's my turn. Build the altar puts the wood on there, cuts the bullock up. He digs this big trench around and he hath them pour all this water until the thing is soaking wet. Why would he do that? He wants to convince them that this is a miracle of God and it is not a sleight of hand. They must know that God is true and living God. And he's going overboard to emphasize that fact. Um, verse uh the water ran round about verse the about the altar, verse 35. He filled the trench. And it came to pass at the time of the eve of the Of the offering of the evening sacrifice, that Elijah the prophet came near and said, Now here's this prayer: Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel. Let it be known this day that thou art the God in Israel, that I am thy servant, and that I have done all these things at thy word. Hear me, O Lord. Hear me, that this people may know that thou art the Lord God and that thou hast turned their heart back again. Wow, what a prayer, huh? I can I can picture the crowd all around her and I just just the power of that prayer of Elijah, the power of God upon him, upon that prayer. I just hear the whole place go silent. Everybody's holding their breath. Look at the next verse. Then the fire of the Lord fell. consumed the burnt sacrifice and the wood and the stones and the dust and licked up the water that was in the trench. I mean there's nothing left. It just vaporized it. I mean in a moment. Look how the people respond. And when all the people saw it, they fell on their faces and they said, The Lord, He is the God! The Lord, He is the God. Whew. Do you agree with me? Elijah's a man of prayer. I've never seen something like that, prayer like that in my life. What an amazing, amazing man. Now I took all that time, I took all this scripture to go through this to point out this fact Elijah was a powerful, powerful man of faith, a powerful preacher of God's Word, a powerful man of prayer, but He was no superman. Now, keep your place here in chapter 19. Come with me to the book of James, way back towards the end of the New Testament. Elijah is referenced by James at the end of his book after his name, James chapter number 5. In James, in writing to New Testament believers, he references, in the context of prayer, he references this great, great prophet of the Old Testament, Elijah. And look what he says about them. James chapter 5. We're going to pick up in verse 17, all the way at the end of the book of James. Now, it says, and Elias. That's the New Testament. That would come from the Greek spelling of Elijah. Elias here is Elijah, so don't confuse the two. Elijah was a man, look at this, subject to what? Like passions as we are. And what does he mean by that? Elijah was a man subject to light passions as we are. What does that mean? You know what he's saying? He's saying this. Elijah was no different than you or I. He's just a man. He put his pants on one leg at a time. He uh no different he had the same He had the same struggles. He had the same issues. He had the same sinful nature. He had the same limitations. He was just like you and I. He was no different than us, like passions. As we are. And what? He prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it rained not on the earth in the space of three years and six months. He prayed again, verse 18. Heaven gave rain, and the earth brought forth. Now is another event of his prayer. But this is What I wanted to take away from what James said. Elijah was a phenomenal, phenomenal man of faith. But he was just a man. He was just a man. And he faced the same struggles. He faced the same trials. He dealt with the same temptations like you and I. He was a human being, like every single one of us sitting here in this pew. He had his ups and he had his downs. Elijah, we're going to note here in a momentarily, he had his emotional struggles. How many people know what I'm talking about, emotional struggles? You get discouraged. Man, you just Elijah had that. Elijah faced temptations just like you and I do. How many people here have ever faced a temptation? Raise your hand. Some of you all gave in to the temptation not to raise your hand. If you would turn with me just quickly, if you come over to 1 Corinthians chapter 10 1 Corinthians chapter 10. My point is this: even the greatest Christians, even the greatest men and women of God, even those with the greatest faith and the greatest warriors for God, Christ, prayer warriors. We're all just people. We're all just human beings with the same limitations, the same struggles, same temptations. 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Look with me if you would at verse 13. This would be a good verse to underscore in your Bibles. This would be a good verse to commit to memory. 1 Corinthians 10, 13. There hath no temptation taken you, but such as is what? Common to man. Common to man. You're not facing any temptation. You're not facing any strial. You're not being enticed to do something wrong in any way that's unique to you. We all face the same struggles. We all face the same uh trials and difficulties. Uh the context may be in in each might be in different with each of individual But the temptation, the trial itself is the same. But such is common to man. God is faithful. Praise the Lord for that. Amen. God's faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you are able, but will with the temptation also make a way to escape that ye may be able to bear it. Now, I believe that verse there, I believe that verse right there, 1 Corinthians 10. 13, I believe that verse there is very, very important for every new Christian to get a hold of. Maybe you've just been saved recently. Maybe you haven't been known the Lord for a long time. Maybe just recently you've called the Lord trusting as your Savior. You need to understand you still face temptations. I've seen sometimes Christians, and I remember when I first got saved, I got thrown a little bit there. After I got saved, God's forgiven me all my sins. He's changed my life. I have a new life and what he's done for me. And you know what I found out? Uh this new life, this new person I am, and God made such dramatic change in my life. But I found out that old Dennis still lived in this body There was, man, I I'm tempted. I go, wait a minute. I'm a Christian now. I'm saved. Why am I? Well, what's it? No, no, no. We still face it. We still face it. Now, the difference is now the Lord is faithful. Now we have the Lord. He helps us to have victory over and escape it. Before I was saved, before I was saved, that old temptation to sin, whatever it might be, old temptation, drink this slow gin, uh get that quart of beer, uh, ah, come on, it would be wonderful Before I was saved, I'd slave to it. I was bound to it. Now that I was saved, that old bear would say, Come drink me. Come drink me. I don't need you. God's faithful. God helps me overcome that. You follow what I'm trying to say? So I believe it's important for a new Christian to understand this concept here. We still do face temptations. And by the way, it will be till the day we die. We live in a fallen world, we live in a sinful world, and that temptation is going to be there. God will help us. You say, preacher, what happens If I give in, I'm saved, and I give in to the temptation. 1 John 1:9 says, if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins, cleanse us from all unrighteousness I can come and get back in tune with God and get his blessings. So it's important for a new Christian to know, and I jotted this down just quickly. I think it's important for old Christians to remember Listen, we never saved so long that we still don't struggle with temptation. We're never saved so long that we don't have to deal with uh the old sinful nature and all of that. We're never saved so long that we don't get discouraged. Right or wrong. We're never saved so long. Oh, you say, I've been saved for forty years. Ah, and you know what? Still have to deal with the the the fallen flesh. Still get discouraged. Still get down. So Elijah, here's where I'm getting at. Elijah was a tremendous man of God. He was a tremendous man of faith, an exceptional man of prayer. But he was just a man. And when you get to chapter 19, what Pastor Matt read here a little bit ago, we see the humanity of this prophet of God. As he gets so discouraged. Come back up here to verse number, come back here to 1 Kings, if you would, please. Now let's get back to our story. He gets so discouraged. He's prayed down fire. God's done an amazing thing. And the people of Israel have turned back to God. He slays these false prophets. He kills them. But the king's wife Hilary. I mean Jezebel. Um I'm sorry, I should not have said that. I should not have said that She says, he killed all those prophets. By this time tomorrow he'll be dead. And the king's wife, Jezebel, comes after him. Great man of faith. Great man of prayer. He's gonna pray down fire and burn up Jezebel. Is that what happens? No, if you've read this before, you know that's not what happens. The most unanticipated response. Elijah has the most unanticipated response, perhaps, in all of Scripture. He just killed 400 false prophets. He prayed on fire and vaporized rock and wood and oxen. And this king's wife threatens to kill him. And you know what he does? He turns tail and runs. In fact, he gets so discouraged by this, if you would, look there in verse number 19. Come notice with me here verse number four. I mean he's running now. It is so out of character. But he himself, verse 4, when a day's journey into the wilderness, he's running, he's hiding. And came and sat down under a juniper tree. Look at this next phrase. And he requested for himself that he what? Like die. And he said, it is enough now, O Lord, take away my life, for I am not better than my father's. I have two points just real quickly I want to give you. The first one is I want us to notice the mental condition of Elijah here. He's in a bad place. In a brief period of time He got in a bad place mentally. He went from a moment of experiencing one of the most powerful demonstrations of the power of God in all of Scripture. In just a few short hours, I don't even want to live. It's enough. I'm at the end of my rope. He got a very low point in his life. Why how did that happen? Um I think one and this is some of this speculation on my part But um I think uh he had a great victory in this contest with the false prophets. And my experience has been, what I've in my own life and what I've noticed is sometimes after a great victory come great defeats Sometime after God does something in our life, and man, we get a great victory, and we see the Lord do something unusual in our life, and we tend to let our guard down, we tend to kick back a little bit And then we experience defeat. Does anybody, can I get a witness? Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Do you ever go to a revival meeting? And man, God blesses you. You make decisions. You come out, and that next Monday, boom. Things fall apart. I think that could be a factor here. I think there's another factor. I think um he forsook other believers. Did you notice there in the first part Verse 4 he said, but he went himself. He left his assistance, his entourage, he left them behind. Other believers, so to speak. He left them behind. He went out by himself. I tell you what, I found this. We need each other. There's a reason God ordained the church. There's a reason God established God's people to come together on a regular basis and come together and worship and sing and fellowship. Why? Because we need each other. You get some Christian gets out there and starts neglecting the fellowship of God's people and gets out there just a lone ranger and doing things caught up all that, boy, I'll tell you, that'll mess you up Spiritually. Mess up your thinking spiritually. And Elijah got away from other believers. Uh I think there's a third reason he got uh mentally uh out of whack here his thinking. Uh I think uh another third reason is uh maybe things didn't go the way he anticipated. Man alive. Fire from heaven falling down. Everybody's going to turn to God. Everybody's going to say, Elijah, yes, this is amazing. And uh one key significant person in the nation of Israel, the pre the uh pre the uh king's wife, turns against him, and he didn't expect that. Jezebel turned on him, and that messed with his mind. This isn't what I anticipated. I tell you, the greatest struggle in the Christian life takes place between our two ears. That's where the battle is. How we think. And we have got to be careful. 2 Corinthians 10:5, Paul said this: bringing into captivity every thought. to the obedience of Christ. And Elijah got messed up in his thinking. Look with me if you would at verse 9 of 1 Kings 19. He came hither to the cave. And lodged there, and behold, the word of the Lord came unto him, and he said unto him, What doest thou here, Elijah? What are you doing out here in the wilderness all by yourself, talking about I want you want to die? What's going on here? Look what Elijah said. He says, I have been very jealous for the Lord God of hosts, for the children of Israel forsaken thy covenant, thrown down thy altars and slain thy prophets. I, even I only am left, and they seek my life to take it away. Look with me over at verse 14. God asked him again, What are you doing here, Elijah? Verse 14, he said, I've been very jealous for the Lord God of hosts, because the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant, turned down thy daughters. They slain thy prophets with a sword. I, even I only am left, and they seek my life. What is his focus on? Himself. I, I, me, me, my life. I I did this, I'm doing that, I'm this, I'm that I tell you what, we get focused on ourselves, one of two things is going to happen. Either we get filled with self-pride or we start turning to self-pity. Am I right or wrong? And it becomes all about me. And all of a sudden, hey, let me talk to Christians here. You're saved. When we start thinking it's all about us, I tell you what, we're on a downhill slide right away. It's not all about us. It's all about Christ. Paul put it this way: it's no longer I that lives, but Christ that liveth in me. Let me ask you a question. Did Elijah send that fire down? No, he couldn't do that. It was God. Now God used Elijah. God responded to the prayers of Elijah. But it was the Lord did that and Elijah forgot. He got his eyes off the Lord and got on himself. I had a little phrase, I don't know where this is a little chorus, I don't even know where it came from. I have no idea. But it was on my mind this morning. I woke up It was this, let us forget about ourselves and worship the Lord. That's a good, that'll keep your head straight. That'll keep your head straight. I tell you what, you get a husband in a home all focused on himself and everything in that home becomes uh about me and my and everything, tell you what, it's going to have a detrimental effect on that that home. Oh, you get a wife all caught up, it's all about me, it's all me, my, I, me, my. I tell you what, that mess her thinking up, it's going to affect that marriage. Am I right or wrong? You get the kids, oh, it's all about me. Oh, it's me, mine. Say what? They'll mess their head up. It's going to be a mess. You're going to have a mess. You know what's r you know one of the problems with our society? It's all about us, me, mine. That's what all this protests are, all these rioting, all this murder, all of it, it's all me, mine, and our heads are messed up. Elijah got focused on himself. Elijah, this man of God, this man of faith, this man of prayer. Got his thinking out of whack. Boom, now he wants to die. Goodness. He figured he was the only one who feared God. Did you see that? I'm the only one that fears you. I'm the only one doing right. I'm the only one that believes in you. He was wrong. Look at verse 18. God responds: Hey, I have 7,000 in Israel, all the knees which have not bowed unto Baal, and every mouth which has not kissed him. God says, Elijah, you're wrong. You're not the only one standing for right. You're not the only one that's doing right. I've got people over. Hey, it's important for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church to remember we're not the only Bible preaching church there is. Now, there's a lot out there that are a mess. But we start thinking we're the only one, we're it, we're the last hold out, and uh I tell you, we'll get full of pride, next thing you know, we'll start falling apart. You know what's the best thing, you know what's the best thing for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is to seek humility, to humble ourselves before the Lord. And then we'll have his grace. Then we'll have his blessing Elijah got messed up mentally. He was in a bad shape mentally. Then here's the message, and I'll end with this. Look at verse 12. Verse eleven and twelve. He's all, I want to die, I'm the only one. And uh verse eleven, he said God said, go forth and stand in the mount before the Lord. So Elijah goes over there and God addresses Elijah now. Here is God correcting a very discouraged, messed-up prophet. Look how he does it. And behold, the Lord passed by, and a great and strong wind rent the mountains. Now, and break in pieces the rocks before the Lord. Now this is a wind. That word rent there means tears apart. This wind, Elijah is standing here. God says, you stand here, I'm going to address your condition. And this wind kicks up And it is so intense it tears the mountain apart and the rocks are crushed and crumbled. See how that word it there? And uh broke the rocks in pieces. I thought, good heavens, what kind of wind is that? Now I think it was there was a supernatural element to it. But this was like a supernatural uh mega mother of all tornadoes. I don't know. But this wind hits and it is absolutely phenomenal. It is staggering the power behind this wind. But there's no message. It's all said and done. Shh, everything's a mess, but there's no message. Then look at the next thing. And the Lord was not in the wind. And after the wind and earthquakes, man a lie, this place has just rattled. I don't know, he's hanging on the sides, you know, and the ground shaking and splitting open. But look what it says. The Lord was not in the earthquake. And after the earthquake of fire, I don't know, it doesn't tell us how this played out, but boom! The Lord wasn't in the fire. And after the fire, a what? Still small boys. This wind, whoa! Earthquake shaking the place up, fire burning everything up. And all calms down. All gets still. Oh gets quiet. Then God speaks. God talks to him. What's what's God doing here? This small boys. You know what God's doing? He's showing mercy and love and compassion. on one of his people who is so discouraged. Roaring wind, rocks crashing, earth shaking, fire burning. God's not in any of that, but that little still still small boy. Everything got still. Everything got quiet. And what's God teaching us? I think God's teaching us this. God doesn't always scream at us. God doesn't always shake things up and turn things upside down. Now we see places in the Bible where he did that when it was appropriate. But sometimes God speaks to us. Sometimes God helps us by just some little small thing that gets our attention. I've worked with kids for years, not not as much in these recent years, but earlier on my ministry, my whole ministry was kids, bus ministry, Bible time, just youth pastors, kids, kids, kids. I love kids. I love it. And I learned something working with kids. You get a couple, I did a rally out in neighborhood uh out in uh Denver, we had six hundred uh juniors and primaries, first through sixth grade, six hundred of them. Uh how many people agree with me there'd probably be some in there be a little out of hand? I tell you You don't keep the reins on 600 kids, you're gonna lose that horse. You're gonna lose that that chariot, that that car carriage pretty quick. That thing's gone off the edge And early on you had the kids out of control and you and the kids are getting rowdy and they're talking and they're not listening, and you talk louder and say, Listen to me, you bunch of brats! You know what I found? When I scream and holler louder, you know what they did? They screamed and hollered louder also. And try and do all the sensational stuff. But I learned something early on. I actually learned it from Brother Homer. I learned something early on. I start looking quiet. That caught their attention. And you'd be amazed how that just like you just did. See when I was yelling and hollering, you were carrying on too But when I would start talking quiet, I'd bring my voice down. I had their attention And that's what God does sometimes. Sometimes God just quiets things down. And maybe it's laying in our bed late at night. Everything's still and everything's quiet. And God comes and speaks a verse to our heart. Bible verse we had, old song come and bring peace. Anybody ever I like to sit in the mornings particularly, but I like to sit on my front porch. We have a deck in the back. I like to sit right there on the front porch, truck maybe some real comfortable chairs. And um sometimes I fall asleep when I'm sitting there. But uh I like to sit on that front porch when there's a summer storm going by of an evening. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Man, or sometimes that heat lightning, or that storm comes through, combo, thunder. Like yeah, didn't I? Yeah, I saw some of y'all Amen. And we look at that and we say, the power of God. But you know what? Sometimes I'll sit there and it'll be a little hummingbird. I got a little hummingbird feeder. Little hummingbird just hmm. They hum. Come up and start drinking that. And you know what that is? That's a display of the power of God. Just as much as that kaboom And I got some rose bushes there. One's doing very well this year. A beautiful rose there. You know what I see? I see the amazing power of God in just a quiet, still little rose. A point I'm trying to make is this. God speaks to us. God reveals Himself to us. And it doesn't have to always be some sensational thing. Doesn't have to be some spectacular thing. Sometimes it's just a still small voice. I don't know about you, but I've been in service. This week I was at a conference down in Virginia and a preacher was preaching powerful message. And he was just talking. He wasn't bombastic or dynamic. He was dynamic, but it wasn't uh real sensational. He was just sharing the word of God. And you know what was happening? There was a still small voice in my heart. Dennis, he's talking about you. This is what you need to do. You need to change your thinking. Some of y'all know what I'm talking about. I'll be up here preaching and the Spirit of God be speaking down in your heart. Am I right or wrong? To still smoke voice. God speaks to us. I remember after I just right after I got saved, and I shared this recently. But right after I got saved, I was so happy and God was changing my life. I was learning so much. I didn't know hardly anything about the Bible. I was learning and studying and But one after a little short time, several weeks, I just something was unsettled in my heart and soul. And I began praying. I said, God, something's not right. I don't know enough about this. I don't understand. And I got reading my Bible, and just a little verse, just one little statement in Mark, that Jesus was baptized. God spoke to my heart. That's what I need to do. Nobody was yelling at me. Nobody was beating me over the head. It's just a little statement in the scripture. God spoke to me. He showed me I need to be baptized. So I went to the preacher. So preacher, personally the preacher should have already addressed that to me. But I went to preacher, I need to be baptized. He goes, yes, you do. Oh, the peace and joy that came as I followed the Lord in baptism. Just a still small voice. You follow what I'm saying? And that turned Elijah around. He got back on track and he goes out and he anoints some kings. He anoints Elisha to follow him. He gets his head on straight. I wonder if God isn't speaking to some hearts this morning, just a still small voice. He's saying, trust me with your situation. Just trust me with it. I wonder if there isn't still small boys, hey, I want you to get involved in ministry. Why don't you start serving me? Not enough just sit here anymore. It's time for you to get involved and start just a little voice down inside the heart. And do something. You need to do something. Uh maybe it's maybe there's something in your life that's not right. You know it. That little voice of the Holy Spirit's been saying, You need to you need to make this right. Knock it off. You're going to mess up. You're going to mess your life up. Just a little voice. The preacher isn't up here hollering and screaming about that specific sin, but there's a little small voice in your heart saying, You know, you gotta deal with this. Does everybody know what I'm talking about? Still small voice. My wife, we were in uh Indianapolis for several years. As youth passed for four years and um we go out soul winning Thursday night and she had I don't remember all the background to this, but there was a a girl, a teen girl that had come to church, I guess, come to the youth group, and she was unsaved, and my wife went out on a Thursday night And uh to visit this gal. She was about, if I remember correctly, she was about 13. So they visited there. Indianapolis. She's sitting there in the living room, mom's there, the girl, they're talking. Kathy has her Bible out And as she goes through the plan of salvation, how this girl can trust Christ as her savior, be saved, have her sins forgiven, know she's going to heaven. And the girl is eager to be saved. But mom intervenes. Mom says, oh no, she don't understand that. Nope. Kathy goes over again. Kathy says, I I think she does. The girl says, I'd like to be saved. And mom says, No, you're not old enough. This isn't time. Nope, not going to happen. And mom kept stepping in and not letting this girl trust Christ. Right. This is the on this is the honest truth. If I ever tell the truth, I'll point it out This is the truth. At that very moment, an earthquake hit Indianapolis. And they're sitting there, and Kathy said, the living room and the the uh pictures on the wall shifted, things rattled, and uh uh she said uh No, no look. And Kathy looked at the mother, and the mother looked at her, and the mother said, I think she better get saved right now. And the girl called on the Lord and trusted Christ as her Savior. Sometimes God will shake things up to get her attention. Sometimes God will just speak down inside our heart and soul, and we know it's Him. And He'll tell us what we need to do. Now throw this out. God never speaks in that still small voice, contrary to the word of God. If if you get this, I think God's telling me, and it's contrary to the word of God, I'll tell you right now, it ain't God Sometimes God will use a verse, a little phrase, a little something. I remember before I got saved, I was under such conviction, and there was one verse. That would come to my mind from 1 Corinthians. The things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. At little verse, so I'm driving down the road going through under conviction, at little verse the Holy Spirit speaking, Den. Holy Spirit calls me Den. And um He said, Holy Spirit, speak to my heart. What you're living for is temporal and you're going to mess up. It's more to life than just what you see. God used that. Bring me to Christ. Still small voice. What's God speaking to your heart about? What's God trying to lead you and direct you? Listen. Trust Him. Father in heaven, I pray you would help us to listen carefully as you speak to us and you lead us. Lord, help us to be wise, not to fall for something that's contrary to your word. It's genuinely you. But Lord, help us not to be hard-hearted. Help us not to resist. Lord, I can't help but believe there's some here this morning. God's speaking to heart about getting saved. They know they need to be saved. They know it's time. I pray they'd trust you this morning. Lord, maybe there's some that you're speaking their heart about follow you in baptism. They've been saved, but they've not been baptized. I pray, Lord, you'd help them to hear that and let you lead them. Lord, some of us We need to get involved. We need to get up and get active serving you. Others, maybe we have our thinkings kind of out of whack, and we need to get back in your word. Whatever it is, help us to hear you, Lord. Help us to trust you. Have your way. Their heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. And I know what you're talking about, that voice of God that speaks to us. You would say, preacher, God is dealing with my heart about some area. Maybe he's trying to get you to trust him with something. Maybe he's trying to lead you to serve him. Maybe he's Trying to deal with some area of sin or something that's not right that needs to be addressed. But you'd say, preacher, I know what you're talking about, and God is dealing with my heart, and I want to trust him I want him to have his way. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I know that that is. God bless you, hands all around. Spirit of God speaks to us And we hear him and we trust him and we follow him. There's some this morning say, preacher, that still small voice has been The stir in my heart about somebody that's not saved, and I'm so burdened for them. And God keeps bringing them to mind. The Lord keeps bringing them to mind. I need them to be saved. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. And I'd be a good witness. I'd be able to see them come to Christ. Is there any like that, preacher? There is someone heavy on my heart. And God keeps bringing them. That little voice keeps bringing to mind. And God bless you, hands all around. Let's heed that. Let's trust the Lord and step out in faith and be a witness. Share the gospel. There's some this morning say, preacher. I've been saved, but I've not been baptized. I need to follow the Lord in baptism. Is there any like that? By the left-lifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. That's me. That's where I'm at. How many would say, Preacher, I'm not saved? I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go die and go to hell. Nobody in the right mind wants to die and go to hell. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. I'll get that settled. I can know for sure my sins are going on in heaven. Any like that at all this morning? Preacher, pray for me. Just slip it up high. Hold it up. We'll pray. God will help you Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts. Keep speaking to us. Keep leading us. Help us to have ears to hear. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James plan our invitation. Now's the time.