Turn with me to 1 Kings chapter 2, if you would, verse 1, 2 Kings chapter 1 Kings chapter 2, and verse 1. I think I saw more of Maryland today than I've seen in all the rest of my life. I've been driving all over the countryside here. 1 Kings chapter 2, if you would please, look at verse 1. Now the days of David drew nigh that he should die. And he charged Solomon his son, saying, I go the way of all the earth. Be thou strong, therefore, and show thyself a man And keep the charge of the Lord thy God, to walk in his ways, to keep his statutes and his commandments and his judgments and his testimonies, as it is written in the law of Moses. That thou mayest prosper in all that thou doest, and whithersoever thou turnest thyself. That the Lord may continue his word, which he spake concerning me, saying, If thy children take heed to hear their to their way, to walk before me in truth with all their heart and with all their soul. There shall not fail, said he, a man on the throne of Israel. Moreover, thou knowest also what Joab, the son of Zariah, did to me, and what he did to the two captains of the hosts of Israel, unto Abner and unto N'er. Nun to Imesah, nundu Jether, who he slew and shed the blood of war and peace, but the blood of war upon his girdle that was about his loins and in his shoes that were on his feet. Do therefore according to thy wisdom, and let not their forehead go down to the grave in peace. Let's bow for a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, thank you, Lord, for your word and for your love and for your kindness and mercies and grace. Thank you for your generosity and your kindness to us as sinners. Thank you for loving us when we're so unlovely And thank you for blessing us when we're so undeserving. Thank you for Jesus. Thank you for a Savior Thank you, Lord, for the word of God that tells us about our dear Savior, the Lord Jesus, who came to die on the cross and pay for our sin and rose again from the dead, so that we might have eternal life by faith in Him. Now, my Father, I pray you'd be with us now in the next few moments that by your Holy Spirit, you'd open the heart of every person in this room, you'd open the lips of your servant to speak, that you might magnify yourself, glorify your son, edify your people. Save those who are lost, and Father, just be with us and help us in these days in which we live. We ask your grace and mercy. In Jesus' name. Amen. Gentlemen, this is King David instructing his son Solomon as he is passing the torch of leadership from one generation to another. This is King David, whom God called a man after his own heart. This is King David, Israel's greatest and most popular king. This is King David, a man's man and a warrior, a leader, and a sinner saved by grace. And in these verses, he is instructing his son on how to be a man. Gentlemen, we're living in unusual times. The Bible says in 2 Timothy 3:1, this know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. They have come. Second Timothy chapter four, verses three and four. For the time shall come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but after their own lust shall they heap to themselves teachers having itching ears They shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned unto fables. The time has come 2 Thessalonians 2, verse 3, let no man deceive you by any means, for that day shall not come except there come a falling away first. That the man of sin may be revealed, the son of perdition, the falling away has begun. Isaiah 520, Woe unto them that call evil good and good evil, and put darkness for light and light for darkness and put Bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter. We are there. That's what's happening. The woes of Isaiah 5 have already begun. I read the other day in 2 Thessalonians 2, verses 8-11, the Bible says, And then shall that wicked be revealed whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming. Even him whose coming is after the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders, and with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them to perish, because they received not the love of the truth, that they might be saved. Now listen, and for this cause God shall send them strong delusion that they should believe a lie. Now thirty or forty years ago I wondered about this, but no longer. I wondered how the whole world could believe a lie. But I've watched as the world has embraced one fantastic lie after another without blinking an eye. I mean the lie of transgenderism. And yet people bought into it. Do you know there are now listed 72 genders? I thought they were two. They added 70 more somewhere along the way. Now men can be women and women can be men. Now I grew up when they had girly men. And I grew up when they had manly women, but it never dawned on my mind, it never came into my brain, it wasn't anywhere on the radar that anyone would ever think that a man could become a woman and a woman could become a man. I mean things are happening now that most of it is in this room we couldn't even have imagined it in a science fiction movie. Right, right. Now they put tampon machines in the boys' bathroom. I saw a woman the other day on some kind of interview, she's supposed to be uh educated, you know, and sophisticated and knowledgeable, and she said that men can menstruate. And she said that man can become pregnant. I mean what what happened? That's right. Come on. They believe a lie. So is it fantastic that some lie will come that will deceive the whole world? How about that sordid display of perversion at the opening of the ceremonies or the Paris Olympics? I never imagined anything like that. And there it is right on television, right out for all the world to see. And then how about the world watching a man beat up a woman? I thought that was against the law. As soon as I saw on the news, I saw the clip, that day, and I said to my wife, I said, There's your gold medal winner right there. Surprise. He just went right through the ranks and beat up every woman in front of him. Two weeks ago or a week ago I publicly and seriously challenged him to a boxing match anywhere, anytime. Because maybe he'd like to come and beat up a 72-year-old man too. But I don't think he'll take me up on it. Matter of fact, I think I might beat him. I don't know. I mean how can you be proud of a medal That you won beating up a girl. But we're also living in exciting times. The prophets foretold of these days. And the New Testament writers wrote of these days in which we live We are the first generation to understand how the things of the prophets could come to pass. And we are seeing them be set up right before our eyes. I believe there are two great generations that will that walked upon the face of the earth. The first great generation was the generation that saw Jesus at his first coming. And I believe the second greatest generation will be the one who sees Jesus at his second coming. And it's very possible that we might be part of that second great generation. Amen? It sure looks like it, doesn't it? How did we ever get here? I proposed to you today that we got here by feminizing and emasculating and weakening men. We have things going on in our country that have prompted the writing of the following books: The War on Men, The War on Toxic Masculinity, The War Against Boys. And the war on normal people. Folks, we are at war. And the apostle Paul knew it As he wrote to Timothy when he said, war a good warfare. Now David wanted his son Solomon to be a real man And he told them really basically three things to be in this passage. I want to look at that today. Number one, he tells his son in verse 2, I go the way of all the earth. Here's number one, be thou strong. Therefore. David said, I've been a strong man. I've been running this nation. I am passing off the scene. I need you to be like me. I need you to be a strong man to carry on the nation's leadership. Men are to be strong. Physically, emotionally, and intellectually. A man needs to be strong. He needs to be strong for his children. He needs to be strong for his wife. He needs to be strong for his church. In 1 Peter 3, verse 7, Paul the Apostle said, Likewise, ye husbands, dwell with them according to knowledge, giving honor unto the wife, here it is, as unto the weaker vessel. And being heirs together of the grace of life, that your prayers be not hidden. Our wives and our children need us to be strong. They need us to be strong physically. When my wife grabs my arm, you know what I always do? I flex it Oh yeah. Every time. Why? I wanted to feel the muscles. I wanted to know this is here for her protection. I want her to know she can lean on that arm and it won't let her down. Amen. It gives her a sense of security I stay in the best shape that I can and it gives my wife confidence when we're out and about. Gentlemen, we are there to open jars. Right. We are there to lift heavy loads. We're there we're we are there to do the things that need strength. We are there to kill the bug. We are the protectors. Be strong. And being strong served David well throughout his life. The second thing he tells his son is to be not only strong physically, but we need to be strong emotionally. Our wives and our children mean a man who is emotionally strong. A man who does not show fear, a man who does not fret, and a man who does not panic. And doesn't get discouraged easily or lose his temper quickly. Then you need to be in charge of your emotions, gentlemen. Right. Anger is one of our biggest areas of need as men. We are angry. Men have a problem with anger. Proverbs sixteen thirty-two says, He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh the city. That's self-control. That's being strong emotionally. When my wife, you know, she set a cloth uh a cloth on fire some weeks ago, you know, in the in the kitchen And she's going, ah, like the whole house is burning down. And you walk over and you pick it up and you put it in a sink and put water on it Oh, you're so wonderful, you're so great. Now listen What's she gonna do if you're the one going, oh, oh, what are we gonna do? What are we gonna do? And your wife has to take it Put it in the same Proverb twenty-five, twenty-eight. He that hath no rule over his own spirit It's like a city that's broken down and without walls. Listen, when you lose your temper, you are defeated before you begin. Nothing is more frightening to a woman or to a child than a man out of control with anger. Maybe you don't understand how big you are to your wife and to your children. But when you are out of control with anger, you are a menacing, frightening, terrifying sight. And shame on you for making that weaker vessel afraid to be in your presence. You're her protector! Be emotionally strong. And then third, we need to be intellectually strong. I don't know about this crowd. We need to be intellectually strong. We are the leader, and leaders are required to think. We should be abreast of what's happening in our nation and in our world. Our wives need to know that we think things through, and thereby we provide a comfort level to them in our leadership. And this requires something that's very difficult for most men. Communication. Your wife can't read your mind. You need to talk to your wife. If your wife ever comes to you and says we need to talk, you better stop everything you're doing and sit down and talk because she's on the edge. You know, we just think things can go on and on. We don't have to talk about stuff. Women aren't like that. They need to talk about stuff. They need to know what you're thinking. They need to know where you're going. They need to know what's happening. That's called leadership. Now, this would include the handling of finances. And let me ask you this: do your thoughts and words and actions concerning the future needs of the family cause confidence or anxiety for your wife? God told Joshua, be strong and of a good courage. Told him that three times. Moses told Israel in Deuteronomy 31, 6 through 8, be strong and of a good courage. King Hezekiah tells his captain in 2 Chronicles chapter 32, Be strong and courageous. Joab addressing his warriors in 2nd Samuel chapter 10 says, Be of good courage And let us play the men for our people, for the cities of our God You see, men are supposed to be strong. David knew that. And David wanted his son to be strong. King Jehoshaphat calls the judges, the priests, the Levites. And he charges them in 2 Chronicles 9, verse 11, deal courageously, and the Lord shall be with the good. You know, in the Bible, men are likened unto archers with bows. And second, or in Galatians chapter 6, verse 9. It says, Be not weary in well doing, for in due season we shall reap if we what? If we faint not, that word faint means to relax the bow. Gentlemen, we are protectors. We are the archers with the bow. We are the protectors of our wives and the protectors of our children. And and that word says, do not relax the bow, because when you relax the bow, you lose the power. We're called boxers in the ring. 1 Corinthians 9, verse 26. We are soldiers in the battle, 2 Timothy 2, 3. We are wrestlers on the mat Ephesians 6. 12, and we are a watchman on the wall, Ezekiel 33. 6. King David wanted his son Solomon to be strong. And Solomon knew what it was to be strong because he watched his dad. Your sons and your daughters, especially your sons. Need to know how to be strong because they're watching dad. Be strong. And so he said to his son, first thing he said, be strong. The next thing I want to look at is in verse 3, he said, be spiritual. Sometimes we don't equate spiritual with being strong. But he said, and keep the charge of the Lord thy God to walk in his ways, to keep his statutes and his commandments and his judgments and his testimonies. As it is written in the law of Moses, that thou mayest prosper in all that thou doest, and whithersoever thou turnest thyself. You know what he said? He said, Listen, I haven't been a perfect man, but I've tried my best. To obey the Lord and do what God wanted me to do. He said, you need to be spiritual. Of all the things that David could tell his son He could have spoken about the affairs of state, diplomatic relationships. He could have talked about treaties and trade agreements, resources of the realm, military intelligence, or a thousand other things He's handing the kingdom off. He could have said a thousand things, and what he said be spiritual. Because he knew without the blessing of God, he wouldn't prosper. Part of being a real man is being strong. Part of being a real man is being spiritual. Being spiritual part of being strong, actually. Actually, being spiritual is the most important part of being strong. Ephesians 6. 10, finally, my brethren, finally, my brethren, be strong. How? In the Lord and in the power of his might. Spiritual strength comes from God by His Spirit and through His Word. Strong men are men of the book And our wives and our children and those who depend on us and those who look up to us need us to be spiritual as well as strong. They need us to be spiritually strong. 2 Timothy 2. 1. Thou therefore, my son, endure. Be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. 1 Corinthians 16, 13. Watch ye. Stand fast in the faith. Here it is. Quit you like men. He's saying, you know what? Be men. Act like men. Be strong, he said. Men are given the spiritual leadership in the home and in the church. But sadly, too often the women are the stronger ones spiritually. Shame on us as men if our women are more spiritual than us. Shame on us as men if those who follow us know more about the Bible than we do. We need to have a spiritual walk. David told Solomon, walk in his ways and keep his commandments. Colossians 1. 10, that you might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God. That walk is our life. It's great to be at a rally like this. Praise the Lord. Wonderful points. I sat back there and heard those points. And we can hear the points and we can shout amen and we can laugh and we can shake hands and we can say, oh, it's great. But what are we going to do when we're out there? What are we going to do? Well tomorrow will be good because it's Sunday. We'll go to church, but what about Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday? That's when it'll show up whether you're spiritual and whether you're spiritually strong. You know, the Bible tells us that men are to teach things to their children, Deuteronomy 6. 7. Men are to teach spiritual things to their wives, first Corinthians 14, 35. And men are to teach spiritual things to other men. 2 Timothy 2, verse 2. The battle's not physical, but spiritual. And if we're only strong physically and not spiritually, we'll lose the battle and our wives and our children and our churches will suffer for it. And we're watching it in our modern Christian movements today. And so he told his son He said, I'm not going to be here anymore, Solomon. I'm not going to be able to lead this country anymore. I'm dying. And you're going to take over. And he said, This, be strong. He said, be spiritual. And then he said something else. He said, be showy. Oh yeah, he said that. Look at verse 2. I go the way of all the earth. Be thou strong, therefore, and what? Show thyself a man. Don't just tell people you're a man, show people you're a man. He said, be strong, be spiritual, be showy. We do not need show-offs, but we should show ourselves to be men. We ought to look manly. We ought to talk manly, not dirty, not gutter language, but we ought to talk like men. I like sin We need to have manly strengths. I like it when I sit down with the guys and they talk about hunting, they talk about fishing, they talk about sawing boards. Cutting trees down. Cutting the grass. Doing anything manly. First Timothy four twelve. Paul said to this young man, he said, Let no man despise thy youth. Now then he said this: But be thou an example, the believers, in word, in conversation, that means lifestyle, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity. I've s I've seen some things walking down the street. And I couldn't tell you if they were male or female. That doesn't honor God. The Bible says God made the male and female And you know what? He made them different. Aren't you glad? I don't know about you, but I love the difference. I mean, he just, you know, he made men hard-bodied and strong, and their center of gravity is in your upper torso. Why? To do work and to battle. Wom. He made women. Didn't he? Wow. That's beautiful, isn't it? And he made them soft. And their center of gravity is in their hips. For what? For domestic work. You know when a guy picks up a baby he holds a baby up here. Ever notice that? Where does a woman hold a baby? On the head Why? Our center of gravity is up here. This is where we hold stuff. Ladies hold things on their hips. And let me say this, gentlemen, just a little, this is a tip. This isn't in the notes or anything. This is just a tip. I'll use this for an example here. Whenever you carry your wife's purse for her, don't carry it like this. And don't even care and don't carry it like this. Don't even carry it like this. Here's our man carries a purse. What does that say? It says, I don't know what's in there, I don't care what's in there, I'm just taking it somewhere for her, that's all. Yeah, very good. Okay, okay. Be unashamed of being a man. And be unashamed of being manly. And remember that being manly does not mean being rude. It does not be mean being crude. And if you hit your wife, you're no better than that boxer in the Olympics. I was in I was in our little storefront church, probably in the early 1980s And it was winter. And we had one storefront here. And the main street was here. May uh a big street was here. And the snow in area gets pretty deep and it was piled up on both sides. And there was a car parked over across the street. And I saw this man and woman walking up the street because the sidewalk hadn't been cleaned. They get in front of the church and this guy, he was big. And I saw him punch that woman in the face and knocked her over the snow pile and she went running through down this alleyway And I'm standing there with one of my deacons. And he's watching it. I said, we can't let that happen. And so I ran after the girl. He stayed home. He stayed there. If your pastor ever goes anywhere, go with him. So I ran down the alleyway and I got in front of the girl. I stopped her. I said, are you okay? She said, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm okay. I said, well, who is that? She goes, that's my boyfriend. I said, well that's some boyfriend. I said, listen, my wife and I will take you home. She said, no, I'll ride home with him. I said, well you're not riding home in the front seat. So I took her and we walked to the street and he's standing up there by the car and I had to look up at him and I said, You like punching ladies in the face? I said, why don't you try this one? Man, who are you? Who are you? I said, I'm the preacher for that house from that church right there. I said, if if you want to punch ladies in the face, why don't you start with somebody that can punch back? I said, now she's gonna go home with you, but she's riding in the back seat. So I opened the door and put her in the backseat, took out a a tract, handed it to him, then I took a pen, I wrote down his license plate now. He said, What are you doing? I said, I'm writing down your license plate number Because if she don't get home safe, the police are gonna find you. Okay, man. Okay, okay, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Got in his car and drove away. You c y the problem today is nobody wants to get involved. What if he has a gun? Send me to heaven right now, amen? I remember one day a lady called me up about three o'clock in the morning. She said, Preacher. I said what? She said he's trying to get into my apartment. I said, who? She said, I don't know. But he's out there trying to jimmy the door. I said I'll be right there So I I grabbed a baseball bat, jumped in my car, drove downtown, she lived in the second story, I come busting through the door and up the steps to the top, and there he is sitting there trying to j Jimmy and her door open and I come running up and I said hey he said who are you? I said I'm the preacher That's what he did that's what he did He started laughing. He said, You wouldn't use that. I tapped him on the shoulder. I said, try me. I said, you get your tool and you get out of here. I don't want to ever see you around here again. Gentlemen. I was in my office one day A guy comes running in and he says, Pastor, they're gonna beat her up. I said, who's gonna beat who up? He said, I don't know who they are, but they got a circle around her and they're up on uh State Street and they're gonna beat her up. And so I I said, okay And I ran up and there were these guys, I mean they had they had leather everywhere and bandanas here and bandanas here and bandanas here and chains and and pins and everywhere everywhere and they said I come running up and they had her in a circle. This girl from our church, I can't run up and said, hey, what's going on here? Who are you? I'm the preacher! I said, this girl's a member of my church. I said, what are you doing? They said, well she owes us money. I said, well, how much money do they owe you? He said, five bucks. I said five bucks. Paid him as five bucks. And then I said something I regretted at the moment I said, listen, I want you know something. This girl goes to my church. If you're gonna mess with her, you gotta mess with me. Then I said, uh oh Because they could have said, Oh, okay, we'll mess with you. But you know what they did? Hey, that's okay, everything's cool. Everything's okay. Everything's cool. You ought to try that sometime. I'm the preacher. It'll take care of the situation I had a guy party I live across from a bar by the way. You're not allowed to park on that side of the street. And in the wintertime they parked there anyway And in the wintertime there's snow. And so I wanted to pull out of my driveway to go to church. I'm all dressed up, ready to go to church. And this guy's parked right across from my driveway. I can't get out. I honked a horn, he doesn't pay any attention. I honked the horn, he doesn't pay any attention. So I get I get out of my car, I walk over to his I said, I said, I'm trying to get out of my driveway. I can't get out of here, and you're not supposed to be parked here anyway. Well yeah, who said I'm not supposed to park here? I said the sign What sign? I said, the one right at your bumper. He gets out of his car and he walks over and he looks at the sign and he gets back in his car and just sits there. I said, Hey, you're gonna move the car He said, look old man. He said, how'd you like me to come out there and kick you to the curb? I felt like grabbing him by his little skinny neck and pulling him out of the window. But I didn't. Because I'm the preacher! So I remember what the Bible said, a soft answer turneth away wrath. So I said, listen, I'm just trying to go to church. I just want you to move your car. Oh, okay. And he moved his car Okay, I got that on my chest. That's good. You know there there's virtue in being strong. Biblically manly. When the world is going to look for manly men, they ought to find them in the local independent fundamental Baptist Church. If they can't find men in our churches, where are they going to find them? And as men we're supposed to show ourselves, I'm talking about being showy, right? He said, Show thyself a man. We're supposed to show ourselves upright, 2 Samuel 22, 26. We're supposed to show ourselves manly, 1 Kings 2-2. We're supposed to show ourselves righteous, Proverbs 12-17 a pattern of good works. Titus 2. 7. We're supposed to show ourselves approved of God. 2 Timothy chapter 2 and verse 15 And then 1 Peter tells us we're supposed to show forth the praises of Him who hath called us out of darkness into his marvelous light. My dear friend, God called me out of great darkness. In my past. I got saved when I was 23 years old, and I had already been in trouble with the law. I already had a dark past. And he called me out of the darkness. And he put me in his marvelous light. He changed me. He took me from being on the way to hell to being on my way to heaven. Through the door of the Lord Jesus Christ, who said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me My dear friend, I want to tell you: if you're here today and you're not saved, you'll never be a real man. You may be a male, and you may be manly, and you may be tough And you may be able to shove me under the front seat of my truck. But that doesn't make you a real man. A real man is a complete man. And a complete man is a man who knows Christ as Savior and hasn't just been born once into this world. He's been born twice into God's family. And has God's spirit in him that gives him courage and power that's according to the Word of God Benjamin Franklin said, there never was yet a truly great man that was not at the same time truly virtuous. Edwin Cole said, you seek the heights of manhood when you seek the depths of God. And Patrick Henry said, adversity toughens manhood And the characteristic of good or great men is not that he has been exempt from life's evils, but that he has surmounted them. David said, be strong. He said, be spiritual. He said, be showy. Show yourself a man. In these trying times, in these uncertain days, in these last days, the world needs The church needs. Your family needs. Young boys and men need to see and follow real men. Godly men, strong men, biblical men. Be one. Amen. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this time. You made these individuals in this room men on purpose. They were not a random happening. They were your creation. And you wanted them to be men. And then you gave us your word that helps us understand what it means to be a real man. My father, the world is in desperate need of biblical men who are strong and spiritual and can show themselves to be men. Would you help these men be those kinds of men? My Heavenly Father, I ask that you would guide and direct them in their lives and your power would be upon them. And your word would be in them, that Heavenly Father, they would be an example of what it means to be a biblical man, a real man, a complete man in Jesus Christ. And Father, if there's one man in this room who has never been saved, I pray, my Father, you might speak to that man's heart and help him understand that he's a sinner on his way to hell. And that Jesus paid for his ticket to heaven by taking his sin upon himself. And dying in his place, and being buried in his tomb, and rising again for his salvation Help him to see his need and to respond by trusting Christ before it's eternally and tragically too late. In Jesus' name. Amen.