Right, if you would turn to Exodus chapter number twenty-six. Exodus chapter twenty-six, we're looking at the tabernacle and the different uh pieces of furniture and different um uh features of the tabernacle. And this evening we're going to look at a very s interesting part. It is not a piece of furniture in the tabernacle. Now there was a number of, and I'm using that term furniture uh in a loose way. Uh you had various pieces of furn furniture too. In particular on the outside was the altar of uh the brazen altar and then you had the brazen labor and we po spoke at length about them Then you get into the tabernacle itself and there was three pieces of furniture in there. Anybody want to rem uh name them for me? When you come in Come into the tabernacle itself. Out here is the courtyard and the brazen altar of the believer. You walk in through the the veil here of the door to get into the tabernacle. What's the first thing on your right hand side? Table of showbread, very good. Directly in front of you is the altar of incense is right there, and on your left, which would be the south side, was the The golden candlestick, the menorah, as the Jews call it today. And we looked at that last week. Now we've looked at these pieces of furniture. What we're going to look at tonight is not a piece of furniture But I'm telling you, it is as significant as any one of these pieces of furniture we've looked at. Look with me at Exodus chapter twenty-six and verse number thirty-one Exodus 26 and verse 31. Notice what the Bible says. And this is God speaking to Moses, giving instructions concerning the tabernacle. And thou shalt make a what? A veil of blue and purple and scarlet and fine twine linen of cunning work With cherubims shall it be made, and thou shalt hang it upon the four pillars of shittim wood overlaid with gold. Their hooks shall be of gold upon the four sockets of silver. Now he's saying explains the veil, explains how it's to be hung up, and remember the Shitam wood was that a Kai wood, call it sometimes uh very very hard wood overlaid with gold it's inside the tabernacle everything's gold in there then they have these rings across the top that hold the veil in place Now look at verse number thirty-three. And thou shalt hang up the veil under the taxes that thou mayest bring in thither within the veil the Ark of the Testimony. What else might you call the Ark of the Testimony? The Ark of the Covenants, where the mercy seat is, and all that. We'll look at that later. And the veil, look at this, this is important. I underlined this in my Bible. And the veil shall divide unto you between the holy place and And the most holy. So we're going to look at the veil tonight. Let's pray and real quickly look at this. Father, bless our study of this aspect of the tabernacle. Fill me again, I ask, as always, Lord, with your Holy Spirit. and uh teach us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. It's not a piece of furniture, and it's certainly not uh a decoration, though looking at it and studying it, I believe this veil was extremely beautiful It was made of cunning work, in other words, very skillfully made. It was purple and and blue and scarlet and uh had these cherubim embroidered onto it, sort of, I guess you could say embroidered onto it, stitched into it. It's a beautiful piece of work, but it was not for decoration, and it was not uh uh part of the ceremony. Let's get right into it. The first thing I want us to notice about the veil is its design. Let's get some Let's find out a little bit about it physically. Best I can tell, it was about fifteen feet wide and fifteen feet high, something to that effect. When they built Solomon's temple, remember Solomon, uh David wanted to build a temple to the Lord, replace the tabernacle. He said, The Lord, I live in a house, the Lord's out in a tent. He was referring to the tabernacle. He said, The Lord ought to have a house. God said, What are you doing? Build me a house. The heaven and heavens can't contain me. Why would you build me a house Nevertheless, David wanted to God forbade David from building the house. He raised up Solomon, you know the story. And so Solomon built his temple. When but Solomon built the temple He enlarged the veil. The temple was patterned after the tabernacle, which was patterned after the heaven, the presence of God. And so when Solomon built the temple, he built the veil, he enlarged the veil to 30 foot wide by 45 foot high. It is much larger. If you'll recall, uh Solomon's temple was destroyed after Israel had gone into apostasy and taken captive, and uh their uh temple was destroyed. Years later, Herod uh for political reasons most likely, rebuilt the tabernacle, not because he loved God, but he wanted to build favor with the Jews. So he built the t uh rebuilt the temple Herod's temple was uh built the uh Vale, and he enlarged it to 30 feet wide, 60 feet high. And so this veil was a, uh, the original one was 15 by 15. The Bible says it was made of fine-twined linen. Now I've read that fine-twine stuff in the Bible a bunch of times. I never really paid attention to it. I didn't know what it meant and really wasn't that interested in what it meant, to be honest with you But as I got studying this, I thought, well I wonder what the significance of fine twine. What does that even mean? And what it is, is a linen that was very, when it says fine-twine, it was very tightly braided together. Very small, very fine, very tight, tight braids. Now, I tried braiding my hair. And it was f it was futile. Because you can't braid something that ain't there. But When uh particularly when we had the route down in Tennessee, a lot of those little kids around the bus, they had their hair braided. And uh some of them, that was they had those uh they would have what was it called? Is it called cornrows? Is that what it's called? Tom, you know about that stuff, don't you? Uh they had those cornrows. Those braids were so tight against their skull. I don't know how they did that Uh that's the idea here in this this veil. The the I I guess you could call it But my understanding of studying this, you had the foundation of the veil of this very finely braiden together linen. Um it would have been very uh the linen itself would have been very thick. Uh very heavy curtain type by the time they were done. It's very thick, very heavy. Onto that linen, the way we understand it in studying this, they had blue and purple and scarlet tapestry. Sewn into this curtain, this fine twined linen, they would sew into it these these colors of this tapestry of these various colors. On to all that They I I I say embroidered, but I don't know if that's the word I want, but they had these cherubim Now it doesn't say how many or how they're positioned on here. I noticed one thing I looked up looking uh doing research on this, they had four cherubim on there Another one had two. The most suggestive was there was two cherubim on with their wings touching at the top. Very much like you would have seen that would be on top of the Ark of the Covenant And so my feeling is they patterned it. Probably it was probably very similar to what was on Ark of the Covenant. And so, nevertheless, this is a this veil Is very, very heavy. It's very thick. It is not something that you can move very easily. Alright? A little tuft of wind blowing through isn't going to move this veil. A priest in there working uh and doing his responsibilities with the altar of incense and the and the uh golden candlestick and the table showbread. He brushes up against the veil, doing his responsibilities. It's not going to expose what's beyond the veil. You follow what I'm saying? It's not a wall. You can move it. It can be pushed aside and gone into. It's not a solid wall. But neither do you very easily Push your way through this and get in. If if you're going behind fail, you're doing it on purpose, is what I'm trying to say. You're not inadvertently stepping in. It's not inadvertently being blown or pushed back and exposing what's behind there. It is designed deliberately With that in mind. So it's very heavy. In fact, um anybody here recognize the name? Have you ever heard of a fellow by the name of Josephus? Any Bible scholars, Josephus? Joseph Joe is what I call him. Um, not really. Josephus was a Jewish historian just after the time of Jesus Christ. He's recognized back in his day As their authority on the history of the Jews. He still is today. Usually it comes in a four-volume set. And Josephus said And again, he's recognized authority, knows what he's talking about. Josephus said that the veil was four inches thick. I read another historian, I think Josephus referenced them. Now I don't know how they did this, and I uh uh I don't know how this all played out, but they said, Josephus says, that two horses Tied to either end of the veil, could not tear that thing in half. I mean, it was heavy It was strong. Another Bible historian said, now again, I don't know how they did this, I don't know where they came up with this, but they said they tied wild horses to it and could not rip the thing in half. Now, whether that they actually did that or not, I can't say, but I've come to the conclusion this thing is a heavy duty curtain. you would call it. Not easily moved. Definitely not easily ripped. And um and so uh you have the dimensions here of the design of the veil. Now what is the designation? What was its job? Now bear with me, this is going to get um interesting. But what was the job? Why was this veil here? That was a rhetorical question. But um anyway, uh why was this veil here? Uh you have a you have the tabernacle itself, you've got all this stuff in here. Why would you put a veil in between there? And Dale hit it exactly. It was to separate the two portions within the tabernacle. You had the first section where you have these three pieces of furniture, the holy place. Then beyond the veil is the holiest. of holies. The holy of holies. The veil had a twofold purpose. Now this is what I think is interesting. One is to separate the two Compartments within a tabernacle. In fact, the word veil itself means separation or separator, something that separates. So why did, why did God, why was it necessary for there to be a separation from the Holy of Holies and the Holy Place? What was the purpose? Here's let me ask you this question. Was it to keep something in the Holy of Holies? Was it to keep something in there so it don't get out? No, that wasn't the purpose. It wasn't to contain in the Holy of Holies something, it was to keep something out. Of the Holy of Holies. It was to keep man, sinful man, away From the Ark of the Covenant, the Holy of Holies, the presence of God. Now that struck me as interesting. Because in my understanding of the tabernacle, that is the exact opposite of what everything else has been for. You have a door out here outside the courtyard so that people can get in and get closer to the presence of God. You had the brazen altar so that people could offer a sacrifice And get their sins covered so that they could get closer to God, enter the presence of God. You had the labor, uh the brazen labor, so you could wash away the uh uh the the daily uh impurities and so that you can get close to God. Then the the priest would be able to go into the holy place and there he'd have the bread and the candlestick And the altar of incense, so our prayers. You could get close to God, then all of a sudden you have a roadblock. And it's no, it's basically keep out. Do not enter this portion. Um I we a lot of guys go hunting, a couple ladies in here go hunting. We have a member of a hunting club, Tom's one also, um, down on the south part of the county. And you go and if you want to get on that hunting club, they've got gates across the road, they've got those gates locked, uh, they've got keep out signs all over. That whole thing is set up, designed, to keep people off the property. To keep people from coming on to that property. That's what the veil was. To keep people out of the proper of the Holy of Holies. Everything else is designed to make it so you can come to God. Then once you get in there into His immediate presence, then it's you can't commit. Why would God do that? Question: Is God holy? Absolutely. I like the term, and it's just it's just because God's holiness is so beyond our ability to comprehend, it's difficult to express. But it helps me in my mind To think of it as blindingly holy. Every time somebody was in the presence of God, it was blinding the light of God's presence. So, God is holy, incomprehensibly holy. Question Is man holy? No We are sinful. We do not, I'm convinced, we do not fully comprehend the depths of our sinfulness. We do not fully comprehend how wicked our hearts really are. I'm talking about you and I sitting here. We have to be very careful about making this statement. I would never do that. Hey, the scenes of the most vile, wicked sin you can possibly imagine, the potential for that lies in every one of our hearts. The Bible puts it this way: the heart is deceitful and desperately wicked, hopelessly wicked. So here we have the presence of a, for lack of a better way of describing it, blindingly holy God. And out here you have hopelessly wicked man. And there's a divider You cannot come in here. Question, why would God not want sinful man to come into his presence? Would we corrupt God? Absolutely not Man does there's no way man or anything can corrupt God. That veil, I submit to you, that veil is not there to protect God's holiness. That veil is there to protect man's life. If they would enter, if man would enter into the presence of God in a sinful condition, he would die. How many times did the Bible say no man can see God and live? No man can go in the presence of God and live. That veil was there to protect us. It separated man from God. It was there to protect us. You say, but Brother Leatherman, once a year, on the Day of Atonement, a man did go in there and he didn't die. Now we're going to get into this in a future study, but that man went in there, number one, at the instruction of God, the invitation of God, number two, in a very Detailed specific way. And number three, I submit to you, he went in there a bloody mess. You need to understand, he went in, he was taking a bowl, a bowl, I guess you could say, of blood. Freshly warm blood. And he is entering in there and he is sprinkling that blood all over the altar. All over the ark, uh all over the uh mercy seat. Don't tell me that he has blood and he's sprinkling all over that blood isn't getting all over him. Don't tell me that blood isn't splattering all over in there. I'm telling you, it was a bloody mess when man entered the presence of God. Now, why would that be? I'm telling you why. Because man is so sinful. And God is so holy, and when you take sin of man and put it up in the presence of the holiness of God, you get nothing but death. Nothing but that. And it was kind of like we're coming into your presence, but there has been death, there has been bloodshed to cover our sins. In fact, you go to Hebrews chapter 10, it says just that The blood of bulls and goats covered our sin, man's sin, so that we could enter into the very presence of God. Here's a sad thing, and we're all guilty of it. We do not fully appreciate the fact that our God is a holy God. They don't even comprehend the significance of that. Now I'm I'm convinced one day we're going to be in the presence of God and we're Be blown away by what it means our God is holy. And I I'm I'm sorry, but I've I've got to throw this out. And this modern contemporary worldly Christianity Is blasphemous in the presence of a holy God. I don't know how else to say it. So that they was there to protect man. From the holiness of God, not to protect God. It had a secondary purpose, and that was this. When they would move the tabernacle, you know, all this was portable. They'd break the whole thing down. The priests had very specific instructions. They'd break that whole thing down and uh they'd carry it and move it on to the next spot where God was leading them, uh eventually getting into the promised land When they would break that down, when they were going to transport the Ark of the Covenant, the most holy piece of furniture in existence, they just pick that thing up and carry it. They would take the veil, break it down, and that thing would go over the Ark of the Covenant. It would cover the Ark of the Covenant for when they would carry that thing. It wasn't exposed to the elements. It wasn't visible to the public. They would cover that thing with the veil. And so the description of it Uh we gave that. Then uh we had the designation to separate man from a holy God and uh not to keep anything in, but to uh keep sinful man out. It was to cover uh the Ark of Covenant when they transport that. Now what what's the what's the uh depiction of it? In other words, what does this veil signify? Everything in here signified something What is it? Signiby for us. How many folks are happy? Say amen. Amen. How many folks are glad you came to church tonight? In this great Man, this is exciting. The veil. I'm glad some of you are getting good rest, getting caught up. Praise the Lord for that. And glad for that. But anyway. What what does this mean? All right, Brother Latherman, that was two thousand fifteen hundred years ago. What's that have to do with me? Or thirteen hundred uh not thirteen hundred. That was uh 2,000 and 1,000 is 3,000 plus 500. That was 3,500 years ago. What does that have to do with me today? Actually, it has a lot to do with us Would you take your Bibles and as we finish up here turn to Hebrews chapter 10? Hebrews chapter 10 Hebrews is a fascinating book. And I'll tell you, the more you understand the tabernacle, the Levitical law, and all that, the more Hebrews makes sense. Because it's based on a lot of that. Go to Hebrews chapter ten, verse number nineteen Notice what the Bible says. Hebrews 10, verse number 19. Boy, this is a great verse for Christians. Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the what? Does it say the holy place? The what? If something's the holiest That means there's nothing else that's holier, correct? So what is he talking about that we have boldness to enter in the holiest? What is he referencing? The Holy of Holies. He's talking about this compartment back here on the back side of the veil. The place that the veil is keeping us out of. Hebrews says. We have boldness to go in there. What would happen back in the Israelites' day? Some guy says, Praise God, I'm going in there. And he pushes that thing back. What would happen to him? He'd be dead on the spot. But Hebrews says that you and I have boldness. Now, question Is there a place on planet Earth right now, the Holy of Holies? No, it doesn't exist anymore. Hebrews and other places tell us this was all a pattern. Of the real tabernacle in heaven, of the real holy place, of God's immediate presence in heaven. And he's saying that you and I, we don't have a physical place we go to, we can go boldly into the very presence of God, where if an Old Testament Jew went in, he would die on the spot. You and I can go in boldly. Now read on. Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter in the holiest, how are we doing this? By the blood of Jesus. Remember when the high priest went in, bloody mess, bulls and oxen covered, but now we have the blood of Jesus been applied to the altar. We can come in boldly. But read on. By the blood of Jesus, look at verse 20. By a new and living way. Not the way the Jews did back in the Old Testament economy. We have a new and living way, which He, God, has consecrated for us Through the veil, huh? That is to say, his flesh What does this verse say that that veil signified, represented? The flesh of who? Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Now I read that and I thought, what how is how is Jesus flesh? How is the veil? How does that Represent Jesus' flesh. And I struggled with that a little bit, and then I realized In Matthew, and in Mark, and in Luke, it's recorded that when Jesus gave up the ghost Something significant happened in the t in the temple. Anyone know what that was? The veil was rent. Now the word rent means ripped in completely into the presence of God. That veil is there to protect us. So that we as sinful men and women don't die and go into the presence of God and die. And Jesus said, it is finished Into thy hands I commend my spirit. And he gave up the ghost. And the Bible says immediately when that happened, when the flesh of Jesus Christ was rent. The veil in the tabernacle was rampant. Now it didn't tear. It wasn't ripped from the bottom up. It was ripped from the top down. How high did we say that Herod's tabernacle uh that uh that uh veil was in Herod's tabernacle? Sixty feet up That was God tearing that veil. That was God saying this to you and I. Come on in. It's open. No more blood of bulls and goats. No more ceremonies to go through. No more rituals. Through Jesus Christ, there's no more avail anymore. You have immediate, you have access into the immediate presence of God. The veil in the temple ripped from into from top to bottom. God did it. We have direct access to God. Oh, by the way, it's interesting to note that that veil ripped in two. It wasn't rolled up. It wasn't oh just roll that wasn't just miraculously all of a sudden it rolls up. If it rolled up, what could happen? It can roll back down again. I think that veil being ripped, this is just leathermanism here a little bit. I think that veil being ripped is evidence of the fact we can't lose our salvation. And the way that that keeps me from God, the thing that keeps me from God is gone. It's ripped. It's not going to come back down. And so, we ha we now have how many folks here you're saved to know it, say amen. I'm telling you, I I think if we really understood the the significance of this truth, we'd be coming unglued right now. We'd be standing on the pews high-fiving each other. Don't do that. But this is incredible. We have direct access to God. We have the immediate access to God. I mean right now. Sitting in your pews right there, you can have go immediately into the presence of God. Say, God help this guy to hurry up. You know, you could say that if you were so inclined. We have immediate access to God. We have unlimited access to God. Let me ask you a question. Now this is the first this was my first response in realizing all of this. Wow! I can come immediately into the presence of God. I have direct access to Him. I come boldly, Hebrews says. You know what the first thing came to my mind was? What do I need? What's something I need I can ask God for? I can go directly to Him. Question, is there anything wrong with that? No. In fact, that's the whole idea. We can come with boldness to the throne. Back in uh in uh I think it's verse 12, uh we can come boldly into the throne and make our requests known. There's nothing wrong with that. What do you need God to do for you? You have direct access to God. We're going to pray for Max here in a little while. Those at one, two. We can come directly to the God of creation, the God of this universe, and ask him to help in this matter of Max. There's nothing between us and the Lord. We can come directly to Him. Isn't that amazing? What do you want? What do you want in life? What do you want God to do in your life? Ask Him. Jesus Christ died on the cross so that you and I can have access to God. I have some things that I feel I need to be a Christian God wants me to be. I ask God. You know what? I got some things in my life I want. I would really like to see happen. And my wife knows exactly what I'm talking about. And we pray, we've been praying a long time. God, we have we have immediate access to God That's powerful. This veil kept people out. Jesus died, the veil's red. Now we can come in. Not just for salvation. But I got thinking about that. Then I thought, you know, that's awfully human of me. I think I can come into the presence of God, and the first thing that comes to my mind is stuff I want from Him. Stuff I want Him to do for me. I got convicted about that. Why does God want me to come into his presence? Why does he why would why would God want that veil removed so I can come into his very immediate presence, where he is, why would he want me there? You know why? Because he loves me He wants me to be with him. He wants me in his presence. He wants me to express my love for him. He wants to express his love for me. The same reason only multiplied 14 million times that I want my wife to be with me. I love her I want to share her presence with her. I want to I want to talk to her, want her to talk to me. That's the way our God is. I worked in the hospital years ago when I was in the in the uh working my way through Bible college and of course in the operating room was clean that I had a I didn't have an office to my of my own But I did have a closet. It was great. That was my closet. And I had my mops in there and my spray bottles and my rags and my buckets and This was and it was a pretty good sized closet. You had a bit of press as far as closets go. It was probably the it's probably the width of the platform here, about three, four foot deep The nice thing about it was I could go in there and close the doors, and nobody knew I was in there. That closet became my prayer closet. And uh most of the time there was after three, I started work at three, by five o'clock the surgeries were done. You just had to have people there in case there was emergency surgery. So Most of the time I was done cleaning by 6, 7 o'clock, 8 o'clock at the latest. I had I had to stay till 11 And so I'd do my study, and I'd get my books and spread them out in the operating table. Two hours earlier, they were c sawing a guy's leg off. Now I'm studying the book of Colossians on that very same spot. And so I don't remember what it was. I said all that to get to this. I don't remember what the situation was. I don't know if I got a phone call. I don't remember what it was. But I do remember this. I needed to pray really bad, really quick. Do you ever anybody ever been there? Man, I've got to pray. And so I went to my closet. And I went flying back there. Again, I wish I could remember what the situation was, but I don't. But I remember this. I went flying back there. I went in there and I closed the doors behind me and I said, God! And I started back And the Spirit of God convicted me. You are coming into the very presence of God And you come barging in here and asking for all this stuff. Now, I'm not saying that in and of itself is wrong. But God convicted me, and it was like, stop and think about what you're doing. You're talking to the creator of the universe. You are in the very presence of the most holy thing in existence, the most holy being in existence. You know what I did? I got down on my knees, turned the bucket, five-gallon bucket over, got down on my knees. I said, God, you are holy and I'm not. You are all powerful and I'm powerless. I really, really need you. You know what made that possible? That veil being rent. Jesus, die on the cross so I can come to the God I need. And worship him. Anybody see today that guy jumped out of that thing? We were talking about it before. Anybody see that guy jumped twenty-four miles up, went up in a in a balloon? Highest free fall jump twenty twenty-four miles, hundred and twenty-seven thousand feet up And uh boy they had cameras all over the sky, he's breaking all these records. And uh the most amazing thing, they had a camera above him, and you could see the earth down below, 24 miles up. And he's holding on his thing and he just lets go. I read later on this afternoon before I came out of church. I just wanted to read a follow-up of it. I was just so fascinated by that. It broke the speed of sound falling Um and he lands standing up. That parachute comes out when he's up and just lands and but you know he did, he fell on his knees. And I thought, well, that's interesting. His first reaction was fell on his knees. Now he's not a Christian in any sense. I doubt he even believes in God. But later on their interview, and he made a statement just a little while before church. They said, What were you thinking? What were you thinking when you were up on there? He said, You know, I looked down and saw the earth. And I saw space. And I was humbled. And I realized how small I really am. I thought that's interesting. What is it like for you and I as a Christian? That veil's been removed. And we see God. We come into God's presence. What would that do to us? Humble us. We'd fall on our knees. This veil has captured my attention. It's been removed, and we have access to God. And that's humbling. Let me challenge you. I'm going to leave with this. Let me challenge you. Let's determine. Don't shut me down, please. Let's determine that we're going to take some time every day. And we're going to get into that holy place. And let's spend some time in the very presence of God. You follow what I'm saying? You say, what do you what does that mean? Sit there, um no, no, no, no. What I mean by that is get alone, get your Bible out. Get on our knees. Say, God, I love you. You died for me. I want my life to be everything you want it to be. God, speak to me from your word. And that's what God in His presence, so that He can talk to us and we can talk to Him. It's this love on each other a little bit. Does that make sense? Let's just do that this week. Let's just determine. I'm going to take some time, somehow, some way, and get alone with God. I'm just going to love on Him. Tell him, worship him, and let him speak to me. That's what the veil being read is all about. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to really know you and really love you.