I want to read the first seven verses. Forty. Genesis chapter forty. You have to go by what I mean, not necessarily what I say. I I have so many things I want to say along those lines. I'm not gonna do it. I'm not gonna do it. Genesis chapter 40, we'll eventually get to 50 here in another couple years. And uh we're gonna I'm gonna read down through verse 7. And of course we're studying the life of Joseph. He's been betrayed by his brothers. He's been held as a slave, a servant. He's been falsely accused by a high level official's wife of rape. He's imprisoned now And in prison, he maintains his testimony, and uh he earns the trust of the jailer there. And now Something interesting happens. Look at verse 1 of Genesis chapter 40. And it came to pass after these things. That the butler of the king of Egypt, that would be Pharaoh, the butler of the king of Egypt being Pharaoh, and his baker had offended their lord, the king of Egypt. And Pharaoh was wroth against two of his officers, against the chief of the butlers and against the chief of the bakers. And he put them in a ward in the house of the captain of the guard, into the prison, the place where Joseph was bound. And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, and he served them, and they continued a season in wart. And they dreamed a dream, both of them, each man his dream in one night, each man according to the interpretation of his dream. The butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, which were bound in the prison. And Joseph came in unto them in the morning and looked upon them, and behold, they were sad. And he asked Pharaoh's officers that were with him in the ward of his lord's house, saying, Wherefore look yeah So sadly today, I want us to consider the butler and the baker. And I'm going to try and look at them. Maybe what I want to consider them is their relation to Joseph. The relation to Joseph. We're not going to look at their dreams tonight. That'll be another study. I just want to look at these two fellows a little bit. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to teach us and help us. Father, I thank you for the Word of God. We thank you for these Old Testament accounts of these some amazing men, some amazing women. And we look at Joseph, and I just stand in awe. And uh all that he went through in preparation, and then what he what how you used him, Lord, is just uh uh I stand in awe. And so now as we uh consider these two fellows, the butler and the baker, we don't know their names, but uh I pray we could learn some scriptural principles from what takes place here, and it would help us in our faith to be stronger and And as we live our lives to be more effective in our witness and more Christ-like in our behavior and our attitudes. So I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit, dear Lord. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. With all my heart, I pray that you be the speaker, the preacher tonight through me, in the person of your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name, Amen. Someone has said, I came across this quote Someone said the crime is the disgrace, not the prison. Now think that through with me a little bit. It's the crime Where the disgrace is, not necessarily being in prison. And by that, I think they meant this, and this is the way I took it, is there are many good men Who some for one reason or another, sometimes for no other reason than standing up for principle, end up in prison. And it is not a disgrace to be in prison If you did not do the crime. I don't know if I'm getting this across or not. There's a lot of noble people. There have been a lot of noble people who have found themselves imprisoned for one reason or another, but not because of a crime. And there's no disgrace on them. Someone that does right, someone that uh is honest, uh is not a criminal, but for whatever reason they end up in prison, that's not a disgrace. Does anybody follow what I'm saying? And maybe it's not as profound as I took it. Sometimes innocent people find themselves in prison. And that's not a disgrace for an innocent man to be imprisoned. The disgrace is in the committing of the crime. What I'm getting here is Joseph, there was no disgrace for Joseph to be rejected by his brothers. It was the brothers that are in disgrace for their behavior, not Joseph being rejected. The disgrace is on Potiphar's wife For her false accusations against Joseph, not against Joseph, even though he ends up in prison The disgrace is, I believe, on Potiphar's shoulders for not believing Joseph. I think he knew Joseph was innocent, and we'll reinforce that here in a bit. But he puts him in prison anyway. Out of expediency, maybe. So to destroy, Joseph has been in prison. He's been there for a good bit now. He's going to be in for a good while But there's no disgrace on uh Joseph's part. I I heard Bob Jones Sr. , I enjoy listening to him in the weekdays at 830, he's on our radio station, and he says some good stuff And this past week, one morning, he made this statement. He said, people are not persecuted for compromising. People are persecuted for standing on principle. And Joseph has stood on principle. He's done right regardless of what anybody says. And he ends up in prison. And even uh, and he maintains his impeccable testimony In spite of rejection, in spite of false accusation, in spite of injustice, Joseph maintains this impeccable testimony in ways that I think a lot of times we don't notice, and we're going to hopefully pick it up as we go through here. To me, Joseph's story tells me that it is possible to do right with a right attitude, even in the worst of treatment. People may treat us awful, but we can still do right. And we can still have a good attitude. We don't have to become bitter. We don't have to become angry. We don't have to become hateful in spite of how people treat us. We can maintain integrity. We don't have to compromise our convictions, what we know is true. We can hold to them. We can have a sweet attitude in spite of injustice. And I I take that from Joseph. What a testimony. Joseph did not deserve the treatment he received, but nevertheless he responded with grace. He responded with patience, and we're going to see here in a bit, he responded with kindness in the midst of in an atmosphere of unkindness. Joseph could have become a very self-centered man. He could have become a very angry, bitter man. Do you agree with me? I mean, his treatment His condition, the situation he f he finds himself in, it would have been very easy. In fact, I venture to say some Maybe many of us here in the same circumstances will become very, very angry, very, very bitter. But Joseph does not There's no record of it. There's no even indication of anger or bitterness or hatred on his part. Now we come to chapter 40. And Joseph is in prison. He's been there apparently for some period of time. We're not told how long. It may have been an extended period of time. We don't know But uh these two men enter his life, and these two fellas are going to play a significant role in Joseph's process of getting In the process, God is using to get Joseph from where he's at to where he needs to be for God to use him. Now, where he needs him is in Pharaoh's, at Pharaoh's right hand, number two guide to Joseph. That's where or to Pharaoh. That's where Joseph needs to be to have the influence that God intends for him to have. But right now. He's in prison. So these two guys come into his life. He may have met them before, we don't know. Maybe probably knew about them, but now they have entered into his light. And here's the thing I thought about as I was pondering that. You never know when someone enters your life what kind of impact they're going to have on your life. That first time you shake their hand. You greet them in a somewhere, a meeting or whatever, and and they come in and you never know that when you meet that person for the first time, you have no idea The impact they could possibly have in your life. I thought about the church here. Somebody walks through the back doors. We have some visitors come in the door maybe on a Sunday morning, Sunday night, or whenever And they walk through those doors. We have no idea what potential impact, influence they may have on our church. I thought of folks over the years. And they walk in, Brian and Sandy sitting over there, first time member of the first time you guys showed up. And had no idea. Here they are, what, fifteen years later, something like that, twelve years Nineteen years later, and um what's that? According to Helen, um I am sure that is accurate. But the influence they've had in missions and in so many ways in our church, and I just look around, so many. And Joseph's sitting there in prison, these two fellows show up And they have a profound effect upon his life. In fact, because of these two guys, his course is altered into the direction God wants them to go. So you never know. So I think you ought to be nice to everybody, because you don't know what what type of influence they may have. You have no idea what impact or how God may use them In your life individually or in our life as a church, would everybody agree with me? We ought to be a friendly church. We ought to be kind. When visitors come in, we ought to go out of our way to greet them and make them feel welcome. You never know what role God may have them to play in the life of our church. I love our church. I thought over the years how God, God, in his wisdom and providence, has brought together such an array of members. That just mesh together and needs are met and and roll and uh uh uh positions are filled because God brought it together. So here we have these two guys showing up How many people are gonna try really hard be friendly to visitors when they come in next couple weeks? Oh right, we got five. Very good. We'll take that I want us to look at these fellows, like I said, a little bit from Joseph's perspective. The butler and the baker. Number one, here's my first thought. I want us to notice Joseph's companions. That's these two fellas. They entered enter they enter into Joseph's life, a butler and a baker, and uh they have a profound impact. They play a key role In God's plan for Joseph's life. First of all, I want us to consider their occupations. These two fellows. What are they? Well, look here. It says, came to pass after these things, verse 1 that the butler of the king of Egypt and his baker had offended their lord the king, is wrath with the two officers against the chief uh two of his officers against the chief butlers and against chief bakers. And he put them in a ward in the house of the captain. And notice it says the last phrase of verse Three, where Joseph was bound. So they enter into his life, and uh they have two, their occupations are first of all a butler. When you hear the title butler, what do you think of? What immediately comes to mind A servant. How many people picture this? A guy with his arm like this. And he greets the door. Greeting. How many people picture a butler like that? Five people. And um or you think of uh and for some reason they always have a a towel or something and they take your coat. That is not what this butler was Our concept of a butler is very different than what a butler was in this culture at this time. The butler, the word itself, means cup-bearer In fact, if you look up how it's translated other places in the Bible, it's sometimes translated cupbearer. So it's not what we picture in our day. This fella, his responsibility as butler. Was to assure that Pharaoh, assure Pharaoh's safety whenever he would have any kind of beverage. Butler was responsible. In other words, he was responsible to make sure that when Pharaoh took a drink of wine or whatever he was drinking, Coca-Cola, whatever it was that he was the butler was to make sure that wasn't poisoned. He had an he had an incredibly he had an incredible rush responsibility He was to assure the safety of Pharaoh, at least in the area of his beverages, primarily. Now he was over a much more than that, but that was his specific responsibility. He would no doubt be considered part of the maybe Secret Service to an extent. He was part of the team that was to make sure that Pharaoh was kept safe, that no enemies or uh foreign uh adversaries would be able to sneak in and somehow uh harm Pharaoh through drink. So he was responsible to make sure of uh to uh assure Pharaoh that what he was drinking was safe to drink. But he was also responsible to make sure that whatever Pharaoh was indulging in, whatever beverages, they were the best that was available in the nation. The Pharaoh was to be safe and he was to be treated with the best of the best. How many people recognize the name Nehemiah? Nehemiah. If we go Nehemiah and we won't take time. We went to Nehemiah chapter 1, verse 11. Nehemiah is of course working under Nebuchadnezzar. He's been taken as a slave from Egypt. They're in captivity in Babylon, and Nehemiah ends up the cup-bearer, the butler. Same word, comes from the same word. of Nebuchadnezzar. Now that's an amazing thing that a Jew is taken as a prisoner of war in many ways Works his way up to such a responsible position. This is, as a butler, this guy is his is a position of incredible trust No doubt they did background checks on this guy. No doubt they knew all his associations, and perhaps they knew where he went, when he went, who he identified with, who he interacted with. This is a position of tremendous responsibility, a position of tremendous trust, and it is it's a strategic position, it's part of the security of the of uh the uh Pharaoh, but it is also, and this is where it becomes significant, it is also a position of intimacy And by that I mean this. If he is checking every cup that the king drinks from, he's going to be around him a fair bit, right? On a daily basis, he's probably interacting with Pharaoh. You can get around somebody a extended period of time, in fact, numerous uh Jewish historians and commentators that I looked at, they all suggested that many times the cupbearer would become a confidant of the king. He would bounce ideas off of him sometimes. He would ask questions, get a little input maybe from a different perspective than his official advisors were, and they had advisors and counselors And so the cupbearer would often get into a um and I I'm using that term loosely intimate relationship with the Pharaoh or the king. Remember back to Nebuchadnezzar. Remember when he comes in and the Pharaoh note uh and uh Nebuchadnezzar noted that uh uh Nehemiah was sad And they engaged in a conversation there, and Nehemiah prays because he's, you know, this is a little precarious, but he just spills his guts. And he said, I'll tell you why I'm sad Nebi. I don't think he called him Nebi. But uh he he uh he he they talk, they engage in a conversation, in fact Policy is established for him to go back to Jerusalem and rebuild the walls and resources are made available Nehemiah, as a cup-bearer to Nebuchadnezzar, had very intimate interaction with the king. And no doubt this butler did. And so he's a strategic person, and he shows up in prison with Joseph. You say, oh, what a coincidence. I have a hard time buying that coincidence is Uh that uh I I I I I don't think a lot what we call coincidences, I think, are sometimes God's appointments. Many times. It's not just a coincidence that of all people this guy shows up in prison with Joseph Now we have that's the butler. He's a cupbearer. He's a security personnel. He's quality control. And then we have the baker. Anybody want to guess what the baker did? He baked. The butler is the cupbearer and the baker, but however, we're going to notice here in a minute. This baker probably did not do a lot of baking himself. At some point he probably did. But he's been, he's come up the chain. And he is referred to, I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but he's referred to as the chief baker. The idea here is this: this guy is the what we might call the executive chef. For uh Pharaoh. He would be comparable to um the White House chef. Anyone ever I think they had a little show or I saw a documentary one time about the chef in the White House that cooks for the uh not the principal um president and for dignitaries that would come in the the White House chef would oversee these meals And he would o and he would oversee the menu and the preparation of the meals and all of that. That's probably What this baker was, he wasn't there. He wasn't flipping Egyptian hamburgers for Pharaoh He's in an administrative position. He's in an executive type position. And the other thing I noted, and I I I wasn't aware of this, is I studied this and found out that the baker also had uh what we believed a religious significance in the household, in the administration of Pharaoh Bread, I understand, was incredibly significant in the religious, pagan religious worship of the Egyptians. And how they found this out was as they would excavate the tombs of the various pharaohs, King Tut and all these others And they get into the pyramids and they uh make their way in and they go through and archaeologists examine things and learn things, and the writings they found that bread played a huge role In their worship. Now I don't know the specifics how it played out, but in these tombs and in these pyramids, they found where they would bring bread in on a regular basis, even though they're dead, they still got bread. And they'd bring it in there. And so he plays a significant role. Um he is uh he's not just a uh uh uh uh bur flipping burgers. Uh he has a a high political position as he provides these meals and and for the Pharaoh and for dignitaries that come in and then the religious aspect of it. Um so these two companions of Joseph's here, uh their occupations are significant These aren't just guys off the street. These are high level men in the in the household, in the administration. Of Pharaoh. And then I noticed their occupation. Then I noticed, number two, their outstanding positions. Now I kind of referenced this, but look there at verse 2. It says, and Pharaoh was wroth Against two of his what? They're referred to as officers holding high office. Um now there we say that they're not out as ambassadors representing Pharaoh and other nations and no doubt they're not making part of the uh making laws and the executive and the legislature. They're not probably not all that. But they are referred to as officers. So they're not run-of-the-mill uh beverage boys and water boys and burger flippers. Two of his officers, and then notice how they're referred to again in verse 2. He was rough against two of his officers, against the chief of the butlers, and against the chief of the bakers. The word chief there is translated 190 times in our Bible, Prince. A prince. Would you agree with me? A prince, you generally think of a prince of having significant influence In a government. A prince would have tremendous authority, responsibility. So when he says they're chief, he's saying they're they're up there, they're captains So his companions, first of all their occupation, Baker, cupbearer, uh butler, cupbearer, baker, executive chief And now I consider their grave offense, the offense that they did. Look again at verse number one. Can you pass after these things? That the butler of the king of Egypt and his baker had what? Offended their lord the king of Egypt. Offend it. The word offended again has the I of D of guilt. They are guilty of something And I thought this was interesting. That word offended, again, is translated 102 times in other places in the Old Testament as sin. Whatever they did, it was whatever they let me back up a little bit. Whatever they were accused of, it was criminal. In fact, it was more than just breaking a law. It was something that was tremendously offensive to Pharaoh himself. Is something wasn't just breaking the law or breaking protocol. It was something that Pharaoh took personally He was offended by this. He felt sinned against. And so what I'm trying, what I think the Bible's telling us in these terms it uses, what I'm trying to, what I'm getting from it, is this was a serious offense. This wasn't they just burnt the toast or the Coca-Cola was flat. This was something that would be what we might call a high crime. That they committed. The word offended implies a deliberate crime. The implication, again, as I said, the offense was Taken personally by Pharaoh, and it may have had religious overtones. May have been whatever they did may have been interpreted as being blasphemous. a sin against their false God, their imaginary God. And so, uh offended, then look at verse two. And Pharaoh was wroth. Again, when somebody is wroth, we don't use that word. It's a form of the word wrath. What's somebody help me out? Let's talk a little bit. I didn't have time to study. Somebody help me. What's the difference between being angry? What's the difference between anger and wrath? Anger being kindled, extreme anger, the word wrath has the idea of boiling over. I mean it is just uh it's possible to be angry but not display it, right? In fact, that's preferable. To get angry, don't don't let it become sin. Um wrath, on the other hand. is is uh cannot be hidden. It is boiling out. It's displaying itself In the words that are being used, in the tone that's being used, in the in the um in the uh complexion, the countenance, the body language. Wrath. Wrath is when anger Takes over. When anger takes control. So Pharaoh is incredibly, incredibly angry. He's extremely displeased Whatever they were accused of, it was very serious. Ah, whether they did it or not is open to debate. We'll look at that here in a bit. Whatever they if they did it, it was very, very serious. In fact, if you come to verse 22, notice what happens. This is after their dream. Remember, the butler had the dream. And uh he gets restored to his position. However, the baker, remember this is religious, possible religious overtones, uh look what happens in verse 22. But he hanged the chief baker. You know what we call that? Capital punishment This is a capital offense. This is death row. This is the this is uh um sentence to death So this is serious. This is serious. Now, here's where I start getting curious. What in the world did these guys do? That made the king so angry. I mean, these are high-level guys. You don't just throw them in prison Over little stuff. A little peon? Ah, put him in prison. Chief? Executive? No. I don't know what they did. And there's a lot of speculation and commentators and different things on what took place. Most likely Is that they may have been, we don't know, we have no idea, we're total speculation, but it's likely they may have been involved in some plot. Or at least accused of being involved of some plot to overthrow Pharaoh. If somebody wanted Pharaoh dead, these would be two guys. That would be in the right position to allow something to slip through, allow a little arsenic or whatever whatever into the jello or whatever. Um and so we don't know what they did. Uh maybe a plot to overthrow Pharaoh? Maybe they were accused of being spies for uh Ethiopia or some other country around there, some enemy of uh the Egyptians. Maybe uh they were accused, maybe they were spies, maybe they were simply accused of it. I don't know. But these are the two men that show up. In prison with Joseph, high-level executives, tremendous experience behind them, no doubt highly educated men They can handle themselves with dignitaries. And they're just, they're not, they're not street thugs. And they show up in Joseph's prison. So that's his companions in prison. The second thing I want us to note how many people thought that was interesting so far? I thought that was fascinating, these two guys. I never gave much thought. Butler, Baker. But they're significant, and they play a key role in Joseph's uh journey to the uh the number two man in Egypt. Second thing I notice, number one, his companion, these two guys, Butler and Baker. Second thing I notice is his commission. Look with me at verse 3. And he, Pharaoh, put them in a ward in the house of the captain of the guard, into the prison, the place where Joseph was bound. Now look at verse 4. And the captain and the guard charged Joseph with them, and he served them. And they continued a season in the ward. The captain of the guard charged Joseph That word charge there means appointed him a responsibility, or we might use the word commission them. How many people ever heard us talk about the Great Commission? Yeah, that's what God has commissioned us. He's charged us. He's instructed us. Take the gospel and all the world. Well, this captain of the guard instructed Joseph, commissioned Joseph, and his commission was to serve these two guys. Now I got looking at this and I got wondering, who in the world is this captain of the guard? And I notice it says there in verse number three, put them in the ward, in the house. of the captain of the guard into the prison. So apparently the captain of the guard lived either in a house that was either connected to the prison or at very minimum on the same campus Probably connected. Probably had a an a section of the prison where he and his family live. Now the question is, who in the world is this captain of the guard? We're not told his name However, we are. If you would, come back to chapter 39 and look with me at verse number one. Lo and behold, it says Joseph was brought down to Egypt, and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, what's the next four words? Lo and behold, it's Potiphar. Potiphar is the one that is commissioning, instructing Joseph to serve these two companions that have showed up, Butler and Baker. And apparently, according to the passage I just read, Potiphar's house was part of the prison, or at least within the walls, the campus of it And so here, lo and behold, this whole time, Joseph is serving Potiphar, he's doing tremendous, he puts him over everything. Uh he doesn't even know what his balance is in the bank account. He don't know what's being bought, being sold in it. He just all jokes. You just do it all. So Mrs. Potiport lies Makes accusations. Pharaoh gets men, and uh he puts them in prison, but he's still right there on the premises where Potiphar is And Potiphar is now over him not as head of the household, but he's over him as head of the prison. And he gives them these instructions. Potiphar is over Joseph in prison. He puts Joseph in charge of much of the prison. But he was very active. He could come back up. to verse number 22 of 39. It says the keeper of the prison. Now that may have been the jailer, that may have been Pharaoh. They use a little different term there. Pharaoh may have been over the keeper. That might be like the jailer But anyway, uh committed to Joseph's hand all the prisoners that were in the prison. And whatsoever they did there, he was the doer of it. I mean Joseph's running around doing all this stuff, and he's over the prisons and prisoners when they can eat and when they can go shower and when uh when they can watch TV and work out in the weight room and uh all that stuff But Potiphar is the one that's in charge of the prison here, and he commissions Joseph concerning the butler and the baker. Now, my question I come back to, and we touched on this before, was, did Potiphar really believe his wife? I tend to think, with the way he's treating Joseph in prison, I tend to think, I don't, I'm not convinced Potiphar believed his wife, and I said that before. I'm telling you, if he believed what she said, Joseph would have been dead a long time ago. I guarantee it. Most of you men would say the same thing. Somebody's horsing around with my wife like that and they're just a Hebrew slave, brother, their head's coming off along with their hands, feet, and and a lot of other things. And so, I think, I'm not sure Potiphar believed his wife. I doubt he did, but there's a couple things he noticed about Joseph. He noticed Joseph's distinct faith. There was something about Joseph that was different than everybody else. If you remember our previous message, we looked at that the fact that the Lord was with Joseph. Joseph had such a relationship with his God. He had such a walk with his God that it was obvious not to people from a distance But the people who knew him better than anybody else recognized the presence of God in his life and the walk of God and how distinct he was from everybody else. Uh did you ever have someone y you knew them from a distance, you know, man they're a great Christian. Man, what an awesome there uh there. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Then you got to know them a little bit and you found out they weren't quite as great as what you thought we were. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Or do you ever have it this way? Uh somebody thinks you're just the greatest Christian in the world, and you know I'm not what they think I am Potiphar knew Joseph better than anybody else. And he recognized God's with this guy. There's something unique. They're Christians, God's people, now get this, God's people are fundamentally different than the people of the world. I mean, we are in our position before God, our standing with God, and our we're sanctified in the eyes of God, in the mind of God. Now we ought to live that way. Right? Is anybody with me? Anybody out there? Our lives ought to reflect the fact that we are not the same as the world. We are not better than the world in any way, shape, or form, in any sense of that idea. We're not better than the world. But we're not the same as the world I love that phrase. I got it from Tennessee Temple University. When I was down there, they used it. And I love it. Use it up here a bit. Distinctively Christian. And Joseph was distinctively Jehovah's servant. And the person that knew him best at this point in his life recognized that. So he gives them this charge. I think Potiphar recognized whether he believed his wife or not, he recognized that Joseph was disciplined in his character. I mean, Joseph got the job done. Having the Lord with Joseph doesn't mean he just sat around the prison cell and everything just fell into place. It means Joseph is getting up. He's disciplined. He's getting up in the morning. And he's doing what needs to be done. And he's staying at it till the job is done. And whether he feels like it or not, he does what needs to be done. Joseph is an incredibly disciplined man. You don't get to the position where people trust you with everything they own if you're undisciplined. They know he's going to be where he's supposed to be when he's supposed to be there. He's going to be doing what he's supposed to be doing when it needs to be done. I'm not going to have to go find him. I'm not going to have to drag him out of the away from the table. He's going to get the job done. Joseph was distinct in his relationship with his God and he was disciplined. In his life. I tell you, we could use a good good old dose of discipline back. Just self-discipline, doing what we're supposed to do, when we're supposed to do it, the way we're supposed to do it I do not believe it's possible to be victorious in our Christian lives unless we have an element of self-discipline in our lives. Now the Lord does it. It's the presence of God. Well you don't just layer you don't just uh uh lay in the prison cell and things get accomplished. So uh Joseph's commission. He sees Joseph, these two guys, these are high-level fellas He knows what Joseph is, he's distinct, he's a discipline, he gets the job done, he says, Joseph, you're to serve them. You take care of these two guys. These guys are big shots In the government. Now they're here, but while they're here, we're going to treat them. Now what was his motive of wanting Joseph to serve these two guys? Maybe they were friends of his, maybe just respected them. Maybe he thought, like many politicians would think, you know, if these guys get out of here, I want them to re-like me. Maybe Potiphar is trying to network here a little bit. Hey guys, remember I had took care of you when you were in here So Joseph's commission is to serve them, not guard them. Doesn't tell him to guard them, he tells them to serve them. To serve them. He's not responsible making sure they don't escape He's responsible to make sure they're well taken care of. They have the clothing they need. They have plenty of food that their cell is acceptable. He serves them. And you know what I see Joseph doing? I see Joseph doing exactly what Potiphar tells him to do, the captain of the guard tells him to do. I don't see one hint of big shotness in Joseph's mind. I see Joseph, yes, sir. And he goes and he serves them. He has been mistreated, he has been lied about, he has been unjustly imprisoned, he's been rejected by his family. And now he goes and serves. What an attitude. What an attitude. You know when God wants to honor someone with a title, you know what God's title of honor is? Servant. Moses, my servant. David, my servant. Paul, a servant. Joseph is a tremendous man. And he's serving. He's serving. And then last of all, I want to end with this. I notice his companions, as Butler and Baker, show up. His commission, you take care of them, you serve them, you make sure they they have what they need. And then his compassion. I'd like to spend more time on this, but we can't But notice, if you would, come down to verse 6. Now they have their dream in verse 5. We'll get back to that. But verse 6, and Joseph came in unto them. This is the morning after they had this dream that's disturbed them. And he looked upon them, and behold, they were what? Sad. Come down to verse 7. And he asked Pharaoh's officers that were with him in the war, so Butler and Baker, saying Wherefore look ye so sadly today? I don't see any bitterness. He's serving them. He shouldn't be in here. He shouldn't be doing anything. He shouldn't even be in the prison. He's not bitter at them or anybody. There's no hint of anger. There's no hint of self-pity You know what I hear in that little statement? He noticed they were sad? Why are you guys so sad? You know what I see in there? I see some compassion. He cares about these guys. These guys are sad. Why are you guys so sad? I think Joseph was sensitive. To the feelings and people around him. I think he was uh aware, he was attentive, he noticed their countenance was different He paid attention. Sometimes we get so caught up in our lives. We get so caught up in what we're doing and what we're about and how it affects me and what value it is to me. And we never notice people around us who are hurting. We never notice people around us who have needs. We just walk right on by and we just do our thing and we don't even pay attention to folks around us that have needs. Joseph paid attention Notice if you would there, look there at verse number six. It says in the middle of the verse says, Came unto the moon and looked upon them. He looked at them, he paid attention. They weren't just objects that he was taken care of, just some strangers. He looked at him and he thought, these guys are saying. These guys are saying. Ask them, why are you guys so sad? Now this is what I thought was interesting. Good night, they're in prison. Of course they would be sad. If I was one of them, I'd be s I'd think he comes up, why are you guys sad? Why am I sad? What are you talking about? We're in the prison. Why aren't you sad? You know what? I don't think Joseph was sad. If he was, he wouldn't have asked them why they're sad. They'd all be sad together. But he notices that they are experiencing something that he isn't. He's he's uh if you're not sad, you're what? Glad, I don't know if he's glad he was there, but he was content. Alright, this is where God has me This is God's will for me. I'm trusting the Lord. The Lord is with me here. Maybe Joseph is remembering his dreams. And maybe he's holding on to the fact God has promised me something down the road somewhere, and God's word never fails, and God never breaks a promise, and there's still something good down the road. This is temporary. And I want to remind you, regardless of how rough life may be for you and I now, our life here is just temporary. We've got promises. We've got the word of God for something better down the road. Amen or not. Joseph wasn't sad. And all this. They were, and he noticed it, and he cared. And he cared. Why are you guys sad? What can I do? Compassion. Compassion. Prison's a sad place. But Joseph, the implication at the very least, is Joseph wasn't sad. Maybe we ought to sometimes look in the mirror and ask ourselves, why are you so sad? It's what the psalmist did in Psalm 42 and 43. He said it three times. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Hope thou in God. Why art thou sad? We know why the world's sad. Everything they're living for is temporary, it's empty. A life without God may have laughter and fun Down and deep, it's sad, somebody without Christ. Joseph had hope, Joseph had promises, Joseph had a future to look forward to, and it's God's people, so do we. I passed the sand lot yesterday. Some kids were playing ball. I strolled along the third baseline within the fielder's call. Say, what's the score? I asked. He yelled to beat the stuff in. There's no one out. The bases are full, and they're winning. 42 to nothing. You're getting beat, aren't you, my friend? And then in no time flat, he answered, No, sir, not as yet. Our side hasn't been up to bat. I think Joseph's in prison. He says, you know, I haven't been up to bat yet. Looks like we're losing. Looks like the world's winning. 42 to nothing. But I'm here to tell you, we ain't been up to bat yet. Jesus coming back again. And we got a heap to look forward to. And so let's be a blessing while we're here. Let's pay attention to the hurts and needs of others around us. Let's get our eyes off ourselves. Let's get rid of these ingrown eyeballs and look at others. That's what Joseph did, and God used them in a great way. Father, I pray you'd help us. To learn from Joseph, the integrity, the walk he had with you, the compassion and care for others, the contentment and confidence. He had in your word, in your promises, and Lord, I pray you'd help us get a hold of that also. When earth heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, God spoke to my heart I need to get my eyes back on the Lord and the promises of God, and I need to be more conscious of the needs of people around me. I need my walk with God to be alive and real. Anybody here, God, feel with your heart, my hands raised. I want to learn from Joseph. I want some of that, what he had. I want in my life. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen