An account of myself as a Christian, how I live my life as a Christian. I stand before and by the way, I want to remind you every s how how many folks here, how many folks here, you're saved and you know it? Say amen Amen. Isn't that a good thing? Aren't you glad you're able to say that? I know for sure God has forgiven my sins. I know for sure that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell. Now listen, every one of us that are saved, every one of us that accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm going to remind you something, something that ought to always be in the forefront of our mind There's a day coming when we're going to have to stand before Jesus Christ and give an account of ourselves as a Christian. How I live my life. Not whether I go to heaven or hell. That's settled the moment I accept Christ as Savior. But when I stand before the judgment seat of Christ, I give an account to Jesus Christ personally For how I live my life as a Christian. They determine the rewards that I receive or miss when I get to heaven and when I face this judgment. And the bottom line of that judgment is this Did I do the will of God for my life or not? He's not gonna I'm not gonna get my checkbook out and my bank account out and see how much money I have when I stand before the judgment seat of Christ That's not the bottom line as far as Jesus is concerned. Not how big my house was, not how popular I was. But did I obey his instructions? Did I do God's will? That is the bottom line. Did I do what God told me to do? Now listen. We must take the will of God very seriously. We must take that very seriously. That is the bottom line. That's what we're going to answer to God for as a believer. Did I do the will of God? Did I live the life that God saved me to live? Did I do the things God instructed me to do? Now, if you're there in Acts chapter 9 still, how many folks would agree with me? Uh you've read your Bible a little bit, you study how many folks agree with me? Paul was tremendously successful in his Christian life. How many people agree with me? He wasn't successful because he started lots of churches. He wasn't successful because he uh a lot led a lot of people. He was successful because he did the will of God for his life. And you and I can be just as successful as Paul was in our Christian life. And I think one of the keys There are no secrets to the successful Christian life. Sometimes you see a book. Oh, here's the secret to a successful Christian life. There is no secrets. It's very simple, it's very basic. Do what God says. Paul was successful in his Christian life to the point where when he got to the end of his life, he said, I've kept the course. I've finished my course. I've kept the faith. I fought a good fight. What's he saying? I did God's will for my life. I fulfilled God's will for my life. I'm ready to die and stand before Jesus Christ. I fulfilled His will for my life. I've kept I've finished my course. Now I think one of the keys is given to us in Acts chapter 9. Look with me, if you would, at verse number 6. This is Paul's salvation. How many folks remember the day you got saved? Anybody remember that? Did I ever tell you about the day I got saved? Look at verse 6. And he, trembling and astonished, said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? From the moment Paul got saved, here's the key, I think, to his success. From the moment Paul got saved, he said this: Lord, what do you want me to do? His very first concern was that I carry out God's will for my life. His very first concern was that I do what God saved me to do. Lord! What wilt thou have me do? What's your will for me? What's your instructions? What do you want me to do? And if you follow Paul's life, and of course he wasn't perfect, and I think there's some instances recorded in Acts perhaps there where you know he kind of took things in his own hands. But Paul fulfilled the will of God for his life. And right from the get-go, he said, What wilt thou have me to do? He's concerned for the will of God. Uh I got figuring this uh in two weeks from today, it'll be twenty-two years uh that God uh years ago that God called my family and I to come to Oakland for me to pastor Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church I can honestly say the greatest 22 years of my life. It has been absolute thrill and joy in my life. 22 years here at Mountain Lake, and by the way, On that day, I hope you'll come out that day. I'm praying God will give us 300 folks in church that day. How many folks will work hard and pray that we get 300 folks here? About 10 people. Praise the Lord. If every person raise their hand, bring thirty people, we'll uh reach that goal. But um Why'd I bring that up? Anyway, twenty-two years passed. I got figuring. I c I consider nineteen eighty-five, the year I went into the ministry. That's where I started preaching And uh Lord provided and and took care of me preaching uh from that point on in various ways. So I count nineteen eighty-five, the year that I went into the ministry as as um Uh as an occupation, so to speak. Thirty years in the ministry. I have never, and I thought this through this week as I was preparing and thinking of the message this morning. I thought this through 30 years in the ministry, I found that peep Christians, those who claim to be saved, have differing attitudes concerning the will of God for their life. I'm getting way ahead of myself. I'm making a statement earlier in the message if I want to, but I'm going to say it here. I have never seen a Christian successful in their Christian life that was not very much concerned about the will of God for their life. I've never seen that happen, Brother Colblins. I don't know if you'd say the same. I I noticed various attitudes that professing Christians will have towards the will of God and God's instructions. The first one I put down, and this is not my message, but first one I put down is that of disinterest. There are folks that I've come across over the years that claim to be saved, claim to know Jesus Christ as Savior, yet they are totally disinterested in anything that God would want for them to do in their life. There's no concern, no apparent concern whatsoever for God's will to be done. These are folks who claim to be saved, claim to be followers of Jesus Christ, yet they have little or no interest in church They have little or no interest in the things of God. They have little or no interest in interacting with the people of God. They have little involvement or no involvement in reaching the lost. They make little or no investment of time or finances into the cause of Christ and the advancement of the kingdom of God and the spread of the gospel. They just are not interested. Though they claim to be saved. I found that sometimes those who claim to be a Christian or have such disinterest, they usually live lives more like an unsaved person than a saved person. If you watch them carefully, you'll see their attitude towards the Word of God is very little different than the attitude of an unstable person towards the Word of God. Their attitude to the people of God and the church of God, the body of Christ, their attitude towards the body of Christ is very little different than an unsaved person's attitude towards the body of Christ. And so these are people who claim to be saved, claim to know Jesus Christ as Savior, yet they're disinterested in the things of God, in the will of God for their life. I thought of in the Bible, I thought of a fellow by the name of Lot. Most of us are familiar with Lot and his situation. As I read through the Bible, I've often thought this. If I read through the Bible And if I didn't know anything about the Bible, just reading it through, I would have assumed that Lot was an unsaved man. Do you notice his behavior and his attitude and his actions? Not until I get in the New Testament, Peter, do I find out that lo and behold Here Lot's righteous soul was being vexed that whole time. God was convicting him and working him. Lot was a miserable man. Because he was a saved man acting and living like an unsaved man, completely disinterested in the things of God. Now, my immediate question when I have somebody claims to be saved, they have no interest in the things of God, my first question is this: are they genuinely saved? It is very possible, and we're going to find this out here in a little bit. It's very possible for a person to be a church member and be lost. It's very possible for a person to be have a testimony that I'm safe and actually be lost. And so if you're here this morning and you say, well, I'm saved, I've accepted Christ as Savior, but you have little or no interest in the things of God, I would say it's very important that you examine yourself and make sure you're in the faith. So, 30 years of ministry, I've seen folks that claim to be saved, claim to know Jesus Christ as Savior, yet there's a complete disinterest. In the will of God for their life, what God wants them to do or whatnot. Then there's another category of folks, and these are folks who claim to be saved, but they disregard the will of God Oh, they'll listen, they'll pay attention, you know they're interested to some degree. They're interested, but they have this attitude. I will pick and choose what aspects of God's will I will do. God says tell instructs me to do something. If God tells me not to do something and that suits my fancy and doesn't contradict anything I want, sure, I'm all for it. But if God's will involves something that I'm uncomfortable with, or God's will involves something denying me something that I really want then suddenly I uh then suddenly I uh disregard what his will is and I'll just go do my thing. Can you think of anybody in the Bible that God made his will very clear to them And they completely disregarded it and went and did their own thing. You know who I think of? Jonah. God's will was for him to go to Nineveh. Well that didn't suit Jonah's fancy. That wasn't comfortable to him. That wasn't what he wanted. So Jonah just disregards God's will and he heads over to Tarsus. He goes the opposite direction. Now listen, you and I can do that. We can make that decision. God tells us very clearly what his will is. God gives us very clear instructions in his word. Doesn't fit our fancy, doesn't suit our fancy. And we disregard it. You can do that if you want, but I'll tell you this: Jonah paid a heavy price for that. Jonah paid a heavy, heavy price for disregarding the will of God. So, my word to those of us this morning that know Jesus Christ as Savior and as your pastor, I want to urge every one of us here to not disregard God's will. God tells us to do something, we need to take it very, very seriously. So if you have folks that are disinterested in the will of God claiming to be saved, I have no interest whatsoever. Others that disregard it, okay, yeah, I'm all for that, but this here, uh I'm not going to do that. Then there are those, I have a third category here, those who dispute the will of God. They will argue with God. Lord, I know what you're telling me to do, but this is why I can't do what you're telling me to do. What you're instructing me, what your will is, I just can't do that. And I'll tell you, 22 years in pastoring, 30 years in the ministry, I've heard about every reason in the world why people can't do what God tells them to do. Well, preacher, I would be there, but I got this, that, and the other preacher I would do that, but this, that, and the other. Preacher I'd go soul wedding, but uh that's the night my favorite TV show was on and I just can't miss that. I'll miss the next episode and then I won't know what's happening and Every reason in the world. And they fuss with God. And they argue with God. You say, surely nobody ever argues with God. I bet you every one of us here at some point argued with God about something. I remember when God was calling me to preach. God was leading and directing in that way. I wasn't planning on preaching. I'd kind of settled in my heart and mind that I was going to be a school teacher. I wanted to teach first and second graders people that on my level that I could relate to and and uh fit in with. If you'll notice in the lobby when there's kids around, that's where I'm at. They're the ones that I'm not intimidated by. You know, I can beat them up. And um And God started stirring in my heart. And suddenly I started ar God Uh n Lord you're wrong, I'm sorry. You're God, but uh you're wrong, there's no way I can and I mean I went on several months The strange thing is I was already preaching everywhere. I was doing all this stuff and saying, God, you didn't call me to preach. I can't preach. What did you do last week five times? Well, I was preaching, but I can't do it. People, Israel was real bad about this. God would instruct Israel what they should or should not do, and they just get in a fuss with God. Can I make this statement? We never win when we argue with God. God's going to win the argument every time. We never get ahead when we argue with God. So, these years in the ministry, I've seen some claim to be saved. They just complete no interest whatsoever in what God's will is. Others Disregard it, they'll kind of pick and choose. Some dispute it, Lord, I know, but I can't do that. Others, and this they might overlap a little bit, some of these, but I put this down. Some people disconnect When it comes to the will of God. In other words, they'll hear the Word of God preached on Sunday And God will give clear instructions from his word in what should be done and what should not be done. And I'll be honest with you, I try very hard to be very practical in my preaching. I like when we leave here, myself included, when we leave here, that I know something I should do or something I should not do or something I should believe, something that needs to be addressed. That's the way I hope my preaching comes across. That's my aim. And these are folks that disconnect. They'll come to church Sunday morning and they'll sing the songs and God will stir their hearts and they'll Uh they'll be with uh in sunny store and there'll be lessons taught and God will say, Yeah, I can see that. Yes, I understand. That's will, God's will. And uh the message will be preached and okay, God deals with their heart, and maybe the invitation is given, uh and uh maybe they find a place at the altar and say, God, you stirred my heart and this is what I want to do. I know this is your will, I need to start doing this, I need to stop doing this. I need to adjust my thinking here. I need to pick this up. I need to put that down. And then for some strange thing happens when they walk out the back door, it all is disconnected And what they hear and what God does in their hearts on Sunday has little or no effect to how they live their life on Monday. You follow what I'm saying? And Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday and Friday and Saturday, then we get back in church mode, Christian mode on Sunday. And uh they disconnect. They disconnect. What they read in their devotions in the morning has little or no effect on how they live their life throughout the day. So some people are disinterested. Some people disregard the will of God. Others dispute with God about his will. Then some dis uh disconnect his word. They don't his will. They see and understand what he says, but they don't see how how to imply uh uh to implement that in their life, then praise God, there's some that are devoted to the will of God. And these are folks that are totally committed To Jesus Christ and fulfilling his will for their life. I like the forces of the Lord Jesus Christ, but Jesus made a tremendous statement in John chapter 8, verse 29. And uh you ever see that little saying, what would Jesus do? What would Jesus do? Well, there's a lot of problems with that, but here's a good verse to consider what Jesus did. Listen to John chapter 8, verse 29. Jesus said this I do always those things that please him, my heavenly Father. You know what that is? That's complete devotion to doing the will of God. There are some Christians, thank God for. May their tribe increase. Some Christians who are devoted to doing the will of God with their life. I want every area of my life to please my Heavenly Father. I want every aspect of my being to please To please God my Father and Jesus my Savior. I want to live for the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to obey His every instruction. I want to heed His every warning I want to fulfill the will of God. These are folks that are committed and devoted, that when we stand before Jesus Christ as a believer, I hear Jesus say, Well done, thou good and Faithful servant. These are folks who are committed that when they reach the end of their life, they say this: I have finished my course. I've kept the will of God. I've lived the life that God saved me to live. I've done the work that God created me to do. I've obeyed his instructions. I've fulfilled his will. I think Jeffy Harsh in many ways was a man like that. What a testimony, right up to the end of his life, trusting the Lord, pleasing God. Was he perfect? No. I'll tell you what a blessing was in the recent weeks to go over there and uh I'd get beside his hospital bed in his living room and there'd be Helen holding his hand. And uh with the Bible open, reading the Bible to him, and Jesse had that little smirky smile on his face Just rejoicing. Helen told me there's times in the middle of the night she'd hear him talking. And she'd think, what in the world? Who's he talking to? And they go and check on him. And here he's just praying to the Lord Jesus Christ. What a testimony. What a testimony. We could talk about Jesse how he took a stand for the Word of God, even when it meant costing a ministry, but he was not going to compromise the truth of God's word. What a testimony. Devoted to the will of God. Devoted to the will of God. And I was thinking of this and over the years, thinking about folks who fell in these different categories. This one of devoted to the Lord Jesus Christ. I couldn't help but think of uh our brother Mike Stubler who's with the Lord Jesus Christ today. Kathy and I were talking about him, I think, yesterday. We were talking talking about Brother Mike And uh I was saying how that he was so unusual in how that he grasped what Christianity was all about so quickly after his salvation. It was almost, and those of you that knew him well, it was almost like from, it's almost like he matured so rapidly. In his faith. And he understood what it meant to live for God and every area of my life, yielded to the will of God, and God's will being fulfilled in every aspect of my being. Of course, he wasn't perfect and he was human like all of us, but he was devoted to the will of God. Here's my question. How do you and I get to the point where we are totally devoted to fulfilling God's will for my life. How do I get to that point where I'm motivated? Where my heart is stirred, that on Monday I'm just as concerned about doing that which pleases the Lord as I am on Sunday morning. That my life is consumed with fulfilling the will of God and living for him. Let me give you a few thoughts here, how we can get to that point. Number one. We must recognize that God does have a will and a plan for your life and my life. I must understand that, young people, that God does have a plan and a purpose for our lives. He has it laid out. David said in Psalms chapter 25 and down through verse 1 through 5, he said, Teach me thy ways. Teach me thy paths. Teach me, lead me in thy truth. David was concerned. David understood that God had a direction for his life to go. David understood that God had a type of life that God wanted him to live That there was a character that God wanted him to develop. He says, Teach me thy way, Lord, I want to do your will. Early on in his life, David understood that God had a plan for him. That God had a purpose for his life, that God was concerned about the details of his life. If you'll read your Bible and study your Bible very carefully, are you listening, young people? If you'll study your Bibles very carefully You'll find that God is concerned about every detail of our life. Every detail. God's concerned about, God has a will concerning what kind of friends we have. The Bible says thou shalt not make friends with an angry man. The Bible says that we are to be separate from those who do not live for God and those who are not concerned about doing right and wrong. We're to keep our distance from them, not allow them to influence us. God is concerned about what kind of person we marry. Do you know a saved person ought never to marry an unsaved person? The Bible says that, teaches that very clearly. That's His will And we need to get to the point where we recognize that God has a will for my life. He's concerned about every detail of my life, the friends I have, the places I go. He's concerned about how I dress. You know, the Bible even addresses how we wear our hair. I don't pay a whole lot of attention to that. Some things just don't apply. Okay, to that question in the is this will of God your hair NA does not apply. Actually I got eight of them I try to keep trimmed pretty well. Well what I'm trying to say is this. If I'm gonna fulfill the will of God for my life, I need to recognize that God has a will. God is concerned. God does have instructions for us to follow. I found that those who realize that, that God has a will for their life and they take that seriously, I found that they Are much happier people than those that disregard God's will for their life. I found that they find more stability in their life. There's peace there, there's fulfillment in their heart. When I know and believe and understand that I'm living my life the way God intends for me to live my life, I'm doing the things that God intends for me to do. I'm the person that God saved me to be when I'm at that point. There's peace, there's fulfillment, there's confidence. And we look at this whole world, and it just disregards God's God and His will, just disregards the Bible, just disregards what's right and wrong. And this world is going down in flames of chaos. And turmoil and anger and frustration. And there is peace available in the will of God. In the will of God. And so I need to recognize David recognized early on, Lord, teach me the highway. Show me your path. And he understood that God has a will for our lives. Over and over, David would pray, show me what you want me to do, Lord. He would pray, Teach me how to live, Lord, in so many words. I have never observed, I made this statement earlier, I have never observed a Christian grow strong in the Lord and have victory in their life and joy and blessing and peace in their life. That did not first recognize that God had a plan and a purpose in His life, in their life. Shortly after I got saved, May 7, 1979, you know the story. One of the first things that happened in my life, God brought so, and I say this so often, and I mean it with all my heart, I don't even understand it. Looking back 35 years later, 36 years later, I still don't understand it But God brought such fantastic changes to my life so instantaneously. And one of the first things that changed in my life. Was God put in my heart a desire to read the Bible? I got saved a Monday night at seven at 10. 30 at night. Tuesday, I get home from work. The very first thing I wanted to do was get my Bible out and read my Bible. I never thought that before, and never was a concern before. And Wednesday and Thursday and Friday and all these years, my heart has been stirred to get in the Word of God, find out what God wants me to do, find out what His will is for my life. I tell you, God blesses those who realize that God is concerned for how we live our lives. God has a plan, He has instructions. For us to live by. And we don't just disregard that. We don't just have a disinterest in that and just do what we want and Live the way we want and make our own decisions and we decide what's right and wrong and we decide what we should or shouldn't do. That's not it at all. It's saying, no, no, no. God has a plan, God has a will. I recognize that. Number one, if I'm going to be devoted and live a life in the will of God, I need to first of all recognize that God does have a will and a plan for my life. He lays it out for us. Second thing I put down here to understand, number two, I put down, I must relinquish my will to God's will. Now here's where the rub comes in. Alright, preacher, I read the Bible. I see there are instructions in here what God wants me to do. There's some warnings in here that I need to heed. There's some things to stay away from. I see that God has a will for my life as a Christian, all laid out in His Word. But that's not what I want to do. But I want the Lord's telling me I shouldn't do something here that I want to do. And the Lord's telling me I should be doing some things I don't want to do them. Now, before we get too pious, every one of us had been at that point. Every one of us had had to make a decision either I'm going to do it my way or God's way Either I'm going to lean on my own understanding or I'm going to trust the Lord. You see, God has given us a free will. How many folks are still with me? Everybody with me, alright? Amen. How many people are glad you came to church? Say amen. Amen. Amen. How many people had a short night sleeping last night? They're getting caught up today? Amen. Praise the Lord. I'm glad we can be of service. Hey, I'm just later. I'd rather the pews be full of people asleep than the pews empty, to be honest with you, but I'd prefer they be awake, but um See, the fact of the matter is, God has given us a free will. God will not force his people to obey him. God didn't force Adam and Eve to resist the forbidden fruit. He gave them an option. They could choose to trust and obey him. fulfill his will for their life or they could disregard it and and reject it and and make their own decision. And of course we know what they did. They didn't fulfill God's will. They disobeyed. They said, I'm gonna do what I want to do. And a lady sat in my office. My wife was with us. I don't counsel just the lady alone. My wife was there. And we showed her scripture. She had some questions, showed her scripture. She goes, I know that's what the Bible teaches, but this is what I was always taught. I said, Well, this is the will of God right here. It's black and white. Yeah, I see what it says. But I'm choosing to go the other way. How sad is that? How sad is that? One of our men is witnessing to a co-worker. He called me the other week and said, pray, I'm witnessing he's an atheist. And I'm trying to share the gospel with him and he had spent an extended period of time with them and he said, pray for him. And so I had prayer then and we I prayed later and been praying for him. He said that his atheist friend made this statement. He was showing them from the Bible how that we shall, every knee shall bow and every tongue confess. And he's saying, Listen, whether you ex bow whether you submit to the Lord now or later, it's going to happen. It's better to do it now. His atheist friend said this. He said, I may confess that Jesus is Lord, but I am never bowing to him. Whoa! Whoa. You know what that sounds like to me? That sounds like to me somebody under tremendous conviction And they're fighting the conviction of God. That sounds like the Apostle Paul, before he got saved, I'll kill all those Christians. So we have a free will. We can say, no, I'm not going to do your will, God, or I can relinquish. my will to the Lord's will. You know I found out God never God will not make us do something against his will, but he's pretty good at making us willing. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You say, preacher, I've got a friend that's unsaved. I've got a family member that's unsaved. I got uh a child or a parent, a husband, wife, brother, sister, I got somebody that's unsaved and they They won't trust Christ. Or maybe they're Christian and they won't live for God. And you say, Preacher, it seems like there's no hope, there's no way. Their heart's so hard. I don't see how they'll ever trust Christ I say this, God won't save them against their will, but God's awfully good at making them willing. And you keep on praying You keep on witnessing and you keep on that testimony. You keep a strong testimony. I tell you, God is awfully good at breaking down a hard heart. And God can back people and his people into a corner where finally we say, no longer my will, Lord, but your will I'll surrender to you. We had a fellow here saved years ago. Good guy got saved, baptized, was so excited, but he would not live for God. Would not live for God. Got involved in some illegal activity. Finally the police came in, hauled him off, and his will broke, and from that point on he said, I'm living for God. So I've got to get to the point where I relinquish my will to God's will. First, I recognize that God is concerned for how I live my life. God does have instruction, He does have a will for me. I recognize that. Then I relinquish my will. Over to him. God wants us to willingly trust him God wants us to willingly obey Him of our free will. How many folks here want your kids to do what you tell them to do? Anybody here? If you're a parent, you didn't raise your hand. You're nuts. Want my kids to do what I tell them to do. How people, you want your kids to do what you tell them to do because they want to, not because you're going to beat the fire out of them if they don't. Sure. I want my kids to love me. I want them to trust me and say, hey, that's what Dad wants. Uh that's what Dad says. Hey, w we're going to trust them. We want to willingly do what Dad instructs me to do. Brother, that's a pipe dream. But um That's uh that's a nice thought, huh? Can I suggest to you that's what God wants from his children God doesn't want to have to chasten us. God doesn't want to have to back us into a corner to a point we have no other option. God wants us to willingly and freely say, yes, Lord, not my will, thy will be done. God, I want to, I love you. You're my Savior. You paid such a horrendous price for my eternal salvation. Lord. I'll freely do whatever your will is. I'm willing to do that. That's the attitude. Even Jesus, even Jesus prayed in Gethsemane the night before he was crucified. Nevertheless. Not my will, but thy will be done. I think that's one of the greatest prayers in all the Bible Not my will, but thy will be done. I tell you where victories are won. I'll tell you where lives are changed. I tell you where the power of God falls upon a Christian's life. Whether it's a house ke uh homemaker or a preacher or a bus worker or a truck driver, whatever it is, I'll tell you where the power of God falls on the life of a believer is when they kneel before God and say, God, not my will, but thy will be done in my life. That's where lives are changed. That's where victories are won. I need to relinquish my will to the will of God. Can I give you testimony? I've been talking a little bit about myself here this morning, but can I give you testimony? Thirty-six years As a believer, a follower of Jesus Christ, not one time have I regretted trusting God. Not one time. Not one time have I regretted doing what God said to do. Never have I regretted that. I can testify there's a heap of times I didn't do what God said I should do, and I regretted that with all my heart. There's times where I didn't trust God and I took things into my own hands and I leaned on my own understanding. And I tell you, I regret that. But I never regretted relinquishing my will to his will. Never regretted trusting him and obeying him. God knows best. I can trust him, and I can yield my will to him. There is no more blessed place to be than in the will of God. I appreciate the young people down front here so much. I tell you what, if a person in their early teen years, in their in their child years, in their early teen years If they can learn to trust God and say, I want my life to fulfill what God's will is, I tell you, these young people are in for a life of blessing and miracles and the presence of God in their life. Or they could say, no, I'm going to live my life the way I want. I'm going to make my own decisions. God, there ain't no God or nobody else telling me what I'm going to do or not do. And they could make that decision, and I'll tell you. They're heading for a life of heartache and pain and loneliness and sadness. And we see it all around us. And we got folks in this church could stand up and testify That if I could go back to a young person and change the decisions I made to trust God, I would do it in a heartbeat. Relinquish my will to God's will. God has a plan. God has a purpose for every one of our lives, not just the young people, all of us. And I need to recognize that. And then I need to relinquish my will over to him. And let me give you the third thought very quickly. I need to rely upon the clear biblical instructions. You say, okay, preacher I understand God has a will for my life. Yes, I loved him, and he saved me from hell. I owe him everything. I give my will, not my will, but thy will. Now how do I know what his will is How do I know what he wants me to do? How do I know what God's will is for my life? Well, that's where point three comes in. Rely upon his clear instructions. God has given to us some very clear instructions in the Bible. Some things that we are obviously very clearly says, this is my will. The first one is it's God's will that every person be saved. You're here this morning, or you're in the sound of my voice, and you've never trusted Jesus Christ, your personal Savior You've never been born again by accepting Christ as your Savior. God's will for you is to accept Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. Be saved! It's not God's will that anybody should perish. God does not want you to go to hell. It's God's will that you find forgiveness in Christ. It's God's will that you be born into His family. It's God's will that you find salvation in Jesus Christ So the will of God, say what's the will of God for my life? Well, if you're unsaved, the will of God is very clearly given in the Bible. Trust Christ and be saved. If you've trusted Christ and you're saved, you've already had that settled and established, the Bible's very clear. The very next important thing for you to do is be baptized. I said, all right, preacher, I got saved. What's God's will for me now? The Bible says, be baptized. Repent and be baptized. And so you ought to follow Lord and Baptist. We can go down the list. I can tell you very dogmatically, it's God's will you be faithful to church, the body of Christ. It's God's will you be involved. Let me throw this out. We probably don't say enough about this as I should But it's God's will that every Christian uh not just be a part and faithful to church, but be take part in Lord's Supper. We don't say a lot about that, but God expects his people, the member of the b members of the body of Christ, to take part in Lord's Supper. It's one of our ordinances. Just as much as a person ought to be saved, Christian ought to be faithful and taking Lord's Supper I get a lot of amens on that, but this Bible teaches it. If you don't say, oh, I'm not convinced of that. Alright, then come to Sunday school for the next three years. We're studying 1 Corinthians. About three years from now, we're going to get to that portion of Scripture. Meditate it in God's will for you to read your Bible every day and pray Say preacher every week all we hear is read your Bible every day and pray. Well when everybody starts reading their Bible and praying every day I might quit saying that. But it's God's will. Say, what's God's will for me to do tomorrow morning? Read your Bible and pray. These are clear instructions. It's God's will that we witness to the lost. It's God's will we tell unsaved people how to be saved and try and persuade them to accept Christ as Savior. It's God's will that we have a part in getting missionaries out around the whole world. It's God's will that we keep our hearts pure. This is the will of God, even your sanctification, that you abstain from fornication. You don't get any clearer than that. We're to be pure. And our hearts, our minds, our behavior, our interaction. Now there's other aspects of God's will that are not so clear. Rachel, what's God's will? Maybe a young person says this, and I've had it happen. I'm sure Brother Grant deals with this. Uh, what's God's will for my the occupation I have in my life? Well, there's no verse in the Bible that tells me what you're supposed to do for your occupation. What's God's will for who I'm supposed to marry? The Bible doesn't say thou shalt marry so and so. There's principles given there to guide me. But uh there's not where am I supposed to live? We're praying about that. How do I determine God's will? There's no clear instructions in God's word concerning some of these areas. So how do I know what God's will is and what I'm supposed to uh my occupation and whether I'm to go into ministry or not or go as a missionary or not. What's God's will concerning who I marry and where I live There's not clear instructions in there, but there are principles in the Word of God that help us determine His will. And I wish I had time. This is a whole nother message. I'm just going to list them all for you here. You write them down, these will help you. Number one, do what you're clearly told to do in the Bible. I've found that if I do today, what I know God wants me to do today, tomorrow I'll be where I'm supposed to be tomorrow. Just do what you know you're supposed to do. Gobble, don't mean on your understanding. All your ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. So just keep doing good. Just do what you know you're supposed to do. Number two, I put this down. Pray for clear direction. I think we don't, I don't think we pray enough, my friends. I don't think we pray over enough things. We don't pray in specifically enough. We don't pray detailed enough. We don't pray about things. We think, oh, this isn't that big a deal I learned early on in my salvation I was working with a guy. He dropped a bolt. He's working on his motor. He dropped a bolt way down inside the And we couldn't get to it and need to have it. And we're working on things. I was only a couple of weeks old in the Lord and we're looking at the thing, he says, All right, we gotta pray. I said, Huh? So we gotta pray. Over a bolt? Yeah, we pray over everything. Everything? Yeah. Even a bolt? Sure. So all right, I'm new at this. Okay. So we prayed, Lord, we need to get this bolt, I need to have it. And he prayed and and Lass about it. I said, All right, he's still around. He goes, There we go, I got it. Whoa! You know what I found out? God answers prayer. You know what I found out? If you pray and ask God to lead you and direct you, God will lead you and direct you. Now you've got to have the first part down doing what we know he says to do. But I pray God will lead and direct. Seek godly counsel, Proverbs 11, 14, and the multitude of counselors, their safety. You know what a good thing to do is? Find some godly, spiritually mature person that has a little know-how, a little know-about it. And talk to them, ask their advice, get their counsel. Now, if it's a financial matter or something, I'm not sure what to do with this money or how to invest it or whatever, I'll go to some mature godly Christian that has some experience in that area If it's some area, interpersonal action, I've got something, a situation with another person, I'm not sure how to deal with it, then I'll go to some mature, godly Christian that's very good in that area and get their input. Seek counsel! Nobody knows at all. And God has given to us brothers and sisters in Christ that are gifted in various areas to help us. Determine his will in our life. So number two, well number one, do what you know you're supposed to do. Number two, pray for clear direction. The peace of God will direct you. Number three, seek godly counsel. Number four, I end with this. Consider your God-given desires. I like this verse. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of their heart. You fall in love with Jesus Christ and you dedicate your life to live for Jesus Christ, you know what God will do? God will change your desires. Remember I told you I was fussing with God about preaching? About pastoring, I wanted to get that where I was comfortable, where I felt confident. I didn't feel confident up here. I wasn't comfortable up here. No, God, you got the wrong man But I love the Lord. And I wanted to do. I sincerely wanted to do what God's will is for my life. And so on October 5th, 1985. I know it's an old-fashioned order at Highland Park Baptist Church, and I said, Lord, not my will, thy will be done. If that's what you want me to do, I'll do senior year, education major. Tessie temple. I said, Lord, not my will, thy will be done. You know what happened? Suddenly God changed my desires. Now my desires were, hey, I look forward to getting out there preaching and pastoring a church. God using me in that area. I didn't want that before. That scared me to death. But I love the Lord. I'm not trying to set myself up as some great thing. I'm not, Lord knows. But I am saying this: I love the Lord and I want his will to be done. And God changed my desires. He came in his ours. Young person says, If I surrender to God's will, I'll end up in Africa in some hut. Well, you probably be might be better off there than here, to be honest with you But chances are you won't. But I do know this: if that's God's will, God will put that desire in your heart and you'll be excited about it. And you'll be dissatisfied with anything else Anything else? I'll be honest with you, in all these years, there's been a few times where I thought maybe I just should step out of the ministry. It's been times over the years I thought, well, maybe my life ought to go a different direction Every time I thought that, it put absolute terror in my heart. It's not what God's called me to do. That's not God's will for my life. That's not the desire. God has put the desire. For what his will is. And when you and I, when you surrender to the will of God, He'll give you the desires that line up with His will. That line up with his will. Now you have everything else in place, doing what I know I should do, praying for the Lord's direction, getting godly counsel And then considering what the desires are in my life. An old, old preacher was out hoeing his garden. This was hundreds and hundreds of years ago. He was out hoeing his garden Just peace, a good, godly preacher. And one of his members came up and said, Preacher, what if you knew for certain that tonight you were going to die? At sunset. What would you do different? What would you do if you knew that tonight at sunset you were going to die? What would you do? Without missing a beat, he just said, I'd keep hoeing my garden What was he saying? I'm in the will of God. There's nothing that needs to change. There's no adjustments that need to be made. I'm where God wants me to be, doing what God wants me to do. Can you say that? Or is God working in your heart? Are there some areas that need to be adjusted, tuned in to the will of God? Let's pray. Father in heaven.