To Isaiah fifty eight, Isaiah fifty eight, people say, Brother Harding, how do we get here? How on earth did we get here where there's transgender people reading fairy tales to our Elementary children. How do we get here where uh they're running to shed more blood? Their feet are swift. To shed more blood, even though the uh Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade, they didn't go far enough. They gave it back to the states. And so this president I I don't even refer to him as that. Sleepy Joe, okay, in the White House, continues to try to get around even what the Supreme Court has said so that people can continue to kill babies. How did we get here where the traditional family is attacked? And the other foundations of our nation that most of us don't even know what they are Power embattled right now, that basically are trying they're trying to erode them in every possible way. How on earth did we s get to a point in our culture for the first time in the history of our nation? Where a former president is brought up under indictments on a federal level. How did that happen? I'll tell you how it happened. It happened back on July the 2nd, 1954, when Lyndon Baines Johnson tacked a little something on Tax appropriations bill that said if the people, the 501c3 tax exempt status, don't get their nose out of the public swear. Education and and the uh the culture of our nation and the governance of of our nation and uh the economy of if they don't get their nose out of it, they just might lose their tax exempt status And the pulpit started to go quiet. What had occurred from the pulpit previous to that Most of our laws in our nation all came from the pulpit. From the pulpit to the pew, from the pew to the public, from the public to the republic. But what happens when the pulpit goes silent? And I'm not talking about going to seed on issues. Hey, this this is the main issue, right? Right here. That's the main issue. But here's the thing. How on earth, when the pulpit went silent, when men started being quiet about anything governmentally because they were really Going back far enough initially, afraid of losing their tax exam status. By the way, we don't get our tax exam status from the IRS We get it from the Constitution. Amen. And uh but I mean here's the thing. Not one church from nineteen 54 to this date has ever lost their tax exempt status by being responsibly involved in government. But see here's the thing. It shut many of God's men up. They're afraid to preach anything about the issues. Now, if you go back into history, you know why our founding fathers were who they were? Now, now they were great men. Would you agree with me? And these were the multi-billionaires, comparatively speaking, that signed a document that to two-thirds of our nation made them traitors. See, not even one-third of our nation were on the Patriot side. But they signed a document that basically put them in harm's way and their wealth and their station of life and their families And they even said so. They mutually pledged for each other their lives or fortunes and their sacred honor. Their lives and the fortune based upon they said their their honor was above the previous two So we'll put our life on the line because of our honor. We'll put all of the wealth that we have and even our families on the line because of our honor. Why do you think they were who they were? Because of preachers. That's why. That had preached into them something that was so unique. It was a concern for the common man. Because many of these men were gentry. They were the American royalty brought over from England and you couldn't marry into the gentry, you couldn't buy your way into the gentry class, you had to be Born a gentry is a caste system. That's why they said, one of the reasons why they said all men are created equal, they turned their back on their stations in life And they said we mutually pledge for each other our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor. But before that they said, with firm reliance upon the protection of divine providence, we're doing this. We're doing this for God We're doing this for his glory, for his honor, to establish a nation like Northern Nation, the history of mankind, aside from the nation of Israel. I don't know about you, but it gets me excited every day when I wake up and I realize I woke up in a miracle called the United States of America. Amen. I mean, how I wonder how many of God's people When they woke up this morning, said, thank you, Lord, I woke up in a miracle today. A nation that shouldn't even be here, aside from thy divine Province and intervention in battlefield after battlefield, beginning from the war of independence all the way up to today. A miracle. And by the way, even more exciting than that, we're walking talking miracles. Because anyone that's received a miracle of the new birth Woo! I know about you. Hey, I sure am glad I'm saved. Amen. Because I know where I should be today. I'm a first generation Christian. I didn't have a dad that uh brought me up in the Christian faith. No, no, I led my dad to the Lord and he was in his 60s. I know where I belong. I belong in hell. And some of the guys used to run with are there, been there, will be there forever. But I'm not there I don't know about you. It kind of gets me excited, amen. And I've met people. Brother Belcher, I've met people that have gotten over their salvation. Say, how do you know that? By their face They look like they've been eating oatmeal of a gas pipe. How you doing? Fine I feel like saying, tell your face about it, man. Wow. I've met some people. I said, does your face hurt you? Because it's killing me And then I've even heard some guys say, Well I don't naturally smile. Work on it. This is guys a billboard right there, amen. Yeah, I'll guarantee you you enter in to a conversation with someone with a smile on your face and a spring in your step and joy in your heart and a gleam in your eye, they're going to be much more apt to take a track from you than if you walk up and you say Hello. I would like to talk to you about the Lord and how He's given me so much joy. Yeah, I I don't want to listen to you, buddy. Get away from me What do you have? It's a disease. I don't want it. I don't want it. The we, you see We, God's people, not you men here, but I mean generations past, going back to the 40s. We started to turn our back on God. Oh, there is a famine in the land. But it's not a famine of food. It's a famine of God's word. Where we started turning from him to our culture and the peace and prosperity. Everyone likes peace and prosperity. Everyone everyone likes to live well, but we forgot where that comes from. It comes from the liberty that was paid for by the blood of our veterans, and that was emulating the greatest sacrifice. in time and eternity, where Jesus Christ shed his blood on the cross for our eternal salvation. Amen. And so, hey, it just seems like we have forgotten so much. That we need to remember. The leftists, they've always marched to the tune of the Antichrist. They've always been there. The big difference is we haven't been there and I've been told this. Brother Hardy, how can you go into Washington, D. C. ? It's so corrupt. I said, you know why it's corrupt? Because we're not there. That's why. Because God's people aren't there. And when we walk away, our values, our biblical principles, our character, born of God, walks away with us. And you know, we were there in force at one time. You couldn't even run for office if you weren't a time-tested Christian. And by the way, we didn't get beat out We walked away. We ran up the flag of surrender. Walked away. No one beat us out In fact, when I first started this ministry, by God's call, 20 years ago, guys were saying, Aren't you called to preach? Yes. Well, uh, what do you do? What's this that you're doing? I said, well, it's a God and country ministry, and and I explained to them the reason why we had these great men, these 56 men, which because of preachers and back in those days, they were preaching under the threat of life I mean this book preached by this and from this pulpit by men that didn't have a license from the state-run church, which was the Church of England, it was a death sentence. I wonder how many guys would be calling to preach if they knew every time. And our founding fathers as little boys, they knew that man up there He's preaching the threat of his own life. There'd be a fast horse right waiting with someone right out that door right there. You get through preaching and you'd get on that horse and you'd run Because if he didn't run you get hung or drawn and quartered. And now we preach and we go eat. It's just a great change, amen. But the reason why there's such a wonderful change is because other people paid the price. Other people paid the price. And and we need to realize some things uh about our nation. Our founding fathers, I think, one of the reasons why they were willing to sign a document that would make them out a traitor to over two-thirds of our nation is because they saw preachers that were already preaching. Under the threat of life, instilled into them something so amazing that provided this nation with seven sacred foundations that are all under attack. And and my belief is how can we Defend those foundations if we don't know what those foundations are. If we don't understand them, we can't appreciate them. If we don't appreciate them, we're not dedicated to hold them up And by the way, they're all birthed from God's word. These aren't things men made up. Declaration of Independence. People say, oh yeah, Thomas Jefferson, he was a very eloquent writer. Uh-uh Thomas Jefferson compiled the Declaration of Independence. It was nothing but snippets from preaching. From sermons, decades leading up to the Declaration of Independence, all preached from pulpits, just like this one right here That gets me going, amen. So what are we gonna do? Hey, we need to stand tall. to stand strong. And to, when we stand strong, see others stand strong as well. Isaiah 58, if you would please. Isaiah 58 and verse 12. David said it this way in the Psalms, if the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? He saw the corrupt Court of King Saul. He knew he was the next monarch of Israel. But look at this in Isaiah 15, verse 12. And they that shall be of thee Shall build the old waste places. Thou shalt raise up the foundations of many generations. And thou shalt be called the repairer of the breach, the restorer of the paths to dwell in. O Father, we Ask you now, Lord, please, create and maintain a hedge of protection around this assembly, bind off the wicked and the evil one Father, help the tears, burns of life, aches, and pains of these bodies, these mortal bodies that you've given us, just move to the back. And Lord, help us to focus on these eternal truths. Lord, we ask once again for your Holy Ghost the Comforter, the Holy Spirit, to enter into this service and that His presence would be so readily evident, and that our minds and hearts might be open unto Him. Oh God, as I step back, I pray you would step forward, articulate my speech, clarify, and direct my thoughts. And most of all, Lord, I. Surrender everything that I am to you, so fill me with your Holy Spirit of promise and lead and guide us into all truth. And we'll be very careful to give you the praise and glory for what you're about to do. What we ask is in the precious name of your Son and our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, by the authority that's in his name we pray. And we love you, Lord. Amen. In world history as an architecture, foundations are a necessity Long before any civilization is established, a foundation must be made. If it's deep, that nation will arise. And last. If it's shallow, that nation will not stand the test of time. They will falter and fail. For 240 plus years We have flourished under the foundations that have been given to us through and by God's Word. I'm so thankful our founding fathers thought biblically Amazing men they were. We know that this is also to the individual. As we see in Luke 6, 47 through 49, about that man that builds his house that lays his foundation versus that man that builds his house on the shifting sand. How quickly it's destroyed We have flourished. We have continued to go forward. It says in Deuteronomy 4. 8 and 9, and what nations are so great that have statutes and judgments so righteous. As all this law which I set before you this day, only take heed to thyself and keep thy soul diligently, lest thou forget the things which thou thine eyes have seen and And it says, unlest they depart from thy heart all the days of thy life, but teach them, thy sons, and thy son's sons. Twenty years ago, I started just going coast to coast and helping pastors to understand their biblical role in government. And I was told we're not supposed to be in government by fundamental independent Baptist pastors. I said, really? Oh yeah. I said, where do you find that? Oh we we find that. You know Brother Hardy. It's in the Constitution. I said, I just happen to have a Constitution It was like, Oh I said, Yeah, show me where the separation of church and state is in our constitution. And and they start looking. And and just like when you're soul winning, someone says something off the wall about the Lord, you give them your their your t your New Testament, show me where that is, let them fumble around for a few minutes, and then you kindly and gently say It's not in there. But let me tell you what is in there. The Constitution is based upon the Bible. Over twenty-eight biblical principles in the Constitution. I've taught through them in major Baptist colleges all over the United States. Very kindly I said, my brother, please. I I I I understand the pastor's role is the highest calling in the Christian life, and I, as a missionary evangelist, I am supposed to support the pastor. May I help you? Because it says in here that Congress shall make no law respecting the establishment of a church, religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof It says that the state stays out of the church, but it never anywhere says the people of the church stay out of the state. And they'll say, huh. And uh well, Brother Harding, we it's not spiritual to be involved in government I said, what you mean like a uh political appointee? Well yeah, yeah, like a political appointee. I said, please tell me then who Joseph in Egypt was. Well, that's an exception. How about Daniel and Babylon? Well, I mean we shouldn't be preaching against the leadership. And I said, then please, who was Samuel that told King Saul, God's rent the kingdom from you? Nathan that told David, Thou art the man. All the way through Elijah. With the wicked King Ahab. Moses and Pharaoh? How about in the New Testament? John the Baptist with Wicked King Herod. I said, the people of God, especially the men of God, have always been connected with the men of government. The big problem is, is when there is a separation between the two. I said the separation is out of hell. It's not out of the Bible. It's not out of our Constitution. And then I proceed to tell them It is in our Christian heritage as Americans, especially Baptists. Hey, Baptists were always out in front They were always the standard bearers, and now it seems like too many are the bystanders. So we need to realize some things about our nation that we are a country birthed out of faith. I'm so thankful for that. Daniel Webster said this in the 1800s. If we abide by the principles taught in the Bible. Our country will go on prospering and to prosper. If we in our prosperity, ah, here we are. If we in our prosperity fear God and shall respect his commandments, we may have high hopes for the future of our country. But if we in our prosperity Neglect religious instruction. Violate the rules of eternal justice trifle with the injunctions of morality and recklessly destroy the political constitution which holds us together. No man can tell how sudden a catastrophe will overwhelm us and bury us in profound obscurity. God says it this way in Job 12. 23, he increaseth the nations and destroyeth them. He enlargeth the nations and straighteneth them again. I think it's time That the church rises up and starts to get those foundations settled again And shired up. Because we're the only ones that will. No one else will. It's us. And especially the Baptists Because we're the Marine Corps of the Christian life. The first one's in and the last one's out. Amen. And so we need to realize some things and And when when I started looking at this ministry, first of all, going coast to coast and border to border, and then met with John Ashcroft. in 2010, former attorney general and a born-again Christian. And he said, guys, let me just put it all in a nutshell. This is not political. This is spiritual. Be it political, economical, social, uh, what educational, it's all spiritual warfare. And you you understand something? In Capitol Hill, and we were right there on Capitol Hill in his office He said, we plant churches all over the United States to preach the gospel. And so we should. From those churches, we send out missionaries all over the world to preach the gospel. And so we should. He said, but you understand, we don't have any missionaries at Capitol Hill. Now I'd already been in the ministry for this ministry for years. And when he said that, I went, oh. Holy Spirit said, mm-hmm. He said we need to start reaching into Capitol Hill with the gospel. If we don't, very soon we're not going to be able to reach out to our country and the world with the gospel. We're going to be fettered The pulpit's going to be chained. We're going to be muzzled. This is the former Attorney General of the United States of America and a born-again believer. So I told my wife, we're relocating back to Washington, D. C. People said, Well, Hardy, coming from Oklahoma. One of the most conservative states in the Union to one of the most liberal areas in our country. I live in the socialist republic now of Maryland. Amen. So, well how are you gonna do it, brother hurting all the traffic? I said I grew up there. Oh, okay. So we we came back and uh I told my wife, I said, I I'm going to I'm going to walk in there. I'm not going to be an advocate. I'm not going to be an information gatherer and disseminator, although some of that will come naturally. What I am going to do and what I'm going to be, by God's grace and for his glory is I'm gonna kinda be like a Joseph in Egypt. And so she said, Well that's I think that's good. I'm just gonna go in, I'm gonna witness, I'm gonna pray. for these people. It's been one of the most amazing things the Lord's ever allowed me to do. Uh I was in a congressman's office praying for him, and his staff member came in and she said, Sir, the Secretary of the Navy has just arrived. And he said, he can wait. Undoing something important, the Congressman said. I went I think I better hurry up, because I have Seknab waiting for me to get through with this prayer. But then the Lord said, no, you just go ahead and you take your time and pray for this man. Which I did. Born-again believer. Tremendous fella. We prayed, had a wonderful time. He wasn't rushing, so I wasn't rushing either. So as I left, Secretary of Navy was coming in as I was leaving. He was looking at me like Who are you? I said, I'm nobody. But uh I serve somebody. Amen. My wife, she was reading, and right after we started going into Washington, D. C. , she said, let me tell you what I found in Psalm 105 and verse 22, talking about Joseph. He said, God gave me this to give to you. Listen to this. To bind his princes at his pleasure and teach his senators wisdom. I said, wow, thank you. Thank you, Lord, and told my wife, thank you as well. So what we need to understand is, hey, our forefathers came here in faith You understand that? In faith. And and when we look at all the armor of God Wherefore, take unto you the whole armor of God. What? That you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand That's what we need to start doing. We need to start standing for God in every area. Goes on to say Stand therefore, having your loins skirt about with truth, having on the breastplate of righteousness, feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. But then it says, look at this now, above all. So all of the armor of God The most important facet of the armor of God is a shield of faith. Wherewith Ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked one. And take the helm of salvation, sword of the spirit, which is the word of God, praying always with all prayer and supplication of spirit. Hey, what I'm saying is They came here through faith. They did what they did in faith. Can you imagine going up against the greatest military in the world? With the greatest discipline, the greatest ships, and the greatest armada the world has ever seen, and you don't even have a navy. And you have a bunch of merchants and farmers and and uh tradesmen bumping into each other with their squirrel rifles that they plucked off over their from their hearth in their home No wonder George Washington was going to his knees. He was looking at these mints thinking, what on earth are we going to do? We got We've got to get God in on this. And our founding fathers said that as well. But they came here by faith. They came here, and I've been to the Museum of the Bible. And I've seen the King James Version that made that oceanic voyage over here and how they put all of their hope and faith and trust in God's word. This is how our country began. By the way, men, this is how our country will continue. Just like Brother Belcher said Get into God's word. Get into it. Read it. Think it and speak it. But we must understand It's the Word of God. And from that, the faith copied out in the English language for the first time in 1384. Rycliffe, at the very front of his Bible, put these words. This is the Bible of the people. For the people. Of the people. See, Lincoln wasn't original. He got that from Wycliffe's Bible. That's an amazing thing to me. We need to understand once again, hey, the faith. Look, I I'd go into Washington, D. C. And I see these guys and these gals. They're there by faith. They have the spirit of the founding fathers in them. They're not walking around saying, oh Our nation is just so it's it's terrible. They're not thinking that. And they're not walking around kicking stones. I look in their eyes and they're they've got excitement. Oh yeah, they they're not painting any kind of spie in the sky. They know our nation is under some great duress, but they are so glad to be in the fight There are six former naval SEALs in office now. I don't know about you. I just don't like that. And I was there with the Florida pastors a few weeks ago. And uh I'm I'm 69. I'm I'm older than Brother Belcher, so if you think he's old, I'm I'm really old, okay? Amen. You're just a youngster, okay? Amen So how's that? That's pretty good, right? He'll take it. All right. But say, I'm 69. In two days, I walk 20 miles with the Florida pastors. Twenty miles around Capitol Hill. We were seeing one person after another. We went to the tour through the White House, said hello to Joe, and then went over and had c had breakfast at the Capitol Hill Club with the independent United States Congressman from Idaho had breakfast over with the with him in the Capitol Hill Club. And we didn't know it at the time. But the GOP was having a big meeting there, and so all kinds of people were coming out. It comes comes Chip Roy from Texas and and I see this guy walking down the street. Now from the Capitol Hill Club, uh Throughout the congressional offices on the House side, those streets are all blocked up for security So we just stand down in the middle of the street, see this big guy coming, got a big cowboy hat on. I said, that's Ryan Zenki, former commander of SEAL Team 6 that took out Osama bin Laden. I walked up, shook his hand, hey, we've known each other for years. The pastor's going, you know each other? Oh yeah, we know each other. I said, how are you doing? It's so good that you're back in office. Because he was in and then out and now back in again He said, Oh, it's great to be back. And he was so excited. I looked in his eyes, and they were just alive with that sacred fire and with oh just loving the fight. Amen? And so we prayed for him. Right there in the middle of the street, having a great time. I mean he was laughing, we were laughing, he was talking about, hey, now that the the house is back in in the Republicans' hands, how it's just a wonderful thing. It's all open again. And I said, I appreciate that because I can go in without any escort and just walk around and pray for people. And uh There was uh all the Florida pastors and I'm looking over here and there's another U. S. Congressman waiting. And I'm looking back here, there's another U. S. Congressman hit with his small entourage waiting. They know what we're doing with this guy So we pray for Ryan Zanke. And then I go over to this fellow over here. And I introduce myself. He said, I saw what you were doing. He said, and introduced himself. He said, I'm a former ranger And he started quoting scripture. He said, I'm from Oklahoma. As well, these guys are from Florida. Would you like them to pray? He said, I wouldn't only like them to pray for me. I'd like them to come to my office. I need some counsel I said, sure. And so we went to this and he opened up his heart. And those pastors just counseled with him. And it was an amazing thing. I walked over from him. And we, like I said, went to his office later, walked over to this guy over here. He's from New York State. I walked up to shake his hand, introduced myself to him. He said, I want you to know I'm the first atomic submariner ever elected to U. S. Congress. He said, I'm a born-again Christian. He started quoting scripture. Every one of those men, and many of the women. As well. They have a fire in their eye. They're so thankful to be in the fight. Look, you need to turn off the news sometimes. And because if you watch the news, it's nothing but negativity. And I'm talking about conservative news. Even conservative. You know why? They're going to sensationalize everything. Sensationalism always equals ratings. Go to my website back there. It's on my prayer card. It has a huge amount of different links you can go to and get Christian news. Amen? Because how should we do it? We shouldn't sensationalize it. I'm on the radio, about to go on another radio station, I'm about to go on a uh a a television program that's a private television program, not not national, just to kind of get people an update what they need to know. And uh and you say, well, well w what's that? It's biblicizing it. That's what we need to do. Not sensationalize it. Biblicize it. Amen? I mean look at it and filter it through God's word. Oh global warming, it's going to kill us. Global warming. And then they sent ships up to the polar ice caps and gather iced in Because of record cold temperatures. And they sent someone up there to rescue them, they got iced in. I don't know about you, that warms the cockals of my heart. And then they backed up and they said, Oh no, there wasn't global warming, it's climate change. I said, Well that doesn't work either, because God says in Genesis 8, as long as the earth remaineth cold and heat and summer and winter, that's climate change. Say, where's that, Brother Harding? That's God's way of saying, suck it up, Brother Cup. Bunch of chicken littles. Hey, we can't be chicken littles Don't be listening to all the chicken littles, pundits and prognosticators. Hey, God's word, that's where we need to go to And realize, hey, there's some people in Washington, D. C. , man, they are just amazing. Even Joe Manchin. I don't know if I've talked about it. I talked about Joe Manchin last year. We took the West Virginia guys in to pray with Joe Manchin. Why? Well because he supported and protected the filibuster and the closure If he hadn't, we would have been gone. Because that is when the Liberals controlled the House. And they wanted to do away with the filibuster so they could get anything through with 51 votes and they had them Uh until Joe Manchin stood and said, No. No, you can't do that. And he retained it. See the filibuster is uh if something crazy comes home from the house, they can go up and continue to debate that into eternity. And the only way they can stop this with a cloture. And the cloture is over sixty senators that can stop that. Well, they don't have that. It was fifty-fifty with Kamala Harris that was going to break the tie. But when Joe Manchin stepped out and said, Nah, you're not going to do that. Uh-uh. And he voted to keep it. And then he voted the only one Democrat Senator that voted against the abortion bill Again, when the Liberals were in the House. You know what that would have done? It would have kept Roe V. Wade from being overturned. One Democratic Senator. Now, I don't agree with most of the stuff he does. But God used Nebuchadnezzar too, didn't he? Didn't he use Cyrus? I sure am glad he's using people, and I'm not comparing to a mansion necessarily with Nebuchadnezzar or Cyrus. But D talked to me face to face. And said, I don't know. Forty-nine of my colleagues are going one direction and I'm going in another. Oh, they're all wrong and I'm right, or maybe they're right and I'm wrong. I said, sir, I stand before you representing hundreds of thousands of pastors, millions of Christians, and multiplied millions of Americans. Who are conservative that are firmly behind what you're doing. He said, the silent majority? I said exactly, sir. The silent majority And we are for you. And this was at a funeral that I was about to preach for Woody Williams, the last Medal of Honor recipient from World War II. I said, I'm bringing West Virginia pastors in to pray for you. He said, in my DC office? I said, Yes, sir. West Virginia pastors came in, said the same thing that I told him that day. Sir, we don't agree with a lot of what you've done. But we know you stood for the filibuster. That kept our liberty. You stood a uh for uh life by voting against an abortion bill. That's life. And sir, you stood against the six trillion dollar build back better bozo bill that Joe Manchin wanted to protect the environment. And he wanted to create a standing environmental army bigger than our current standing army. You know what a trillion is versus a billion versus a million? I mean it's it's hard to conceive. A million if you convert a million into seconds is 12 days. A billion, you can convert that into seconds? It's 31 years. A trillion? You convert that into seconds? That is 31,688 years. And he wanted six trillion dollars? And one man said no. And that was Joe Manchin. Well We witnessed, gave him tracks, his staff members tracks, and and the pastors pray for him, I pray for him. He opened up his eyes, he had tears in his eyes. We went to shake his hand. Stand up here. We went to shake his hand, he went, no. He hugged every one of those pastors. And so, Brother Hart, you coming back soon? That's what I always get. Brother Hard, how soon are you coming back? We need this. We have no idea. What persecution is compared to those people that stand. Matt Gates when uh we were there, came out of a committee to come and pray with us. They tried to slam him Threw false allegations against him, went to court, he's been exonerated of everything. Hey, I've known many different people in Washington DC that they have tried to disparage their character. That's what they're trying to do with Donald Trump. Disparage his character. And I know, look, he has not had a perfect background, but he has been the greatest president in our lifetime. And whether you agree with that or not, that's fine. You can be wrong if you want to. That's okay. But what they're doing right now is just completely fallacious. We have the greatest leger legal minds in the United States. Democrats even saying, this is ridiculous. And you know what uh the Congress can do? they can actually dissolve some quartz. I guess what uh I'm gonna start talking to them about. You say, well Brother Harning, you think it's gonna do any good? Um Three, four years ago? No one ever thought that Roe v. Wake would ever be returned overturned. Did you? Did anyone ever think that? No. I we started working on the heartbeat bill Uh two years before it happened, I had a pastor, by the way, from Mississippi that said, Brother Hardy, thank you. for what you're doing and how God used you to activate me. I was the tip of the spirit to get the heartbeat build through and we're the ninth state in the Union. One more joined. It was Texas And every one of those states wanted to be the first one to the Supreme Court to get Roe v. Wade overturned, it was Mississippi. Two years later. I was telling people Two years and one year I said we have a very good chance of Roe v. Wade being overturned. You know what I saw? I saw unbelief In the eyes of people. Unbelief. I said, watch. Now they didn't go far enough, but at least right now have said you don't have an abortion here. Say, well that just makes it less convenient. Ninety-eight percent of all abortions are out of pure convenience. Are you with me today? Say amen. So we need to understand that faith, you see Our founding fathers had faith that they could do something. Don't lose faith in our God. Oh, brother Horning just seems like it's hopeless. That's what it seemed like when we started our country. That's what we've seen many times. We've come right to the prep precipice many times, and we've gone to our knees and asked God for a miracle for our country, and He still is the God of the miracle. John Gano, his Washington's Baptist chaplain that he chose personally, is buried in Lexington, Kentucky. I went to visit his grave site. And at the end of the war, Washington said, before he raised the flag for the first time in liberty, our flag He said Baptist chaplains like Cano have done more for this war effort than anyone. Now, why do you think he said that Because he saw Geno go to his knees and ask God's grace and power to come on that battlefield. He saw him pray down God's power and then stand back up. And not go to the tent where the wounded was. Drew his sword. God is musket And ran into battle and Ganoa even says, push to the front of the line. Patriot preachers, God's men is what we need. Men that will have faith Men that will know, hey, I'm not going to suffer for the sin of unbelief. Oh, that's impossible. I was told that 20 years ago When I said I'm going to get a bunch of independent Baptists to come together and go pray for our elected officials. And people were laughing at me. And Brother Belcher, you know, he said the same same thing, Brother Lemon. How are you gonna get how you gonna get Independent Baptist to to get along? You know, talking about the the uh fellow singing That's impossible. I said, yes, thank you. I serve the God of the impossible. First year 500 showed up. Second year with 750. And it kept on growing and growing and growing. And now this prayer partnership is having pastors there. All year long, week after week. Oh, it's it's so amazing to see what the Lord's done. The formulation of the family very quickly, and I must hurry on, the first institution that God ordained, and that's why it's under attack today. That's why we need to protect our families. That's why it's good to talk about the family, to have sometimes family conferences. to sure up the family, to understand the reason why the sodomites and the transvestites and all the rest of them are there is to attack the family because as the family goes, so goes the nation. As the family goes, even more importantly, so goes the church. Number three, the fortitude of our founding fathers. My, oh my, God's word, by which the founding fathers became the wonder of the world It's going on today as well. I mean when men understand that the Word of God can make a difference, that standing for the principles of the Word of God, sometimes if you have to stand alone It's amazing. Because those people that stand alone with truth, they're the people that make history. Brandon Hall 26-year-old took a constitution awareness module that I taught at his Baptist College years ago. He, a brilliant young man, was uh trying to get Greg Abbott, the governor of Texas, back in to power, re-election campaign. Uh He basically found out that they above him were going to invite the LGBTQ into the election process and give them money. And they call themselves the Laha Law Cabin Party. And uh so he found that out and he called me, he said He said, Dr. Harding, you're one of my mentors. Uh this has happened. It's beyond me. And they've made the choice. They're going to extend an invitation. And I'm supposed to be the liaison to to bring the money to them. And they're going to use it for a moral agenda. They're going to try to force these men in office to kowtow to their wicked type of uh agendas here. I can't do this. Well what would you do? I said, I can't tell you what to do, but I would definitely resign And I would give a resignation letter and give it also to the Greg Abbott. Copy him on it. To my superiors, to my and to my uh The man that I'm actually working for, Greg Abbott. So he did. He wrote a he wrote a letter. He said, This is going to violate my Christian principles and my conservative values. I will not do this. And he said it's going to hurt his campaign because there's a lot of Latinos that are now uh bringing from themselves from the Democratic Party to the Republican Party because the Republican Party believe in their traditional family values. He said, I'm not gonna pass money to them. No way am I going to do this. And it was a great resignation letter. And so he called the next day. He said, hey, would you pray for me? He said they told me to put my resignation on hold. They're going to have a meeting. I said, I sure will. Called me the next day. He said, righteousness prevails. They are not going to allow the log cabin Republicans into the election process. And they told me, no, don't go anywhere. And the woman that actually gave them uh this uh slip to fill out, she wasn't supposed to, uh, they fired her. They wanted she wanted me fired and they fired her. Kind of like a Heyman and Mordecai type of thing, amen. And even though she was uh female. But in any case, uh so he's he's good now um because he's and and this is what I told him. I said, Brandon, he's twenty six years old Twenty-six-year-old. I said you stood alone with the truth. You have protected the election process in the largest state in the lower 48. He said, you've met I said you've made history today. He said, really? I said, really. Well some guys with deep pockets found out about him in Texas and now he's running for U. S. Congress. Amen. See, I like making friends in Congress. Because uh the these these people you know They're the ones that are going to be the guardians of the laws that we are supposed to abide by. Kentucky pastures? There is seven Kentucky pastures. There are full time um house reps because they only, you know do it several weeks a year. I I think I told you this last time very very quickly for those a benefit, for the benefit of those that weren't here last year, Robert Sutton walking into the Florida State House and saying I had no idea uh w anything about politics. I said you don't have to go and just start praying with people. And he made some inroads and made some uh tremendous contacts and the first State of the Union to pass a pro Pastors Protection Act. Wouldn't that be something? A Pastors Protection Act? Can you imagine being completely immune from any kind of litigation Coming from any type of sodomites or anything else, actually. So the pastors in Florida, they're protected now. And the reason why is because he made some inroads with some Democrats And uh this one particular woman that happens to be uh a leader in the re the uh Democratic Party, when they floated the bills, she stood up and she said You've seen these pastors? You've seen Brother Sutton? He walks around. He prays for us. These are wonderful people. We need to do these do this for our for our Florida pastors. Another woman stood up and said, She's right. They passed it Now there's other states that have passed it and trying to pass it, but why? Simply because some people started to get activated and do what we've always done in our country. Forty-two of our founders, they just they had a a unstoppable strategy. What was it? That was their unstoppable strategy. They knew how the world works by God's word. Very quickly, let me just go on and give you the last few and then we'll be done A man by the name of James Madison said, we have staked the whole future of American civilization not upon the power of government. Far from it. We stake the future of all our political institutions upon our capacity to sustain ourselves according to the Ten Commandments of God. 1778, James Madison, to the General Assembly of the State of Virginia. So what am I saying? The framework of our federal government is all based upon God's Word Triform of government, Isaiah 33 and verse 22. Separation of powers, Jeremiah 17 and verse 9. The heart of man is desperately wicked. That's why we need to pull in these court systems that are that are doing what they're doing to a a former president. Because if they do it to him, guess who else they're gonna try to do it to? You get that right? Amen. And uh they have become political. They have become woke And our judicial system is supposed to be all political. You can see that represented in the State of the Union when the Supreme Court justices are stay sitting there and everyone is jumping up and applauding or laughing and and they're stoic They don't applaud, they show no emotion. Why? They are personifying the fact that our judicial system is not supposed to be politicized. And we have Court justices that are soros-backed. You heard me, George Soros. I'm not a conspiracy theorist, but I do know how to do the math I don't dwell on conspiracies because they don't buy you anything at the end of the day. But I do know this. He has funded a huge amount. He's already destroyed two countries, and he's after America. So what do we do? Well, we realize our founding fathers, they looked into the Bible, the perfect law of liberty, and they were not forgetful hearers, but they were doers of the work. And they went ahead and not only did they sign a document, they picked up their sword, their muskets, and ran into battle. Time after time after time. Republicanism. Hey, this is not a democracy Amen. It's to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God. Democracy is nowhere found in the Constitution, but it does guarantee us a republican form of government. Article four, section four. But we don't even know that. And so we're letting these people and when I go to Washington, D. C. , I tell the Conservatives, please start referring to our country as what it is. What? I I'm saying this in all respect, sir We are a republic. We're not a constitutional democracy. If you said that around our founding fathers, they would with all respect tell you to go wash your mouth out with soap. That's a dirty word. Democracy is one step towards socialism. Socialism is communism with lipstick. Okay. And so Our founding fathers, they knew, like James Madison, the content of the sermons. Christian character inspired. Not only the Declaration but the Constitution of the United States. Number five, very quickly, the fabric of our nation. E pleuris un. You know what that means? That means out of many one. That means you come here, you become an American. But by the way, you need to come here legally. Because they're not undocumented people. They are illegal aliens. Part of that don't we understand. Illegal. Not undocumented, illegal. It's very interesting what the liberals do, isn't it? Oh. Save the swamp. I don't want to save the swamp. But let's save the wetlands. Huh? Yeah. Oh, save the jungle. I don't want that, you know, there's bad things in the jungle. Oh no, uh the rainforest. You know, they always try to change things. You know, illegal aliens, undocumented people, no, illegal. But you come here, you come legally, you become an American. No hyphenation needed. Amen. Only nation, only major nation in the world where you can come to and you become an American Amen. That's a fabric of our nation. By the way, that's based upon Leviticus 19 and verse 34. But the stranger that dwelleth with you shall be as one born among you, and thou shalt love him as thyself, for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt. So God's saying, hey, and by the way, you know, if unless you're a Native American, we're all immigrants. Amen? And that's born out of God. Number f number six, very quickly, the free market system Free market system, not socialism. Our young people are being taught socialism is a good thing. It's the most failed ideology in the history of the world. It's never worked anywhere in time, any place on this globe. But the free market system, which is the sacred law of property ownership, is exactly what we have the right to try, the right to buy, the right to sell, and the right to fail And failure is a very real part. Hey, I'm glad there's no much there's no such thing as the EDSL anymore. Amen. I'm glad we don't go out and buy an Edsel. All right? Hey, if something's going to fail, let it go, because out of the ashes will fly a Phoenix. They'll be much more competitive, much more innovative. and uh lower cost for a better product and we the consumer will always benefit. Why? Because it's the sacred law of property ownership. I was in a White House uh Well, it was a kind of a press conference type of uh question to answer, and they said, what do you think about uh this was you know a little bigger, what do you think about socialized health care? I said, no one no one wanted to raise their hand. Pretty interesting. Finally I I said, well if no one else is gonna raise their hand, I'm gonna raise my hand. I said let me just tell you something. Socialized medicine, socialism doesn't work. You want the greatest medical capacity in the world privatized over state lines. And if the government wants to do anything, then get after Big Pharma to drop the price in some of these ridiculously priced types of prescriptions, and we'll have the greatest medical institution in the world. And uh I said, you know, socialism, socialized medicine Einstein said something. Uh he uh was pretty smart guy, don't you think? Everyone nodded their head. I said he said uh insanity, the definition of insanity, is doing the same thing over and over again, expecting different results And and socialism's never worked in the world and everyone keeps on trying to do the same thing over and over again, expecting ri different results, and it's never different. It's not going to work here. It's never worked anywhere. And uh and everyone was, you know, really getting excited and the next day I turned on the news there was Newt Gingrich and He said, yeah. Uh talking about socialized uh health care, he said uh Einstein said something. I went, hey! I'm glad someone was listening, amen. And so it shows you that nobody can uh can do something for our our country. And uh so uh lastly but not least the fervency of focus Bringing back into our lives the fortitude of the foundation of biblical truths. The fact that God is the foundation of our nation. And and by the way, you think everything's out of control? It's not. Because God's still in control. And the foundations that God has given to us have weakened, but uh his foundation has not. Nevertheless, the foundation of God standeth sure. Having this seal, the Lord knoweth them that are his. Let every one that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity. So that's what we need to do. We need to understand. The church must take the right ground in regard to politics. Politics in a nation like this are part of religion. You say that? No. One of the great revivalists in our nation's history said that. Right before the spark of the Second Great Awakening. Now, what do we need to do today? We've already heard about faithfulness, which is I I'm just amazed how God brings things together, one message to another. Faithfulness. The way we do it is by being faithful to God. We from faithfulness we establish the foundation of a nation. No one's gonna do it. I'm bringing pastors in every day. Every time that will I leave an office, there are tears. Uh we we prayed with uh Clay Higgins from Louisiana Clay Higgins, former former law enforcement guy, uh he said, before we pray, let me get my King James Bible off my desk. I looked at his staff member stand next to me. She said, yeah, i i it's always on his desk. It's always open. He's always reading it. And when they were actually trying to vote McCarthy in, uh, for speaker, they uh was panning through the house all the representatives were there. They uh focused in on Clay Higgins and and he had the Bible open on his lap on the floor of the house reading the Bible. I said, that's what we need more of. Right there And when the Michigan guys were there, he made time for us. He said, Oh, I need you to come in. I don't just want you, I need you. These people need it They need it. So you pastors, I'm giving you an invitation. Get in touch with with me and uh Daniel Webster I'll just say this in closing. Yeah, we when we were visiting here, he said we have a group together called the Furnace. He said we pray for revival every Wednesday. The legislators pray, and I gave him one of these pamphlets right here, they're back there for you for free. Bible Prayers for Revival How we can pray for revival every day. Scriptures, illustrations, precepts, principles. We can pray for revival every day. I gave him one of these and then he said, by the way, I have a furnace group because we heat things up in prayer. We pray for revival every single Wednesday morning. Could I have twenty-some more of those? I said, sure. Yes, sir. I gave him twenty some more. He says wonderful. I've given all 52 members of the Freedom Caucus. Some people don't even know what the Freedom Caucus is. It's 52 men and women that are born-again believers, that are profoundly influenced by God's word, that after a long day of legislation, where every ten minutes, five to ten minutes is scheduled, they walk around the outside of the Capitol praying for our country In all kinds of weather. See the news won't tell you that. But those people need our prayers. I'm I'm giving you pastors an open invitation to get in touch with me so that I can host you and come to Washington, D. C. and walk in and do something so critical, so needful, so wanted by these people. I mean from Pennsylvania we met Scott Perry, the chairman of the Freedom Caucus from York, Pennsylvania, at the at the uh Capitol Hill Club. And he came over and and uh and shook my hand. Who do you have with you today, Brother Harding? Tremendous man. A man of prayer. A man of faith. And we gave him one of these and and he said, yeah. He said, another man said, the Freedom Caucus We all have these. We all have these. This is how to pray for our country, scripturally, this is how to pray for our revival Just like Brother Leatherman said, revival starts in our hearts, in the house of God. It doesn't start in the nation's capital School, church, that's where it starts. Not in the school room, not in the the halls of power. No, it starts right here. It can start at this altar, right right here by us getting together as men. See, I'm so glad there's so many men because the leadership of men is lacking in our country. We need to lead we need to get that standard high. And then Run towards the enemy. Because that's how our families, our friends are going to follow. By the men of God. In the best way we can lead. Is to lead to an old-fashioned altar and pray about being faithful. Pray about our country. That we can establish once again and share up these seven sacred foundations. That God has given to us. That this nation, a miraculous nation, can continue until God calls us home. Oh my! For the transgression of the land, many are the princes thereof. Well, people have messed up this country, but by amen of understanding and knowledge The state of that nation shall be prolonged. I want to prolong the state of this nation, don't you? I want to have that sacred fire burning in my heart. Don't you? I want people to see it when I look at it, don't you? The reason why we have the altar is because it's reminiscent of Old Testament times, where the fire of God fell. This is where the power Meets the people of God. Power of God on the altar. Men Will you join me at this old-fashioned altar today and ask God, Lord, please help me to do what I need to do? For you and for the country that you've entrusted us with, this experiment in liberty that's quickly vanishing unless we stand and then kneel and do something. I'm not going to ask the piano to play. I'm just going to ask you to stand and come and pray with me at an old-fashioned altar.