Joel chapter number three and verse number fourteen. I'd like for us to uh read this pat verse together here. Uh I have a friend of mine, well his brother Lloyd Heatwall down in Kaiser, he has me preach about once a year for uh uh for him in April He changes his schedule up a little bit. I'm able to go down, last several years go down. He always gives me, he always assigns me either a text that he wants me to preach on or a subject Once we preach on a lot of times the preacher will just say, Yeah, whatever's on your heart, whatever God lays in your heart, you let her it. And uh but brother Heat will always assign me something. And so it's a little different approach I usually, about a week, a week or so ahead of time, I begin praying and giving thought to what I'm going to preach on the following Sunday. Um got on my mind a little bit what I might preach next Sunday. By Monday, I try to have it settled what the Lord has me to preach. Well, last week, a week or two ago It's praying about what to preach this morning, what the Lord would have me preach on. And uh this verse kept coming to mind And uh looked at it and then a little bit and I had some others that I wanted to do, uh wanted to preach on, but this kept coming back to mind, coming back to mind. Did you ever have something you wanted to do and the Lord said nope, you do something else And so uh I thought about Brother Heatwall, it's like God assigned this verse to me to preach on this morning So I enjoyed studying it, and I'm going to ask the Lord to speak to our hearts and help us. Look what it says. Let's read it together. Ready? Verse number 14, all together. Ready? Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision. For the day of the Lord is near in the Valley of Decision. I want to speak this morning on the Valley of Decision. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven. I thank you for the Word of God we can open and we can have so abundantly available to us here in our land. Lord, help us not to take that for granted and help us, Lord, not to neglect the responsibility that comes along with that. And so I pray now, as we look into your word, that you would speak our hearts. I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I yield my will I present my body anew to you with all my heart. I pray that you would speak through me to each of our hearts and lives and open our minds to what your will would be for us. Help us, Lord, to respond and decide in agreement with what you say and how you direct us. Encourage those that need encouragement. Challenge those of us that need challenge. Lord, I pray for old-fashioned conviction of sin. And I just pray your will be done in this hour, Lord, and you would stir us. We need revival. And so I look to you now in this hour. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I have a cousin, Krista. Some of the folks have been around here for a while. Remember Krista, probably Helen. They used to come and down and help us with our Bible time rally. Uncle Dave and Aunt Beb would come down, their daughter, Krista. When she was very small, and I've referenced this a number of times over the years, when she was very small, I mean just a toddler, a very young child I remember distinctly, for some reason, we were at my grandparents' house, my dad's parents, and we were there, and and grandma had on a little end table She had a plant, she had a cactus plant there on a little end table, and um uh cactus have um what are they called uh Spines coming off of them, needles, uh deadly poisonous things thinking out And so uh for whatever reason I remember this just small and uh grandpa had his chair he always sat in, and uh this little end table with this little cactus where and Krista was just looking at that cactus plant. She was just a little and she was captivated by it. And you and she would take her hand up there and just kind of fiddle with it a little bit. And her curiosity was was picked here about this cactus man. Well grandpa was watching that, Grandpa Leatherman, and he was watching that and uh he said to her, and he said, and he could be very firm, he could be very stern, he said, uh Krista No. You know, he saw her fiddling with it. And she looked at him in defiance And rebellion and said no and grabbed that craft plant. Woo! Things lit up then, I'll tell you She paid the price for her rebellion against an authority telling her no. She made a decision to rebel against that authority, and it cost her dearly, very painful. Well, since the fall of man, ever since Genesis chapter 3. When Adam and Eve there in the Garden of Eden looked, so to speak, looked at God and said, No, we're not going to. Withhold ourselves from the tree of knowledge of good and evil, we're going to eat it. No. Ever since that moment, all through history, up to now And until the end of time, until the Lord comes back and changes thing, man has been looking to God and been saying no to God, mankind. And we paid the price for it. We paid the price for it. Ever since the fall of mankind in Genesis 3, mankind has been crying out no to God in defiance and rebellion We, and I speak of mankind in general, humanity, we have chosen our will over God's will. Mankind has chosen sin over the Savior. We'll not have this man rule over us. Man has chosen his sin over the Savior. This past summer we had neighborhood Bible time. Pastor Matt had the opportunity to counsel a young man that had responded to the invitation. He heard the gospel. And he responded of his own free will. He came out and said, I'm not saved. I need to know my sins are forgiven. I want to know I'm going to heaven and not to hell. And Pastor Matt took him aside back in the fellowship hall, and he told me later, he says, uh, he said, I never in my life have seen a young person Battle in their heart and mind as to the decision to trust Jesus Christ as Savior or not He said, I went through it very clearly, very carefully. The young boy understood. He said at first he would say, no, I don't want to do that. Then he would say, yes, I need to do that. He said that went back and forth, back and forth And if I remember correctly what he said, he said the young man got up and said, No, I'm not going to do that and began to walk away, and he stopped in thought, turned around and came back. And praise the Lord, he said, Yes, I'll trust Christ as Savior. But there's a battle there in the heart and mind of mankind as to whether to trust God or trust myself. Whether to submit to the Word of God and the will of God or do my will and fulfill my will. And this conflict throughout the ages has been characteristic of mankind. I thought about Israel when they came out of Egypt and the miracles they saw God do. When God poured out the ten plagues on Egypt, and finally Pharaoh says, Alright, get out of here And then they get out and they get to the Red Sea there, and Pharaoh changes his mind, sends the armies, and they're pinned between the armies of Israel. They're defenseless. They got the armies of Israel coming down on this end They got this uh the Red Sea here on the other side of them, and they're between a rock and a wet place. Right? The sea and the And God comes through and divides the waters, and they walk across on dry ground, the armies of Israel are drowned and destroyed. Anybody remember that story? They saw what God could do. They saw the power of God, how God could deliver them and take care of them. There was no question in their minds Whether God was for them or not, whether God could take care of them or not. And then they got to a place called Kadesh Barnia. Now it's time to cross over the Jordan River and enter into the promised land and take possession of what God had promised them. You know what? They balked. They sent those twelve spies over, and ten were bad and two were good They came back with a ten of them came back with an evil report, and the congregation believed the ten. Caleb and Joshua said, No, we can take this. God has promised us. Now I don't know if it all communicate if the conversation went exactly this way, but I could imagine Caleb and Joshua saying, hey, remember what he did in Egypt. Remember the parting of the Red Sea. God is well able to give us this land and give us victory, to do what He promised us He would do. But the nation of Israel, in a sense, so to speak, raised their fists up to God and said, We will not go over. Well, not do it. No! And they paid a heavy price. They paid a heavy price. I thought about in Matthew, I think it's chapter 24, 23, Jesus Is on a hill overlooking Jerusalem, and he says, and I'm not quoting exactly here, I'm putting it in my words, he says something to this effect. He says, Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets. How often I would have gathered you together as a hen gathereth her young under her. And then he made this awful statement. He said, and ye would not. You want let me be your God. You want let me be your savior. You want let me be your protector. You want to allow me to be your provider. You want to Trust in yourself and your own righteousness and your own goodness and lean on your own understanding. Ye would not. You know, within seventy years Israel was uh Jerusalem was destroyed You would not, you would not. That's the story of mankind. God says, I love you God says, I'm well capable of taking care of you. I can provide for you. I can lead you in life if you'll just trust me and follow my instructions. And mankind says, no. No, I'll do it my way. I'll lean on my own understanding. I'll trust in my own provisions. Man has magnified himself and minimized the Lord. Is that true in our country now or not? Man is the epitome of everything in the minds of mankind. And God is pushed out completely. Mankind has leaned on his own understanding. We've leaned on our own understanding rather than trust in the Lord. This age-old conflict Between God and man, between rebellion of man against their creator, rebellion of man against their creator, will one day be settled. Do you get me? Do you hear what I'm saying? This rebellion of man against our God, against our Creator, will one day be settled. This isn't going to go on forever. There's coming a day, there's coming a day when God will decide that's enough. This conflict's over. We're settling this. The book of Joel addresses that event. A day in the future when God says that's enough. Now, what do we know about Joel? What do we know about Joel? Now don't respond to this, but I Don't answer this, but I'm tempted to ask the question. I wonder how many people here have ever read the book of Job? Now don't respond. Joel. We don't know a lot about the book. Joel is one of the books in the Bible we categorize as the minor prophets. From Hosea there to the end of Malachi, the end of the New Old Testament, Malachi, these are referred to as the minor prophets. Now they're not referred to the minor prophets because they're insignificant. They're minor in importance. They're vitally important. They are given by inspiration of God, and they are profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, for instruction and righteousness. They're not insignificant and they're not unimportant. We call them minor prophets because of the size. They're smaller Isaiah, Ezekiel, Jeremiah, those are major prophets because they're much larger books. I wonder If there isn't a lot of confusion about end day events because the minor prophets are so neglected, I'd venture to say, now again, uh I'd like to think maybe our church is an exception. But I'd say that probably most Christians have never read through the minor prophets. Hosee, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahum, Habakkuk, Zephaniah, Zechariah, Malachi. How many of us have ever read them? How many of us didn't even know they were in there? Let alone be able to pronounce them Joel is a minor prophet with a major message. And that message is the day of the Lord. That word, that phrase is used five times. Throughout the book of Joel, the day of the Lord. The day of the Lord has come. The day of the Lord has come Now we don't know much about the man Joel himself, other than a little bit of information given in the book. His name is interesting. His name means Jehovah is God. Jo-J-O is reference, the Hebrew that it comes from, reference Jehovah. L is short for Elohim, God. Jehovah is God. What a good name. No doubt he had godly parents that loved Jehovah, loved the Lord, and were committed to him, and they gave him that tremendous name. As I said, the phrase day of the Lord is used five times in the book of Joel. It's used throughout the Bible, particularly Old Testament, but it's referenced sometimes in the New Testament that phrase, the day of the Lord The day of the Lord can refer to any number of events. Generally speaking, when the Bible refers to the day of the Lord, it is a day when God intervenes on the affairs of man, to get man's attention and to bring him back to a better and clearer understanding of who God is and what man's responsibility is to his creator creator, the day of the Lord when God intervenes. Now there's, as I said, that is used various ways throughout The Bible, throughout history, the day of the Lord. In Joel, the phrase day of the Lord refers to a prophetic event still to come. We'll look at that here in a moment. Let me give you the context of the book of Joel. Everybody doing all right this morning? Everybody with me? Now listen, God assigned this passage to me to preach this morning, alright? So you better pay attention, right, girls? Say amen. Amen I have two, there's two aspects to the context of this book. The first part of the book of Joel Joel is referring to a local judgment of God on sinful Israel. Now, these are God's people. And they had rebelled against God, and they were living in sin. God's people You say, preacher, God's people can't sin. Number one, you don't know the Bible. And number two, you don't know God's people. God's people can and do sin, right or wrong. We don't lose our salvation, but sin is a constant battle, it's a constant issue. Apostle Paul in Romans, he says he constantly battles with that. He said, the things I don't want to do, I end up doing. The things I know I should do, I don't do, oh, wretched man that I am. He said, Christ can give us the victory, but nevertheless it's a battle ongoing. How many people can relate to Paul's situation there? Yeah. So God's people can induce sin, and the nation of Israel was living in sin and rebellion against God. They were worshiping false gods of the nations around them. They were leaning on their own understanding. They were indulging in things that God forbade and they were neglecting things that God required. And so God sent some judgment upon them in two forms. If you would come back to chapter 1 and look with me, if you would at verse number 4. Joel chapter 1 and verse number 4. He says this. Verse 3: He says, Tell your children of it, and let your children tell their children, and their children another generation. That which the palmer worm hath left hath the locust eaten. And that which the locust hath left hath the canker worm eaten. And that which the canker worm hath left has the caterpillar eaten. Awake ye drunkards and weep and howl, ye drinkers of wine. And then he goes on and talks to them. And what was taking place here was there had been a horrific plague of locusts and other terrible bugs. Had come through and absolutely destroyed the crops of Israel. Now you need to understand, in this at this day and age, they were dependent upon the crops. That was their economy. If the crops failed, their economy failed. And this had a devastating effect on the nation, on their economy and on their well-being. And Joel said it was an act of God. That God was sending this to get their attention. Bring them to the end of themselves so that they would humble themselves before God and repent of their sin and trust the Lord so He could bless them and use them again So one aspect of this judgment on sinful Israel was this plague of locusts and these other critters that came along with it. Look over at chapter 2 and verse 25. He references it again. Now I like chapter two and verse twenty-five. This verse encourages me. It says, and God speaking through Joel, he says, I will restore you the years that the locust hath eaten. The canker worm and the caterpillar and the palmer worm, my great army which I sent among you. God sent them. To get their attention, to rattle them, to shake up their sinful confidence in themselves and learn to trust God God sent them. Now the encouraging thing, this is just a little aside, this isn't the message, but the encouraging thing is I noticed God said there, I can restore to you the years that the Locusts have eaten. Now when I read that, I think about all the years that sin has stolen from my life before I was a Christian. Well sin destroyed me and on my own choice I allowed it. And I think what God is saying here is listen, some of us we may mess up And the consequence of that sin is these locusts, so to speak, that have come in and just wreaked havoc in our lives. And I think what he's saying here is I can come back to God If I'll humble myself and confess that and turn from it and come back and trust God, God can restore that which sin took away. Isn't that a wonderful thought? You say, preacher, it's hopeless. I've failed so badly. It's hopeless. No, as long as God's on the throne, it's not hopeless. God said, I can pick you up and I can clean you up and I can still use you. So one of the judgments, these local judgments on Israel at that time was this plague of locusts, but on top of that, God sent a deadly drought. Come back to chapter 1 again with me if you would and look at verse number 19. Now I'm setting the stage here for what Joel is all about. Verse number 19, O Lord, to thee will I cry. Look at this, for the fire hath devoured the pastures of the wilderness. Now think about this, the locusts and all these little bugs come through, cleaned out the crops, everything's dead. Now these wildfires show up. For fire hath devoured the pastures of the wilderness, and the flame hath burned all the trees of the field. The beasts of the field cry also unto thee, for the rivers of water are dried up. And the fire hath devoured the pastures of the wilderness. Israel is devastated. They had these plagues of locusts and canker worms and palmer worms have come through. And just destroy the crops. And then the rain is withheld. And everything is dry and dead. And then these wildfires break out. The place is on fire. You know, God uses what man calls natural catastrophes I want to suggest to you are often the judgment of God upon a nation for their sinful rebellion against God. Now I don't know, I may you know maybe I'm I'm all out of line here, I don't think so. But I don't I think these wildfires in America and these hurricanes and these earthquakes we see happen and all that, that's just not some result of global warming. That's a result of a God in heaven trying to get our attention. Trying to get us to realize: wait a minute, there are things in life that are out of our control and we need God. When this virus broke out eighteen months ago or whenever and man no nobody knew what was happening and Pastor Matt and I were back there praying, we're trying to figure out sort out what to do And I told him then, and I still believe it to this day, I believe God has allowed this to humble his people, and the right response to this is not pride and rebellion, the right response to this is to fall on our faces before God and in humility ask him, Have mercy on us. We need revival. Our church is in our land. We've rebelled against God. We've resisted His will. We've demanded our way. We've lifted ourselves up in pride. And God only puts up with that for so long. He said in Genesis, he says, my spirit will not always strive with man. It comes a point God says, Alright, we're going to deal with this. And that's the message of Joel. First two chapters, Israel was going through this plague. They had been hit by this plague of bugs. And then the rain, the clouds dried up, and the rain was gone, and the wildfires broke out. And Joel says, Listen, God is getting your attention I think every time something happens, things come in our life, our first thought ought to go to the Lord. Lord, what are you teaching me? What are you trying to show me? So the local judgment of God. Throughout history, God has sent what man calls natural disasters as judgment on nations' sins. He gets our attention, it brings humility. Our nation needs to give attention back to God. I thought about Years ago, when I was in Indianapolis, I was youth pastor there at the Thompson Road Baptist Church, and we had a wonderful time for four years. Praise the Lord for our time there. And uh I don't remember exactly how it transpired, but there was a lady in our church, and I was for the life of me I cannot remember her name. I was phoned Kathy yesterday. What was her name I can't remember her name. She was an older lady. She was faithful as can be. Church Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. She was elderly. And finally came time when God called her home to heaven. She had a daughter, she always asked us to pray for, and again I don't remember the daughter's name. She would always want us to pray for daughters, away from God, away from God. Please pray for my daughter. And we prayed, the church prayed for her and her daughter. And I remember at the funeral, just a normal funeral, gave the gospel, pastor preached, and he gave the gospel, we were there helping. We went out to the graveside I still remember that daughter standing by the freshly dug grave of her mother, weeping, weeping, weeping. And she said in so many words, God, You'll take me back. I want to come back to you. You'll take me back, I want to come back. You know what? God took her back And from that point on, Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night, she was in her place. Happy, singing, serving the Lord. You know what? God allowed a tragedy in her life. God allowed a heartache in her life. God allowed a grief to come into her life. And it got her attention. She came and humbled herself and said, Yes, Lord, not my will, your will be done. And God gave her the joy of the Lord. God sends trials, God sends locusts. God sends droughts and fire, wildfires into our lives. Not because he's unkind, not because he's against us, but because he loves us. He wants to get our attention and bring us back and restore that fellowship. I think our churches need to come back to the Lord. Folks talk about folks talk about getting the Bible in the White House and we need the Bible study back in the state houses and we need the Bible back in our government and our schools and I say amen to all of that, but how about we get it back in our homes? How about we get the old family altar back and mom and dad and the kids gathering around at the day end of the day and reading the Bible and singing some hymns and lifting their voices up as a family and Crying out to God for his blessings on their home. How about we start there? Let me suggest this. How about we get the Bible back in our churches? Brother Ward was mentioning how so many churches now no longer preach the Bible, no longer the sole authority in the church, but it's man's ideas and uh having sodomites coming in t becoming pastors. I saw Harvard, which I have no time for Harvard, but I saw they put an atheist in as the head of their chaplains I'm telling you, America needs God. And our churches need to get back and make this book the authority. God have mercy on Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church if we ever quit preaching that old book right there. And so God would send these locusts and these drought and fire and wildfires, and He's getting Israel's attention, shaking them up and their sinful self-confidence. And God does that in your life and my life often to get our attention. Every time God sent a plague or a trial or some sort of pestilence, it was the humble man before God. It was to produce repentance from sin and rebellion. No, man says. God shakes man up. Again, this is an act of love on the part of God. He loves us enough to not let us go on. So the first the first two chapters of Joel are about this judgment of locusts and drought and wildfires to Israel to get their attention and get them to come back to the Lord and walk with him and have his blessings. The second half of the book, excuse me. This is what happens when you leave singing before you preach. The second half of the book, he's talking about a future judgment. First half is this Israel dealing with this immediate locust and all that. As we said, that's the first one. He deals with that judgment church. Get Israel, listen, turn to the Lord. God can restore the years. God can make this rain. You need to humble yourself. And then he turns and he looks forward. He takes that as the groundwork and he says, and there is a future judgment coming to this world. Look at chapter 3 with me, if you would, and verse number 9. Pastor Matt read this a little bit ago. Everybody with me? Alright, good. He says, proclaim ye this among the Gentiles. Now look at this. He's talking to the Gentiles. Prepare war, wake up the mighty man. Let all the men of war draw near. Let them come up. Beat your plow shares into swords, your pruning hooks into spears. Let the weak say, I am strong. Assemble yourselves. Come, O ye heathen, gather yourselves together around about. Thither cause thy mighty ones to come down, O Lord. Let the heathen be awakened, and look at this, and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat. For there will I sit to judge all the heathen round about Put in the sickle, for the harvest is right. It's figurative speech there. Man's going to be judged. There's coming a horrific judgment. Come, get you down. For the press is full, the vats overflow, for their wickedness is great. Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision. For the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision. That phrase, the valley of Jehoshaphat, is referring to an event that takes place at the end of the tribulation period. It's called the Battle of Armageddon. Anyone familiar with that phrase? The Battle of Armageddon. And he is talking about a future time when God. Now this is me, this is Leathermanism here. But this is where God says, I've had enough. I've had enough. Do you ever have do you ever parents ever do that? You tell you something, tell you something, finally you say, alright, I've had enough. Well you knew your dead meat then, right? God says I've had enough. The next great event on God's prophetic calendar, the one that you and I, as Bible believers, anticipate with great anticipation. And that is the rapture of the church. Who was I? Oh, I was visiting Betty Paul yesterday. By the way, Betty said to tell the church she loves everybody and misses everybody. I was visiting her there in the nursing home yesterday and we got talking about some things and she was crying I missed the church and she's doing fine but it was just we were talking and and I said, Betty, uh, one of these days the Lord's coming back. That rapture is going to happen. And she looked at me and her face just beamed and she said, Oh, that would be wonderful I tell you, a Bible-believing Christian looks forward to great anticipation to the rapture of the church. When we're caught up out of here and to be with the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. And that great reunion in the sky with those that have gone before us, those that have prevented us or gone before us, and will meet them together to be with the Lord forever in the air. I was driving down at um Walmart the other day. I forget what day. It doesn't matter, it's probably every day. But uh I was coming down and I in my dad's car now, you know, he he left that and and I was coming around and I bumped the curb with his tire on the car and without even thinking, I just said it I Sometimes I just say things without thinking. I just without thinking I said, oh, sorry, Dad. I didn't mean to do that to your car. And then I uh I gotta I gotta think a little bit and I said and I just said this out loud, I just said, Dad, I'm trying to take good care of your car And I could hear my dad say, and it don't don't get weird on me, all right? I I could just hear in my head, I could hear my dad laugh. And say you're doing fine, son. You're doing fine. And I thought about the rapture when that takes place and get to see Daddy again. And George Futch and and uh Brad Renard and so many others that have gone before us, Ed Bowser Your family members that knew the Lord have gone before. That's the next event in God's calendar. Rapture of the church. Now, if you're here and you're not saved, you're listening to my voice, and you've never trusted Christ as Savior, and that rapture takes place today, you'll be left behind. And according to Thessalonians, you have opportunity to be saved now. If you don't trust Christ and that rapture takes place, you're left behind. You'll have no opportunity to be saved after that event. Now many others will that have not heard the gospel. Many millions will be saved after that event. But not those that knew the knowledge of the truth and did not receive it will be left behind. How many folks here you're saved, you know it say amen? That's true. We're ready for the rapture. Caught up out of here. So the rapture is the next event on God's prophetic calendar, which then is followed by a seven-year period that the Bible refers to as the tribulation, or sometimes the great tribulation, is the second half of it. Jacob's trouble it's referred to. It's also referred to as the 70th week of Daniel. That's various titles and terms used to describe. That seven-year horrific period of time when God pours out his wrath on this whole world, Israel in particular, but the whole world The book of Revelation, a major part of the book of Revelation, is that description of that seven-year period of tribulation. And at the end of that seven year, by the way, uh you yeah by the way, the Bible says in Matthew, the Bible says that there never has been And there never will be a, and I'm putting it in my own words, a more horrific period of time than that seven-year period. We see what's going on in Afghanistan. That's Sunday school compared to what tribulation's going to be. Horrific. The judgment of God. And at the end of that seven-year tribulation period, there will be what's called the Battle of Armageddon. When the armies of the world will rise up in vital rebellion against their Creator. And Jesus Christ will come on the white horse and the saints with him and he'll squash that rebellion. Ezekiel gives a horrific description of the physical carnage that takes place at that battle of Armageddon. And that is the event that Joe is referring to when he says, multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision for the day of the Lord. is near in that valley of Megiddo, that plain of Megiddo, which is in the valley of Jehoshaphat. The valley of decision. The valley of decision. The Battle of Armageddon is man's final united rebellion against Christ. Now, in verse 14, I've read this verse, I've had it memorized. Thought I knew it and understood it and never really gave it a lot of close attention. And I always had this idea, well, it's the multitudes of the world in a position where they got to decide Whether they're going to trust Christ or not, they've got to decide. They're in this valley of decision. They've got to decide, is it God or me? Is it the temporal pleasures or eternal blessings? And that's not what this verse is talking about at all. It's not the multitudes making a decision whether they're going to turn to God or not. It's Christ making the decision to put an end to man's rebellion. Multitudes, multitudes in this valley where Christ decides, no more. And he squashes this rebellion that takes place. It's at the end of the seven-year tribulation, the Lord's final judgment before setting up his millennial kingdom. Now I want to give you three thoughts. I I know what time it is. Let me quickly give you my Three thoughts, the three lessons I learned from this passage here. Number one, I want us to consider the implications of this decision. Of Christ to put down the rebellion of man once for all before he sets up his kingdom. The implications of this decision. Man's rebellion comes to an end. At this point in time, now think about this with me. I don't know that we grasp the reality of what's being told here, but think about this with me. At this point, all unsaved people are eliminated off the presence of the earth, and you go into the millennial kingdom, all unsaved people have been removed. At that point, it's only God's people going into the millennial reign at this event. This is the end of the rebellion of man This is the point where God deals with the unsaved in a final event. God eliminates all unsaved from off the planet at that point in time. No more patience. No more mercy. No more opportunities to be saved. It's over. It's over. The Valley of Decision. Jesus said, as it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be in the coming of the Son of Man. You know, when those doors now Hear me out. When those doors on that ark closed, all chance to be saved for them were gone. Right or wrong? They had years of opportunity to come to trust the Lord. They had years of opportunity to turn from their sin. They had years of opportunity to find salvation. But when those doors closed, it was done. And there comes a point in time in this old earth, at the end of the tribulation, God says, that's it. That's it. It's done. Now there will be, as the saved in the Israel that turns to the Lord, they go into that millennial reign, those that are in their physical bodies, you and I will be in glorified bodies. Because we'll come back with the Lord, but those that go in with their physical bodies, they will have children, and then they will ultimately need to be saved. Satan does raise up a little rebellion at the end of the millennial, but God squelches it immediately. But at this point in time, God says that's it. Can I suggest to you That if you're not saved, the time to be saved is right now. Today, now is the accepted time. Today is the day of salvation Oh preacher, I gotta think about that. I tell you, you think about that. And that rapture couldn't take place before you're done thinking Now I'm all for thinking about it. But today's the only day that God promises we have of salvation Proverbs 27, 1 says, Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. I was reading about uh I have a little book I'm reading about martyrs. I mention this often this year as it's just stirred my heart. It's had a profound impact on my on me spiritually. And earlier this week I was reading an account of uh some preacher over, I think it was in Russia during the Cold War when everything was under the iron fist and the Soviet was controlling everything. And this fellow was a very effective preacher and he held a meeting, I don't know what the setting was, but it said that there was two hundred people got saved in this meeting here in I believe it was Russia or Romania. And 200 people came and trusted Christ. As the meeting was over and he was making his way back to wherever he was staying, a young boy came up to him, a young 20-year-old something boy And said, sir, I have questions about salvation. Could you take a moment and talk with me and answer my questions and help me? I'm concerned. And the preacher said that he was so tired, he says, Young man, I am tired. He said, I've preached all day. Come and see me in the morning, and I'll be glad to help you and answer your questions. Well that night and where he was staying the KJB came and kicked the doors in. He said they took him and for five days They grilled him onto what his work was, who he's associated with, where these underground churches were. And he said this: he said, for five days I could Talk to the KJB and answer their questions because I was scared of being tortured, but I couldn't take 20 minutes and talk to a young man about his soul's salvation. He said, when I came out, I never saw that boy again. I never saw that boy again. Say, oh preacher, I'll get saved when I get a chance. I'll think about it someday. I tell you that someday may never come. Oh, preacher, I'll witness to somebody. I'll tell them about the Lord someday. Someday I'll show them how to get saved. That someday may never come. That someday may never come. So this valley of decision, the implications of the decision, no more patience, no more mercy. No more opportunities to be saved. Lost, these people, dear people, lost for all eternity. Separated from God in a very real, horrific place called hell for all eternity. So the implications of this decision. Number two, I want us to consider God's distaste For this decision. You'll never convince me that God enjoys judging the lost You'll never convince me that God takes pleasure in judging and condemning and damning people to an eternal hell. If you would, we're in Joel, come back in your Bible, towards the front of your Bible, just a few pages, you'll have Joel, and then you're going to run into Hose, then you're going to hit Daniel, going backwards in your Bible, and then you're going to come to Ezekiel. If you will, I'd come over to Ezekiel 33 and notice with me verse number 11. I saw this when I was in Bible college. I came across this verse. I've read it many, many times. I just it it I noticed it And it makes an interesting statement about our God. It shows me a little bit the heart of God in this matter of judging the unsaved. Ezekiel chapter 33, look with me if you would at verse 11. Say unto them, as I live, saith the Lord God. Now look at this next statement. I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turn from his way and live. Turn ye, turn ye from your evil ways. For why will you die, O house of Israel? Do you catch what God is telling us there? Do you catch or see a little bit of the heart of God? He says, I don't want To judge people. I don't want to condemn the lost. I don't want to send people to hell. In fact, I want to suggest to you: God never sends anybody to hell. God does everything he can to keep people out of hell. He didn't create us to die. He didn't create hell for mankind. Created hell for the devil and his angels. And the devil, through subtlety, brought man into a sinful condition and made a decision and Man is lost in our natural condition. We're separated from God. And if we die in our sins, we're lost and separated from God for all eternity. And God says, I take no pleasure in that. That's not what I made man for. That's not where my heart is. I want man to be saved. I want you to have eternal life. I want you to know my presence in your life and my blessings on your life, but sin has separated you. God takes no pleasure in the battle of Armageddon and multitudes, multitudes slaughtered and go into an eternal hell. God takes no pleasure in that. God loves you. We had a lady, and I mentioned this over the years down in Chattanooga. My good friend Randy and I were driving off somewhere and We pulled up to a stop sign. It's kind of rough part of town. This woman came up and knocking on I was sitting in the passenger seat and she's knocking on the window. I rolled it down. She goes, Can you give me a ride, please? Just a couple blocks up here. Can you give me a ride? And we're like, uh and the traffic lights there and there's cars behind us. And so we said, All right, all right. So I climbed between the seats into the back seat. I was a lot thinner then. And um Got in the back seat and she sat up there and we're driving up there and we started witnessing to this dear gal. And we told her, you know, God loves her, and she was, oh yeah, man, God loves us. And we told her that we're all sinners. Yep, we're all sinners. We're all sinners. She agreed with that and yep. And then we said, God, there's judgment on sin. That judgment is separation from God forever in a place called hell. And brother, that's when her hackles went up. And she got indignant. And she said, a God of love would never send anybody to hell. You know what we said? We agree. God does not send people to hell. God does everything he can to keep us out of hell. It's our rejection of the Lord. It's our rebellion against him. It's our unbelief that sends us to hell, not the Lord. And she would not listen to anything we had to say. The next time we stopped, she opened that door and she was out of there. Lost. Lost. God doesn't find pleasure in the judgment of the unsaved. God does not find pleasure in his own creation. Separated from him forever in hell? The distaste of this judgment. God does not want anyone to die in their sins. John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish. It's the whole point. Romans 5:8: God commendeth his love toward us while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. I like Galatians 2. 20. Paul says, I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God. Listen to this: who loved me. And gave himself for me. I'm so glad God loved me enough to die and suffer hell for me in my place. Buried and rise again, so that I can come and trust him and gain eternal life and have a home in heaven. Amen or not The distaste of God for a judgment of the lost. He's a holy God and it requires it 2 Peter 3, God's not willing that any should perish, but all should come to repentance. Let me end quickly with my third and last thought. Consider the urgency of our decision for Christ. We don't know when the Lord's returning. We don't know when net death is going to knock on our door. Do you know there's people that are in eternity now that last Sunday had no idea that they would be there today? My daddy used to make this statement. I quoted it before, but he used to say this, you never know when you put your shoes on in the morning who's going to take them off that night. There's an urgency, this matter of settling my soul's salvation. Now, in my mind, this is the most important message in all the world. That whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That without Christ a person is lost in their sins, without God and without hope in the world. The gospel ought to be broadcast on every radio station, on every television station, on every newspaper it ought to be printed, on every street corner it ought to be declared, on every billboard it ought to be declared. That man must be born again. But this world's silent. The media says nothing about the greatest need facing mankind. The CDC says nothing about the greatest solution for the sins of man. And it's up to the church. It's up to God's people to get this message, the urgency of salvation out to this world. You follow me? We use this term so much it's become meaningless to us, but we have a great commission to take the gospel into all the world. Every neighbor I found I was downtown yesterday visiting and uh I found two apartment rooms, apartments, over top of an old building downtown. I've been here twenty-nine years now. I never knew they were there. I looked, I saw two, I was driving down I saw two mailboxes hanging on a wall. I said a mailbox usually means somebody lives there or something's there. So there was this old ratty door there. It opened. Nobody shot me, no alarms went off. So I went, lo and behold, I got up there, and here there's two apartments over top of this building. I never knew they were there Knocked on the door, no, nobody answered. It's kind of not the great story, but nobody answered. I was gonna hoping I could say, oh yeah, people got saved, nobody answered. But my point is this Every little apartment, every little corner, every little trailer, every little holler, every street, every ghetto. Every person ought to hear about Jesus Christ. Because there's a great day coming. And the judgment of God upon this world. And our responsibility as Christians is to get that message to every man, woman, and child. The world's not doing it. All the media will tell us they'll scare the daylights out of us about everything going on, but they won't say a word about hell. They won't say a word about coming judgment. They won't say a word about trusting Christ. Most important message that has ever mankind has ever needed. And it's up to you and I to get it to them. Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision, there's judgment day coming. Where we spend eternity depends on what we do with Christ. What we do with Christ. I had my best friend during my teenage years in sin and drugs and everything. My best friend. And I got saved at the age of nineteen and I began witnessing the other all my quote unquote friends disappeared. I went off to Bible college and I would write f I would write letters to my friend. Need to be saved. I'd write out the plan of salvation. As best I knew how, I'd mail to him. I'm in Tennessee, he's up in Philly He never wrote back. I never heard anything from him. One year I was so burdened. I was coming home in Easter. I was so burdened for him. I thought, I I prayed and fasted. It's like God, I want to win him to Christ. I'm going to go home at Easter and I'm going to get him saved. He's my friend. I went and I found him and he lived in this condominium. I baking big bucks, just beautiful fancy sports car. He took me in and showed me all around. We hadn't seen each other in years. And I said before before I left, I said, Danny, I need to tell you something. I said, I want to tell you how to be saved. I want to tell you how you can know that your sins are forgiven. When you die, you go to heaven and not to hell. And right away I could see his countenance got hard. And he looked at me and he says, Nah, I'm okay. I'm good. I said, well let me just show you. He isn't up. I'm good. And he put his hand, I still remember, he put his hand, I said, scream, good seeing you again. Take care. He's telling me to leave. Get out of here. I said, well, Danny, before I go, I had a little Gideon Bible. I said, before I go, I want to leave this little Bible with you. And in the front there, it tells you how you can be saved. Took it and said, thanks. Good seeing you. Take care. Never heard from Denny again. Several months later my dad sent me a newspaper clipping, just a narrow one-column clipping out of the local paper back there. As far as I know, as far as I know, he died in his sins. Went out into a Christless eternity. I thought, God, I don't ever. God help me be a soul winner. God help me do better. It's a great day coming. Judgment of God on this soul world. We've got to win souls. If you're not saved, you need to be saved. I don't know how else to put it. I if I could, if it would help, I'd get on my knees and plead with you to trust Christ. Last uh m uh April I think of last year, a little over a year ago, I got a phone call from Roy. Uh uh I got a message from Roy Cheshire's daughter. She said, would you go call my daddy? Roy, I knew him. I said, sure. I don't know anything. So I called up and I said, Roy, what's going on? He said, I need you to come down here and tell me how to get ready to meet Jesus. I said, all right, I got myself headed right down there. He's sick. They thought he was going to pass away. So I got the Bible out and I went through and showed it. I said, Roy, this is how you be ready to meet Jesus. I went through the plan of salvation, and he bowed his head with me and trusted Christ as Savior. A week ago, I got a phone call. Said Pastor Leatherman, Roy went to be with Jesus Roy went to be a I'm glad I took twenty minutes and went down there and showed him how to be saved. I tell you there's people all around us. You know people. In your life, in your what in your world of influence. That you could win to Christ if you just trust God and do it. If you just trust Can I put it this way: the church is the only hope this whole world has Because if we don't give the message of Christ, who will? Government's not going to, right? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us. Number one, settle our own salvation. Number two, give ourselves the pointing people to the Lord Jesus Christ through our lives and through our lips. Help us, Lord. I wonder how many this morning would say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I trust in Christ. And you'd say, preacher, I really want to be a better witness. I really want to be more bold and be able to point others to Christ. Is there anything like that? Say, preacher, that's the desire in my heart. To bring others to Christ. Anybody like that? Uplifting hands? Sure. God bless you. What Christian wouldn't feel that way? I wonder if there's some would be willing to come to an old altar this morning and say, God Holy Spirit, do a supernatural work in my heart and give me that wisdom, that boldness, that determination to witness to others. God will help us if we want it. God will give us that boldness. God will give us that compassion. But we have to want it. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I'm not sure if I'm saved or not. I don't know if I'm going to heaven or hell. I don't know. I'm worried about it. I'm concerned about it. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that God would help me settle that. Is there any like that? by the uplifted hand this morning. Preacher, I'm not sure that when I die I'm going to heaven, not to hell. And I'm concerned. I want that settled. Anybody at all here this morning? Maybe some online You're watching, you don't have that settled. I plead with you, contact us, get a hold of us, let us show you from the Bible. No doubt many of us know someone that's unsaved. God's laid them on your heart right now. Why don't you kneel on an altar and pray that God will help you be a witness? Father in heaven bless now our invitation I ask in Jesus name