Paul wrote to the church at Thessalonica. He actually started the church as a missions work uh on uh his missionary journey to that portion of the world. He was only there several weeks, not a long time by anyone's standard in church planning and and uh mission work. Nevertheless he established a very good church, very strong church. In fact In his absence, they took what he taught them and the uh the leadership he put in place there and developed the church. It grew and became what he calls here in 1 Thessalonians a model church. And he encourages other church to pattern themselves, uh uh uh uh uh to pattern themselves after the church at Thessalonica. He speaks that highly of them. They're very evangelistic, very aggressive in getting the gospel out, and very missions-minded. Now he's winding down. He's making some practical statements here Um let's see, I'm talking. I ought to turn there probably. And notice uh verse number eleven is all I want to look at tonight. Uh we touched on this several weeks ago when we finished uh finished when we Got diverted from this. But I w verse eleven kept coming back to my mind for the last week or so when I would look at this and I want to spend one more uh evening, one more message on verse eleven. Notice what it says, chapter five Wherefore, comfort yourselves together and edify one another, even as also ye do That word wherefore is referring back to the statements that were made previously. I sound like I'm kind of strong again. Am I okay out there? Does it sound alright out there? How many people say it sounds good? How many people say it sounds bad? Oh wow, I sound good. Sarah's the only one that thinks I sound bad. Wow. Mark them that cause divisions and we learned that in Sunday school, didn't we? So he's writing, and now as Paul's uh custom is, you read his letters, he gets doctrinal, he talks about all these things, then he gets very practical. It seems like it's Well, of course he's under the inspiration of God, but it seems like something in Paul is, uh, and I can relate to this, is when he teaches something, he don't want it just to be bare facts. He wants it to affect your life. He wants there to be decisions made as a result of the truths given. He wants there to be changes take place in people's lives, their faith to get stronger, their witness to become more effective as a result of the truths. Therefore, you have the word wherefore. Because of all this teaching on the second coming and all of that, here's what you need to do. And he comes down through the end of the chapter here and he gives some practical things. In verse 11, uh he uh uh gives uh about did I read that yet? I reread it, right? Did I pray? Alright, let's pray. Father, I pray you bless now our study in your word. And uh help us, Lord, I pray that What this passage is intended to accomplish in the lives of believers, that it would actually be accomplished in our lives. That this would become true in our church as a body and in our homes and in our individual lives that uh we would be able to do what this verse is saying, comfort one another and and uh encourage and be a blessing And uh help me, Lord, to teach this in Jesus' name. Amen. I was tempted to pray, Lord, help me remember what I already said. Two hundred and sixty times in the Bible, the word encourage is used in one form or another. When you think of somebody encouraging somebody, there's particularly in the Old Testament, there's several people that come to mind. My first thought was Moses encouraging who? Joshua, yeah. Moses kept listening be strong and of good courage. You read the first chapter or two of Joshua, and you find Moses and God saying over and over to Joshua, Be strong and of good courage, be strong and of good courage. Be not dismayed. Be strong and of good courage. If you go back a little earlier, where did Moses learn to encourage Joshua? Where did he get that from? God encouraging Moses. Repeatedly through his experiences, God was coming down to Moses, I've chosen you. You're the man And uh God encouraging Moses. Uh and then Moses in turn, when he's about to go off the scene, he encourages Joshua. God steps in and encourages Joshua Then you find Joshua when he finally takes the mantle of leadership and they're about to go to battle, cross the Jordan River and go into battle. Who do you find Joshua encouraging? The people of Israel. Yeah, he's saying to them what God and Moses was saying to him. Almost verbatim. He's saying to the people, be strong and have good courage. Don't be dismayed. Uh listen, be of courage, be strong, be of good courage. And he turns around and he starts saying to them, then it's interesting, we could do a whole study on this, you find the people of Israel in turn saying to Joshua the same thing he was saying to them. They're telling Joshua, Joshua, be strong and of good courage. There's whole This whole event, you have all this encouragement going on. Now here's where I want to ask you a question. This is where I want class participation. Can you think of other folks in the Old Testament that encouraged other people? Brian. One of my thoughts exactly. Jonathan was constantly encouraged, David. I know thou wilt be king of Israel someday. I know that God is with thee. Constantly encouraging. Can you think of anyone else? Naomi and Ruth, uh very good. When uh Ruth started getting in with Boaz, and Naomi kept saying, Boy, God has a plan here, God is something in line. Anyone else? I'm thinking of another one. The Shunammite woman was who I was thinking, and and Elisha coming by, and uh she goes, What that we perceive that thou art a man of God. And uh we want to make this helpful to you and we want to uh provide for you there. Can anybody think of any others? Her husband, yeah, encouraging her. And uh so you go through and the point I'm trying to make here is this, is that encouragement Among God's people, going back and forth is a very important part of Christian development. It's a key factor in us growing. Now the fact of the matter is some people need encouragement more than others. We all need it, but it's in different degrees. Some folks can get by, uh I think it was um Uh Mark Twain maybe made this statement. Mark Twain made a lot of great statements. He made this statement. He said, I can get by two months on one compliment. You know, that's pretty good. Some folks don't and don't need it her as much as others. Uh other folks need a compliment every day Or they crash and burn. Abraham Lincoln. Did you know this? Abraham Lincoln carried in his wallet newspaper clippings speaking highly of him. If somebody said something good or nice about him, he'd cut it out and carry it with him. Why? He needed that encouragement. Abraham Lincoln. And so we all need it. Um I was reading about a banker. Apparently this is a true story. This was years ago And uh every day he'd come out of the bank and there was a beggar would sit, it was in the city of course, there was a beggar would sit there and he had his little tin as the beggars would back then, I imagine still do to some degree But he always had beside him a little jar full of pencils. And the idea was people would give him money and they would get a pencil, but everybody would just throw money in and never took the pencils They figured the guy's poor, he's a beggar, he needs the pencils more than I do, I'll just give him money. But this banker was different. Every day the banker came out of his bank, he would throw a coin into the tin But he would also reach down and take one of the pencils and he would say this to him, Sir, you are a merchant. And I always expect to receive good value from the merchants I do business with. And so he would go by, he'd throw that coin in, say to the beggar, You're a merchant, I expect a good value for the people I do business with. Over a period of time, soon the beggar disappeared. The banker forgot about him, really never gave it any thought. A year or two later, he was in a market, and here was a booth setup. And um a concession stand, and behind the counter was this beggar, cleaned up, dressed decent And uh the banker uh uh recognized him, and he recognized the banker. And listen what the beggar said. He said, I always hoped you might come buy my boots someday You are largely responsible for me being here. You kept telling me that I was a merchant and not a banker. So I started thinking of myself that way. Instead of a beggar receiving gifts, I was a merchant making of merchandise available I started selling pencils, lots of them, and you have given me some self-respect and caused me to look at myself differently Isn't that a neat story? You know what that was? That was a man encouraging another person. Proverbs 18:21 says, Death and life are in the power of the tongue. What we say and how we say those things to each other can make or break people. And encouragement is so important. Look what he says here. Wherefore, comfort yourselves. Because of all these truths that were given there, uh edify one another, build up, strengthen, encourage one another Because of these truths, God has created us with a need for fellowship. We need that. We need fellowship with God I cannot get a I cannot function successfully and as God intended me to function if I am not in fellowship with God. Do you buy that? Sure that's true. I've got to maintain my fellowship. That's where 1 John 1 9 comes in. If we confess our sins, he's taken to us for your sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Keep that fellowship Gone. Get that sin out of the way so I can be in fellowship with God so I can function and be what God intends for me. But God created us not just to need fellowship with Him, but also to need fellowship one with another What was the first thing God said? There was one thing after God created everything there is, there was one thing God said was not good. He said the sky was good, the clouds were good, the earth was good, the elephants were good, all this stuff was good, but then he said one thing is not good What was it? That man should be alone. It is not good that man should be alone. That one statement, do you know what he's telling us? Now he's laying the foundation for the institute of marriage But he's telling us a little bit about ourselves as human beings. We are created to need each other We're not created to be lone rangers, to hermits, to be hermits. God created us to interact with other people. It is not good for man to be alone. He needs the encouragement. He needs the the uh edification, he needs the comfort one of another. Um and uh so let me give you two thoughts tonight on this line from this verse 11. First of all I want to uh point out the pressing need for encouragement. The pressing need for encouragement. Why it's so important. Why We need it so badly. Here's the first pressing need for encouragement that comes to my mind. First of all, because we have a tendency to do wrong. Jeremiah 17:9 says this. The heart is deceitful and desperately what Wicked. You know what I found? I didn't have to be saved very long. You know what I found out? This old nature of mine wants to do wrong. Y'all look at me so pious, like can I get a witness? Sure. We have a sinful nature. I like the way the song put it. Prone to wander. Lord, I feel it, prone to leave the God I love. Why is that? Why do we have such a tendency To wander away from the Lord and our walk with God and our faith in Him. Why is that tendency there? Matthew chapter 15, 19 tells us Out of the heart proceedeth evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornication, thefts, false witness, blasphemy. The reason we're prone to wander, the reason if we don't take steps to keep it from happening, to prevent it from happening, we're going to wander and get far away from God The reason being is because of our nature, because we have a sinful heart. So I need the encouragement of other people I need the fellowship of God, but I need the fellowship of other people. I need two things to help keep me. I found, let me put it this way, I found one or both of two things that God uses to keep me on a short leash. Now what I mean by short leash, I prayed for years. Shortly after I got to Bible college, I began praying this prayer. I still pray it continually. Lord, keep me on a short leash. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Understand? That's a good prayer. Lord, don't let me get so far away. Step in and help me. God, don't let me heart my heart get so cold. Don't let me wander so far. Keep on a short leash up close to you. And I found that there's two things God uses in my life to keep that leash short, to keep me from getting too far away. One of them is, and the primary one is the Word of God. It is so important that we read our Bibles every day. If we don't read our Bibles every day, we are going to wander. Or you get farther and farther and farther from God. God uses his word. You read that thing, and boy, your heart is stirred, and God addresses something, and boy. You're convicted about it, but you feel bad, you read something and say, Man, I shouldn't be talking like that. I shouldn't be doing that. I shouldn't be listening to this. You read that Bible and God used it. Can I get a witness? Come on now I like reading Proverbs because it's so practical. And God just deals with everyday life there. But the whole book. So one of the things God uses is the Word of God. But I found there's a second thing that God uses Very effectively to keep me close to him, and that is this, the people of God. I get around people who are close to God, I get around people who are walking with God. You know what that does in my heart? Makes me want to get close to God Makes one of me want to be stronger. I get around somebody that's a strong prayer warrior, and I and that makes me want to be a stronger prayer warrior. We bring some of these preachers through here, and man, just powerful preachers. You know what that stirs my heart to be more effective in my ministry. Yeah, preventive may run into a situation with the daytime that you may have read that more for that last week. So hey, this Sure. God uses the word of God. God uses people of God to keep us on that short leash, keep us close there. And so that's where the encouragement comes in. Here's what I'm trying to say. We walk through those doors and we walk up to somebody that's in church and we just make this one statement, boy, it's good to see you here. That could be a powerful, powerful word of encouragement that keeps somebody on a short leash. Huh? Maybe somebody got a little out of sorts or got discouraged and said, I'm just staying hope. And next Sunday they come and they come in and somebody comes up and not judgmental, I mean gracious, kind. You understand what I'm saying, in an encouraging way says, boy, we missed you the other night. You know what? That could be the very thing that keeps somebody from wandering. Look what he says. He says, wherefore Comfort one another and edify one another, encourage and build up. We talked about the meanings of those words the other week. And uh, but this old heart of mine Has a tendency to draw away. I need God's people to come and keep me closer. Let me get let me let's take a survey. The election's coming up, everybody's taking surveys. We'll take our own survey. Now be honest, this is church. We won't tell anyone. Alright? Everybody promise not to tell anyone what they raise their hands. Alright? Y'all promise How many folks here ever didn't feel like coming to church, but when you did, you were glad when you after you went home. You were really glad you did. Look at that. Was it because of the great good-looking pastor you have? No. Liar, liar, pants on fire. Oh it could be the driest message you've ever heard in your life, but you came together with God's people. And you laughed and you rubbed shoulders and you sang some songs together and you praised the Lord together. Maybe you got together and prayed a little bit together and you walked out of there and said, That helped me. That encouraged me, that drew me closer to God, that made my faith stronger. That's because it's old sinful heart, we need others to help us. Let me give you a second reason why encouragement is so important within the body of Christ. Because of the tenacity of the devil. You don't have to be saved long to know there's a devil. If all I knew about the spiritual life is what I learned soul winning, I would know there's a devil. He fights that tooth and nail. And uh the Bible says, uh first Peter five eight uh Be sober, be vigilant, be sober, because your adversary as a roaring lion walketh about seeking whom he may what? Devour. You know what the word devour means to tear up? I like this. I got looking up the meanings and various uh levels of definition and this one fit right in with what I was thinking. It means to chew up and swallow. When you swallow something, it's taking it down. It's taking it away from where it's supposed to be. It's getting it away from its natural environment Um my son's uh has dog little chief. I don't know if you ever met Chief. You ought to meet Chief sometime, he'll probably bite you. But um there's a little chipmunk in the backyard this uh morning is eaten right underneath my bird feeder. I hate chipmunks and squirrels that eat my bird feeders. But uh anyway, I left the dog out. That dog went screaming out after that chipmunk. That chipmunk, I mean the dog was halfway there before the chipmunk ever even moved. That thing looked up and I saw his eyes and they went That thing took off out that yard. That dog was right on his tail. And just as he got to the fence, the dog was about that far behind him, the chipmunk got through the fence. Crash! Now, Chief would have loved to devour that chipmunk. The chipmunk doesn't belong in the belly of a dog. Chipmunk was created to be out there chipping and monkeying and stuff like that. And my point is this: the devil doesn't want us walking with God, living for the Lord, being a witness, re-enjoying the blessings of God and the joy of the Lord in our lives. He wants to swallow us up and take us down. You follow what I'm saying? Those are probably the stupidest illustrations I've ever come up with, but nevertheless, I'm trying to make a point. He wants to devour us. He wants to draw us down. Turn with me, if you would, real quick, to Revelation chapter 12. Revelation chapter 12. I want to show you. Did you know the devil has a ministry? The Bible says the devil has a ministry. And it's given to us in Revelation chapter 12. And verse number 10. I put in the margin of my Bible, Satan's ministry. Revelation 12, verse 10. Are you there? Look what it says. And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, now has come salvation and strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power of his Christ, for thee Accuser of our brethren is cast down. Look at this. Here's his ministry, which accused them before our God day and night. That's his ministry. What does it mean to accuse someone? It means to find fault, to blame. Get this definition: to discourage How many people love it on the job and somebody accuse you of not doing your job right? How many people like that? Boy, that makes me want to work harder. No, it doesn't. Discourage you. It takes you down. You said And that is exactly what Satan wants to do. He accuses us before God. Now here's the bad thing. We give him lots of material, don't we? But the fact is, he'll just take that mistake we made, he'll take that sin we committed, he'll take that stupid decision we made And he will absolutely bombard God with it. He'll bombard us with that and do everything he can to discourage us We need folks to help us keep our focus on Jesus and not let the devil get to us. Again, that's where Bible reading is so important. It's so important I read what the Bible says about believers. There is now, therefore, no Condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. And I'm telling you, the devil, if he has his way, will bring us down and bring us down and bring us down And we'll get to this point and we'll think there's no use. I even try and do anything for God. I'm a total failure. There's nothing I can do right. And in reality, that's true in and of ourselves. But hey, I've got the Holy Spirit of God within me. God says, I'm forgiven, I'm a child of the King, that He'll enable me and help me. One of my favorite verses, Paul says, not that we are sufficient of ourselves. You know, we say we say we're incompetent in and of ourselves, but our sufficiency, our competency is of God But the devil wants us to forget that. And so we need each other. It's so important. And not just getting, but giving. Remember when you walk in those doors, when you have lunch or uh get together with some church members Remember, the devil is attacking them just as much as he's attacking you. And you never know when you walk in those doors what the what that person has been through with the devil accusing them and discouraging them and trying to drag them down. You know what we need to do? We need to get together and say, Blessed assurance, Jesus is mine It encourages us, comfort one another, and edify one another. By the way, I didn't think of this until I'm just preaching now. By the way, that's why it's important for all of us to take these hymn books and all of us to sing We're encouraging each other. It's not well people heard me sing they wouldn't be very encouraged. Well that's probably true. But um God takes our feeble efforts and makes them a blessing. Amen? We need folks to help us keep our focus on Jesus. We need folks to help us exercise faith in Jesus. Just keep trusting Him. You know what I found is a great encouragement? Is when you people walk in church and you just smile. I don't the only time the devil smiles is when we're being drugged down. Why don't we smile when people are doing good, people are doing right? Uh it's been a year or two, it's been maybe a while ago, but little Evan Who's sh sound asleep? But um he uh well they they even then parked out there and he got a car and just came racing into church. It was probably a Sunday morning. I don't know if you remember this day, but he He came racing to church and he said, I love this place. I said, Man, I wish all our members were that way. Wouldn't that be exciting? We need folks. So we got our tendency to do wrong, the tenacity of the devil, then I put this third one down, the attacks of the world. This world is no friend of the Christian. Has anyone found that out? Anytime the world is acting like they're our friend, you better be on red alert. This world is not our friend. This world is not our ally. Now what do you mean when somebody is an ally? What does that mean? They're on your side. They're for you having victory. We had the allies in World War II. They were all working together for victory. This world does not intend for me to have victory over doubt and unbelief. In fact, this world puts a lot of effort into getting us to not believe the Bible. Through evolution, through all this so-called science that's falsely called. This world works very this world is not our ally. They're not out to help us be better Christians. Hollywood is not out to help us be more pure and godly. The music world is not out to help us be better Christians. This world, if you study the Bible, don't go by what the world, the facade the world puts up. You say, well, I see this. No, no, no. Go by what the Bible says, and we find out that the world wants to destroy our faith in one of two ways. The first way is straightforward assault. Now I wish we had more time, we don't, but John 15, verses 18 through 21, Jesus said this. Jesus. He said, if this world hated me, it will hate you also. He doesn't say it'll be indifferent to you. He doesn't say it won't be nice to you. He says it will hate you. He said, don't be surprised. If they hated me, they'll hate you. If they persecuted me, they'll persecute you. This world views the dedicated Christian as a fool. The preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness What those crazy crackpots they go to church on Wednesday night and that preacher preach and tell them their hearts are wicked Uh uh this world considers the dedicated Christian before this world considers the dedicated Christian to be a threat to the world. Christians had their way. If Christians had their way in the government and in all of this type of thing, if they held to the standards that we love in the Word of God, we're trying to live up to, this world wouldn't be able to do half the things the world does. We're a threat to them. The word of God is a threat to them. You know what's exciting? Is get on an airplane flying somewhere and get your Bible out. You get one or two re- well, there's several responses, but primarily one is they're scared to death of it. That guy is a freak. Or the other one says, Oh, you must be a preacher. Right? Oh, you oh you have a Bible, you must be a preacher So uh this world is a threat. Remember what Ahab said to Elijah when Elijah showed up? He said, Oh thou that troublest Israel. Elijah wasn't troubling Israel. Ahab was. He was the one introducing false worship. Elijah was simply dedicated to God. But the world viewed him as a threat. You're causing trouble. Remember Paul would go into, was it Ephesus? Great is Diana! And boy, everything got all stirred up because you know why? Because people started getting saved and they started losing their means of income, making money off of the worship of Diana, and boy, Paul's preaching and Paul's gospel was a threat. People hated them. In many cities that took place, the moneymakers. In John chapter 2, verse 15 through 17. Again, I wish we had time. We don't. I've got to wind this down. But God tells us expressly, do not love the world. He says it again, he tells us very clearly. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. Now, why would should we not love the world? Are you listening, fellas? Why should we not love the world? So the world's out to take us down. World's out to tear us up. Romans 12, 1 and 2. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God. You present your body as a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world. But be transformed. Don't take on this world's values. Don't take on this world's principles. And so, why do we need encouragement? Why is it so necessary? Because this whole world is going to drag us down. This whole world's going to mess us up. Now, I don't have time for the last one. I just throw this out: the power of encouragement. I said before, Proverbs, life and death is in the power of the tongue. In Acts 14, again, I wish we had time. Acts 14, verse 21 and 22, Paul and Barnabas went back to the churches that they had started. And in Corinth and different places, the flesh and the sinful hearts had just wreaked havoc. In other places, the devil was wreaking havoc. In other places, the world was putting the crushing the churches with persecution. And the Bible says Paul and Barnabas went back and they use it uses this term, confirming the saints. That word confirming means to make strong, to shore them up. Can I put my word in there? To encourage them. Edify. Keep them strong. Why? Because the world, the flesh, and the devil were out in full force to ruin their testimony To mess their lives up so they can't have answered a prayer and draw their faith away from God. The disciples were stronger. Now get this The churches and the believers in the churches were stronger because of Paul and Barnabas's influence. Now let's ask ourselves this question. Is Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church stronger because of my influence? Do the things I say, my presence in the service, and the things I say and do, does it confirm the saints? Does it strengthen their faith? Are they drawn closer to the Lord by the things I say and do? Or am I in the devil's ministry? Pointing out everybody's faults. Telling everyone how bad this is and how bad that is. And just walk out leaving good night. How can anybody do anything? You know? Now don't misunderstand. There's a place for preaching negative. Alright? There's a place for pointing out sins and whatnot. But it's all in the context that God gives us victory. It's all in the context that God can take that and forgive it and cleanse us. But our job, because Jesus is coming again, because of the rapture church, all the truths, therefore, comfort one another. Edify one another, build up one another. How big do you think our church would be if every one of us, now I'm putting myself in this, if every one of us practice that 100% of the time I suggest to you, every believer in the county, you want to get around that. Man, you go there, you come out, man, you feel you feel like God's alive. You feel like, man, that Bible's true. Man, God can forgive me and save me. I can do something for the Lord. Wherefore, comfort and exhort. The word exhort means to encourage and strengthen and build up. Now, this is what God spoke to my heart about. I mentioned this in the previous message on this. I wonder. If maybe there wouldn't be so many folks backsliding, if I, and I'll include all of us, us, if we worked harder at encouraging others. I wonder if there wouldn't be quite so many empty pews. We worked harder at comforting and edifying one another. As the Bible instructs us. I read about a lady. Let me give you your name. Let me see if any of y'all recognize this name. I wouldn't have, but some of y'all are smarter than me Jean Nydeck, N-I-D-E-T-C-H. Anybody recognize that name? She weighed 214 pounds. She was a homemaker in New York City. She weighed 214 pounds. She got felt bad about that and decided she was going to lose weight. She went to the New York City Department of Health. They gave her a diet to help her lose weight. Two months later, Chen lost any weight, and she was discouraged. So she invited six of her friends who were overweight. Over to her house and share what diets they were doing and try and talk about how they could get a handle on this and lose weight. Twenty-eight years later, there are 1 million members and 250,000 Weight Watcher meetings in 24 countries that get together every week. Jean was the founder of Weight Watchers. She's helped millions of people lose weight. They asked her, they said, Well, how did you figure this out? What was it you did that became so effective that appealed to people so much? She said, I learned something when I was a 14-year-old girl. So my parents, if I remember correctly, she came from a broken home. And she would go out to the park and she said there in the park in New York, the mothers would be sitting on the benches, her words, gossiping. And the kids, their children, would be over on the swings, just sitting there, because mom wouldn't push them. So she said she would go by and she'd push them. She'd go down the swings and push them And she says, you know what I learned in pushing kids on swings? That once you start pushing them, they start pumping themselves And after a while, if you just give them a few pushes, they'll get themselves going. And she says, I realize that if I could just give my life to giving people some pushes. Encourage them. Help them along. That after a while they could take over and they'd be able to pump themselves. Does that make sense? You know what? I got thinking about that. You know what? I view church as us pushing swings. Let's get folks in here. They're just sitting there. They've been in the world and the job and the world's and the devil and the self and the devil's been dumping all over them. And they're just sitting on a spiritual swing. Well let's get him to church and give him a few pushes. Sing a few uplifting songs. Say some kind words to each other, encouraging words, get a message, get our knees in an altar. Get close to God and say, boy, next you go out, we're just swinging away. Next few days we're just pumping ourselves, reading our Bible and witnessing, giving out tracts, and by the time Sunday comes along. Then we all get together. Whoo! Start pushing each other, swinging. Oh yeah. Monday, Tuesday, yeah, and then Wednesday comes along. Does that make sense? Therefore, exhort one another. Let's give ourselves to try and help others, encourage them, lift them up. Amen? Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, dear Lord, that you would Help us to take the encouraging and the blessings you give us and just share them with others. Help us to give of ourselves. I pray that Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church would be a place where there would be comfort. and edification, an exhortation, and our faith would be built. Help me as pastor, Lord, to provide the leadership there and set the example and help all of us get a hold of this. We need your help in this matter, Lord. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many folks right now, the Spirit of God laid on your heart somebody, particularly in mine, maybe in the church? That you're thinking, you know, I could I could say or do something that would encourage them. Somebody comes to mind, you know, there's someone I could maybe lift up and help in some way. Just a kind word, a smile Word of prayer. Is there anything like that? You're thinking the Spirit of God's brought someone to your mind. How about it? Uplifted hand. God bless you all around. Now, sometimes we come and we're the ones that need the push. Let's not walk in with a long face and oh I just need. I don't know. Let's just give ourselves. And you know what I found? Give, and it shall be given unto you. You put some encouragement out there, you say some kind things, and next thing you know, God sends someone by, does the very same thing back. Father, bless our invitation. Help us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.