In verse number 15, 1 Peter 3 and verse 15, he says, But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. And be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. Having a good conscience, that whereas they speak evil of you as evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ. He tells us several things here in this passage, and we touched on this a few weeks ago, but he tells us that we as believers ought to be prepared at any given moment to explain logically and sensibly, reasonably. Why we are sure that when we die our sins are forgiven, we're on our way to heaven. If somebody comes up to you or I and says, uh, where are you going to go when you die? I say, I know for sure I'm going to heaven. No doubt in my mind, it's a subtle fact, I know I'm going to heaven. And they ask this. They say, well how do you know that? What gives you that assurance? What do you base that on? I ought to be, according to this verse, I ought to be able to give to them a reasonable scriptural, logical answer as to why I know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. Uh if somebody comes up Uh uh let me ask this. Let me back up. Let me ask this. How many folks here believe the Bible's the word of God? You have no doubt about it. Say amen. Amen We believe the Bible is God's Word. Suppose someone comes up to you this week and you get in a conversation about God and religion, the Bible and whatnot, and somebody says to you, you really believe Old King James Bible, you really believe that book is God's Word? And your answer would be, yes, absolutely. What if they ask you this? How do you know that's God's Word? What makes you so sure? Well we say, I think some folks say, well I just believe it is. Listen, just believing something is so doesn't make it so. I could believe I'm a millionaire all I want, I still am not a millionaire. Say, well, you know, the preacher at church says it is. I might disappoint you with this next statement, but you know, sometimes there's been times where your preacher was wrong. There should be guess of shock and amazement. But the preacher isn't always right. Well, uh Mama said, Mama said the Bible's uh uh is God's word. Well, there's been times mama's been wrong. What if mom is a Mormon? Going to believe that? No, we ought to be able to present a logical Scriptural, reasonable answer as to why we believe the Bible is God's Word. And that's what this series is about And I'm not going to go into length it's not a Bible Institute type class. This message is challenging us and giving us some thoughts as to why we are sure that this blessed old book is God's word. Now notice here, and this isn't the message, but if you look at these two verses we just read very carefully, he tells us not just what we're to do, be ready to give an answer to every man to ask the reason of the hopeless. But he tells us how we're to do it. First, we're to sanctify the Lord God in our hearts. I ought to be my life ought to be separated unto the Lord. I have a whole life ought to be as a believer, my life ought to be dedicated, Lord Jesus Christ. I tell you, it is the most selfish thing in the world for a person, young or old To accept Jesus Christ, death and suffering hell for me and for my sin, taking responsibility for all my sin and taking my judgment on himself, being buried rise again, accepting that freely. I accept that, yes, Lord, I accept that I'm saved. And then me not give myself back to him. How selfish is that? And take that eternal life, then just go on and live my life the way I want. How tragic is that? So he says, sanctify. If you're going to give a an answer, if you're going to be able to defend your faith in God's Word, your life has to be separated on the Lord. Sanctify yourself Then he comes down at the last part of verse fifteen, he says, with meekness and in fear. Listen, we're never cocky about our confidence in the Word of God. We're never come across as arrogant. Some people confuse arrogance with confidence. There's a world of difference. God's people will never be arrogant. God's people won't never be proud for, oh yeah, I no, no, no. With meekness and in fear. It's the grace of God that we're anything. And then he says the last part, having a good conscience. You know, if my life is filled with sin, people see that. People know that. And my witness and my testimony as to the uh uh the veracity of God's word, the credibility of God's word, and my life is filled with sin, it just stains that And so what I'm saying is this. God has instructed us that we need to be prepared to explain to people why we believe the Bible is the Word of God. And our life, we ought to do it humbly, we ought to be holy about it. We ought to be honest about it. And so that's that there. Now come over if you would to Revelation chapter 22. We'll read this portion here and then we'll pray. Revelation 22, and I want to begin reading in verse 6. Of course, this is the last book of the Bible, the last chapter of the Bible. 22 verse 6, he says, and he said unto me, these sayings are faithful and true. He's talking about the Bible. The Bible is faithful. The Bible is true. And the Lord God of the holy prophets sent his angel to show unto his servants the things which must shortly be done. Behold, I come quickly. Boy, I'm looking forward to that day Jesus comes back. Amen. Blessed is he that keepeth the sayings. of the prophecy of this book. This blessed old book. And uh tomor this morning we'll Have part two. I'm titled it. I just for lack of creativity. Brother Grant comes up with great titles, doesn't he? I don't know what his messages are any good or not, but the titles are fantastic So my title is the same one I had before. I just tacked on part two, The Word of Truth. But that's a good title, isn't it? Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. Lord, it's good to be for me. Lord, it's good to be back home and your people. And I just pray that you would challenge us Lord, our burden for the lost, we really need you to help us in that matter. Lord, our assurance of the things we believe. And uh our ability to communicate that assurance, we ask you'd help us there. And Lord, I pray when it's said and done that Because of the truth presented, our faith in you would be stronger, our walk with you would be closer, our testimony would be clearer, and Lord, we you would be able to use us, and we would know the joy and the presence of your spirit in our lives. I yield my will to your will again this hour. I present my body anew, dear Lord, and I ask with all my heart that you would fill me with your Spirit. That you would speak through me and touch hearts, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. This blessed old book that I hold in my hand is true from beginning to end It's the solid foundation where I firmly stand. Sin kept me from it. Now it keeps me from sin. It is a well of pure water when I'm thirsty and dry. Bread when I'm hungry and worn. When the battle is raging, it's my faithful sword, my shelter from life's troubled storm. It's a light to my pathway, a lamp to my feet, when the world gets so dark you can't see And I've not made a change in one word that it says, but it sure made a change in me. This blessed old book that I hold in my hand is true from beginning to end. It's the solid foundation where I firmly stand. Sin kept me from it. Now it keeps me from sin. When I look what it costs just to hold in my hand, it reminds me that I owe a great debt to all the martyrs who've gone to the stake and quote it with their dying breath. Well, its critics are many and believers are few, but there's one thing I found to be true. If you find when you read it there's something wrong, then there's something wrong with you. This blessed old book that I hold in my hand is true from beginning to end. It's the solid foundation where I firmly stand. Sin kept me from it. Now it keeps me from sin. This blessed old book. I love the Bible. I believe a pastor of church that loves the Bible. It's the most precious possession we have. It's the most important thing that we b uh that we own. It is our guide. It is our sole authority. And all areas of faith and practice. I was raised to believe the Bible. I did a study of my uh ancestors and years ago. And uh there's quite a bit of literature uh available. I was I was uh raised up, my family is out of the Mennonite church, I got saved 19, and uh I'll just say this, the more I study the Bible, the more firm I became in my Baptist convictions. But anyway, uh there are very have a lot of writings on genealogies and ancestry, and I did a little study a number of years ago, and I found that seven generations ago My great-great-great-great-great-great-great-grandfather came to America from Germany, Liedermann. was his name. Came to South Jersey and I found that he they were fleeing persecution in Europe because they believed the Bible. They were trying to live by the Bible as they understood it Um I don't know about you, but that stirs my heart to think that in my blood is the blood of men and women who are persecuted because of their faith in the Bible. Stirs my heart. Um, my father, uh, when we were small after he had gotten saved, would gather myself and my two sisters together. It's very difficult growing up with two sisters and no brothers. It was a very uh trying and stressful situation. Uh but uh and Brother Grant has three sisters. God bless his soul. But my father would gather me and my sisters. We were real small and he gather I still can see it in my mind's eye. We gather together at the foot of the bed and he would get the Bible out. He'd read the Bible to us, sometimes little children's Bible stories. I was raised to believe the Bible. I always believed the Bible When I was little in the church we attended back even before my father was saved, we went to church Sunday mornings, I still can see one teeth Sunday school teacher in particular, third grade and and uh and other Sunday school teachers We'll always have the Bible out. And she taught us as kids that the Bible was God's word. That we could trust it and believe it. We could live by it. I've always believed the Bible was the Word of God. Even in my unsaved years, even when I was just going crazy and just such a wicked kid I believe the Bible was God's word. That was never an issue. I remember one time there was in an intersection there where I grew up and we were driving, there was big billboards, and one of the churches in the community, I don't know who, would put big verses up on these billboards. And you still see it around here a little bit sometimes. And I would drive by those. I remember one in particular was Matthew 6. 33. Had real big letters, but seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And here I am, this this delinquent, drug addict, derelict. And I'd drive by and I'd see that verse and it would just pierce my heart. I've always believed the Bible was the Word of God And so, at the age of 19, when I accepted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, I had no problem accepting the Bible as my final authority. I'd always been taught that. Since then, of course, it's not been an issue. I've found the tough part for me is not accepting the Bible's authority. The challenge to me is living by its teachings. I think that gets to the heart of the matter. Over the years, my confidence in God's Word has only grown. I've seen this book, I've seen the teachings of this book, the doctrines given this book, I've seen it change lives. I look out at this congregation and I see people whose lives today are completely different than what they were maybe a year, two, three years ago. And it's from this blessed old book, The Truths presented in this book about the Lord Jesus Christ and about the truth of heaven and hell in the spiritual world. And this book changes lives. I've seen it happen. This book brings great conviction. Um we had the revival this week up preaching for Brother Steve Heimball and On Sunday, young ladies, probably early twenties, I would guess her age, she came and she brought a fellow with her. He's a little older. He's a military guy. And they came Sunday morning and preached, and they said she had been there a few times before. This fellow was his first time. They came back Sunday night. She wasn't there Monday night, but this fella came himself. He came back Tuesday night. He talked to the pastor afterward for a while. He claimed to be saved. Wednesday night he came again. And afterward, he said, I'd like to talk to you. And he pulled me aside and he told me his story, and I talked to him about his salvation, and he gave a testimony of salvation somewhat. But he made this statement, and this is what caught my attention. He said, Brother Leatherman, he said, I go to another church here in town. I said, Well, I know, I know this church here is not trying to steal you out of your church. We're glad you're here. He goes, No. He goes, I came Sunday. And he said, when I left here, these are his words, I was convicted in my heart. He says, I don't get that at my church. He said, I came back Monday and Tuesday, and he said, again tonight, as you're preaching, I was convicted in my heart. And he said this. He said, but it's a good thing. It's a good thing. You know what? I told him. I said, you know what it is? I said his name. I said, you know what it is? I said, it's the Holy Spirit of God taking the Word of God and applying it to your situation. And God is trying to change you, and God is trying to mold you and God is trying to develop you. into the person God wants you to be. I'm telling you, this book is God's word. It brings conviction to heart and life As time goes by, I become more and more convinced that this book is God's word. I am more confident of that today than I've ever been in my life. I found that this book, I've seen it with my own eyes. I've seen it deal with heart issues. This book gives us a place to go when our heart is troubled. Jesus said, you believe in God, believe also in me. Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. I'm talking to some folks this morning. You're going through a tough time. I'm talking to some folks this morning. I have no doubt about it. Your world has been turned upside down. I'm here to tell you this book can settle that troubled heart. If you'll take it, heat it, read it, and heat it and apply it to your life, you can have peace even when everything else around is falling apart. I've seen it happen. I can testify to that. I've seen this book give direction in lives. I've seen people just wandering through life like a blind man staggering around in a strange area. They don't know what they're doing, they don't know if they're coming or going. They don't know if they're up and down. One day it's this the next day it's that. You look in their eyes and there's just there's no direction. There's no purpose. And I've seen this old book. They get in the Word of God and they find direction for their life. They find meaning and purpose. This old book, this old blessed old book. Can give direction in life. It gives wisdom for decisions. I've tried over the years, and at least in every major decision of my life. I've tried to seek God's word, and this would be my prayer. God, in this decision, this is big. This affects my life. It affects my future. It affects my family. God, I want you to give me a verse, clearly a verse, to lead me and direct me, and I can make a wise decision in this situation. And I've found time and time and time again That God would give me a verse from the Bible to help me make a wise decision. In fact, our move here in 1993 in August of 1993, when I was praying for the Lord, whether it was the Lord's will or not, God gave me a verse from Isaiah that cleared in my mind before this church ever voted. Cleared in my mind. I said, I believe God's calling us there. He's giving me this verse. And we got the vote back 100%. And that just confirmed to me that God was leading. You follow what I'm trying to say? This book gives wisdom. It gives direction. It brings peace in the midst of difficult times. This book, the things it says in here, have been proven to me over and over and over again. I see this world playing out exactly as the Bible says it will. I see the events of this world falling together exactly as the Bible says they will. No contradictions there at all. I see people behaving exactly the way the Bible says that man behaves. I've seen people make decisions and take actions, and the consequences of those actions being exactly what the Bible says the consequences of those actions would be. I found that I trust this book and I do what it says and I follow its instructions. I get the blessings and the promises that it says. I found if I ignore this book and I lean on my own understanding, I'm going to do it my way. It may seem to go fine for a while, but I found the Eventually that whole scheme falls apart. It's on sandy foundation. This book, this book, this book. Now we live in a day We live in a day when it's cool to reject the Bible. I'm seeing it more and more out visiting and talking to people. uh and i among young people sometimes where they're just uh saying, ah, I don't believe the Bible. And it's like it's some it's like it's some badge of honor. I've rejected the Bible. We lived in Boulder for three years in a very, very, very liberal society there. And we heard this statement over and over and over again. They said, I just start, I'm Pastor Leatherman from the Flat Irons Baptist Church. I reject organized religion. I thought, what is that? I didn't know what they were talking about. So after a while I just started agreeing with them. Yeah, I do too. I mean our church wasn't very organized, so you know But it was kind of cool. Oh, I don't believe the Bible. Uh I we live in a world today where it it is they think it's intellectual to reject the Bible. Would you take your Bible with me and turn back to the Old Testament book of Psalms? If you open your Bible right about in the middle, you're pretty close to Psalms. I want to show you two verses. They're worded identical. There's two passages here, Psalms 14. And Psalms 53. So if you would, real quickly, find those two chapters in your Bible. Psalms 14. I just figure rather than the Bible just sitting there beside you, we might as well flip around and look at some of these Psalms 14. I don't know if you are in the habit of underscoring verses in your Bible and highlighting things. I like to. I got my Bible all notes and underlined. I think these two verses would be worth uh underlining at least Psalms 14, look at verse number one. Now, my statement was this: we live in a day when it's thought to be intellectual to reject the Bible. Look what the Bible says about that. 14 verse 1. The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt. They have done abominable works. There is none that doeth good. Come over to Psalms chapter 53 and verse number one. I mention this quite often, but uh a fellow year a number of years ago, he said to me, I don't believe the Bible, it's just written by man. I said, How do you know that? What makes you so short? It's not God's word. He goes, I saw a show on TV that said that. So wow, you're basing your eternal destiny on a show on TV. The fool has said in his heart, There is no God. See that in verse 1, Psalm 53? Says the same thing: corrupt are they. They've done abominable. There is none that doeth good. He doesn't say the intellectual has said there is no God. He doesn't say the curr the uh intelensia says uh the Bible isn't true. He said fools talk like that. Corrupt people think that way. The word fool there, I thought this was interesting. The word fool, one of the meanings is what you would guess to be without wisdom. It means, I like this this definition, boy this falls in. It means to be without common sense. I don't know. I've just been studying this thing. I've read it, I'm working on 36 times now, reading it Genesis Revelation. And I'm at the point now It just it seems so obvious to me that it is God's word. Just common sense tells you that the Bible's true. But the fool, the person that's without common sense, is it just me or does that seem like our leaders are lacking common sense? I saw a post that says, uh, what we need is a department of common sense. Well, that's the truth. It had this idea, the word fool, one who cannot see the obvious Wow. The person who can't see the obvious says there's no God. The person who can't see the obvious denies the Bible as the Word of God. This blessed old book. This Bible is intellectually without error. Now I'm not a mathematician, I'm not a biologist, I'm not an archaeologist, I'm not a physicist, I'm not an astrophysical astronomical uh I'm not an astronaut. I'd like to think I'm a little bit of a historian, but not as great as I probably imagine myself to be. I'm certainly not a scientist. But there are no mathematical laws contradicted in the Bible Now I'm going to go down and some of these are very obvious and but yet some people peop some reason people isn't. But anywhere there's mathematical stuff in the Bible, there's there's no contradictions. Mathematical laws all are exactly what the Bible says. In other words There's nowhere in the Bible where it teaches something that is not mathematically correct. So there's no errors there. So nobody can get the Bible and say, oh, here's it's wrong on all this on these mathematical laws. And if it would be wrong on them, then we could say, well, it may be wrong in other areas. But it's not wrong. There's no laws contradicted, mathematical laws contradicted. There are no biological truths contradicted in the Bible. In other words, the Bible presents people as having two arms and people actually do have two arms. It's not presenting some hideous un unbiological things. It's People are the way the Bible says they are. Biological animals are what the Bible says they are. So there are no biological truths contradicted in the Bible. There's no errors there concerning biological truths. There are no archaeological errors in the Bible. In other words, cities are where the Bible says they are. Rivers are where the Bible says they are. Mountains are where the Bible says they are. Nations are and were where the Bible says they are and were. Um so there's no archaeological truth. Every now and then, and you don't hear you hear this less and less. In fact, I haven't heard any serious uh arguments for this in years, but it used to be they say, oh Beltheshazzar in the book of Daniel, there's no record that he ever existed and That's wrong and that city and all that. And they mocked it and they rejected the Bible because they said it was wrong in its history and its archaeology. And they kept digging and digging and digging, and lo and behold They find some archaeological evidence of a fellow by the name of Beltashazzar, who lived and ruled exactly where the Bible says he did. And guess what? They had to come back and rewrite their books criticizing the Bible. Because they were wrong and the Bible was right. Are you listening, girls? So there's no it's not wrong in any archaeological error, it's it doesn't contradict anything there. I'm going to make this statement, I'm going to have to qualify a little bit, and I'm not a physicist, but there are no laws of physics contradicted in the Bible. Now the immediate response to that would be, uh Jesus turned water into wine. That's impossible. That can't happen. The physics of that, the chemistry of that, that could not happen. That is a Uh wait a minute, but the Bible very clearly points out that that was a miracle It very clearly points out, say listen, this is not the way it operates naturally. It's not the way it operates uh uh uh by physics, this is something God has intervened and did something supernatural And anytime you find in scripture where something is impossible as physics-wise, it is always clarified or very clearly implied that God was doing something natural. It wasn't just a natural process. You see what I'm saying? And God is creator, as He is certainly able, and He certainly has the right to intervene and to supersede the laws of physics Now there's um this I'll just throw this out for you uh folks that like to like to blow your brains out thinking about stuff. But does God, when God does a miracle, is he contradicting his own laws of physics? And can God contradict his own laws? Tell me what you think about that after you come up with that. I'm suggesting if God doesn't contradict his own laws. I'm getting off I'm getting away from my notes here. God doesn't contradict his own laws, but God can and does supersede them. He's not contradicting them, he's operating above them. God transcends time He doesn't contradict time. He transcends it. He is timeless. It's all now to him. And here's another thought. When God does a miracle and it seems to It supersedes the laws of physics and say that's impossible. Uh that's breaking the laws of gravity or whatever when he ascended into everything. He's breaking these proven laws Maybe, and this is just, this opens another can of words, but maybe God is operating by laws of physics that we have not learned yet. There was a day to think a 40-ton piece of metal would fly 35,000 feet in the air. They saw it. There was a day they would have said, that's a miracle. That's impossible. That can't happen. But we learned about the laws of thermo uh not thermo the laws of aerodynamics And we learned the laws of um of motion. And we learned all these other laws that were in place. We just didn't understand them. And now it's people fly all the time. You follow what I'm saying? So maybe God operates by a set of laws that we don't even aren't even aware of. I think we're studying life in eternity in Sunday school I think we're going to spend eternity learning stuff that's been true this whole time, and it and it would blow our minds right now. We're going to be amazed. Of this universe that God has created, which reality that God has made. I guess what I'm trying to say is we serve an awesome God. He's amazing. And he can do things that just absolutely astound us. But you won't find any mistakes in the Bible. Astronomical facts are not contradicted. For years man was convinced and it taught as fact that the earth was flat. If they would have simply read Job chapter, if they would have simply read Isaiah chapter 40 and verse 22, they would have seen very clearly that the world is a sphere. Isaiah referenced the circle of the earth. That word circle comes from the same word as our word globe. Isaiah knew, Jeremiah knew that the world was round. They knew that the world wasn't flat. For years it was taught that the earth rested on some pillars. The Hindus taught that the earth was flat and it rested on the backs of a bunch of turtles. Figure that one out. And they'd say, where did those giant what were those giant turtles on? They said, duh, they're on other giant turtles. What do you think? And they said, what are those giant turtles on? And they said, duh, they're on a giant serpent. And it just went on and on and on. If they would have simply read the book of Job, chapter 26 and verse 7, Job said that the earth, suspended out in space, it hangs on nothing. Exactly the way it really is. Here's the thing: science is always catching up to the Bible. Science thinks it's got it all figured out and we know all of this and we know where we came from and we know how we got here and we know this, that, and the other, and then they find a discovery and it blows a hole in all of that and we got to refigure and everything If they just read the Bible, it would simplify so many things. I found the farther you get from the truth, the more complicated your explanation is. Did you ever catch your kid in a lie? And then they tried to lie to cover up the lie. And after a while it gets fun. Really? So how did that happen? Well, uh, this alien showed up. Which is, by the way, what they are now suggesting we came from. In 150 B. C. , a guy by the name of Hipparchus Dedicated himself to count the stars. And after, I believe it was a couple years, several years, two or three years, he came to the conclusion, he was very confident, emphatic, there were There are one thousand and twenty-two stars. He counted them. He was not wrong. And they taught that for 250 years in the universities in Egypt in the Middle East. They taught that there are 1,022 stars until a fellow by the name of Ptolemy He said he's wrong, and I can prove it. And so how is he wrong? There's not a 1,022 stars. There are 1,026 stars. And he found two that the other guy didn't find. Four that the other guy didn't find. And that was taught as quote-unquote science. For 1,300 years. It was a fact. There are 1,026 stars. Then In 1608, a guy by the name of Galileo invented a telescope. And he looked through the telescope at the night sky. And he went like this. And he realized there's not one thousand and twenty-six stars There are millions and millions and millions and millions of stars out there. And then we sent the space the Hubble Space Telescope up. And we found out that there are not millions and millions and millions and millions of stars out there. We found out that there are millions and millions and millions and millions of galaxies. That have millions and millions and millions of stars. And man has just now figured out what the Bible has taught all along, it is impossible to count the number of stars. The Bible taught that years ago. Thousands of years ago. Listen, don't come to me and tell that, tell me that Bible's full of airs. Show me one. Show me one. Show me a mathematical error. Show me an archaeological error. Show me a historical error. Show me a scientific error. Jeremiah 33. 22 says, the host of heaven cannot be numbered. Science is always catching up with the Bible. The historical facts in the Bible are not contradicted. I was reading this past week, I had read it before, and I had it in the back of my mind, and But I couldn't document. I went and did a little research this week and uh confirmed what I thought I had read before. The Mormon, Book of Mormon teaches Somebody says, Preacher, why do you hate Mormons? I don't hate Mormons. I'm just telling you, their doctrine is ridiculous. We love them. I want them to be saved. The Mormons come by my house. I don't cuss them out. I don't stick the dog on them. I don't throw a shoe at them. I say, let's sit down on the porch here. Let me show you how to be saved. Let me ask you this. If your child was a Mormon and they came by a Bible believer's house, an independent fundamental Baptist person's house Would you want that person to witness to your child? I would. I don't want them to stick a dog on my child. I won't want them to to shoot an arrow at him. I'd wanted to show them how to be saved. Show them their error. Maybe they can be won over. Are you with me? You follow what I'm saying? The Book of Mormon teaches we don't hate them. Their doctrine's silly. Book of Mormon teaches that a group of Israelites came over to America back before Christ was born, and it teaches that their ships had pained glass windows. On their ships, and that that God had in uh that God had told them to put these pained glass windows in and they would be shatterproof You say, well, what's the big deal with that? The difference is our Bible is not is historically correct. The Book of Mormon is historically wrong. Glass wasn't invented until 700 AD. Didn't even exist back then. What happened was, and this is my humble opinion, is Joseph Smith injected that in there in his world, in his imagination, imaginary world, injected that in there, didn't do his research, didn't realize. The glass didn't even exist back then. So our Bible does not present, historically present things existing before they actually existed. You don't find cars in Egypt when Israel came out. Right? You don't find glasses, people wearing eyeglasses back in uh in Paul. You don't find the Apostle Paul wearing eyeglasses. They didn't exist then A point is this, the Bible is historically correct. Now, the Bible is not a science book, it's not an astronomy book, it's not a mathematical book, it's not a biology book. But it is a book of God's interaction with man. It is a book of God teaching us who God is and what he's like and what he expects of us. It's God's warnings and teachings and promises to us. But everywhere where these subjects are addressed, they're always correct. They're never wrong. You see, here's what I'm trying to say: man does not reject the Bible for intellectual reasons. Man rejects the Bible for spiritual reasons. He does not want to receive it. It's not that he cannot receive it. He does not want the Bible to be true. If the Bible's true, and it is. Then I am responsible to God for my actions. If the Bible's true, and it is, Then there really is a place called hell. There really is a place called heaven. And Jesus really is the only way to escape hell and go to heaven. A man's heart is so hardened and his eyes are so blinded that he does not want that to be true. John Lennon John Lennon had a famous song, Imagine. Made millions off of it, and the the premise of it was Imagine things to be the way they're not. And he said, imagine there's no heaven and imagine there's no hell. Listen, you can imagine that all you want. The fact is it exists. You can imagine you're not forty thousand dollars in debt, you're still in debt, my friend. And you can imagine, well, I don't need religion, I don't need God, I don't need Jesus, I don't need that stuff, I've got it under control. You can imagine you're gonna die and everything's gonna be fine But my Bible says that if a person dies in their sins, they're separated from God for all eternity. A person can say, Well, I can live my life however I want. I can live my life. And as a Christian, I'll live independent of God's word. And you can imagine that all you want, but my Bible says that be sure your sin will find you well. Bible says there are consequences. To our actions. The greatest verification in my mind, and maybe we'll have to preach another message on this, that the Bible is the Word of God, is fulfilled prophecy. And we'll make that the subject of another message. We can trust our Bible In the matter of salvation, Woodrow Wilson said this: when you read the Bible, you will know that it is the Word of God. And I agree with that. I challenge you this morning as number one. I want to challenge every member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church to read the Bible every single day. I want to challenge you if you're not already or if you do it haphazardly. I want to challenge you to establish every day a very specific time, a very specific place. Where I open up my Bible and I get my nose in there and I read and I meditate on what that Bible says, preferably in a systematic way, letting God speak to my heart, letting God bring peace to my heart, letting God give me wisdom for decisions. Letting God direct my life, letting God teach me how I'm to interact with my spouse and my children and my parents, letting God show me and teach me from His manual, the word of God, how I'm to live my life. And I believe if you and I will do that on a daily basis, we will see God doing things in our lives we never dreamed we would see God do. I believe we will see our lives being changed, our attitude in life, our victory over sin. The Word of God is powerful and living, and when we feed on it, it changes us and makes us into better people. So my challenge is that. The Bible is God's word. Read it every day. My challenge is this in the invitation. Let's take this word and share it with others. Share it with others. This world is in desperate need of Bible truth. There's not a problem in the United States of America that the principles of that book could not solve. There's not a problem in your life. There's not a problem in your neighbor's life that God's word cannot solve and meet the needs. Let's share the gospel. Let's share the Word of God. We've made a very convenient way to do that. We didn't. We're just providing it. And that is in the form of gospel tracts. That little gospel track is simply God's word. And as I share it with people, it has a profound impact. And we see people say, one last thing, if you're here this morning I don't care. It doesn't matter if you're a member or not. If you're not sure, if it's not settled down in your heart and soul that God has forgiven you and saved you from sin in hell, most important thing for you today. is to get that settled from the Bible. I say it so often, if you and I do not have Bible salvation, we don't have salvation. And if there's a hint of a doubt there, don't gamble with that. Settle it. Get assurance. Know that God has saved you. Father in heaven, I pray you'd take these few thoughts this morning. Challenge us. Help us, Holy Spirit, to live our lives by the Word of God, not by our own understanding, not by popular opinion, but God by your word I pray you'd challenge us, convict us of the areas we need conviction. Give us the grace and the humility to respond in faith, believing, trusting you, and obeying you. Their head bowed and eyes closed. How many would say this morning, you'd say, preacher, I'm not reading my Bible. I know I'm saved. I know I'm born again. There's no doubt about it. I've trusted Christ Savior. That's settled. I'm sure of that in my heart. But you'd say, Preacher, I'm not reading my Bible like I should. Maybe not regularly, maybe not at all, but not like I you should. You know it. And God's touched your heart this morning. You'd say, preacher, pray for me that God would give me the discipline, the grace. That I would settle that and get that in my life where I'm spending a little bit of time every day in God's Word. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you, hands all around. I just think if every person would do that, we'd see revival. I just convinced Maybe husband and wife need to read the Bible together. Maybe the family, like my daddy used to do, gather the family together. We're going to read some of the Bible together as family. What a profound impact that would have on a home. Maybe there's some here say, Preacher, I want to be able to share the message of the Bible, share the Word of God with others who need it. And you'd say, Preacher, I'm praying and asking God to use me, maybe this track month to be able to effectively share the gospel the word of God with many many people through this track form. You're saying, Preacher, pray with me. And God will help me. Give me wisdom and boldness and I will be involved in this in a in a great way. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. God bless you. Hands all around. One last question. Is there something here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die? I'm telling you, down inside your heart, you don't want to go to hell. I know that. I don't know, I may there may be some fear down there. You say, you know, I'm scared to death, but I'm not saved Listen, settle that today. Settle that. It's it's not it's not complicated Is there any, say, preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure about my salvation. I need that settled. I need to know that God has saved me. My sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. Any at all like that this morning? Any at all? Father, I pray you bless our invitation now. Help us, Lord, to respond to what you spoke to our hearts about. Help us to pray in faith, believing that you will help us and direct us and give us victory. Before we stand, I'm going to ask everyone that filled out the little card for the track month, your goal. I'd like for us to bring them this morning to this altar And just lay it there and say, here I am, God. This is my goal that I've set. I believe you'd led me. Set this goal to give out these many tracks and pray and ask God to use you and use those tracks to bring people to Christ. I believe you'd meet.