Type show. Um you know it's the ridiculous type of shows where where they've actually saved the world seventeen times and they're just cops. And uh those kind of shows. I don't like those kind of shows. But uh you often find that if a Bible verse is mentioned, they'll be like, uh, Revelation thirteen twelve, I don't know. What Revelation thirteen, twelve, and one of them will somehow or or the it will somehow either know what the verse is, or a verse is read, and they're like, I know that verse. It's in Jeremiah twelve, sixteen. I and it's just like they randomly know what that verse is, even though they show no sign of ever been to a church in their life. But you know, whatever, I there's a lot of pe I listen, I have a very good I used to have a very good friend who uh who probably can quote more scripture than I can. I don't know if he can now, but I know he could back then. He was in my youth group and And by the time we graduated I I mean he was an alcoholic. So it's, you know I quoting scriptures and everything. It's just funny that you do see people like you do see TV shows where they're like And the Lord says to them like, oh yes, that's obviously found in this obscure part of the Bible that no one knows but I do because I'm a cop who knows everything and I know how to disarm a nuclear device. And you're like, Wow. That's why they pay you so much to be on the show. But um anyways, uh but Psalm twenty-three is actually one of those verses that if someone quotes Most people know it's from the Bible. Some people know it's Psalm 23, even if they're not Christian. Some people even know it's Psalm 23. And then there are some people who can just quote it and they really don't know anything about the Bible, but they know Psalm 23. And it's very, very quoted. It's um it's very famous. It's a very beautiful uh psalm. I I like it a lot. Um there's just there's just different parts of it. When you uh talk about uh just the Lord being your shepherd It actually is a great analogy. It's a poetic analogy, but it's a great analogy. Because you think about you think about, you know, a sheep, a lamb, you just these are just sitting there. And they're kind of dumb. Alright? Sheep are stupid. That's what I've been told. And you're a lot smarter than that sheep. You realize that the the great the great connection there is that we as humans are pretty dumb. And as smart is is m as higher as you are in education and in knowledge and wisdom as you are than that sheep, God is higher than you. And that's cool. Being some people are like, uh, I'm insulted by that fact. See I I'm I take the opposite. I'm like, yes, someone who's smarter than me is in control of me. And that's kinda cool. And then I think I think uh it's like uh listen, if I'm being driven around, I don't want to be a better driver than the person who's driving me around. And I certainly don't want to be a much better driver than the person who's driving me around. Because then you die. Because I'm not that great of a driver. I'd I'd rather if uh it it's just you know, it's cool because If the Lord's your shepherd, he is better than you, he is higher than you, and yet, even though he's so much better and so much more important than you, he still has your best interest at heart. And that's just cool, man. I like I like that. But uh But he doesn't force us either. I I like I don't know. Um and when he inspired men to write these verses, he uses some pretty great analogies. So not only is God smarter than us when he leads us, but also God is uh You know, he doesn't make us go anywhere. There are times when he kind of pushes out in his mind. But when you see a shepherd leading, leading, now yes, you will put uh He will uh put boundaries as we have boundaries, but he doesn't you know you never I've never seen a shepherd mind you I just don't go around sheep watching but I've never seen a shepherd just take a sheep and just like drag him all everywhere he wants him to go Usually it's a leading, it's a coaxing. And God gives you free will. He might take away some options if it were, but he does give you your free will to do what you want. And like I said, like sheep, we're stupid. And that's okay. I mean like I mean that's just how we're made. We we can't see what God can see. Just like a sheep really is not self-aware. He you know, he knows he's hungry, he knows he's rebellious because he's a sheep, and he's like, I'm outta here. And but We're kind of the same way where we don't we can't see what God can see. God's not like taller than us, like the shepherds taller than the sheep, but he understands things that we could never understand about the future. You see he like like a shepherd would understand the connection that there's a cliff right there and then if you go down in into this part uh you might get attacked by wolves because that's where wolves came out. We're just like, I know, there's some grass down there. We just look for the good things and we go for that, and God can see the connections and he can see what is actually happening, and we don't. But this sermon today is not about the Lord being our shepherd so much. You see, it says he might maketh us to lie down in green pastures. Most of our and by the way, here's the uh the words he uses. Um he says uh he leads me in the path of righteousness. Make me lie down, he leadeth me beside still waters. And then it says, uh sorry, he maketh me to lie down in green pastures, and he leaveth me beside still waters. Basically, most of our lives are pretty good. And and I'm not saying like uh listen, it's I'm not saying you don't have bad parts in your life. I'm saying most of your life, moment to moment, day to day, we are r rarely does a person live where it's bad all the time. Most of us had this mundane life. For the most part, it's just pretty mundane. We have some great times where everything's awesome, and then once it goes from great down to just good We don't really treat it as good, we treat it as average. And our average is usually pretty good. But just because our average is good and we're pretty happy most of the time, we might have some struggles. But most of the time we're pretty happy doesn't mean there's not that part that comes next. Since he restores my soul, he leadeth me in the path of righteousness for his name's sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me Sometimes it goes from green pastures, rolling hills where we can see far ahead, the sun's shining, the air's crisp, to these places in life. This place that the Bible calls the valley of the shadow of death A valley is a hollow or low tract of land between hills or mountains, or it's a low extended plain, usually alluvial, penetrated or washed by a river. First of all, valleys. We're talking about this valley of the shadow of death. First of all, we're talking about the valley. The valley itself Um like I said it it's uh it's it's a low point in the mountain. We most of us know what a valley is. Alright, it's a low point in the mountain, it's it's where one peaks over here, another peaks over here, and then bam, middle is the valley Now l usually um a river can be found at the bottom of a valley. Often there are rivers sometimes at the b er often there's rivers at the bottom of valleys. Maybe not. Well usually that's where all the water goes. Why? Because water follows gravity's law and that's where it would go. That's how I feel. Um You know, rivers are often found there. There actually usually is green down there. Uh valleys are often very green places because of all the water uh running down. None of that none of that's really interesting, but this is a valley. of the shadow of death. You see, a valley doesn't have to have any greenery in it. It doesn't have to have any water in it. It just means that there is a high place over here and a high place over here. And the valley is in the in the middle. Valleys low. The first thing I want to talk about valleys is valleys are often hidden between mountains. We usually look at a mountain, a mountain range. Um I'm and uh you guys know this, I'm from Colorado. I love the mountains. Um I came out to the Appalachian Mountains, which is why I call them, although when I go to West Virginia it's always Appalachian Mountains, and that drove me nuts. And then you guys don't understand. Because I was like, you are pronouncing that wrong. And then another person pronounced Appalachian. And it bugged the snot out of me. Because and uh and everyone in I I don't know. I don't know if that's just West Virginia thing, I don't know if they do that in Maryland too. But the fact is I called Appalachian and I found out that I was wrong because you don't argue with the locals. Alright, let's just say that. Um But the Appalachian Mountains are not like the Rocky Mountains at all. Um and I say that I think the Appalachian Mountains, and this is my personal opinion, everyone in the world can argue with it, I think they're prettier. As far as square footage wise, if you look take a square foot of Appalachian, you take a square foot of Rocky Mountain, usually the The Appalachians actually pretty you know per acre and such, it's very pretty. Um now if you're gonna stand back and look at them, Rocky Mountains might might win a little bit because they're huge. And I lived at the foothills, so I always knew where West was. I was like, yes, where the pointy rocks are. And uh I was great at directions. Um But when you look at a mountain range, we always think that mountains are made up of or mountains are made up of what? Mountaintops, obviously. And they are. Because when you look at a mountain range, it's like, oh, there's that mountain, there's that peak, there's that peak. And the thing is we If with every peak comes a valley. And that's a real bummer. Because you can't go high without going low. And then if you go high again, that's an automatic valley. Now I guess if you go like you do a little bump and then you just wait a long ways, and there are maybe that's not a value, but the fact is when we look at a mountain range, and yes, I'm going to actually tie this into something later. If you look at a mountain range, we look at them as mountains, not as valleys, but the fact is it's mountain valley, mountain valley, mountain valley, mountain valley. In fact, I just I think there's a store called Mountain Valley, something, and uh that'd be kind of weird. But uh the fact is, the valleys are often hidden between the mountains. You know, we look at people's lives and we look, you know, um whenever I give a uh Sometimes I'll uh give a life, you know, a story to the teens about someone's life. I think we did Bill Gates once just because he just like reclaimed the richest man in the world and I just told him because I know a little bit about him. I told them about him. And uh usually we hit, oh, high point here, high point here, high point here. This is what they did at this point, this is what this person did at this point, this is what they did at this point, and we forget, and then they went bankrupt, and then this happened, and you know, and we forget those things. But life is more of a up and down thing than just up, up, up, up, because I don't see a lot of mountains that go up up without going down. True good mountains don't do that. David is my great example for this. You see, when he killed Goliath, I think that was kind of a mountain peak for him. That was awesome. I mean here he is. He's like seventeen years old. He killed a giant. I've never killed a giant. It'd be something kinda cool to do. As long as the giant was a bad guy. If the giant was a nice guy, I would not want to do it 'Cause you just shouldn't kill giant people for no reason. But uh that's wrong, all right? And slightly racist. Um But uh but you know, if a giant was terrorizing someone it would be kinda cool to kill a giant. Alright? And come on, it is a guy and I and maybe, you know, this is why I'm a youth pastor. This is how I think Every every guy, whether you want to admit it or not, kind of dreams about the time that like the banks are in gets robbed and they have to take over because they're awesome. I mean no, everyone thinks that. So so this is I mean, killing a giant with a rock and then cutting off his head is kind of, I bet, a boyhood dream for this seventeen year old kid. He not only killed someone who was a lot bigger than him, a lot more skilled than him, and he saved a whole bunch of people's lives and freedom while doing it. But he did it with God's help. This is cool. Oh, by the way, and he gets to marry this like really pretty girl and become the king's son. It's this great mountain peak. You know, I hear a lot of I hear a lot of preaching on David and Glass and I like it every time because David's so cool. But that peak and that peak when we look at David's life we're like, whoa man, that was that was that peak where that was that peak where uh where he killed the giant We forget that after that slopes down, he falls into a valley of where Saul, his father-in-law, and his mentor and someone he looks up to greatly, wants to kill him out of jealousy. And how much that breaks his heart. You see, we we also and then and then you know but you know what he gets past that. You guys remember? He gets past it. He's on the run for a long time. That's a valley, but you know what he becomes king, right? That's a peak. That's a mountain peak. And you know he becomes king of Israel, and that's great. And everyone loves the fact that he becomes king of Israel, except To get there, we forget that just before he became king, the way he became king isn't how just that his mentor died, even though his mentor and that guy that wanted to kill him this whole time did die, and that allowed him to become king Not only that, but his best friend in the whole world died. A man so close they said that they were closer than any of David's wives were to him. Jonathan and David were so close. That they were just they were brothers, they were best friends. Jonathan was willing to um deceive his father, was willing to go against his father for David's sake. They were great friends, and for David to get be able to become king, Jonathan died. Now Then we then David then David gets back on the mountain, he becomes king. And uh and the next big thing that happens is that David uh David gets the ark back to Jerusalem, but to do that, a seemingly innocent man had to die. And that That ruined David for a little while. And then and then we realize that David had a pretty you know, David's life it was you know, it was higher. You know, he he did give uh he did father the wisest man on earth, but to do that his unborn son had to die. And then we realize that oh he had you know he did have a pretty good uh ruling. Um you know his kingship was actually pretty nice. Um except for those It was valleys of when he numbered the people causing thousands and thousands to die and when he uh And when his son his son, Absalom, rebelled against him and tried to take the kingdom by force. Oh, and that was that other time when his um When his son killed his other son for raping his sister. Now, we look at David and say, What a great man, what a great life. We talk about the cool parts. We talk about being king. We talk about David and Goliath. We talk about All this stuff, and we forget that I think there were more valleys in David's life, according to the Bible, than there were mountaintops. Now he'd always come back up, but then he'd dip back down, and every time he came back up, he'd dip back down. And that's how life is sometimes. Valleys are hidden between mountains. And when and listen, it's so great. And I'm going to read this first right now. But I'm going to read this first. It it's the last verse of Psalm twenty-three. It says, Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. And I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Well, that house of the Lord forever, we're going to go to heaven. We're and it's going to be awesome. And we're going to dwell in the house of the Lord forever. But surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. I think when we look back, there's pain, but we mostly see the mountaintops. And and God's good, because He has that goodness and mercy to allow us to forget that how we got there sometimes But we look at David's life and we see these great mountains, these beautiful peaks, and hidden in between them are these dark valleys. You see, valleys are often hidden between mountains. One type of valley is a canyon. Valleys can be surrounded by hills or cliff faces. You see, here's the thing. Um I've been to the Grand Canyon. Um Which is kinda cool. I yeah, it is a giant hole in the ground that runs for a while. Um but I've been to some canyons, some some true cliff faces that just go straight down for a thousand or two thousand feet. Just straight down. And most people don't realize that that's technically a valley. You see most of time when we think of valleys we think of a hill and then goes down to a valley. It's just a little you know, little little slope and then a little slope up to a mountain. And that's what we usually think of valleys. But valleys aren't only hills that that we can see and it's like, oh, you know, that's an ice hill and it goes up. And you know, there's it's an easy way out of sometimes when you're in a valley, you're actually between two cliff faces where there's really no easy answer. There's really no easy answer of a way out. Let me give you an example. If you turn if you uh Actually we'll start with Daniel Alliance then. If you'll turn to Daniel seven or seven, sixteen through seven. Daniel seven, sixteen through seven. Daniel seven I'm sorry, it's Daniel six, sixteen through seven. But that's a little bit more. We're actually going to start it through in verse 13. So Daniel 6. 13. I'm just changing everything. Well I'm going to change the book next. So Daniel 613. Then answered they and said before the king that Daniel, which is of the children of the captivity of Judah, regardeth not thee, O king, nor the decree which thou hast signed. But making his sedition three times a day. So if you guys don't know the story of Daniel, here's a quick recap. Daniel's good friends with the king. Some sneaky fellows want to unseat Daniel as uh as the king's favorite. They want to unseat him. And so what do they do? is they think the only thing, the only flaw that Daniel has is that he prays to his God. So they go to the king and basically make prayer illegal. Alright? Let me talk about this hard place. You see you've heard the term between a rock and a hard place. I'm gonna say in a valley, sometimes you're between a cliff face and another cliff face, and there's no easy way out. There's a decision that has to be made by Daniel. He either needs to stop praying to his God. Which is incredibly hard for him. He knows it's not only the wrong thing to do, but he depends on this relationship between him and God. Or He needs to get fed the lions. There is no easy answer There's no real way out here. No way out he can see. The only thing he can do is go forward and he ends up He ends up praying. They get thrown to a lion's den. And when you're in a lion's den, I'm telling you, that's a valley that that most of us have never experienced. Most of us have never been in a place and listen, some of us may have, but most of us have never been in a place where we're pretty sure the death is in the same room as us and we'll be dead by morning. Some of us have been there. Some people have been there. That's a valley. And he was afraid. Or maybe he wasn't afraid. The Bible actually doesn't necessarily clarify. But let me put it this way: I would be afraid. Because there's no way out of where he was. If you guys don't know how Daniel in the lines then the story ends, read the rest of Daniel chapter 6. It's pretty awesome. Let's go back to Daniel chapter uh chapter three. Daniel chapter three. Just a couple pages back. As long as you're here, we might as well read it. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abendigo. Three Hebrew children. The king says, You must bow down to my golden statue whenever the trumpets play or whenever the horns play. And they don't, because they don't bow down to anyone but God. Great. Perfect. Except now the king is going to throw him them into the fire into a fiery furnace. By the way, furnaces are terrifying. I don't like fire. You ever see those people that jump over campfires? Those people are stupid. Um But uh fire is something that hurts. I do not like getting burnt. I work at a uh pizza place. You know how you have those hop pans and uh sometimes it would slide out of your hand when you're trying to do so much and just I have a scar from like just where it just landed on me, and if I dropped it, I would also drop the pizza I just made. And yet I had nowhere to put it. It was really actually a terrible situation, which it's actually kind of boring when you're talking about, you know, being thrown into a furnace. But um They're either gonna be thrown into a furnace or they're going to worship a false god. And by the way, they also know that they are not supposed to worship um a false god and oof They're kind of scared of God if they do that. But you know they have a lot of stems. They're saying, you know what, I can either do something wrong or I can do something right, and I know that something bad is going to happen. Daniel apparently has a lot of these situations in this book. But in uh verse fifteen, it says, Now if ye be ready that at that time oh sorry, Daniel three Oh there we go. Shadrach Ebogul in verse 16. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered and said unto the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, we are not careful to answer thee in this matter. If it be so, our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us out of the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of thine hand, O King. But if not Be it known unto thee, O king, that we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up. They picked the right one, but let's be honest, there is no way out from here. There is no easy way out. It is a cliff face and a cliff face, and they are just walking down it. You know, some valleys we have ways out, sometimes they're hills, and we can climb our ways out on our own and you know it and listen, and when I say on our own, it's still God is still with us, but we actually just you know we just need to walk uphill. But sometimes there's no easy way out. And for these guys, it was either do something completely against Their soul. Against their morals, against what they believe, or be killed. And that is a situation that is a valley. It's a valley and it's a canyon. Now, again, if you want to find out what happens here, read the rest of Daniel 3. I give it to you as the uh end, but it's kind of a cool story, and I think it's fun to read. And let's look at Christ. Isaiah 53, 7 says he was oppressed. And he was afflicted, and yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shears is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ had one of two options before he went to Calvary. He could either, and by the way, if you read the New Testament, Jesus did not want to be crucified. He willingly went, but it wasn't on his things to do list. He asked God to remove it from him if it was his will. By the way, that is the purest petition God has ever heard. That is the purest prayer that was ever prayed by Jesus Christ. And he said. God and by the way, God would give him just about ever anything. You read the Bible, God gives him whatever he wants. You know, power over the weather, he has it. Now of course Jesus Christ is God, but listen, as a human, Jesus petitioned God, pe Jesus petitioned the Father, and he had power over matter He had power over weather. He had power over sickness. And now he is praying, crying, sweating. Asking God, remove this from me, because he can either go through with it or let humanity be damned to hell. I will tell you this, as a Christian, I don't give Christ enough credit daily. I don't think about his decisions like this daily. Even when Bible reading, it's like this is a if you read the crucifixion story, if it doesn't break your heart every time that someone so perfect had to die Actually, when I say Hadgai died willingly for you. It was a it was a true canyon He could either die for doing nothing absolutely wrong. He could be die he could have been tortured and killed for doing nothing wrong, or he could have walked away and let humanity go to hell. There are valleys in our life, and sometimes they're canyons without an easy way out. Lastly, for valleys, valleys can begin or end gradually or instantly. Let's say again, valleys can begin and end gradually or instantly. There are four qualifiers there. So uh it sounds a little weird, but ballets can begin gradually or instantly. For Joseph, they began instantly. I prayed about uh Alright, I preached about uh Joseph now twice, um, and I'm probably not gonna do it again, but I will say this for Joseph it began instantly. A valley just happened right there. You see sometimes you can see it coming, sometimes you can feel yourself going downhill, and sometimes you just fall down. You just fall down the mountain. One of my favorite movies, and I'm not uh shame to say this, is Princess Bride, and one of my favorite parts is when he falls down the hill Because it's ridiculous and he actually got pretty hurt while doing it, and that's hilarious. But um anyways, uh But Joseph was a rich man's son, the rich man's favorite son. In fact we find that in Genesis 373. Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children because he was the son of his old age, and he made him a coat of many colo colors. So he went from this fashionable rich man's favorite son to in Genesis thirty seven and verse thirty six, and the Mini Knights sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh and the captain of the guard Richmond son the slave. That valley began instantly. Couldn't see it coming. By the way, valleys can end gradually or instantly. You know, he was in there for a while, and then he started taking steps to get out of it, and they fell deeper. And then he started taking more steps to get out of it, and he and he helped the uh The butler with his uh dream, the butler and the chefs with his dream with their dreams, and nothing happened for a while. For two years. But then one day, Pharaoh has a dream that he needs interpreted, and Joseph gets called upon. It went from and Joseph master took him and put him into a prison, a place where the king's prisoners were bound. And he was there in prison in Genesis thirty-nine twenty to Genesis forty nine thirty-one. And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, For as much as God has shown thee all this, there is none so discreet and wise as thou art, and then he and sorry And I sort of sort of read number 40, and it says that he is placed second in Egypt. Second in command in Egypt. Valleys can begin and end. Gradually, or it can happen instantly. You can be on top of the mountain then fall down or you can slowly descend. But it doesn't matter. A valley is a valley. A valley is a place of discouragement and it's a place of trials and it's hard. But next This is not the only place that we will fall into. We will not only be discouraged and we will not only be burdened, but we will also walk into the shadow. You see. Psalm 23 says, Yea, so I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. Let's talk about this shadow. You see, the shadow I mostly attribute to fear. Because people are afraid of the dark. I'm afraid I'm not afraid of the dark, but I will say something. I am much more fearful in the dark than I am in the light. Um let's see if that is that sure we'll go with that as my first point. The darkness can create fear. And you might say, I am not afraid of the dark. Go ahead and say that, and that's fine. If you're not afraid of the dark, fine. But I will tell you something, you are more cautious when you hear something creak in the dark than you are in the light. Because you know what's going on. But sometimes you're in the shadow and things get muddled in the shadow. There's an absence of light. Listen, sometimes you're walking through life and then forget the burdens, forget everything else, and sometimes it's just you don't know Fight where you are. Listen, shadows can be super dark or shadows can be slightly light. Listen, if you're outside and you're uh sitting next to a building and the sun's on the other side and you're sitting in the shadow, that's great. You know, you can usually see there, but I will say one thing, when you're trying to read a book, you often don't want to do it in the shadow. Why? Because it's hard to see details. The shadow is a hard place to see. And sometimes shadows can get much darker. If you're in an actual room and there is a sh and you're in the shadow, sometimes you can see what's in the light, but you can rarely, if it is actually dark in the room, if there are no windows, and then you are shadowed by the light, it is completely dark. You see, shadows are an absence of light. How often do you go throughout your life and you're confused on what you're supposed to do next? You feel like God is not leading you anywhere. You feel like you just don't know what's up ahead? You feel like at any moment something could happen to you and you're afraid because there's no light. Because as far as your circumstances are controlled, you can't see anything. We're like that usually in times of trials when when everything just starts going dark. And and we we feel like we're supposed to do something, but we don't want to mess up and we just don't even know what to do. So we just sit there afraid. A shadow is an absence of light. But let me give you the next one. A shadow. Things are often colder in the shadow And uh we know this because it when it gets hot, you know, everybody likes to sit in the shade. Right? That makes sense. That's where I want to sit. And everything w and you know you wanna you wanna sit in the shade and it feels pretty good. But when it's cold out, and you're outside, I know at least for me, if I'm in the shadow and it's colder and it's already cold out, I'll go where at least I can feel some of the sun. Now what about when you can't make that choice and it feels cold and everything feels a little apathetic, everything feels unloving and and And it just and it it kind of crawls on your back. And you don't really want to talk to someone. You're not ma you're not mad at anybody, but you really don't want to talk to anybody. And you really don't even want anyone to be nice to you. Because that almost makes it worse. Because you have this feeling of coldness in you. And you didn't you didn't seek it out. It just came on you. Maybe maybe circumstances brought it there. Maybe maybe something happened, you're and you're going slightly into depression and you don't know what it is, and you feel weak and you feel sick and you don't feel hungry and And your emotions, you you're angry, but but you're not going to snap because you know that would be wrong, and yet you're trying to do right and still somehow, still somehow, you can't Talk. You can't express how you feel. You just know that it's cold. Maybe you feel like the author of Psalm 31. Have mercy upon me, O Lord, for I am in trouble. Mine eye is consumed. with grief, yea, my soul and my belly, for my life is spent with grief, and my years with sighing. My strength faileth because mine iniquity, and my bones are consumed. I was a reproach among mine all mine enemies, but especially among my neighbors. Do you ever feel like that way where you're you are a weight to other people? You know, it's tough, you know, actually dealing with hating someone, that's actually that's pretty tough. Hating someone actually takes a huge tax on you. But dealing with being hated I was a reproach among all mine enemies, but especially among my neighbors. In a fear of mine acquaintance that they did see me Without, fled from me. I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind. I am like a broken vessel. For I have heard the slander of many. Fear was on every side. While they took counsel together against me, and they devised to take away my life. The funny thing about preaching is I don't even have to most of the time. If I was really honest and probably not so prideful, I could just read scriptures like this for 40 minutes. Because this breaks me. I'm forgotten as a dead man out of mind I'm like a broken vessel. Fear was on every side. When you get fearful Fearful of being forgotten. The cold also brings pain like a stinging. You just don't know how to handle it This is what happens in the shadow. The shadow, true shadow, I'm talking darkness. Because by the way, darkness and shadow are different things. However, the thing they have in common is the absence of light. However, shadows can have some light in them. In fact they could otherwise You couldn't see anything, period. But in that true shadow, when it's night and the light is blocked by something That darkness de disorients you. In 1 John 4 1 it says, Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God, because many false prophets are gone out of the world. When you're in the darkness, when you're afraid, you make bad decisions. You trust things that aren't there. But you also see things that aren't there. Shadow means something is standing between you and the light. You see, Jesus claims to be the light, but have you ever felt like there's just something between you and God? Something just something that there's just something between you. And you and you go through life and you're like, well I I I've confessed all my sin that I know to know how to, and yet I just feel alone. Elijah felt this way. In fact, Elijah felt this way. I was talking about mountaintops and valleys. Elijah felt this way after doing one of the greatest of one of his greatest miracles, and that was asking God to send fire down from heaven. He asked God to send fire down from heaven and then personally slew hundreds of prophets of Baal. And the next moment, the next day, someone says he's trying to kill him, and he goes into a dark depression. And by all by most accounts, people say that a lot of people say he never came out of it And he was afraid, and he felt alone, and he couldn't see You see, though I walk through the valley, when you're discouraged, when you're troubled, when you have trials, of the shadow. A valley and a shadow. When you're afraid in those times, when you're disoriented, when you're confused, when you're lost, when you just don't know what to do. Next we're going to talk about death. Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. Now let's talk about the shadow of death. Alright? The shadow of death, you may not know this, but in Hebrew is actually one word. Shadow of death is actually one word. And it's uh mahave. I don't speak Hebrew very well, but that's it. It's actually one word. It actually means the shadow of death. That means this is an actual th th then Bear with me, that means this is an actual event. It's it it's when death is close. I told you a shadow means it's something standing between you and the light. That means that if this is the shadow of death, it means that when you're in a death's shadow, death seems to be standing in front between you and God. What does death do though? Death separates. 2 Samuel 2 and 19 says But when David saw that his servants whispered, David perceived that the child was dead. Therefore David said unto his servants, Is the child dead? And they said, He is dead. And then 23 says, but now he is dead, wherefore should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he shall not return to me. Death separates people. You know death separates you from your loved ones whether you're the one that dies or not. Death is in in fact in the uh in the New Testament, the word that uh we use for death is often the same word that it would mean separation of something. To be separated. Death separates. Talk about Mary and by the way, that what I just read that David David, um, as we all know Um, committed adultery with Bathsheba and she had a child from it. God took that child. God took that child. Uh I'm I uh my wife is about to have uh child. And here's the thing. David is around the exact same place I am. As far as the child. Right it dies soon after. And I can't imagine What that feels like. Hope I never have to. Everyone in here has dealt with death in some way or another. Maybe you have maybe you're lucky, but most people have dealt with death. And most people know the loneliness you feel. I remember the first time when um my uh uh Mrs. Oh you guys want to hear something of Pastor Hatton? I'm glad he's not here to hear this. Two out of my three bosses in my life have died. I didn't tell him that during the interview, but uh But it's true. And uh and not while I was working for them, so as long as I'm here he's okay, but but uh Both times. Um one I knew for a long time. Uh he was my dad it's so funny when he was my dad's best friend in uh He was my dad's best friend in the eighties and then he came and uh worked with my dad and then I was actually an intern at that company before he came but and I was he was put over me as uh my boss, but uh but I've known the man for a long time. And uh he just died recently. It was uh it was uh it was really heartbreaking. Uh it was fair it was instant. No one saw it coming, he just he uh passed away. It was really tough. But uh another one is uh my boss um another boss I had and she was uh she's a nice woman. I re I really liked her. Um I was at college when she died, so I wasn't there. Uh it was my summer job. And uh but I go get known her over two years and uh she's very she's very funny. Uh she was a gossip um but she's very kind to me. very loving to me. And I remember them calling me and them say, hey, you know, I'd uh she passed away. And I remember, you know, you take that at first you take that news and you're like, okay, wow. That's what you usually say is wow. And then you dwell on it. And at some point in your life, if someone close to you passes away, you'll dwell on it. And you'll think about it. And and at least in my mind, maybe this never happened to anyone else, but you'll at least go from the point where you're remembering just kind of funny things that happened To realizing that those funny things won't happen again. And that makes you feel lonely. That makes you feel alone I don't usually uh I don't usually uh I don't cry too often. I do now. I don't know what happened. I got married and I started crying. I don't like I never cried. I cried when people died sometimes and that was it. Um But I mean uh almost every death of anyone close to me that I can remember from the time I was five and my and one of my friends got hit by a bus. to uh I'm sorry, so I hit on walking to the bus, uh lady hit her with a car. By the way, um don't pass buses. That's actually a big deal to me. I that makes me mad. Um, I remember that very, very well. But uh I remember that when the time when I usually cry is when I start thinking about things that will never happen again. You see if they're saved, you know, it's great. I mean, you know, you're like, well, praise God, they'll they'll go to heaven. And, you know, and you're not sad for them. But even if they're saved and you think about yourself and you feel kind of alone and you feel like something now now peace of you is gone. Because I believe every person you meet you give at least a little bit of your heart to Every per person you care about, you give a little piece of your heart to, and a and you don't get it back. So when that person dies, you die as well. Um death makes you feel alone. Mary and Martha and their brother Lazarus, we know this story. And uh it's in John 11, and Lazarus dies, and she's weeping, and all the people are mourning over him. And then Jesus looks at them and he looks how broken everybody is and he weeps and they say, Oh, look how he loved how he loves Lazarus. But This in my mind, he's not weeping over Lazarus, he's weeping over the people here who feel so hurt Death's a punishment for sin. For the wages of sin is death. We go back to Genesis three. Ye shall surely die. Death is a punishment. There's nothing good about it. There's nothing good about it. Let's see how Jesus died before he died. You see, I talked about other people dying, but The valley of the shadow of death sometimes means your own death as well. It can mean other people's death. That shadow is just beating on you. And and you're cold. And and by the way, when some when you're under something's shadow, that sometimes means that it might be very close. But when it's someone else's death, let's see how Jesus reacted. In about the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eli Imail Sabhathani. That is to say, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? This feeling of loneliness comes from death Death is also painful. When someone dies, you know what the number one question asked is did they suffer? It's the number one question asked. And and by the way, that's it there's a good there's a good reason we ask that is because none of us want to suffer when we die. None of us want anyone to go through anyone we love to go through any more pain than they had to. But death is painful. And pain By the way, death causes pain, but pain is kind of a uh is a reaction to death. And I mean that by saying pain pain comes from death. Pain the reason that we have pain is because we have death in this world because of sin. That's the reason pain even exists. And I'm going to talk about Jesus one more time. Isaiah 53. We're going to go back, but I want everyone to turn there. Isaiah 53. Very, very famous passage of scripture. Starting in verse 3, he says, and he's talking about Jesus. He is despised and rejected of man. Men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And we hid it from our faces from him. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like the sheep have gone astray. We have turned our every one to his own way, and the Lord hath laid upon him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth He's brought to the lamb as a slaughter, as a sheep before a shear as a dumb, so he opened not his mouth. Death is painful, but pain comes from death, and there's actual and here's the thing Mostly when you talk about this kind of stuff, you talk about emotions. And listen, I death death, like I said, when someone else dies, it creates a special pain, not just a loneliness, but a pain in your heart. But it also but there's also this thing called physical pain. And I will tell you something. Emotional pain is tough to deal with and oftentimes can be tougher than physical pain, but physical pain is nothing to sneeze at. You see someone who's through physical pain, and that will get to them eventually. Has anyone ever Um been sick. And not just like if you feel sick, you have a flu. You know, that that's you know that's important. But been like in constant stabbing pain for more than an hour. Two hours? Three hours? Four hours? Let me tell you something. About that fourth, fifth hour, you are begging God to take it away. You are begging God to be free of it. You don't even know what to do. You're angry, you're frustrated, and you can't do anything, and you're hopeless. And that's what death is, that's what death and pain are. They're hopeless. Pain physical or emotional can be crippling. The verse says, Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. But let me let me put let me give you my how how I read that Yea, though I be suddenly discouraged, overwhelmed, disoriented, cold, lost, confused, alone, and hurting All at the same time, your darkest possible point, when everything that is crippling you, everything that is painful of you happens to you at once They say bad things come in threes, well when things come in tens and you have, and you feel so broken, and you feel so hurt, and so overwhelmed Then you read the rest of the verse. And it says, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. You see that value I was talking about, that discouragement, that overwhelming, those burdens I was talking about. Sometimes a valley can be the only way up to the top of a mountain. is a fact that you can oftentimes in terrain not go up before you go down. You must go down into the valley. You must go into places that are that are darker, places that are colder, places that that that are not you can't see the light before you can come out on the other side. And we learn this from verses like 1 Peter 5, then, but the God of all grace, who has called us by his eternal glory, by Christ Jesus. After that you have suffered a while, make you perfect, established, strengthened, and settle you. Make you perfect, perfect, established, strengthen, and settle you. But after you've suffered a while. You see, because sometimes we will never be able to appreciate how nice it is to be out of a valley, how great it is. to be on top before we realize wow what we just came through. Well do you listen it's the same way that I am I am very pro our it's it's weird, but it's the same reason that I like that our teams uh have to work to go on trips and such is because if you don't go through the work and go through the mud and go through the things and the things that you don't necessarily like If you get things you do like, then it will never matter to you. It will never be good to you. You will never appreciate it. You'll ne you will never appreciate as much as the person who worked and strived. You'll and in in life you'll never appreciate those good times, those happy moments. You'll never appreciate your family enough until someone has passed away that you love. You'll never appreciate your job until you've lost it. You'll never appreciate security until you've lost it. Sometimes valleys are the only way to the mountains because the valley is what makes the mountain worth going to. Though I be suddenly discouraged, overwhelmed, and burdened. I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. But what about being disoriented, cold, lost, confused? What about when you're in that shadow, when you're in that darkness? What does the Bible say then? You see, the great thing about shadows, and this is something that I'm not, like I said, I'm not afraid of the dark, but I'm more afraid of things in the dark than I am of them in the light. But here's the cool thing about shadows: shadows don't actually exist. They're just an absence of light. Shadow cannot touch you. Darkness cannot touch you. You see But to get out of the shadow. You see, yes, you're confused, yes, you're disoriented, yes, your sight is gone, but the shadow doesn't affect any of your other senses. And I will say this: oftentimes when you're in shadow There's often a light that you can see. Sometimes maybe not. But when you're in a shadow, there might be the edge of the shadow. And sometimes you can see that. And I my my advice to you is if you're in that shadow, if you're lost, if you're confused, if you're disoriented, if you don't know where to go. Move towards the light. And you say, What is the light? Well, Jesus in John 8:12 says, I am the light of the world. You see, here's the thing. When you're lost, when you're confused, when you don't know where to go or what to do. Just keep moving towards God. You read a chapter of the Bible a day, fantastic if you don't read the Bible a day, read the Bible, uh start reading the Bible daily. But if you're lost and confused, start reading it more. If you spend some time in prayer, double your prayer time. Pray about it. You move towards the light and you will eventually come out of the shadow. Now shadows can stretch for miles and miles and miles. But eventually, you keep moving towards light, you'll come out of that shadow. Psalm 30 verse 5 says, For his anger endureth but a moment, and his favor is like weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning. Though I be disoriented, cold, lost, confused, though fear no evil, for thou art with me. And lastly, death. Shadow of death. Death is kind of a hard one. I said the shadows can't touch you. Death is the exact opposite. Death is death is death touches people I said that a valley is the only way sometimes up to a mountain, but death often is just death in this world. This is a tough one to deal with. For everyone except for Christians Because death is under the reins and control of God. First Corinthians fifteen fifty-four says, so when this incorruptible Sorry, sorry, and this corruptible shall put on incorruption, and this mortal shall put on immortality. Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is there thy victory? The thing about death is it does not touch God's people Now you say, wait, I had a Christian friend who died. Did they die or did they go and live? Did they die or did they have eternal life? Tell me which one it is. Yes, other people's death, yes, they can tell you. Yes, it'll make you feel alone. But the fact is, is a death for a Christian, a death for someone who's put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Not just someone who claims the name of Christ, but a death for someone who has been bought and paid for by the blood of Jesus Christ, never dies. They just go from living this kind of grubby life to living an eternal, glorious life. From getting in a corruptible life, a let me put it this way, a kind of like a rusty old life. So I would say corruptible, rusty old life, to a wonderful, brand new life that's perfect. That's not death to me. That's real life. You see, the Bible also says in John 11, 25, and Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead. Yet shall he live. Death does not touch a Christian. And yes, you may be separated from a loved one for a little while. And yes, you may have to go through some pain beforehand. But you know what? That's the valley. That's just the valley. One day you'll be on the mountain, and that shadow of death won't be there because on the mountain there's nothing between you and the sun. There's nothing between you and the light. The valley of the shadow of death is a place. It is the darkest place you will ever be. And in that darkest place place this man this man that uh this wrote this song David he wrote this psalm he and by the way he was a shepherd so he knows what he was talking about He wrote a psalm. And he says, in the darkest place I'll ever be. You know this man that we started out talking about? This man who had lost a child? Whose mentor had turned on him? Whose best friend died so that he might become king? Who is he who he who Who caused a lot of people to die when he numbered the people? Caused a plague to come down in Israel single-handedly, whose children were in disarray, murdering one another and raping one another. This man who's had more valleys than I can dream of. This man Said, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, though I am in the darkest point in my life. And if you read the Psalms, you can feel. His life. You can feel how dark it could be. He says, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. You see, I know it's easy to feel in that shadow, it's easy to feel like there's something between you and the light, but that is because the shepherd is often behind the sheep, watching for the sheep, waiting for something to happen. Looking around, being cautious. And sometimes he doesn't show himself Sometimes he doesn't stand in front of them because they need to find their way on their own. But when something happens, when something is going to attack them, he will stand in a way I don't know if you are if you're living the best day of your life today. Or if you're living the worst day of your life today, or most likely you're somewhere in the middle, or if you're heading down into a valley. Take a lesson from David. Don't be afraid. God is there. He's there through the darkness. He's there through the low times. And he's especially there in death. Jen comes at like a we're gonna bow their head and close their eyes.