Corinthians chapter four, I would like for us to read together in unison verse number two of First Corinthians chapter four We're studying the book of 1 Corinthians in our Sunday school class. We're actually back to the second last chapter. We've had a wonderful study. 1 Corinthians is a tremendous book written under the inspiration of God to a very troubled church. And here early on in the book, Paul is writing to them and he makes a statement that I believe is very, very important for you and I as Christians to understand the importance of the subject that he addresses here. You'll know what I mean here. Let's read together, if you would, verse number two. Ready? Here we go. Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. That a man be found faithful. Faithful. I want to talk about this morning a little bit the importance of faithfulness. Father in heaven, I do pray that you would help us to understand and uh what uh uh what you're teaching us here, what your word has to say. I pray it would be more than just a mental understanding, but I pray this would be a truth that would grip us and affect how we live our lives Lord, I will sincerely desire, and I'm sure many here feel the exact same way, I sincerely desire to be a faithful Christian. Lord, I want to be a faithful pastor, a faithful husband, a faithful father. And so you've told us here, you've instructed us in your word. So I'm asking, Holy Spirit of God, that you impress this in our hearts and minds this morning. I yield my set will to you, Lord. I present my body, myself anew to you. With all my heart, I ask you to fill me with your Spirit And that you speak through me to each and every one of our hearts. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. A woman came out of the uh grocery store, she had shot She had been shopping and she had uh her uh grocery bags in her hand. She walked out to her car, she got to her car, and here there was four men sitting inside her car And uh she um uh she immediately dropped her bags and she had in her purse a little pistol, she pulled out a little handgun. She starts screaming at the guys, get out of my car, get out of my car. The guys, you know, they jump and they scatter, they run everywhere And uh she's rattled, you know, these guys in her car, what were they gonna do to her? How you know, what was their plans, why were they in her car? So she got her bags picked up, put them in the trunk, she sat in the seat got her keys out and for the life of her she could not get her keys to fit into the ignition Then it dawned on her. This is not her car. Now I think there's some folks in our church can relate to this story a little bit And she could around and finally she realized she's in the wrong car. She gets out and looks around, and lo and behold, three cars down from where she were was her car. Identical Got the groceries out, put them in her car, and she headed right down to the police station to turn herself in. She walks into the police station, and lo and behold, there's four men there reporting that this lady hijacked carjacked their car And uh she explained what happened and everybody chuckled and um uh it it went it went on. But here's the thing She got, she was treating a car innocently and mistakenly, she was treating a car that was not hers as if it was her car. It was someone else's car. She didn't own it. She didn't possess it. But she treated it for a period of time there as if it was hers. And you and I as Christians need to be very, very careful that we understand that you and I, we are not our own. This is not our car, quote unquote. This is the Lord's. Our body, our lives, our resources, we're not our own And Paul is writing here to the church at Corinth, and before we look at verse 2, I want us to notice some statement he makes in verse number 1 that I think helps us understand verse number 2. Look at verse number one with me. He says, again, Paul was writing under the inspiration of God to a church he had started, very troubled church. They had a lot of problems, a lot of sin. And he writes to him and he says, Let a man Show account of us as of the ministers of Christ and stewards of the mystery of God. So he makes a statement. He says, let a man show account of us. Now what does he mean? That's You know, we don't use that type of phrase or wording today. What is he talking about? So accountable. See, what he's saying is, he says, I want people to be able to look at my life. And actually, it has implied in there, make a thorough investigation of my life. I want them to look in every corner, every closed door, every closet of my life. I want people to be able to look at it and come to this conclusion. This man is a minister of Christ. How's he worded there? He says, so account of us as the ministers of Christ, stewards of the mysteries of God. He says, this is the conclusion I want people to have when they look at my life. He's a minister of Christ. He's a steward of the mystery of God. Now, I want to just simplify the mystery of God. Let me just simplify it here and say he's referencing there, among other things, he's referencing the gospel. And I says, I want people to look, hey, there's Paul. And I've watched him and I I've learned everything I can about him, and I've been I've I've been able to look at every secret part of his life, the hidden closets, the the uh the basements, the uh the the every corner of the of his life. You know what I've come the conclusion I've come to? This is what I account of him, this is what I've determined about him. He is a minister of Christ. He is a steward of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, that word minister there, when somebody says that person is a minister, what's your first thought? You think of them as being what? A preacher or somebody in the ministry. To use the term of a lot of denominations, it would be somebody that's in the clergy. Do you ever see a little bumper sticker that says clergy on the back? Clergy parking. And so you say, well, he's a minister of Christ. Some people would say, well, that means he's in the ministry. He's a clergy. He's a preacher and something like that. I don't believe that's what Paul's talking about here. I don't think he's talking not about a position he holds. I think he's talking about an attitude he has of himself. The word minister is a fascinating word, particularly the word that it comes from here in this verse. It comes from a word that the Greeks would use. They would use that word to describe a type of slave. Now, there were different ranks of slaves. Some slaves held very high authority, a lot of authority, had a lot of freedom, and others not so much. And when Paul said, I want people to look at my life, I want them to come to this conclusion about me, he's a minister of Christ. The word minister he uses there is refers to the lowest category of slave that existed. In fact, it was used, as I started to say, it was used by the Greeks to refer to what they called the underrowers. These were slaves that were taken, maybe prisoners of war or whatever. They were taken, and they would be put on a galley, a ship. And down in the bottommost part of that ship, they would have the rowers. And you've probably seen pictures and movies and whatnot on TV, and they have these big oars that come out And they're down there and there'll be a guy up there That was pretty good, wasn't it? I have never done that in the pew before in my in the pulpit before in my life. No wonder we need a new pulpit. But um Nevertheless, these guys would be down there, and these were the lowest of lows. These were the most despised, the least respected, the least desired people on planet Earth And their job was to row, row, row. The winds were contrary, the winds stopped, they'd get these things out and they would row. They were of little value If one's keeled over, they're exhausted, they take them. A lot of times they just throw them overboard and they replace them with someone else. And Paul says this, he makes this interesting statement, and we get a little insight into Paul's view of himself. I'm an under rower for Christ. I got looking at this, and again, we were studying this in Sunday school, but I can't find anywhere in my Bible where Paul exalts himself. I can't find anywhere in the Bible where Paul brags about himself. Now, he gives his credentials several places as an apostle, but every time he does, he says, I'm a fool in saying this. I'm embarrassed to say the position that God has put me in. I'm a minister. I'm an underrower. What he's saying is, I am nothing. And Christ is everything. And he, in his grace and his mercy, has allowed me to have some part. In his in the in the advancement of his name. I'm an I'm a minister of the gospel. I'm a minister of Christ. A minister of Christ. You know what I think? And I'm preaching it myself as much as anybody. So uh I hope uh bear with me. But I tell you what I think our church is, our church and others like our, we need a good dose of humility. We need a good dose of reality that apart from the Lord Jesus Christ, you and I, we are nothing. We have no room to boast. We have no room to get up and talk about how great we are. We are not great. At the very best, Paul says, I'm an under rower. God has allowed me to have this this this role. And so he says he says, I'm a uh I want people to come to this conclusion about me. I'm a genuine minister. He's not talking about a position, I'm a clergy. I was um, this was a number of years ago. But uh a fellow in our community does not attend our church, and at the time he had never made a profession of faith. He went to a denomination little church here in our community. And uh we've become friends of sorts and a very nice man and we've always got along well, I'd witness to him up to this point. And I saw him one time and he came and he said, Pastor Leatherman, my wife is, and he was distressed. He's elderly. He's very distressed. He said, My wife is very sick. She's in the hospital. Will you please pray for her? And I said, sure. And I said his name. I said, absolutely, I'll pray. I said, I'll have our church pray. Later on the day, I got thinking, I thought, I'm going to go up there and visit I've been trying to witness to him, and I'll just go up and visit with her, maybe read some scripture, have a word of prayer. I got up there, and he was there. His wife was, if I remember correctly, she wasn't conscious. There may have been a couple other family members there, and I went in and we spoke a little bit softly, and I got my Bible out. I read some scripture. I said, well, let me have a word of prayer. All bowed their heads very respectful. They'll bow their heads and I pray, just pray God's grace and and God's comfort and help. And as I started to leave, He came over to me and I thought he was just going to shake my hand, thank me for coming by, and he had a $20 bill, and he says, here you go. And I said, What's that for? He goes, for your prayer I said, I don't understand. What do you mean? Well, it's it's $20 for the prayer, right? I said, I don't know what you're talking about. He goes, well whenever the preacher comes in to pray, you have to give them twenty dollars to come in and pray for you. I said, I don't know what preacher you're talking about, but I ain't touching your twenty dollars I'm not taking it. You know what? That is a mentality we've got to watch out for. When Paul says I'm a minister of Christ, he's not saying I'm some professional clergy. I believe that mentality, and I'm not criticizing this man. This is what he's been trained. This is what his quote-unquote ministers have taught him. And I'm telling you, that is an abomination to God. To somebody to make merchandise. of serving Christ. And I was up there several times. And every time he tried to offer and I and finally I got him to, I said, listen, that is not going to happen. That is not the way this works. And I was able to give do his wife's funeral for him, and at the funeral he made a profession of faith and claimed to trust Christ. And he's been a sweet man. Paul's, that's not what Paul's talking about. Because I'm nothing. I'm the undergrower. That's all I am. In the service of Christ. And then he makes another statement, and I believe the second statement sets us up for verse number two. He says, I'm a steward. Of the mysteries of God. And again, I'm oversimplifying. I know there's a lot more involved in the mysteries of God than just the gospel. But for the sake of the message, I just want to boil it down. It says, I'm a steward of the gospel And the word steward is, I think we mentioned this in a message recently, the word steward refers to somebody who is responsible for something that they do not own themselves. He says this mystery of God, this gospel, it's not mine. It's not mine. But God has given me the responsibility. God uh sometimes um Uh folks own own property and they live somewhere else in their own property. There's quite a few here at the lake, and they will hire a property manager. Right? You know what I'm talking about? And their responsibility is take care of that place and keep it in shape and use it for what it's designed to be used and all of that. And uh they don't own it. Uh they probably put no investment in it as as far as they have no ownership, co ownership at all. They don't have any claim to it at all. But they are a steward of that property to take care of it and manage it and keep it. And Paul says that's what I am of the gospel. And again, it gives us a little insight. In the Paul's view of himself. And we preached on this just recently, I know, in one of the messages. But his view was, I'm not my own. This body is not my body. This life is, I don't own this body. I don't own this life. These resources are not my possession. This is all God And he has entrusted it to me. He has made me responsible for how this life is lived, how this body is used, how these resources are invested. I'm a steward. I'm a steward. It is impossible to simultaneously exalt ourselves and demand that people serve us and do what we want. and yet be a minister of Christ or be a steward of the gospel. Paul is removing himself. I don't own this. I'm just an under rower. I'm just given a responsibility in this thing. It's all about Christ And there's a real danger and uh in the ministry. And I see it in you know from my perspective as a pastor. There's a real danger in Christian thinking that we start thinking too highly of ourselves And I tell you, that's where a lot of contention, that's where a lot of issues, that's where a lot of divisions come in when we fail to see ourselves as ministers and simply as stewards, and we start thinking, I'm something. I deserve to be treated better than this. I deserve I I I deserve this. I demand this. No, no, no, it's none of that. It's none of that And Paul had this very humble view of himself. And then he says in verse number two, moreover. He's basically saying this, listen, because I'm uh I want people to come to the conclusion that I am not seeking to please men. I'm not trying to be the head of anything. I'm simply a minister and underrower. I'm simply a steward, somebody that is caring for someone else's possession. And because of that, verse number two, he says, it's important that I be faithful. It's important that we be faithful. If somebody else has entrusted something to you, they want, first and foremost, they want from you, and they would want from me to be faithful. with that which I have entrusted them. Right or wrong? Somebody comes into money, they say, you know, I'm not that good with money. I'm going to hire a pr uh a money manager. I'm going to entrust them with my wealth, with my riches, with my finances, I'm going to trust them. And first and foremost, I expect them to be faithful in how they handle that. Faithful to my interests and what I want, right? And Paul says, listen, I'm a steward, I'm a minister. And because of that, my life, the ministry, my body, everything I am and have and own is not mine. It's all Christ's. And first and foremost, I must be faithful. I must be faithful. Now let me give you a little outline here and then we'll try and apply it. The first thing I notice in verse 2, and I've already touched on this a good bit, but uh God's expression for believers. Look how God refers to you and I as believers. Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. So God looks us as stewards. Means, and I got way ahead of myself on this, but it means to have the care uh of another's possession, to use another's possession for the purpose they intend for it to be used. Every now and then, not very often, a few times in my life I preached somewhere or was somewhere And the church put me up in a very, very nice motel. I mean, a nice one I mean one nicer than Motel Six. I mean I'm talking And every now and then I get in one and I'll check in and I'll have my luggage and every stuff there. And uh I remember one in particular. There's a guy I'm at the counter and I'm checking in and there's a guy in like a tuxedo and he's standing there off on the side. You know, and I'm out of my element, you know, here. And so I finished checking in and I reach for my bags, and he steps up and he says, I'll take them for you. Now say, get your filthy hands off my stuff. What are you? This guy's trying to steal my luggage. Oh no, no, no, no, no. He is the steward. He's the steward. He's going to take your luggage and he's going to put it where it needs to go. He's going to take possession of it for a brief period of time and he's going to do with it what you want him to do with it. He'll follow you up there. And he's a steward. And I thought of that and um I tell you, I actually kind of like the idea. So I got off on every uh every floor and walked and went down and We walked that whole thing just to get as much use out of that steward as I could. But I got thinking about that. That's pretty much a good illustration of the Christian life This is the Lord's log gauge. This is the Lord's. And he as a steward, he views me as a steward and say, all right, I'm going to take this life for a brief period of time. I live this life and this body with these resources that God has entrusted me with, and I'm to follow the Lord's leadership. I'm to use it as the Lord says, go where he says I'm into all my ways acknowledge him, and he is going to direct my path so that my life and my resources in this body is used for the purpose that he intends for it to be used. Make sense? And that's the way God views us. Let me ask you a question. Do you see yourself as a steward? Now, I don't come to people's house and preach to them when they're sleeping. And so I would like for folks, just out of respect to the Word of God, to Randy, can you help him wake up there, please? Thanks. Thank you. Uh what was I talking about? Sleeping. Now I want to take a nap Let me ask you a question. How do you and I view ourselves? Do we see ourselves as God's possession? Or does it uh Jeff hear that we hear this in the news lately. It's my body, I can do what I want with it. Anybody ever hear that? That is not true. What? Know you not? You're not your own. You're bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body, which are which are not your own or true Christ. It's my life, I can live it how I want. It's your life, go for it. No, it's not ours. We're not ours. I don't have that authority. I'm to acknowledge, I'm not to lean on my own understanding, I'm not to view it as myself and mine. I'm to, in all my ways, acknowledge him, and he directs my path. It's what he's entrusted me with. And so Paul, God's expression for believers here, the way God sees us, is as stewards. And the very first duty of a steward is to be faithful. In fact, the basis of our faithfulness to Christ is the fact that we are stewards. This isn't my life. It's his. I need to be faithful with it. The second thing I know excuse me. The second thing I notice here in this verse is God's expectation of faithfulness. More of it is required of stewards. There's the expression he uses to describe us. That a man be found faithful. I want us to notice that word required. To require something means to demand of, and the word here has this idea to seek for, to look very diligently for. The idea is this that God, when he looks at a believer, he looks at someone that's saved, what he's looking for, what he is demanding, what he's watching for is faithfulness. That's what God's looking for for you and I. Well, what does God want from me? He wants us to be faithful. Proverbs chapter number 20 and verse 6 says this: most men will proclaim everyone his own goodness, but a faithful man who can find. God says, oh yeah, everybody's running around talking about how great they are and how great a Christian you are. They're proclaiming their own goodness. He says, but that's not what I'm looking for. I'm looking for is just somebody to be faithful. In fact, when he says most uh he said uh when he says uh uh most men will proclaim everyone his own goodness Then he puts it in a question form, but a faithful man who can find? By wording it that way, what is he implying? They're rare. Who can find one of these? Uh my father-in-law was a uh antiquer. Do we have any antiques here? I mean antiquers here Man he would go find stuff and man he'd I mean that guy was slick and uh he'd drive what he was on West Virginia and then he'd get back in these back hollers and back in these little mountain towns and he'd just drive around He'd see some old antique sitting on somebody's front porch. And boy, it's what he's looking for. He he was uh he was with pie safes was a big thing. Anybody remember pie safes? I'm telling you, there ain't no pie safe in around me. But um he'd get these pie safes And he there were certain brands and certain style he had that he was an expert on this and one time he said he was driving and he saw one on the front porch. He said, Bob, that's what I'm looking for. That's the one I'm looking for It wasn't a for sale sign. It was just sitting out there on the front porch. So he went up and knocked on the door. They came and he says, hey, I sold this pie safety. I wonder if you're interested in selling it And they said, well, I don't know. We didn't give it much thought. They said, um, well, if you're interested, what do you ask for? He said, oh, I don't know. Give us 75 bucks He goes, okay, just didn't flinch, never reacted, gave him 75 bucks, brought it home, cleaned up a little bit. He sold it for like thousands of dollars. I said, you're a rascal But he he was looking for it. He's looking for it. He's out there and he'd go through sales and he'd go through these flea markets and he'd look for And he knew exactly what's for. And that's kind of the idea I get from that word there, that God expects for us. What he's looking for. He's looking in the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. He's looking in Independent Baptist Church. He's looking at Potomic Island Baptist Church. He's looking for churches, Bible preaching churches, all around the world. And he's looking, he's looking. What are you looking for, God? What are you looking for? He said, I'm looking for somebody faithful. A lot of stuff. A lot of people proclaiming their own goodness. Man, they got all what I'm looking for is somebody who will be faithful, somebody that sees themselves as a steward and that they're a minister and that they're faithful to me. There's a lot of churches in the world. A lot. Churches of every stripe you name it, there'll be some sort of church. I would like, as a member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, not just pastor, but as a member of Mount Lake Independent Bible Church, I would like to think that someday we as a church stand before God and God would say, you were exactly what I was looking for. You are faithful. You are faithful. I would like that to be true about myself Dennis, you were exactly what I was looking for. I was looking, not somebody proclaim how great they are. I was looking for somebody just faithful, just in their place, doing the responsibility I've given them to do in the place I've put them As long as I have them there. So that's what God expects, faithfulness. Psalms 101, verse 6 says this: mine eyes shall be upon the faithful of the land. What is God looking for in his people? He's looking for faithfulness. Now, you could, you know, the list could be very, very long. I jotted, you say, well, what exactly am I supposed to be faithful about? Well, I've listed a few things and you you could add to this. Certainly is an exhaustive list, but I put this down. We ought to be faithful to the Word of God. Faithful in our reading of God's Word, faithful in our taking it in, faithful in living by the Word of God. We ought to be faithful to this book. I'm telling you, we live in a day and age where there is a falling away from the Word of God. And it has been for a long time now. And God is looking for Christians. He's looking for churches and ministries that are faithful to the teachings of this book and the instructions of this book. And the promises that are given to us in this old Word of God. You say, oh, preacher, go on by the Bible isn't very popular today. No, but God's not looking for popularity, He's looking for faithfulness. Oh you're not gonna you might you're not gonna necessarily have big crowds, you stick to that book. Somebody said just not long ago, and I tend to agree with them maybe, they said, you know, I think Mountain Lake would have bigger crowds if they didn't have Bible standards. You know, there's probably some there might be some truth to that. But you know, I can't find anywhere in my Bible says God's looking for bigger crowds. Now, we'll take everybody we get. I want a big crowd here this week. Wouldn't it be great to have two, three, four hundred kids here this week? Wouldn't that be something? The teachers are all saying, oh Lord We're after people and and the church in Acts grew phenomenally. But my Bible says it is required of stewards that a man be found what? Faithful. Faithful. Faithful. So we ought to be faithful to the old book. What it teaches and promises us and following its It's word. And I think we ought to be faithful not only to God's word, we ought to be faithful to God's people. I'm talking about the church, the body of Christ. Church. Uh you better be careful what you say about church. It's Christ's body. Huh? This isn't man's idea. We didn't come up with this. This is the body of Christ, the Lord Jesus. Churches say, you don't have to go to church to be a Christian. No, you don't have to, and you don't need a parachute, jump out of an airplane. But it's a whole lot better. Right, works a whole lot better. No, you don't have to go to church to be saved, you don't have to go to church to get to heaven. In fact a lot of people go to church and aren't aren't making it to heaven. But what I am saying is this, church is God's idea. And it's important in the part of a believer. It's an important part of a believer's life and growth and development. And I believe we ought to be faithful. Hebrews says, forsake not the assembling of yourselves together. And the word forsake means just to neglect it, walk away from it, ignore it. So we ought to be faithful to God's word. We ought to be faithful to God's people. Can I put this down? We ought to be faithful to our family. A husband ought to be faithful to his wife. A wife ought to be faithful to her husband. We ought to be faithful to our children. Children ought to be faithful to their parents. I tell you what, we live in a day of unfaithfulness. We live a day in unfaithfulness. Statistics have been around for years now, and I I I I be honest with you, I don't want to believe it. I don't want to believe it, but they say, studies say that the divorce rate among independent, the divorce rate among fundamental Bible-believing Christians is the same as the divorce rate of the world. I don't want to believe that. But I'm afraid. I'm afraid. God's not looking for the greatest husband, perfect husband in the world, but He is looking for a husband that's faithful. This guy's not going for a wife that's the best cook and then you know, she's a uh supermodel. Uh the old Coke bottle figure turned into a two liter. But um I'm sorry. But I tell you I tell you I tell you what he is looking for. He's looking for faithfulness A wife, be faithful, faithful, faithful. What I be faithful? Be faithful to the book. Be faithful to God's people, the church. Be faithful to our family. Can I put this out? Be faithful in our finances. It's not ours. It's my money. Here's some people's attitude towards money. They'll say, all right, it's all mine. I worked for it. I w I invested. I was I used it wisely. This is all my money. That's wrong. That's wrong. Especially for a believer. Some other people have this idea. Well, 10% of my money is God's, the other 90% is mine. 10% is God's, 90% is mine. I'd say that's still wrong. That's still wrong. The Bible view is it's all God's. Gods. And he says, ten percent? And however else he leads us, faith promise, give in the building, all that. He goes, however God directs us, the tithe is there, fixed in my mind, it's fixed But all the other giving, you know, however God leads and directs us, and then God lets us use that other percentage as He directs us, He instructs us, it's not ours. It's not ours. God was going to get baptized. He was coming down the water. And the preacher said, Hold it, your wallet's still in your clothes there. It'll get all wet. He goes, No, I want my wallet to get baptized too. Saying it's not mine. Be faithful in our to our God's word. Be faithful to God's church. Be faithful to our family. Be faithful in our responsibility in our to our finances. Be faithful in our responsibilities. Let me put this one overall, encompassable, be faithful to our Savior. I'll be faithful to Jesus Christ. Again, I'm getting way on my if you saw my outline and what I'm preaching, it's all out of whack. But you know what we want to hear at the judgment seat of Christ? Well done, thou good and faithful. Faithful. Faithful. That's what he's looking for. Be faithful to my Savior. Don't deny him. Don't take his name in vain. Share Him, witness, speak of Him, glorify Him, lift Him up. This whole wicked, sinful world. This world needs a Savior And God's looking for folks who are faithful to their Savior. Faithfulness, God puts the highest premium on faithfulness. You come up to any other characteristic, any other thing you and I can say or do as a Christian, and there's a place for all of it But the highest premium in my mind if God puts on faithfulness. Faithfulness to God is not an option, it's an expectation. That we be faithful. Number three, let me quickly give you this. Notice the examination. Moreover, it is required of stewards that a man be Found faithful. The word found means to be thoroughly searched, thoroughly scrutinized, thoroughly examined. As a steward of the life that God has entrusted me with, I will be held accountable as to how faithful I have been. Just like in the parables, and again we referenced this recently, but just like in the parables, when the husbandman would lend out his farm, his vineyard to stewards. And they were to tend it and care for it and keep it and uh get a great harvest, and he would go off, and he would come back, and he was accountability, it was a reckoning, there was a requirement, all right, I want the fruit, what did you produce? How did you use it? That's true in our lives. It's true in our lives. I will be held accountable how faithful I've been with that which God has entrusted me with. Romans 14, 12 says, so then every one of us shall give an account of himself to God. Tell you, that's a teaching that is missing in a lot of the preaching today anymore. It's a fact that there is accountability coming. It isn't just, oh, I live my life, live it up, get get it, go for the gusto, get as much out of this life as I can, oh this bucket list, I'm gonna do this or this before I die I'm telling you what, if you're if you view dying as the end, you're making a terrible mistake after this uh judgment. Accountability. So, uh, number one, the expression he uses for us is stewards. That's the way God sees us. His expectation from us is faithfulness. The examination of you and I as a steward is coming at the judgment seat of Christ. And then last of all, notice God's exchange for faithfulness. Faithfulness is highly valued by God. I found if I have something that I highly value, I am willing to invest in it. I'm willing to put something towards it. A lot of folks here, you know, we own a house, or you're in the process of buying a house. I believe owning property, owning a house is very important. I think it's scriptural. You own a house. It's not commanded. It's not sin if we don't. But I think it's uh something uh very important. And so what do we do? Say owning that house is very, very important to me. I val I value owning a house very very highly So we are unwilling, and uh and we will uh uh get a mortgage or whatever, and we will invest a large sum of money for fifteen, twenty-five, thirty, thirty-five years Because that house is of value to me. That is something that's important to me, owning that, and I'm willing to invest a lot into it And I look at it this way. God sees faithfulness on the part of his people as something very, very important. He highly values it. And you know what? He is willing to bless us. And invest in us if we will be faithful. Let me read you a passage I came across, I believe it's in Proverbs. Let me get it for you here. Proverbs chapter 28 and verse 20, listen to what God says. A faithful man shall abound with blessings. A faithful man shall abound with blessings. God highly values faithfulness, and when he finds a faithful man, who can find? I found one! Here's a faithful man. Here's a faithful woman. Here's a faithful church. I found one. Oh, I'm going to pour my blessings out on it. I'll pour my blessings out on that faithful man. I'm going to pour my blessings out on that faithful woman. I'm going to pour my blessings out on that faithful church. You say, so you're saying, preacher, if I'm faithful, God will make me rich. Ah, you're confusing the world's definition for blessing with God's definition of blessing. I can introduce you to a lot of rich people that are absolutely miserable. Absolutely miserable. We could name movie stars that are multi, multi-millionaires. That it was all a show, and they ended up taking their lives. Their lives were so empty, their lives were so miserable, they could not live another day and took it. So God's definition of blessing does not mean finances. Now, sometimes God will bless financially. That's not what He's talking about. God's talking about the blessings of joy and fulfillment. And the presence of God in our life. God blesses faithfulness. You say, well, how can I have God's, how can I have the joy of the Lord? Well, start by being faithful. faithful. The Lord blesses. A faithful man shall abound with blessings. Also God uses a faithful man. Do you know it's a tremendous It's a tremendous privilege to be used by God. We have a bunch of Bible time workers this week, teachers and bus drivers. You know what? We need to understand the privilege that God has given to us. to serve him. And God says, if I find someone that's faithful, I'll use them to advance the cause of Christ, to glorify the Savior, to be a help and blessing to others You know who one of the most faithful men in the Bible was? Now there's a bunch, but one of the most faithful men in the Bible was the man named Job. And God put faith in Job. God instigated, get this, God instigated an argument with Satan. God started it. Satan, have you considered my servant Job? It's like God's trying to pick an argument with him. Oh, yeah, Job. Sure, you got a hedge about him. Well he's got heads abound, of course he'll serve you. He's got all kinds of he's wealthy, he's got a big family, they all l doing right, the family gets along great. Of course he'll serve you. You take that away from him, he'll curse you to your faith Face. And God says, I've got faith in Job that he'll stay faithful even if you do that. And he let him have at it. Took all his possessions, killed all his kids. Job stayed faithful. They're faithful. God picks an argument with Satan again. Hey Satan! Consider my servant Job. He's faithful. Even though you moved me against him, he stayed faithful. Oh yeah, skin for skin. Yea, all the man hath, yeah, you touch his body, he'll curse your face All right, you can do whatever you want, just don't kill him. And Job uh Satan tore him up. Job stayed faithful. Stayed faithful. And for thousands and thousands of years, God has been using Job's testimony of faithfulness to help people like you and me. Help us in times of heartache, to help us in times of setback, and help us in times of discouragement and disappointment. We read of Job and God uses him for thousands of years. Help us. And what I'm saying to you, a faithful church, a faithful Christian, God will use us to help be a blessing if we'll just Stay faithful. Just stay faithful. It is required of stewards that a man be found faithful. God's not looking for great knowledge. No, that's important. The Bible talks about knowledge. God's not looking for great talents and God gifts us. He does. He gives us gifts. Jennifer sang a beautiful song. Wasn't that a blessing? I thank God for that. And great knowledge. People have great knowledge and great talents. And God's blessed some people with great wealth. And thank God for it. But God says what I'm really, really want above and beyond all of that is just be faithful to me That dear lady dropped the bags, pulled the gun out. Get out of my car! And she took possession of something that wasn't hers. Now that's a silly little incident. But we need to be very careful that we don't try and take possession of something that's not ours. This isn't my life, this isn't my body, it's his. And he He wants me to be faithful with it. Father in heaven, please help us in this matter of faithfulness. Every one of us can do it. It requires no special skills. It doesn't require any special talents, any level of money. It's just a determination and a love for you and a humble attitude. I'll be faithful to the Lord. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, God's Spirit has spoken to my heart. And I want to be found of the Lord to be faithful to his word, his church, my family, responsibilities, to my Savior. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. God has challenged, the Holy Spirit of God has challenged and stirred my heart. Be a faithful Christian. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God has challenged and stirred my heart. God bless you Faithful to soul winning, witnessing. There's some here who say, pray to her. Now this is between you and God, so I respect that. But some here say, preacher, God has brought to my attention an area of my life that I've not been faithful as I ought to. I don't know what it is and I don't know how level of seriousness it might be, but if God brought it to our attention, then we And we need to respond. How we say, preacher, pray for me. There's a specific area that the Spirit of God has spoken to my heart about that I really need to get this Faithfulness straightened out. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? I like to be very specific when dealing with God. God bless you. A bunch of hands around. So someone here this morning said, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm saved. So I can't honestly say that I know for sure my sins are forgiven. When I die, I go to heaven Now that's not what the message was about, but our salvation is available to us because our Savior was faithful. Faithful to the purpose, He came to earth, to die for us, be buried, rose again, so we can can be forgiven. Is there any? Say, preacher, pray for me. I'm not certain that my sins are forgiven and that I have eternal life, a home in heaven. Is there any like that? Say, pray for me. I need that settled. Any at all? Any at all. Father, now bless now. We ask our invitation. You've spoken to our hearts. You've been faithful to us, Lord. There's no doubt about that. And help us to be the same for you. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.