Excuse me. We're going to start reading in verse one and we'll go down through verse nine. 2 Peter 3, verse 1 says, This second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you, in both which I stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance. That ye may be mindful of the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets, and of the commandment of us, the apostles of the Lord and Savior. Knowing this first that there shall come in the last days scoffers, walking after their own lusts, and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of the creation. For this they willingly are ignorant of, that by the word of God the heavens were of old, and the earth standing out of the water and in the water Whereby the world that then was being overflowed with water perished. But the heavens and the earth, which are now, by the same word, are kept in store, reserved unto fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men But beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing, that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years is one day. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but is long suffering to usward Not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. We'll pray and then I'm gonna uh give you this uh message that I've simply entitled The Scoffers. The scoffers. Heavenly Father, I thank you for this day that you've given us, and I thank you for the service this morning. Lord, it was just a blessing to be in your house this morning. Lord, I ask that you would meet with us again tonight as well. Lord, I ask that you would uh help me to uh say the things that you would have me to say, and Lord, we I ask that you would uh to reach our hearts tonight, Lord, and convict us of the things we're doing wrong and show us where uh we need to get it right, Lord. Lord, I just thank you for all the things that you've given us. I thank you for this church and this people and this family here. And how uh how we all rally behind each other, Lord, and uh it's it's just good to see a family here Lord, I just ask that you would bless the remainder of the service now, and it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. In the first two verses here of chapter three, Peter has the intent to stir up our minds by way of remembrance, he says. He wants us to remember some things. First of all, he wants us to remember what we have read from the Bible. Look at verse 2. It says that ye may be mindful of the words which were spoken by the holy prophets. That's the Old Testament scripture. And of the commandment of us, the apostles of the Lord and Savior. That's New Testament. So Peter's intent is to get us to remember what we have read and learned from the Bible, but not just to remember what we have read, but to be mindful of what we have learned. Not just to remember the words, but to have an understanding of what is going on and what is being discussed in the passages we are Remembering. You know, it's one thing to read something and and remember it and even quote it, but it's another thing to be mindful of something. I took Spanish in high school, and I could remember things and bring things to remembrance to pass a test. I could conjugate verbs and all that kind of stuff, but I was far from mindful of the language of Spanish. And you could use this in a whole lot of different ways. I think of um an offense on a football team, you can know what the different positions are, center, guard, tackle, receivers, quarterback, whatever, but be far from mindful of how that uh team operates. So what he's telling us here is he wants us to uh he wants to stir up our minds and and he wants us to remember some things, but he wants us to be mindful of the things that we remember. Specifically here he wants us to remember the scriptures that we have read and be mindful of the scriptures. Well why Because in the last days there will come scoffers. And when these scoffers come around, we need to be mindful of what the Scripture has to say. And tonight, for a few minutes, we're going to look at the scoffers. This is going to be more of a study, I guess you could say. We're going to look at the scoffers, who they are, what they do, what they're about, what they believe. How God feels about him, how we should feel about him, and things like that. But we definitely need to be mindful of what the scripture has to say about the scoffer. So first off, when are the scoffers coming? Well, right here in verse 3, it tells us, knowing this first, that there shall come in the last days scoffers. Scoffers will be coming in the last days is what it's saying. Now, I was thinking about this. Were there always has there always been scoffers? Well, yes. Goliath, he scoffed um at David and and and people scoffed at Noah and and all throughout the Bible, all throughout time we see scoffers. Now I've got to think about this. This is a good analogy. If I told you that I was going to go home tonight and eat a pepperoni pizza for dinner, does that mean I have never had a pepperoni pizza before? I've had plenty But you know for sure that I'll have one tonight, and I think that's kind of like what he's telling us. There has always been scoffers, but you better believe that in the last days we are definitely going to be seeing some scoffers And I don't know about you, but in my short twenty-seven years, it seems like they have been coming out more and more. These scoffers. Um so when are they coming? Well they're here. And they're gonna keep coming. And we are it we in the church age Well, I think I I can't prove it. We no man knows when the Lord's coming back. But the closer we get to his coming back, we are definitely going to be seeing more and more of these scoffers. So secondly tonight, who is it these scoffers seek to please? Look again at verse 3, knowing this first. There shall come in the last days scoffers walking after their own lust. Their own lust. Someone who is a scoffer. Will only seek to satisfy their own self, their own lust. They only seek to benefit themselves. Now, they're pretty slick about it. There are a lot of scoffers that will operate under the guise of some greater good cause. You know, save the bay or whatever, save the world, were for equality. They could care less about equality. They really only care about themselves. You know, they're for women's health. They don't care about women's health. They just don't want to have the consequences of having a baby. And that's really all they care about is their own self. And they'll be slick about it, and they'll try to show you how nice and sweet they are. But really, the Bible tells us the scoffers they only care about themselves. Only satisfy their own lust. And y'all know what I'm talking about. You'll see even parades, pride parades, about how wonderful it is and how everyone should love everybody. They can care less about love. They really only care about what doing the thing they want to do. And that's all they seek to please is them ourselves. That's what scoffers are. More freedom for me, more uh for more opportunities for me to be able to do what I want to do. Um if something's in my way, then We're going to get rid of it. So that's that's their attitude. Scoffers walk after their own lust. That's what they do. So we know that they're here and we see that they really only care about themselves, but but what do they actually do I like that word scoff. It's one of those words that sounds like what it is. You know what I'm talking about? It's they they scoff. They derive. They mock. They scorn. That's what they are. They're scoffers. They are what they do. They mock the scripture. They mock the Bible. Look at verse 4. It says, and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? I actually saw this on on on I've seen this on t-shirts and bumper stickers before. The f um I forget what the image is in the background, but it says, give it up Christians, he's not coming back. Have any of you have ever seen that? It's it's wicked. I hate that stuff. But you know what that is? That's that's during prophecy here. And it makes me want to tell him, look, hey, you're mentioned in the Bible. That's pretty cool, isn't it? But anyway. But that's what they do. They mock Scripture. Now, the only way that they could know that the Lord was going to be coming back is for them to either read the Scripture Or have someone else tell them what the scripture says. But it's not convenient for them. Because if the Bible is true And Jesus is coming back, then that lust that they're walking after is sin. And that's super inconvenient. So they'll just mock it. They'll just make fun of it. They make fun of scriptures. Where is the promise of his coming? You know, they'll say things like, You believe that old book? I had one- I had a boss one time, he told me that there was no difference in believing in God and believing in Santa Claus. And then he said, um, I had my little New Testament and I pulled it out and I I was try to to witness to him and he said, you know, that that thing doesn't even agree with itself. It's full of contradictions. And I was like, well here, show me one. And he's like, I don't know anything about it. It's like that's my point. But anyway, whenever you hear someone say the Bible is full of contradictions, first of all, they're just saying something they've heard someone else say They don't even they don't know. They've never found a contradiction in the Bible because there's not one there. And they're just reaching in the air, grabbing at something, just so they don't have to admit that what they're walking after, the lust they're walking after, is sin. Um they mock the scripture. There is a professor at Berkeley, and I'm all for going to a good Christian college. I'm all for that. But you understand that there are some wicked universities out there. And um there is a professor at uh Berkeley University, uh to my knowledge, he's still there, and he taught a freshman philosophy class. But at the beginning of his freshman philosophy class, he says, anyone that believes that the Bible is inerrant will automatically get an F in this class. And they accuse us of the not having an open mind. But that's what they do. They mock the scripture, and in doing so, they will mock God Himself. The scoffers make fun of God. They're understand there are some very wicked comedians out there that are not funny. They mock God. They make fun of him. You'll see uh cartoons make Christ look like some sort of hippie. Um it's wicked. They make fun of him, they mock him. They did it to Jesus while he was on the cross, didn't they? If you're the Christ, come down from the cross, we'll believe you. Oh, if you're the Christ, save yourself and us too. You know? He saved others, but himself he can't save. And it's no different now. They scoff him, they make fun of him, they mock him. There'll be coming a day when they won't be doing that anymore, though, that's for sure. And also in doing so, they'll make fun of us. They'll mock us simply because we're Christians. Um and you g and and I don't know if any of you have ever experienced it firsthand, maybe you have, where you're made fun of just simply for what you believe. I think we're blessed, though we really don't see that very much here. I'm thankful for that. But there is places where Christians are ridiculed and really are discriminated against because they are Christians. Richard Dawkins, who's a very famous scoffer. This is a quote that he said. He said, It's absolutely safe to say that if you meet somebody who claims not to believe in evolution, that person is ignorant, stupid, or insane. What a nice guy. What a nice scoffer. And that's it. They'll act like you're stupid just because you believe in creation. Because you say the earth is six thousand years old. Or you believe in a flood, they'll scoff at you for th really think just believe in anything that the Bible has to say. That's what they do. They're scoffers. They are what they do. And I think it's interesting that most of the time when these scoffers approach you, they can't approach you with any facts or evidence, because there is none. So they'll attack your character, they'll attack your personality. Because they don't have anything. They're just reaching, grabbing at something, so they just scoff. Scoff. They are what they do, they're scoffers. They have religious beliefs, these scoffers do. Understand this. The atheist is a very religious person. He is a very, very Trying to think of a way to say it. Very religious. They have a lot of faith. The the atheist does. Because you have to um believe and have faith that there is no God. And I think that takes a whole lot more faith than to believe there is one. They're very religious people, and they get mad when you tell them that. But um, what is their religious belief? Verse 4, look at verse 4 of 2 Peter 3 And saying, Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were All things continue as they were from the creation. Now these scoffers, these atheists that live today, they have a creation. They have their form of creation, you know, and then they call it the Big Bang, and we all evolve from there. That's where their creation started. But catch this phrase: all things continue as they were And I heard someone um do a lecture on this and it and it it made really good sense. But um anyone ever heard of uniformitarianism? Big long word. I'm educated, sort of. Uniformitarianism has the idea that the present, the key, the past, all things that are happening the way they are now, the way they've always happened. And it's where we get this idea of evolution from Uh the the president's key to pass, so they'll look at something like the Grand Canyon and the the ri there's a river flowing through it and they see the river cuts away at the rock this many Millimeters a year or whatever. So it took this many million years to cut out the whole Grand Canyon. Well duh. It's obvious that a lot of water made that ditch in a hurry. But anyway So they look at things like this and they'll say, you know, the present is the key of the past, so it's obviously that the evolution happened. The idea of evolution was here in 2 Peter Their creation, the Big Bang, and they say all things continue as they were, that is the the the scoffer's religion I guess you could could call it that. It is just that. It's evolution. The problem is, it's called the theory of evolution. Because it's not been proven, because it's not a fact, but they try to pass it off like it is one, like it is fact. They call it science, falsely so-called, as the Bible says. It's not science. Science is something that we can understand, something we can see. You can't see what happened in the past. It's not science, it's a theory, but they'll pass it off in our schools like it's a fact, repeat it over and over and over again. But it it obviously it's not, and I think they forgot about a name a man by the name of Francisco Ready, who disproved spontaneous generation hundreds of years ago. But they don't care. They think that life can just appear. Oof. So we're told of the scoffers' religion here in 2 Peter, they say, since the fathers fell asleep, verse 4, all things continue as they were from the beginning of the creation. So who is the scoffer? He's someone who's he's here. They're coming more and more. They really only care about themselves and seek to please themselves. Someone who mocks God, mocks God's word, mocks God's people. And someone whose religious faith is in a disproven theory. That's who the scoffer is. So let's see what God has to say about it. Look at verse 5 It says, for this they are willingly, they willingly are ignorant. Peter right here says they're ignorant. Ignorant means lacking knowledge or awareness in general, uneducated, unknowledgeable. I looked up the definition of ignorant, just in case I was ignorant of that definition. But I think it's interesting, the very thing that these scoffers accuse us of being is what they are. They're ignorant. Um unknowledgeable, uneducated when it comes to the Bible. But here's the problem. And here's what's really sad. It's one there are plenty of people in the world That are ignorant when it comes to the gospel. They don't know it, they've never heard it. But this is what's sad. When you have access to it, it are willingly ignorant. They're willingly ignorant. They're not just uneducated, they don't want to be. They don't want to know what the Bible says. Because it interferes with the lust that they're walking after. They are willingly ignorant of creation. Verse 5 says, For this they are willingly ignorant of that by the word of God the heavens were of old. Ignorant, they're unaware, unknowledgeable of the fact that that God created the heaven and the earth. Because they don't want to believe in all powerful God. They would rather be ignorant of the fact that God had created the heavens and the earth They are ignorant of Scripture. 1 Corinthians 2. 14 says, The natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him, neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. These scoffers are ignorant of the things of God. They're ignorant of the scriptures. That's because they're unsaved, but they are willingly unsaved. You guys understand that when someone rejects the gospel, That's of their own free will. And then they are choosing to be willingly ignorant. This is scary. They're ignorant of their coming judgment Verse 7. Look at verse 7. It says, But the heavens and the earth, which are now by the same word, are kept in store, reserved unto fire against the day of judgment. And perdition of ungodly men. There is a time when all these scoffers are going to be wiped out. Jude, go to Jude, verses 14 and 15. Should be just a few pages over. To verse 14 and 15, it says, And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of these, saying, Behold, the Lord cometh With ten thousand of his saints, to execute judgment upon all and to convince all their ungodly deeds, which they have ungodly committed. And of all their hard speeches, this is their scoffing, all their hard speeches which ungodly sinners have ungodly or have spoken against them. It's scoffing, speaking against Christ, and he is coming back, and we're going to come back with him. And these that are willingly ignorant of this are going to be in for a surprise. But they'd rather walk after their own lust, so they'll just ignore all of this and have pleasure in sin for a season. Willingly ignorant of creation, ignorant of scripture, ignorant of their coming judgment. So we see this who the scoffers are and what God thinks of them. Now let's let's look at how God feels about them. Look at verse 9 Remember first of all, remember what it said earlier said what they'll say is where's the promise of his coming? He's not coming back. That's what they'll say. How come he hasn't come back yet? Look at verse nine. The Lord is not slack concerning his promises. Some men count slackness. But his long suffering. Man, I'm glad he is, to usward, not willing that any, even the scoffers, should perish. But that all should come to repentance. God loves all men. And that includes the scoffers. The Lord will come back, whether these scoffers think he will or not. He will. He is not slack concerning his promise of his return, but he is long-suffering. You know why he's long suffering? Giving those scoffers opportunities to come to repentance. Can you imagine? The order would have come back when there were scoffers first. None of us would be here. None of us would be here. And I dare say there's probably in this crowd some people that used to be scoffers. I think I think of um Paul. And actually he mentions Paul here, I believe, uh in verse fifteen. It says in the account of that account that the long-suffering of our Lord is salvation, even as our beloved brother Paul also according to the wisdom given unto him hath written unto you. Paul was a great example of a scoffer. But the Lord was long-suffering. Not only that they should perish, but that all should come to repentance So if this ever happens, if someone ever looks at you and says, How come he hasn't come back yet? Well I'm glad you asked. Because he wants to see you saved. That's why he hasn't come back yet. You better hurry up because he might be coming back in just a minute Right? I'm glad he's long suffering. I'm glad he is. I've known some scoffers that have been saved. He's long-suffering, and I'm glad he is. God died for the scoffers, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. That includes us. Romans 5, 6 says, For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. Understand that scoffers of some of these there's some wicked people out there that are ungodly people, and that's who he died for. Well what's he going to do with the scoffers if they continue to reject him? Revelation 20, verse 15 says, Whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. When it's all said and done, every one of these scoffers that rejects Jesus Christ is one day going to be cast into the lake of fire. And we already saw where where God's going to come back to this earth and he's going to execute judgment here. But there's going to come a day at that great white throne, judgment, where they'll be cast in the lake of fire for eternity, and they aren't coming out. But remember it's their own choice. Willingly ignorant. It would be terrible to be haunted with that throughout all of eternity, remembering the times you had. And people were trying to show you the gospel and you willingly rejected it. So in conclusion, what should we do about all these scoffers? Well the Bible says, let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus, for to have the mind of Christ that Christ has. And that includes how he feels about the scoffers. God doesn't want them to perish, so neither should we. The Bible views them as ignorant of the scriptures, so we must continue to try to educate them and witness to them. Share the gospel with them. Guys, understand that the Bible says his word will not return to him void. If you ever come across one of these scholars and share scripture with him, God's going to use that. Remember again the um Paul he gives his uh account of salvation or and then when um when Paul is on the road to Damascus The Lord says, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks. It was pricks that he heard Stephen preaching. When they killed Stephen, when those scoffers killed Stephen, and Paul was one of those scoffers. But that word of God kept pricking his heart. It kept pricking his heart. It was hard to kick against those pricks. When you come across one of these scoffers, share the gospel with them. Share the Bible with them. It's going to be hard for them to kick against those pricks. You never know. You might just come across one of these scoffers, witness to them, and think, man, they're never going to get saved. And they might. And pray that they will. Pray that they will. God's not willing that any should perish. Think about if Stephen, the first martyr there, hadn't have had just buckled under the pressure that those scoffers were putting on him. Then Paul never would have been saved. So the scoffers are here. They're getting worse, it's getting more of them. But God loves them. And if God hasn't come back yet, that's because he still wants us to go tell him about him. He still wants us to witness to him. Until God comes back, until Christ comes back and takes us home, let's go after these scoffers. Let's go witness to them. Let's go try to educate the ignorant. of the gospel. May God help us be mindful, like he said here at the beginning, and remember what we have learned about these scoffers and help us be mindful and get the gospel to these scoffers. Heavenly Father, I thank you for this day that you've given us, Lord, and I thank you for your word and showing us in your word about these scoffers. Help us to remember this and not just to remember to be mindful of these scoffers. Lord, I ask that you would give us an opportunity throughout this week sometime to witness to one of these scoffers, Lord, or to witness someone who's not saved. That we might see someone one to you this week, Lord. It'd be a great blessing. Lord, I ask that you would bless now the invitation time and keep us safe as we're going home. And it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Heads bowed, eyes closed for just a minute. You're here and you say, you know what, Pastor Matt, sometimes I look at these scoffers, and man, it makes me mad. And hey, it should. But it should not make us mad to the point where we won't witness to them. That's our job. But if you're here and you say, Pastor Matt, there's something God's speaking to my heart about tonight. Maybe it's I haven't been witnessing people like I should whatever. I don't know. But if there's something God's speaking to your heart about tonight, we say pray for me, Pastor Matt. God's speaking to my heart about something. If that's you, slip your hand up. I just want to pray for you. Absolutely. God's speaking in my heart tonight. You may put your hands down. It could be there's someone here that maybe you are one of these scoffers. I don't know. If you're here and you say, Pastor Matt, I'm not even sure if I'm saved. If something happened to me, I don't even know if I'd go to heaven. I sure would like to know. That's you. Pastor Matt, I'm not sure I'm saved, but but I'm concerned about my soul. If that's you, just lift your hand up. I just want to pray for you Lord, I thank you again for everything you've done for us. Lord, I ask now that you bless this invitation time, and it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As we stand to our feet and as he starts to play, if God spoke to your heart about