Ezekiel 22, if you would please. Ezekiel 22. And I want to speak tonight on three things. I want to speak on The prophets, the priests, and the princes. And then from those three things, what happens to people? And so We need to understand that God has given us some amazing things in our country. And uh there's no one else that has it as good as we have it here in America. There's no one else that has the uh the way that we eat and the way that we can think. And the way that we can move. And uh I I remembered stories of when the wall came down, and I mentioned that the other night. And how people were coming from East Berlin to West Berlin and hanging keys to homes and and automobiles on fences. And one commentator stopped one of them and said, Where are these keys? That you're putting up here. He said, well that keys to my house, and that keys to my car that I had to wait for over a decade to get He said, and yet you're leaving these things behind and you have a smile on your face. And it was so interesting because it was almost like this person didn't Conceived that this correspondent couldn't understand what was going on in front of his very eyes. He said, for the first time in my life, I, my wife, and my family. are walking towards liberty. And we're going to be able to think free and live free. We won't have someone telling us what to think. Or someone looking at us as if we had said something wrong. We won't have to go to bed in fear that our neighbor has reported us for some imaginary infraction. We are heading towards liberty and doesn't make any difference what we have to leave behind What we are about to receive is more precious than any house or any automobile or anything else material in this world. I'm thinking, wow, that uh that was well said by that man We live like no one else. We think like no one else. And as I've already stated, I want to restate again, we As God's people have to understand, millions of the world would love to be in our shoes. And I'm sorry to say, we have forgotten some things that we need to remember. And so Ezekiel 22, if you would please stand for just a minute. I want to read a few verses, and then I'll let you sit back down. It says there in Ezekiel 22 and verse 25, there is a conspiracy of her prophets in the midst thereof, like a roaring lion. Ravening the prey, they have devoured souls, they have taken the treasure and precious things. They have made her many widows in the midst thereof The priests have violated my law and have profaned my holy things. They have put no difference between the holy and profane, neither have they shown difference between the unclean and the clean. and have hid their eyes from my Sabbaths, and I am profaned among them. For princes in the midst thereof are like wolves ravening the prey. To shed blood, and to destroy souls, to get death's honest game. And her prophets have daubed them with untempered mortar seeing vanity and divining lies unto them, saying, Thus saith the Lord, when the Lord hath not spoken. The people in you might say The reason of all of these things and what they've happened and the result in the people of the land have used oppression And exercised robbery, and have vexed the poor and needy. Yea, they have oppressed the stranger wrongfully. And we know this verse, very familiar to us. And I sought for a man among them that should make up the hedge and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it, but I found none. Therefore, I have poured out my indignation upon them. I have consumed them with fire, the fire of my wrath. Their own way have I recompensed upon their heads, saith the Lord. Heavenly Father, we pray now, dear God, that you would move into this service tonight, and Father, through and by thy Holy Ghost. That she would control everything that said. Articulate my speech once again. Father clarify and direct my thoughts. But most of all, we ask for that holy unction that you would prepare a hedge around us and bind off the wicked one and father that through and by your Comforter, the Holy Spirit, lead and guide us into all truth. And dwell me and Father, have our hearts and minds open unto the presence of your blessed and Holy Spirit. Father, we ask that we would be different after this message tonight, that it would move us, that we wouldn't just say that was uh another interesting message or a good message or whatever the comment, but Lord that it would sink into our very souls and our spirits and we would start doing some things differently in our life. Understanding that now we are at the crossroads of some critical mass in our nation. And this church right here Could be the answer to our nation's course of action. So, Father, we humbly implore thee Enter into this service. And we ask this through and by the power and the merit and especially the authority that's in the name of your precious Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And Father, we'll be again mindful of everything that's said and done, that I might be an honor and glory to thy name. Amen. Thank you. May be seated. So in these verses, the Lord is bringing an indictment against these people, these leaders of Israel, for their perversion in their offices. You think about that. How God's word is right up to date. How God's word is right up to the moment in which we live. And how through and by the different things that we can glean from God's Word, we can actually know what course of action to take in our nation as well. The prophets, who are supposed to represent God before the people, they were conspiring to take money. And devour people possibly through false prophetic condemnations of innocent men or false endorsements of war and left many widows Now, I I'm thankful that I'm a Baptist. I'm thankful even more so that I'm an independent Baptist I'm more thankful th that I'm a fundamental independent Baptist. And I've heard about these recovering fundamental I'm not re recovering from anything. Amen. I I'm I look, I'm so thankful that I'm a fundamental independent Baptist. You know what that means? That means if God says it, that settles it. We need to adjust our course to his word instead of all of these mandi pambies out here that are adjusting their services to the culture. I remember there was a great ship and it was the it was called the Missouri and it was going down one of the uh particular riverways there and And uh everyone knew the great Missouri. Everyone knew and as soon as the captain uh shouted out this is the Missouri Boy, all the ships would give way. It was a powerful ship. One particular night going through the fog. There was a light coming the other way. And the captain of the great Missouri said, this is the great Missouri. Turn to the starboard. And the voice came back from the light and said, you turn to the port. He said, you don't understand. This is the great Missouri. You turn to the starboard. A voice came back from the light and said, You don't understand. This is the lighthouse. You turn to the port And that's like so many times it's going on today. People are trying to adjust their congregations to the culture. No, no, no, no, no. We're counter-cultural. We've always stood against the culture. We need to stand against the critical race theory. We need to stand against the wokism. If we don't stand, no one else will. It wasn't it was not a popular thing in the day of our founders to have signed that declaration of independence. I wanted to call again to your memory the fact that only one-third of our populace was on the side of the Patriots. Two-thirds were against them. Two-thirds were monarchists. Two-thirds wanted them hung One of them jailed, one of them flogged to death. But we think of well, you know, everyone thought these men were great heroes, and when they came along everyone's getting ready to pucker. Most times they were getting ready to spit. But our founding fathers, they just ignored the slights of men because they knew they were lockstep with God. And they were going forward through and by, step by step, their steps ordered by the Lord, because they were good men. The prophets here had an abuse of authority, a misuse of a person's freedom of action to exploit or oppress or treat others in a way that's not for their own good. Warnings against abuse of authority come in all different, you might say, areas of leadership. Employers over employees. It says that in Ephesians 6 and verse 9, and he masters do the same things unto them for bearing Threatening, knowing that your master also is in heaven, neither is there any respect of persons with him. So we need to always make sure that we treat everyone the same way with great respect. Leviticus 25, 43 talks about that. Thou shalt not rule over him with rigor, but thou shalt fear By God, I've been in leadership before. I mean, I I was the deputy commander of the Uniform Protective Branch of Diplomatic Security under George H. W. Bush. And uh, I mean, I was I was uh second in command over 325 armed men with 357 magnums strapped to their side. With nick NickLAD uh uh bullets that were anti-personnel rounds. And it was my job every once in a while to actually terminate some of these guys And uh they would walk into my office arms. Someone said, Brother Harding, uh, I said, look, I I know how to handle this. And I would tell these men, and I was honest with them, I wasn't trying to play any games I tried to take good care of them and they understood who I was and and what I was trying to do. And some of the guys had just gone too far and they had given too much ammo to the enemy, so to speak, against them. And I said, now look I I really hope that you're successful somewhere. I believe you will be. You have some great capabilities. You wouldn't be here if you didn't, but you won't now have the chance to be successful here I remember one guy walked out and he he was uh he was smiling and one of the other guys said, What happened? He said, Well, it was paramilitary rank structure, so I was Major Harding. He said, Major Harding just fired me He said, and you're smiling? He said, yeah, because he said I'm going to be successful somewhere, just not here. He believed it. You know why he believed it? Because I meant it. That's why Because I treated those people underneath me with respect. And I'm telling you, they were tremendously protective of me. I remember one time, one of my high points of my career was when my boss had gone home and he was retired Fullbird Colonel. From the Strategic Air Command. And we had just gone to war for the very first time with Iraq. And it was George H. W. Bush and he had given all of the command to Jim Baker because they had been friends for many years and And uh there was a uh fellow there that was a news correspondent. If I told you his name, everyone would say, Oh yeah, I've And uh and he would broadcast in those days from the State Department. There's always someone that's broadcasting from the State Department. You can see the flags behind him. And uh so uh I was there when we went actually to war And uh I walked into the main area of the State Department and we this was pre-9-11 of course and we had pulled the uh SUVs in front of all of the doors Because we were on the terrorist hit list for number one because Jim Baker was calling the shots and we had uh blockaded all the streets and then we told Metro PD they had a problem with traffic after we blocked the streets that wasn't, you know Very nice, but we just had to do what we had to do. So this guy came in and he said, wow, you've really hyped in security. I said, isn't it obvious? He said, yes it is. Will you go on national news and let me uh interview you? I said, no, sir I said, our nation just went to war. I'm not going to get on the news and allow you to look at I I said, look, you need to leave now. We can't tip our hand to the terrorists. He said, Oh, you can't do that. Freedom of the press. I said, our nation just went to war and the freedom of the press begins on the other side of that door. There were two men behind me that dwarfed me. They were like linebackers from the NFL. And they growled almost silently. It was less like, you know, just let us at him, Major Harding. I said, if you don't start moving to that door, these gentlemen are going to show you the door. And we all took a step forward. Those guys started coming around me. And he took a step back. And then our news corps came down and they messed up the whole thing, okay? They said, no, he's right, this is all you're gonna say, this is what you're gonna do. And if you don't do this, you're gonna lose your spot here That was one of my high points in my career, kicking out a news correspondent. I realize that, amen. But those guys behind me, man, they were ready. They were ready to follow my command on a moment's notice. You know why? Because they knew I cared for them. They knew that I was protecting them. That's the way we should be. That is how authority should be. People should know that you care for them. I'm thankful for pastors like Brother Corgan and Brother Leatherman because you know that they care for you. That's why they can get up and and rip your hide. Amen. You're out going, wow, I got man, he peeled my hide. And boy, he must really love me. Amen. Yeah You they they do. What I'm saying is too many times though people are just because they can be, they are oppressive. By fathers over their children. You know this. It's an abuse of power. And ye fathers provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord I sure am glad my dad was a big man. He had big hands. I'm I'm sure glad that my dad was understanding and and uh I've told you the story about the very first time that I got a ticket. I mean heard heard that story before One person? Oh good. I guess so my my dad buys me a little sports car for $60 at a police auction. And the day of before I turn sixteen, it's all ready to go. It's licensed. I'm going in down to get my My t my uh you know, my my driver's license and I go down there past the test to get my driver's license and my dad tells me before I do that, he said, Now son, I've been driving for twenty five years, I've never received one ticket, I want you to match my record. And so, sure enough, I go down and get my license. You shouldn't have bought me a sports car, because I got a ticket that first day. And I was going home and not enjoying my birthday. Okay? And uh everyone was supposed to leave the table after dinner. Well everyone did except for my little sister, and I approached my dad And thinking, wow, this is not going to be good. And my little sister was supposed to leave, but she wanted to see the fireworks. And so I I said, Dad, I don't think I'm gonna quite match your driving record. And he looked at me and had that administrative look, you know, that scowl, and my little sister started giggling. He looked at the glee on her face And the consternation on my face. And it was a silence as if an eternity. And he finally said, Well, son, I guess the pressure's off. And it was. Amen. But I'm glad that my dad saw the humor in things and was gentle and was kind. And yes, admonished me when I needed it as well. Husbands over wives. Husbands, love your wives and be not bitter against them. I think one of the main problems we have not seen revival in our churches is because of marital relations that aren't right. Did you hear me? Yeah. Because th there are and and it says also that women obey Your husbands. Now this isn't a couple's retreat, but so I'm not going to linger here, but just want to say this. A women have have a problem obeying their husband. They don't have any problem loving them. Because women think here. Men have a problem loving their wives because we think here. You understand? Are you with me? Everyone o everyone okay here Okay? But too many times, see, because we're set up logically and they're set up in their heart. There's a clash there, but instead of forgiving one another What do we we get we harbor bitterness? See? Here's the big problem. If you thought more of God than yourself more of your spouse than yourself, those things could be taken away and you would have a wonderful life with your wife or your husband. There wouldn't be any marital problems. And you'd get your prayers answered a lot quicker. And a lot more miraculously, a lot of times people don't have their prayers answered because there's something, there's a problem between them and their wife. We cannot afford in our country's history, where we are right now, to have marital relations that are not right. Bitterness, because we need to get our prayers answered. You stand before the beaming seed of Christ, and God says, you know, if we could have just had your prayer life I could have done more or would have done more. You could have asked me for things. I love that book that John. And he goes into that warehouse. And he sees all these amazing things. There is an angel there in his dream. And he says, Who are these? What does all this belong to? Who's the owner of all these things? And the angel said, Well, it could have been you, John. If you just asked for it. See, I want the things that God has for me. Do you? So I look, you know how many times I've apologized to my wife? When I knew it wasn't me. You know how many times I've done that? You know how many times I've apologized to people when I knew it wasn't me You know why? Because I don't want anything between me and the Savior. Because of that, I'll guarantee you, I've received some amazing answers to prayer. Where people should be coming to apologize. Well, people should be coming to apologize. Don't trip over your bottom lip, okay? That is an abuse of power that we see so many times as a husband trying to lord over his wife. Hey, actually we need to submit to one another. Elders over the church And I'm thankful that in your church, that's not a question, but there's so many churches that it is where where the uh Feeding of the flock of God takes second place. I know it doesn't happen here. Those ministering and uh or mistreating foreigners, thou shalt neither vex a stranger nor oppress him For ye were strangers in the land of Egypt, leaders over those who are led. That's what's going on today, isn't it? I mean there's so many leaders that are abusing the power of their office. How on earth Does a Department of Justice issue a edict to go and raid a president's house? I mean i these things are phenomenal to me that are that are happening and and taking advantage of of the poor and and uh those who oppress others just for because they can, the abuse of authority, uh over and over and over again. Again, we we see, and it all comes down to the fact It says, for there is conspiracy of prophets in the midst thereof, like a roaring lion ravening the prey. And these prophets are supposed to be leading to people, and they're not having Sunday evening service. And and churches are looking like nightclubs? And music that is being played sounds more like music of the world than holy music to God? It's an abuse of power. It's not the emerging church, it's the submerging church. that we see going on today. And God says we need to be warned about this. It's so very important. So those prophets who are supposed to basically represent God before the people and and then the priests who are supposed to represent the people before God for Failing to distinguish between the holy and the unholy, the clean and the unclean. They're defiled, it says, first of all. And I want you to, as her priests have violated the law. The priests and many ministers of our day have broken the law by their wicked conduct. They pay little attention to keeping the law. How on earth can someone like Chuck Schumer Say that Kavanaugh is going to be hit because of his decision for life. He's going to be blindsided. I mean he's speaking violence. Chuck Schumer. Speaking violent. He's supposed to be the leader of the Senate And the next day, some nut from California shows up at Kavanaugh's house with a gun and duct tape. He shouldn't even be in office. They should have impeached him. And these other people that literally are calling out violence towards the Supreme Court justices. These are congressmen and women. How on earth does that happen? How on earth is it that we have a president that has sold our emergency oil to the Chinese? What do you call it when you have allocated emergency oil that you need in wartime to defend yourself against the enemy and you sell that to the enemy? What do you call that? Yeah, that's what I call it too. It's an abuse of power. We see it everywhere. And and They their feet are swift to sh to shed blood. You know why? Because abortion is big money. Because selling baby parts is big money, multi-billion dollars. And now they're actually they're allowing babies to be born alive And cut through their face to harvest their brains while they're alive. Dr. Mengele doesn't have anything on our medical profession. in some areas. I'm not saying all of our medical profession is wrong. No, it's not. And all of our medical profession, it's not all gone off the tracks, but but some of it is. When we had the pandemic and we had the hydroxychloroquine that could have saved and this is not something in my opinion, this is what doctors, authorities were saying, 20,000 lives. were lost while they were waiting for the hydroxychloroquine to be approved that had been approved back from the nineteen forties. And the remedissimar and all these other things that cost so much money. They're big pharma, you see. And I'm sorry to say, there's a lot of doctors that are hypocrites to the Hippocratic Oath. I'm I'm not gonna tell you one way or the other about the vaccine. That's your personal choice. It should never be a mandate from the government. Their defilement, their desecration, they profaned holy things, trying to basically make the gospel hate speech. Their distinctions. They have put no difference between the holy and profane, neither have they showed difference between the clean and the unclean. Their decline, they have hid their eyes from my Sabbaths. They're dishonoring. I am profaned among them. There was a time where a representative, to run for office, you have to be a time-tested Christian. You had to be not just a Christian, but a time-tested Christian. That was an actual check mark that you had to have before you ran for office. And oh by the way, you couldn't campaign They would have positions, and they would have blanks by every one of the positions. And People would say, well, I think this person would be a good governor. I remember Patrick Henry was the governor of his state. And he was getting old. He said, he even told the people, don't vote me in for office. Don't. I am a grandfather. I want to spend some more time with my grandchildren, my children, my grandchildren. I want to enjoy my don't vote me in for office. They wrote him in for office and he went ahead and served again one one more term. But you couldn't even campaign. If you did, you were disqualified. And now it's just the opposite, because in those days the people that were elected thought of God first The Constitution second, the constituents third, and their career not at all They didn't have a career. Our founding fathers had no concept of anyone ever having a political career. And now we have career politicians. And I know there's people saying, well, we need to have term limits. And I know people that have limited themselves out, but we have term limits. You know what they're called? Vote. Elections. Those are term limits. The only problem is we don't show up. And now those people in office, because we don't show up, they think about their career first. Their constituents and how they can keep them in their career position. And then constitution, not at all. God, whoever heard of him? That's what's going on today in many of the minds of the people that are in leadership over us. And whose fault is it? It's ours. Because we haven't gotten in to vote. The lot is cast into thy lap, God says. But the whole disposing thereof is of the Lord We haven't even got to the to go vote. I've talked to people and they've complained about what's going on. And I said, did you vote in this last election? Well, no. I just didn't like anyone there. I didn't want to vote for the lesser of two evils. I said, I've never seen Jesus Christ on the ballot. And if you've not voted, guess what? I don't want to hear it. You have you don't have any room to talk if you didn't vote. It's profane the princes for destroying the people. They were supposed to protect, to get money and power You know the two reasons for corruption. You get that right? Two reasons for corruption. Our government is corrupt. Would you say that? Would you agree with me? Number one, the reason why they're corrupt, the love of money is the root of all evil. What part that we don't understand there? Not some evil, not most evil, all evil. The love of money, not money The love of money, which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith and pierced themselves with many sorrows. See, that's why I'm there to try to See some of these people come to the knowledge of the truth. I don't argue with them. I don't go in there and talk politics with them. I don't ask them about what they voted for here or there. That's not my position. I go in and pray with them And present the gospel to them because I know that you cannot argue with someone that is blind To the truth. They must have the truth first. That and and it's been amazing, it's a wonderful thing that we've seen people saved on Capitol Hill. I mean it you came with us, didn't you, Brother Corgan, when we went to the Vice President's Bible study? That was a blessing. During the time that Trump and Pence were in, every single week On Wednesday at 12 o'clock, my wife and I were walking in, many times with pastors, to the vice president's Bible study in the White House complex. I sat there every time that I did and had that opportunity. I thought, wow, this is amazing. In the United States, we can study the Bible in the vice president's office. Wonderful, wonderful. Of course that's not an option any longer, but I I can remember The reason why he wanted Mike Pence, a Bible study, is so that people could come to the gospel truth. And it was always a topic of discussion in there. Always. Now he wasn't always there, obviously, because of his schedule. But the man that he put in charge, he always was leading towards the gospel. And many times I would just interject a gospel presentation because there'd be people coming in that were lost Sacred Service, other cabinet members, different White House staff, to present the gospel to them. I gave tracks out. I gave tracks out in the White House complex. How crazy is that? I gave I gave books away with the gospel presentation in them. But the love of money, you see That's why abortion, that's why all the sex trafficking going on, the drug trafficking going on, because I'll guarantee you there are some people in some high places That are benefiting. Number two, the reason why we have corruption, Proverbs nineteen, twenty-five through twenty-seven, for the fear of man, the fear of man brayeth a snare. But whoso putteth his trust in the Lord shall be safe. Many seek to rule his favor, but every man's judgment cometh from the Lord of the unjust man is an abomination to the just. And he that is upright in his way, an abomination to the wicked. So we're an abomination to them. The prophets with a secondary indictment Because they were giving false messages. And I think that we need to understand that fake news has been around for a long time. Look at verse 28. if you would please. And the prophets have dommed them with untempered mortar, seeing vanity and divining lies. Isn't that interesting? That's fake news right there. Dividing lies, thus saith the Lord God, when the Lord hath not spoken. He, Ezekiel, continued to deliver God's message. Look at the result, the people. The people of the land have used oppression And exercised robbery. Remember the news reports of the people literally beating other people up because they had the wrong t-shirt on? Or a red hat on, beating up the elderly, shooting police officers, sniping police officers, robbery, looting stores They're still doing that today. Flash mobs going in and and just looting stores. That's that's Bible Have vexed the poor and the needy, burning down businesses and those little mom and pop grocery stores that the elderly need because they're within walking distance They have oppressed the stranger wrongfully. Well someone walking down the street, they don't know, they've attacked and even killed some people Now, as we see, all of these things happen. I want you to understand that Ezekiel continues to deliver God's message, insisting that right worship must accompanied, be accompanied by right. You say, what do you think, Brother Harding? I I mean this. With everything, with all of this corruption going on, what we need to do is make sure that we're right with God. That we're right with him in every way possible, and we're right with one another as well. Especially those closest to you, your family. We need to be right with our brothers and sisters in Christ too. It doesn't make any difference what anyone's ever done to you. Doesn't make any difference if they have never apologized to you. I don't see anyone with nails right here. So you can forgive anybody if the Lord forgave us for putting him on the cross. You understand that, right? When he was on the cross and he said, Father, forgive them, for they known that I I was I was there, so to speak. So were you. We were there jeering him. Mocking him. Our sin. He died for each and every one of us. I mean we we might as have been right next to the Pharisees. Yelling at the Lord. I I mocked and I ridiculed God with my life. I I didn't realize what I was doing when I was lost because I was blind, but that's exactly what I was doing. Until I accepted the Lord. But right here is w is the good news. I just gave you some bad news. Everyone's kinda everyone's kinda somber, yeah. Brother Harding, oh it's a lot of bad news. Let me give you the good news. Here's the good news. Because I'm not I'm not about doom and gloom. I'm about hope and glory Because here comes God's grace entering in to the scene. The correction of the errors in the pulpit In the public, in the private, makes no difference if we don't have the right attitude and holiness with God. I sought for a man among them that should Make up the hedge, stand the gap before me for the land that I should not destroy it. So the text right here starts talking about God's grace, as well as God seeking for someone. Do you understand what he's doing? He is seeking for someone to prevent him from bringing judgment to the land. Do you get that? I mean, to me, that's amazing. God does not want to judge He wants to have mercy. And so he's, through his grace, he's seeking it, amen. Is a shield for his nation. If we could understand it, God's trying to prevent his judgment. Truly, this is grace. That we can't even understand. I sought. I sought for a man. You know what that means? He's earnestly seeking God's looking for people. He's looking for you. He's putting out, this is an advertisement. I sought for man. God did not want to bring judgment, so he sought earnestly how to prevent it. No one can complain about God's judgment when you ponder the earnestness of our God, the grace of our God, and trying to prevent judgment from coming upon the people. He doesn't want to judge us. He wants to have mercy on us. He's seeking for someone. We have, if we want it, the authority of God. To stand in the gap. That to me is so amazing. That truth is so amazing. That's why I I told God decades ago, there will never, ever be another day in my life. As long as I'm in my right mind, that I won't ask you to have mercy upon my country. That I won't Stand in the gap and make up that edge, Lord. Because if we don't, you know who's going to? The devil If we don't stand the gap, we're going to give place to the devil. That's why our future of our country does not belong to the heathen. It belongs to us. But too many times, you know what we're doing? We have so many things that are trying to get our attention. A compass always points true north because that's the magnetic pull. Unless you put a smaller magnet closer to it, and then it pulls it off. Well, there's a lot of smaller magnets in our life. But we have the authority of God that we can stand the gap. He's looking for someone Decades ago when I said, Lord, I'm gonna be that someone. I'm gonna be one of those someones. You know what God told me through the Holy Spirit? You're just the person I'm looking for. Amen. Have you ever gone to a job interview? And and the people say, you know what? You fit the bill perfectly. You are exactly who we're looking for When when you came to Matt, when you came to interview for the associate pastor here, the youth youth pastor? Did it make you feel good when Brother Leatherman said, Yeah, you know what? I think we can work together. It make you feel good? How many years ago was that? Four years ago. He's doing good, isn't he? Yeah. I can tell by the young people. That's the proof. Right there, seeing your young people. And the spirit of your young people You're just the guy I'm looking for. You're just the person I'm looking for. Little ones And you go to God and say, Lord, how old are you? How old is she? Seven? Is she seven? That's God's perfect number. Did you know that? You're turning seven? You're not seven yet? When you when are you turning seven? Okay. So that's God's perfect number. So let me ask this question. When you turn seven, are you going to be perfect? Oh yeah. And mom says, uh but he's looking for s for seven year olds. You know when a child comes up to me and says, Um, Brother Harding, I'm praying for you? Wow. Brother Leatherman That means so much because a child's prayer is pure. Children You understand that you can be a shield before God for our country Lord, I'm asking you to have mercy upon our nation for one more day, and then I'll meet you tomorrow. Proverbs 28 and verse 2 For the transgression of a land many are the princes thereof, but by amen of understanding and knowledge, the state thereof shall be prolonged. Say for the Lord, are we ever going to get back to our former glory? Probably not. Probably not. But can we have another revival? Yes. Absolutely. Amen. Absolutely. Can we prolong the state of God's judgment upon our country? Absolutely. We have a promise from God And I was challenged years ago about that from a an a godly older man, and I was very polite to him. Because he was older and I treated him as a as a f as a fatherly figure and I said he said look and with when God decides he's going to destroy a nation, he's going to destroy that nation. Where do you stand upon by saying that we can ask God for his mercy? I said, well, remember our Gentile nation by the name of Nineveh that was under a 40-day judgment call And there was an unwilling preacher and partially digested that showed up I mean, no wonder they paid attention to him. You could smell him before you saw him. Say why? Because he had just spent three days and three nights in the belly of a whale. And God even says the whale vomited him up. I like that word vomit. It's very expressive, okay? And he hit the ground running and probably sliding a little bit too. He was highly motivated and he brought a message to Nineveh. And they turned, didn't they? And did God prolong the stay of that nation? From 40 days to over a century later, didn't he? You know why? One man. I told you about that young man in Texas. For those of you that weren't here, one young man in Texas Working for Governor Abbott's re-election program, and they were going to bring in the log cabin, the LGBTQ. portion of the Republican Party, and he resigned saying, I cannot in good conscience. I have nothing against the people. I have something against their lifestyle. More importantly, God does. So as a Christian and the principles that I follow, and as a conservative and the values that I follow, I I cannot. And so he resigned and wrote a letter as to why And copying Governor Abbott, and they said, put your resignation on hold? This is the state of Texas The largest state in the lower 48. You get this, right? And I know some of you have heard this, but it merits repetition. And he asked me, Brother Harding, please pray, pray, that God would have his way in this. And he texted me the next day and he said They are not going to allow the law cabin party to be a part of this reelection aspect of Abbott. One person One person can do an awful lot. God's grace, he's looking for that one person. That should make up the hedge, stand the gap before me for the land God sought for a godly person that would prevent him from judging the land. Enough righteous people, convictions, just living by convictions. You can't stand against sin unless you have convictions against sin. A few strong convictions, right and wrong, and too many times people putting their finger up in the air to see which way the crowd is gonna go. Not the toleration of evil. It's considered wholesome these days, but hey, we need to have dogmatic convictions because, hey, the Lord did, did he not? And I mean there was a division among the people because of him, because he said, I am the way, the life. I am the truth. Not one of the truths, not one of the ways, not one of the aspects of life. No, I am it. And no man cometh unto the Father but by me. That's courage. It's easy to go against evil When it's popular, but when it's not popular, when the godless crowd is not a charitable a charitable crowd, people are bent on doing guile and Not having any respect for the holy, it takes some courage to stand. And I think it takes some compassion as well. Compassion to try to stop those bent on doing evil. The protection of grace, oh I love this, that I should not destroy it. Stop the judgment. The problem for grace is God said, I found none. Isn't that sad? I found none. Elijah thought he was standing alone. God said, no, 7,000. Reserve 7,000. We've we've talked about the authority. We have the authority of God. I'll end with this. Ethan Allen was one of those heroes in our war for independence. He had a group of men called the Green Mountain Boys. They were rough, tough and hard to bluff. And they were supposed to wait for reinforcements to take this British installation And he looked at his men and said, you know what? I think we should just go ahead and attack. I think we can do this. By God's grace, I think we can do this. So they did. They went in and they attacked and they won with uh a very sm much smaller force than the British had. And and and he knocked on the commander's door. And the commander swung the door open. He was in the middle of the night in his PJs. Back in those days it was a nightshirt. And he said, sir. I am now putting you under the authority of the Continental Army. He said, what authority? He said, by the authority of the Continental Congress, the Continental Army, and Jehovah God. Kind of like that, don't you? See, we have the authority of God to stand in the gap. And one person can make a difference. One person Knowing how powerful their prayer is. One person knowing how to and to live a holy life. One person that will say, I'm putting my pride away, and there is I th there's a ought between me and someone else and I'm going to apologize to them. And if I can't apologize to them I if that's not possible, if they're not if I can't reach them, I'm going to apologize to God. Make it makes no difference. Pride is a big problem in our country today. I just realized long term I'm not gonna I'm not gonna fall to the The pitfalls of pride. Because with all the corruption going on, I want to make a difference. What about you? You say, Bill Harding, pray, yeah, and then put feature your prayers. Run for a school board or make some phone calls and I know Brother Weatherman said, you know, my people are much more active now, making phone calls every once in a while. You know what everyone should do this week, everyone should do this week, is call Joe Manchin's office and thank him for standing for the filibuster. He's coup he's he's uh basically compromised on this uh inflation reduction bill So it's now the time that we call. There's enough people right in this room, every one phone call equals 10,000, to literally get him bolstered again. I've got pastors coming in. in September, the first week in September, Lord willing to pray for him in his office because he's the one man you understand that God's used to keep our country from going down the tubes. One God, a democratic senator If the filibuster had gone away, we would already be gone as a nation. So to end this conference, and I know this was a very sobering message tonight. But the truth of the message is God's grace. The truth of the message is the authority that God's given us. To make up that hedge, to stand in the gap. He, by his grace, is seeking for someone. Will he find you every day? Will he find you asking him for one more day of his mercy upon our country? And then Lord, I'll meet you tomorrow and I'll ask you that again. I've done that for fifteen years plus. One more day, Lord, and then I'll meet you tomorrow. We're wish we are wicked. We are a Gentile nation. But you did it for Nineveh. Would you do it for us? Amen. In order to do that, we have to have our hearts and minds and our lives right with God so we can have his authority. So as we end, why don't we do this one last thing for the conference? Why don't we come together as a church body at an old-fashioned altar? If you can bow, let's bow. If you can just walk and bow your head because of some physical problem, just do that. But let's humble ourselves before our God and say, Lord, you're you saw it for a man? I'm gonna be that person. You saw it for a man? I'm gonna be that. To make up the hedge, to stand the gap, I'm gonna do that. For the land that I might not destroy it, I don't want to see God destroy our country. What about you? It could happen that quick. Already terrorists have the ability. To destroy our country overnight. By God's grace, it hasn't happened yet. By God's people praying for God's grace, it won't happen. So why don't we come to an old-fashioned altar? Would you come and join me tonight? Would you stand and come and let's do what God wants us to do this evening for our country? The problem of grace, he found none. Oh, might he find every person in here tonight Might he find every person here tonight willing To stand in the gap, to make up the hedge. Each and every day. Oh God, one more day, one more day, Lord. Say Lord I I want to see revival. I want to see revival in my country. But first of all, I want to see revival in my life. When we get honest, when don't we get honest with God? I don't read my Bible like I should, Lord. There are other things that take more time than Bible reading, and it shouldn't be That's you. Let's confess that tonight. Lord, I don't have a prayer life like I should. It's been a long time since I could actually sing that song, Sweet Hour of Prayer, and mean it. Would I I want to live a holy life. I don't want to snicker at the things of the world. Laugh at off-color jokes Watch sitcoms that make fun of godly aspects while they promote sodomy. I want to live a holy life, Lord. And Father, I I want to be that conduit. For that eternal message through the power of the Holy Spirit. Help me to understand how important and powerful my prayer can be And Lord, help me to get everything out of my life that would inhibit my prayer life O God, have mercy on our country. And Father, by one man of understanding and truth, prolong the state of this nation.