Of the month. And so we try to last several years we try to take the first Wednesday night and try and give some tips on soul winning, personal soul winning. And um I'm not the greatest in the world. It's two areas, I think I mentioned this just recently a message, two areas where I feel the most inadequate in One is um in my prayer life, as Dale just sang, and then the other is um in my personal soul winning. I always feel like I should and can and should do better in my prayer line and in my witnessing life. And so it helps me, and I trust that these are helpful to you. Really not going to give some tips tonight. I'm not going to say anything new. It's kind of a review little reminder to us on um the importance of soul winning. Proverbs 1130, you could probably quote it with me without looking at it. The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and what's the rest of it say? He that with his souls is wise. What a statement. Let's pray. I'll give you a few thoughts. I'll encourage you to maybe get a pen or pencil out and maybe something to write on. I want to give you a couple lists tonight about some things that might be helpful. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask now you bless our time in your word. And now as we consider this matter of sharing the gospel with people around us On a personal level, I pray that you would help us and challenge us, remind us, Lord, of this importance. And I pray that you would use me, Lord, as I yield my will, present my body anew I pray, Father, you'd fill me with your Spirit, speak through me, and help us, Lord, to be the soul winners that you require of us and expect of us. So Please bless now, I ask, challenge us, and help us be willing to trust you and obey you. In Jesus' name. Amen. I say it a lot in my preaching, particularly Sunday mornings But the most important issue for an unsaved person, and the reason I say it a lot is because it's very true. Most important issue for an unsaved person, somebody who doesn't know the Lord Jesus Christ, their personal Savior is uh their their own their own soul's salvation. Understand that. That's the most important thing. We get out in the streets, we meet people, uh there's a lot of important things in life, but the most important thing for that lost person is that they what? They get saved. They need to get saved. If they die in their sins, if they die in unbelief, they're lost for all eternity. And so what is true for the unsaved. Then for the believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, with that being true of the unsaved, then for those of us that know Christ as Savior, those of us who have accepted him Most important thing for us is to communicate the gospel to the unsaved and try and win them to Christ. I believe for the believer Most important issue is this matter of winning souls. Now, there's a lot of important issues in life, right or wrong. We could take a list, I could start taking suggestions Uh family is important. How many people agree with that? Family is important. For husbands, us providing for our family is very, very important. Jesus said if he doesn't provide for his family, he's worse than an infidel. So that's high that is very, very important. Um our uh our uh faithfulness to the Lord is very important. But I want to suggest to you that nothing in the Christian life is more important than winning souls uh to the Lord Jesus Christ, doing everything we can to try and win other people to the saving knowledge of Christ. Let me make this statement. Soul winning is not just for missionaries. Alright? It's not just for those out in the missionaries. We need to be careful that we don't have a double standard, that we expect more from our missionaries than what we expect from ourselves. If you agree with me, a missionary ought to be trying to win people to the Lord. Russell Holland's going to Norway. We all agree. When he gets there, he ought to try and get people saved It's a whole reason we're praying for them. That's a whole reason they raised support. The papes down in Papua New Guinea. The papes down in Dominican Republic Uh they're in up there in that new town start church. They ought to be winning souls to Christ. But wait a minute, that's not just for them You and I here in Oakland, Maryland, ought to be seeking to win souls to Christ also. Soul winning is not just for the preacher. I mean people agree the preacher ought to be a witness. Sure, a preacher ought to try and win souls to Christ. He ought to be out there talking to people about the Lord. But let's be careful. We don't hold a double standard and say, yeah, the preacher should be, but then not expect that of ourselves. Because soul winning is not a missionary responsibility, is not a preacher responsibility, it is a Christian responsibility Because we're saved, because uh we know the Lord is Savior. Soul winning is not for a select few. Every now and then I hear someone say, Well, I don't have the gift of soul winning. Soul winning is not a gift, it is an it is a command. And so there is no gift of soul winning. Now some people are more personable, some people are more outgoing. How many people have ever met someone? They can talk to anybody. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Tell you when I met my wife, she could go in down in Chattanooga they had Krogers. I don't think they have Kroger. Do they have Krogers? I think there's one in Morgantown in there. Kroger's. And she would go in Kroger's. She wouldn't know one person. She'd come out, have twenty-five best friends. You know, she could just make friends with anybody. And I I go in there and know all my friends. I come out, they all hate me. And um Um the exact opposite. But uh regardless of our personalities, regardless of um uh our gifts of God God has instructed all of us that we are to do all we can to give our effort and energy and and uh focus on trying to get other people saved, win others to Christ. Now some people it might come a little more naturally than others But it is not for a select few. It is not a preacher or missionary responsibility. It is given to all of us. I want to have you jot down a couple things. And I've kind of scattered tonight my My title is the importance of soul winning, but we're going to try and address a number of areas. I want to I wanna you to jot down a few things about personal soul winning if you would. Write this down if you would. Number one, anybody can do it. Anybody can win souls. Not everybody can preach. Any people ever heard someone preach and they said, That guy can't preach? Oh, we're late. Hopefully not here. But um Not everybody can preach, and uh not everybody can sing. I appreciate you all adoring my song leading. Uh I I like the saying, but um I've never, ever had anybody call me up and say, Preacher, would you come sing the specials at our meeting? Well no nobody's ever done that for me. And I'm glad. Not everybody can preach, not everybody can sing, not everybody can teach, but everybody can win souls. Everybody can do that. A child can win souls. I think was it Joel a couple years ago had one of his buddies that he prayed with him? Told him how to get saved, and his buddy just uh third, fourth grade, and he uh shared the gospel with someone. They prayed, asked the Lord to come in their heart and be a savior. How about that? Teenagers can win souls. Um handicapped people can win souls. Uh I have a illustration. I don't know anything about this fellow. I use it in another message, but boy, that thing's challenged me. You've probably heard me sh uh share it uh at some point, but um a fella that um he can't comb his hair, he can't brush his teeth, he can't walk, he can't even clothe himself Uh he has a uh a disease, uh not muscular dystrophy, is that would that be what it is? That he has doesn't have control of his muscles But the fellow went off, graduated from high school, went to college, uh majored in Latin, and would teach Latin in the local community college where he was at. And God stirred his heart They made this statement about him, and I I don't have his name off the top of my head. They made this statement about him. His shirts are held together by Velcro, because he can't button it. His shirts are held together by Velcro, but his life is held together by Jesus Christ. And he's a faithful witness. And he would go on these mission trips. Somehow, he would go on mission trips, once four or five, to um uh Portugal, I think it was, and finally he felt God called him to Portugal to be a missionary. The guy can't even brush his own teeth. He got there in the Capitol, he hired a got a motel, hired the manager of the motel to come in and help take care of them Uh he raised up his support and he would go down into the park, the inner city uh inner part of the city there is a big part. He'd set up tables with Christian literature, and he'd sit there, people would come by and he'd talk to him And after a couple of years, there he won 70 people to the Lord Jesus Christ. You know, handicapped people can win people to the Lord Jesus Christ. Elderly people can win people to the Lord Jesus Christ. Prisoners Can win people, Lord Jesus Christ. I was just talking to someone uh in the last couple weeks. They have a fella, I think it was out in California, a guy got saved in prison God stirred his heart, transformed his life. He started a church in the prison. Never heard of it? I mean a legitimate church. They're set up there. He's winning people to Christ. And going on. Here, a prisoner is winning others to Christ. Prisoners can win people to the Lord Jesus Christ. Um I read about a young lady, I got it here, uh a young lady, um uh R. A. Tori. How many people recognize the name? R. A. Tori. He's D. O. Moody's associate. He said he had a friend in New York City who left a life of wealth and fashion to go and reach people on the streets, the street folk. And one day she got a hold of a poor little outcast girl living on the streets. She didn't have uh she didn't live much over a year after this lady led her to Christ. And uh she was dying, young girl, but she was dying of some disease, and so she invited her Come into her home to live her last year in her home and she was going to die. While she was on her deathbed as the process was taking place, she would write to some of her old friends and share the gospel with them Girl got saved. She would write to some who were in the same same prison. Others were uh lived in the streets of New York City. She would somehow get to them. And all these were friends of hers from before she trusted Christ. And she would tell them how to be safe. Those who were not behind prison bars would come to the house where she was staying. And the lady said this. She said there was a constant procession up the stairway to this outcast woman, men and women who would come to see this gal before she died. When she died, before she died, 100 homeless men and women in New York City had trusted Christ because of this dear outcast girl and her trying to be a witness. How about that? And uh so uh anybody can come to know Christ, even outcasts and misfits can win people, Lord Jesus Christ. Always think of uh the woman at the well. And here she is, adulterous woman, immoral woman, but she gets saved. And she puts down her water pots and she just goes and tells folks what she knows, and people get saved. So my point here, first of all, is anyone, anyone can win souls. You and I can. Number two, I put this down: you can win souls any place. We can lead people to Christ any place. People can get saved in a car. People can get saved in a hospital. I had a couple here just a couple months ago, Schaeffers. Out in Terra Alta, they live out there, they were in the hospital, he was very ill. And um can um can Whitehair said, Would you go up and visit my buddy uh in the hospital. He's not well and I don't believe he's saved. I said, sure, I'd be glad to. Went up, him and his wife, Veva, and uh we sat down, talked, pleasant couple, and just had a nice little visit there with him And I said, Well tell you what, before I leave, let me ask you a question. You all know for sure that you know worst comes the worst. You go to heaven and not to hell. Do you know your sins are forgiven? Well, we hope so. We think so I said, well, we're sitting here. Could I take my Bible and show you how to be saved? They said, sure, we'd like that. Very positive, friendly as could be. And I went through the plan of salvation. They agreed very earnest, every point. And I said, would you you recognize this? You believe Christ died for you? So would you be willing to turn to the Lord, trust him as your personal Savior? They said, we sure would, preacher. And uh Mr. and Miss Schaefer bowed their head and prayed with me, called on the Lord, been out there. Uh who was it, Charlie, somebody, Dale, you went out with me the other week and followed up on them and they were very grateful. I gave them a follow-up book. And uh you can lead someone the Lord in the hospital bed. Uh you can lead someone the Lord in their living room or on their porch Uh you can lead someone to the Lord a witness to a fellow. Now he didn't trust the Lord, but he could have. Out in the barn. I was out visiting. And it was dark. Anybody around? I'm out here in the barn All right, so I went out there and shared the gospel with him. Now he didn't trust the Lord, but he could have got saved in a barn. How about that? Uh you can get saved on a porch, on a street corner, have a lot of people in a living room, in a break room at work. Um I was thinking about your folks, Brother Don. Um your mom, I think it was, if I remember correctly, led someone to the Lord over the phone. You remember that? Do you remember who that was? Somebody We were talking, but she was talking to her on the phone and the gal over the phone trusted Christ as Savior. How about that? You can lead people to the Lord anywhere, in a break room, over the phone, street corner um anywhere in the world. So write that down. Number one, anyone can do it. Every single person here. How many folks here tonight you're saved and you know it. Say amen. That means you can lead someone to Christ. You sure can. You say, oh, I don't know. Yeah, you can. You can do it anywhere. Write this down. Number three, you can win someone to Christ at any time. Anybody ever hear that song? It was on a Monday, somebody touched me. It was on anybody ever hear that song? And you go through and and then what you do is, we sing this with the Bible time as you say, it was on a Monday. Whoever got saved on a Monday, they all stand up and they sing it, It was on a Monday, somebody touched me And then you go, uh, Tuesday. It was on how many folks here got saved on a Monday? I did. My hands raised. Anybody here get saved on a Monday? Anybody here get saved on a Tuesday? Tuesday, look at that, two Tuesdays. Uh anybody here get saved on a Wednesday? Wednesday back. Hey That was I remember that. Was that here, Shirley? On a Wednesday night here. I remember that. Uh how about a Thursday? Anybody here? It was on a Thursday Alright, a bunch on Thursday. It was on a Friday. Anybody here get saved on a Friday? It was on a Saturday. Somebody Saturday. How about it was on a Sunday? Everybody lots get saved on Sunday And the point is you can get saved any time. I had a lady, uh, well this goes back to the previous point, but I had a lady over here in Mount Lake Park when I first came, she lived in a um trailer, a mobile home was kind of run down. She would read palms. She was a palm reader. I didn't know that. She invited me in. We got talking. She goes, oh yeah, I can read your future on your poem She said, Do you want me to read your poem? Tell you what your future is? I said, No, that's fine. I'm good. And uh got witnessing to her, and she said this. She goes, if I ever get saved, it's going to be in church I said, well, you don't have to get saved in church. You can get saved right here. Nope. I'm going to get saved in church. Never would come out. I think she passed away I don't think she ever trusted the Lord, but you can get saved anywhere, you can get saved at any time. I got saved 10 30 on a Monday night. Did I ever tell you that? Right after Laverne and Shirley went off the TV Um B. Al Moody made a uh set a um uh had set a personal um not goal But a personal commitment that he was going to witness, share the gospel with at least one person every day of his life. He he made that commitment early in his life. So I'm not going to go to bed at night unless I've shared the gospel with at least one person every single day. Wow, what a commitment. I set a goal to give out five tracts every day. I don't always reach that, but that's my goal. At least five tracts every day He made a goal to share the gospel in person, one-on-one, with at least one person every single day. He told later on in the years, uh he got to the end of the day, he's getting ready to get in bed, and all of a sudden it dawned on him That he had not shared the gospel with anybody that whole day. He was running around doing stuff, never shared the gospel. Boy, he felt bad And that was a commitment he made, and he and uh he stood there trying to think what to do, and he said he happened to glance out the window. He lived in Chicago, he glanced out the window, and there on the street corner by the lamppost was a guy leaning against the lamppost. And he said, Well, there's my guy. So he put his clothes back on, went running out there. The guy was still there. And um midnight at night, he said it was midnight at night. He uh talked that fella and that guy shared the gospel and McGuy prayed, trust the Lord his savior. Midnight by a lamppost And so it can happen, anybody can do it. Anyone, uh you can lead someone to Lord anywhere, you can lead someone to the Lord at any time Day and night. If I remember Mike Stubler, I remember Mike Stubbler, he got saved one o'clock in the morning in a gas station parking lot, sitting in his car, where Ron Brooks led him to Christ. How many people remember Mike telling us that story Any better, anybody can do it anywhere at any time. And number four, I put this down, anyone can be saved. So he said, I'm afraid I'll witness to the wrong person. That's impossible. Can't witness to the wrong person. My Bible says that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. The Bible says, Go into all the world and preach the gospel to what? Every creature, every single person, say, well, I'm not sure it's the right one. Well, if they're part of every creature, then that's they're the right one. You can't witness to the wrong person. All classes of people can be saved. Rich people can be saved. Poor people can be saved. Politicians can be saved. Boy, I wish we'd got more like that Politicians can be saved, criminals can be saved. That might be one and the same, I'm not sure. But prisoners can be saved, preachers can be saved. Mentioned just a preacher I met uh just recently uh out at the Loving and Leading, uh Brother Dave Martin got saved. He was pastoring for two years. And uh got saved. So preachers can get saved, teenagers can get saved, children can get saved. Uh anyone who is a sinner can get saved. Say, well, why doesn't if if anyone can li win someone to Christ, they can do it at any time, anywhere, with anybody. Then why then someone says, well why don't I lead someone to Christ? Maybe it's because they're not trying. I was up with Brother John Leatherman Monday and yesterday, and um I love it, two Leathermans. And um that was fun. The sessions went great. I appreciate everyone's prayers. And uh he's a big hunter, his whole family's big deer hunters. And uh I said to him Uh we were talking there before the service. I said, well, did you shoot anything yet? He says, nah. I said, why not? He says, I haven't going out. And I said, well that might explain that. And you know what I found out? People that never go out in the woods don't ever shoot deer. And that's something. Uh and I found out that only the the people that shoot deer are the only ones that go out in the woods. Right? Now not everybody that goes out in the woods and shoots a deer, Doc. But um I'm sorry. I'm s I wasn't gonna say anything. But it ain't over yet, right? It ain't over yet. What's my point? My point is if we never try and win someone to Christ, guess what's going to happen? We're never going to win anybody to Christ. Now, if we don't ever witness, we don't ever try and share the gospel with folks. Of course we're not going to see people saved. You say, preacher, if I went from the if I start witnessing to people, am I going to see somebody saved every time? No But I'm still obeying God. I'm still doing what I need to do. Um, you know, uh back to the deer hunting illustration. You know, go out in the woods the first time, I didn't I didn't see I didn't get any deer. No, you gotta stay at it, stay at it. Um South Tea Garden is so precious And I'll tell you, I was a visit the other week, a week or so ago, before we went on our trip out to Ohio, I swung by to see her, just spent a little few minutes. And uh she said this a couple of weeks ago and maybe I shared it with you. It was so sweet. I was visiting with her and I said, Sue, I just want to come by and pray with you and check on you. So we prayed together, and she looked at me and she said, Pastor, thank you for coming by. She said this. You make me feel like I'm a human being. Isn't that sweet? And uh but Sue is so faithful. She came soul winning all the time. We go on mission trips. I we got to the point I had to tell her Sue you can't go anymore. She was just so feeble she couldn't go. She wanted to go and try and uh try and win people to Christ. And she said to me one time, this was years ago, she said, Pastor, and she was a little aggravated, she goes, Pastor, I go visiting, I go visiting, I give out tracts and I witness, and I'm not seeing anybody saved And she said this, I'm such a failure. I said, Sue, you're not a failure. I said, you're doing what God's called you to do. You're doing what God has instructed us to do. And I said, you don't know that you've not won someone to Christ. There could be people got saved as a result of your witness, and you never know about it. And so um but if we don't go, if we don't do it, if we don't engage people with the gospel, we don't confront people with the gospel, we're not going to see people saved. So uh four things about it. Anyone can do it at any time. uh in any place uh uh with anybody can share the gospel and and uh see people get saved so why is soul winning so important now here's the next list as I said it's a little scattered tonight But here's the nexus. Why is it important that we do this? Preacher, you keep hounding. So winning, so wouldn't and so would. Why is it Because it's very, very important. Let me give you some reasons why it's important. And you could probably come up with these yourself. Number one, I put this down. It's important because God has commanded us to God has commanded us to. Mark chapter 16, verse 15: go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Very clear instructions. There's no question about what he's tell expecting of us. There's no question about what he's instructing us to do Matthew twenty eight, eighteen, nineteen, all power is given unto me in heaven and earth. He's saying, I've got the authority. He's saying this, I'm the boss All power is given unto me. Go ye therefore, teach all nations, baptize them in the name of the Father, Son, Holy Ghost. Acts 1. 8, and ye shall be witnesses unto me. After that the Holy Ghost come upon you, you shall be witnessed unto me in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, under the undermost part of the earth. So He's given us clear, clear instructions. And as God, we must first and foremost, we must trust Him and obey Him. How many people agree with me? If God tells us to do something, we better pay attention to that. You ever, when you had kids, you ever say you tell your kids do something? They say, Why do I have to do that? What was your Pat answer? Because I said so. So why do we have to go soul without it? Why do we have to witness to people? Because he said so So, number one, it's important because God has commanded it. We are foolish to ignore and disobey God's commands. Number two I put down it's important because not just of God's command, but number two, because of hell's certainty. Hell's certainty. Luke chapter 16, verse 19 to 31, Jesus told a very pointed story, gave a very pointed, um uh uh shared important event. It's not just a story, it's an actual historical event about a rich guy that never got saved, ever paid any attention to things of God Now I have reason to believe, and this would have to be another message sometime, I have reason to believe that that rich man's parents were saved. I think his mother and father were saved, him and his brothers were all lost I think I can show you that from scripture. We'll do that another time. But outside was a very poor man that knew the Lord as Savior. That poor man would eat the scraps that he would throw out, he'd rifle through the trash he'd throw out, and he'd eat that. And they both died. Imagine that. Rich people die, poor people die. And Jesus said, when that rich man died that did not know Christ, Jesus said this, and in hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torments. And he seeth Abraham afar off, and he says, Father Abraham, have mercy on me. And send Lazarus, they may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am tormented in these flames. And it's like the Lord opened up a spiritual window, and we can look down into hell, and we can see just a glimpse of what it is like for a person to be in hell. He says, uh he says I and put in my own words, he says that we can't. There's a great gulf fixed between you and I. They cannot come from hence where you are, and cannot come from here down to you. And then he says, please send somebody to my brothers that they may warn them of this place. You can't believe the Bible. You can't believe the Bible and not believe in an actual real literal hell. Because it is so clearly taught. Somebody says, oh, that's just a parable. Well, one, it's not a parable. He used actual names. He's naming people. And number two, even if it was a parable, what's it teaching? What would be the truth of it? Let's just say for sake of our all right it's just a story, but what's that parable teaching? What's the message? The message is to die without Christ in sin is a horrible, horrible thing. Now it's more than just a parable. It's an actual telling us what this is like. And if hell is real, I heard a preacher say this years ago, if hell is real, then what else really matters besides trying to win people to Christ, keep them out of hell? If a house is burning and there's people trapped inside that house, what in the world else is more important than getting in there and getting those people out of that house? And so soul winning is important, first because God told us to. That would be all we need. But two, not only just because of God's man, but because of hell's certainty. Listen, if a person doubts the reality of hell, then they're bringing into doubt the integrity of Jesus Christ. He spoke about hell more often than any other biblical character. No one else mentioned or referenced hell more than the Lord Jesus Christ in all scripture. And he always presented it as a real, actual, literal place. Now I'll be very honest with you, the one thing That is hard for me is the reality of hell, to think that somebody dies in hell, they're there forever and ever and ever and ever. That is hard. But it's true. And so that makes soul winning more important. I tell you, it just grieves me. I wish I was better. I wish I I want to be better. I mentioned that before. But I tell you, it just grieves me when you have churches who claim to be the Bible and don't lift a finger. To keep anybody out of hell, how in the world do you justify that? How in the world do you sleep at night, a pastor of a church? that doesn't do anything to try and keep people, oh, they'll have concerts and do all this fun stuff, but they don't do anything to try and get people saved. God have mercy on that kind of Christianity. Soul winning is important because God has commanded it. Soul winning is important because of God's command, because of hell's certainty. I put this down because of the lost condition. John chapter 3, we got a couple minutes there. Turn over to John chapter 3. Notice the wording of what the Lord says here in John chapter 3. Of course, we know John three sixteen, great verse. And by the way, in that great verse that everybody loves, everybody knows, do you know in John 3. 16, did you notice there's a reference to hell, even in John 3. 16? That they should not perish. But look at verse 18 of John chapter 3, and he makes an important statement, I think sometimes gets overlooked. Verse 18 Jesus speaking, he says, He that believeth on him is not condemned. How many people are glad for that? But look what he says. But he that he that believeth not Now notice what he doesn't say. He doesn't say, he that believeth not will someday be condemned. That's not what he says. He says, he that believeth not is what? Condemned already. Right now. That lost person walking the aisles up in Walmart as we're sitting here talking, that unsaved person, they're as Before God, they're already condemned. It's not going to happen someday. It's already a fact. Because of their condition as a sinner. Because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. I highlighted that verse and I drew a line over to verse 36. He says something very similar, along the same lines. He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. And he that believeth not the Son shall not see life. But look at this. But the wrath of God will come down on him. No. The wrath of God what? Abideth here and now. They're under the wrath of God. Every unsaved person is right now under the wrath of God already condemned. Now, what does that mean? That means this. They're one heartbeat away from eternity separated from God. It's not someday, well, I'm going to get to heaven and find out if I'm going to heaven or hell. I'll get to heaven and find out maybe I'll be condemned then maybe I won't. No, no, no. Already condemned. Already just waiting for the sentence to be carried out. And so the lost condition, one heartbeat from eternity, this gives an urgency to soul winning. Number four, I put a fourth one and last one down, and you can come up with many others, no doubt. But why is so winning important? Number four, I put this, because of salvation's cost. Romans 5:8, you know what it says. But God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, what's that last phrase? Christ did what for us? Died for us. Wow. Well Sunday we're going to recognize and we're going to honor veterans. Memorial Day, we try to recognize and remember those who gave their life for our freedom, died for our freedom. How many people agree with me? That's quite a price, somebody to give up their own life so someone else can live. You agree with me? My what a price. Should that be important to us? Sure. Now the Lord Jesus Christ, for the unsaved, us and the whole, every lost person that ever lived, ever will live, Jesus Christ, suffered that judgment for us. For them, he paid an unthinkable price. And so the value of that soul, what the Lord thought that soul was worth, in 1 Peter 1:8, he says, we're not redeemed with corruptible things. But with the precious blood of Christ. And the price that Jesus Christ paid for that soul We go down to McDonald's or somewhere sheets and you see someone there and maybe they're staggering, they're drunk, and they come in, they're all dirty And uh they're just rude and they're they stink and they're uh, you know, they're saying nasty, filthy stuff, and we think, ew But you know what God thinks? He says, that person is worth me suffering hell for them. And he already died for them and suffered all the judgment for their sin for them. And how can you and I just overlook that? We should say, you know, man, the Lord thought that's important. I need to try and win them to Christ. Am I making sense? And so the value of soul, what shall it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses his own soul? For what shall a man get in exchange for his soul? That tells us how valuable I tell you, we live in a world where life is so valueless. Murder and death is glorified on the screens. You know the Bible says God hates violence. Psalm says that. And man, we just glorify it. You relish it. Oh, his head got blown off. God says that's somebody that you're you're and they say oh it's just a show it's just acting yeah but you're acting out something that's happening to somebody that God thinks is very very precious Follow what I'm trying to say. The value of life and the value of a soul makes soul winning so very important. So never very important. I don't believe we will ever realize the price Jesus Christ paid for every soul to be saved On the cross, Jesus made a profound statement that is so rich that we'll never grasp what all it implies. And that was this: it is finished The total payment for sin was fulfilled as he hung on that cross for us. Now think about that with me. A person that dies and goes to hell. Just unthinkable. A person dies and goes to hell. They will never ever be able to say it is finished. All eternity, they're separated. They're in that But Christ filled an eternal judgment of God, and we don't know how we can't comprehend how this would happen. But he took all that upon himself and he did that for lost people. And that tells me lost souls are very, very precious, very, very valuable. And we need to try and win them to Christ. Now I need a mathematician. Do we have any mathematicians here? Do we have anybody that has a calculator? Alright, then you're a mathematician. How many people are here? Charlie, did you get a count? All right, forty-four, forty-six. Forty-four. Alright, there's forty-four people here in the room. Somebody get your calculator out. If every one of us If every one of us here would win one person to Christ in 2019, we'd get that person to Christ, they would get saved. How many people would that be? It would be 88 total, be 441 to Christ. So let's take that 88 figure. Now at the end of 2019, let's take all those 88 people. And they each win one person to Christ in two thousand twenty. How many do we have then? 196 Uh calculators are wrong, Chuck's right. And um what is it, one seventy-six? 176. So uh we got 176 ages. So let's say in 2021 all those when one proof will occur. One person writes, how many do we have now? Three hundred and fifty-two. Then the next year they all win one to Christ. What do we got then? Then the next year they all win one to Christ. And then the next, you see what's happening? It's multiplying more and more and more and more. And that's just one person winning one person to Christ in a year's time. Now, that's not always easy, and not everybody that makes a profession goes on and lives for God. But the point I'm trying to make is this. It's important that we do it, and if we do it, and when we do it, it has an impact And it multiplies itself. How many people recognize the name uh Kimball? Let me let me see if I rem what was his first name? Edward Kimball. Anybody recognize that name? Edward Kimball. Edward Kimball was a shoe repairman in Massachusetts. Bingo. And he taught a Sunday school class. Boys. Junior boys. And one day he had a little boy come in there. And uh by the name of Dwight. And he taught his class, and boy, his heart was stirred for this little boy Dwight. And he went to visit him at his home that week. And he asked Dwight, he said to him, he says, Would you like to be a Christian? And Dwight said he'd never been approached that way before, never ever asked him if he'd like to be a Christian. He said, Yes, I would like to be a Christian. And Edward Kimball took the little Bible, sat down beside the boy Dwight, and showed him from the Bible how to be saved. Dwight bowed his head and accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. He began to grow in the Lord and began to become a strong Christian, and you and I know him today as the White L. Moody. And led over a million people to Christ in his lifetime. Isn't that an amazing thing? How many people think it was important that Edward Kimball shared the gospel with little Dwight? Yeah. Now who's who's in our neighborhood? Who do we come across? It won't be another moody, but it might be somebody that have a profound impact on this whole world. And so the importance of soul winning. Anyone can do it anywhere, at any time, with anybody. And it's very important because of the things we gave. So let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you take these thoughts, these challenges And Lord, as I prepared this, my own heart was challenged that I'd be a more faithful witness, that I'd be a little more bold, tactful, and earnest and concerned about others. I pray that our church, Lord, if we don't do anything else, help us to be a soul-winning church. Help us to be a witnessing church, see other people saved. I pray you'd help us overcome fear and intimidation and whatever else might keep us from getting out. And sharing the gospel of those, I pray you'd help us overcome that. Our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would join me in saying, Preacher, I need to be a better soul winner? I'm gonna be more faithful. I'm gonna be more bold, more earnest. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand, that's what I am. And I tell you, as I prepare this, I had to bow my head and say, Lord, help me. And stir me. Don't let me be satisfied. But provoke me to be a better soul winner. Maybe tonight you want to find a place on the altar and say, Lord, here I am. Help me to be that witness that I know you called me to be. Father, bless your invitation now. I ask in Jesus' name.