Exodus, chapter number two. I want to begin reading in verse number one, and uh we'll make our way down through verse ten. Uh Exodus chapter two, verse one. And there went a man of the house of Levi and took to wife a daughter of Levi, and the woman conceived and bare a son. And when she saw that he was a goodly child, she hid him three months And when she could not longer hide him, she took for him an arc of bulrushes and daubed it with slime and with pitch. and put the child therein, and she laid it in the flags by the river's brink. And his sister, uh Moses, the child's sister, stood afar off to wit what would be done to him. And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself at the river, and her maidens walked along by the river's side, and when she saw the ark among the flags, she sent her maid to fetch it. When she had opened it, she saw the child, and behold, the babe wept. And she had compassion on him. And she said, This is one of the Hebrews' children. Then said his sister to Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go and call to thee a nurse of the Hebrew women, that she may nurse the child for thee? Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Go. The maid went and called the child's mother. And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, Take this child away and nurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wages. And the woman took the child and nursed it. And the child grew, and she brought him unto Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son. And she called his name Moses, for she said, because I drew him out of the water. I entitled it Message, I put in a bulletin for tonight, The Birth of Moses. What I really want to do is I want to look at Moses' parents. just a bit this evening. And Lord willing next uh another week or two we'll look at um uh the actual birth and and the events around his uh this what we just read here So we're going to talk about Moses' parents a little bit. Let's pray, ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, we bow again here to you this evening We're grateful for the Word of God and what a treasure of truth, encouragement, instruction, and help your word is. And I pray now as we consider These events in the life of Moses, that you would, your Holy Spirit would open our hearts and our minds, that we could see some truths that apply to our hearts, that apply to our lives, our situation. Father, I ask that you would help us apply these principles that we can glean here and that we would just walk a little closer with you, understand you a little better, and our responsibilities. I yield my will to you, Lord, my mind. I ask that you fill my body with your Holy Spirit as I speak. And uh just be the preacher tonight through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The parents of Moses. Um the first two verses in what we just read here, of course, give us the account of Moses' birth. But um I want us to look at his parents, as I said. Uh Amram and Jacobed are his parents. Um We have no reason to think that there was anything extraordinary about Moses' conception and his birth And by that I mean this is what I'm getting at. He was such an exceptional man. He was used of God in such an extraordinary way. in such a powerful, miraculous ways, uh we might be tempted to think that there was some miraculous events associated with his birth. In fact, there's I was reading some Jewish traditions about Moses that are unscriptural. They cannot be true. uh one of them was that Moses was born sinless. Uh we're gonna find out. That's not true. Um so the his conception and his birth were just like everybody else. There was nothing extraordinary about that or miraculous about his uh uh about his birth, um just an ordinary birth And there's nothing really as I got looking at his parents and what the Bible tells us about his parents, what we can glean from Scripture, any information about them, maybe someone help us in some way. There's really nothing extraordinary about Amram and Jacobed. The only thing that stands out in Scripture about his parents was their tremendous faith in God. And we're going to see that here in a little bit. But as far as, you know, do they have an exceptional IQ? We don't know. I don't think they were dumb, but um we don't know nothing about you know their background as far as that um you know whether whether they were intelligent, what their trade may have been, occupation There's not a whole lot given to us about it, but we are given some. Jacobed, his mother's name, means Jehovah is glory. Would you agree? That's a great name for a Jewish gal? Jehovah is glory. Amram, his daddy's name, was Exalted People or Exalted Nation. Referring to the nation of Israel, the people of Israel, that now are, of course, are in Egypt. So you take those two names, and you find out that their family, the people that named them, their parents Obviously loved the Lord and loved the people of God. And they gave their children names that glorified Jehovah and exalted the people of God. And I tell you, when we get to the point where we can fall in love with God and we can fall in love with God's people, we're in good position. We're in good position. So he had good parents, and uh uh he comes from a good line here. They were direct descendants of Jacob. Levi was, I believe, Jacob's third son, and they were direct descendants of Jacob through Levi, and now the tribe of Levi. Here's something interesting about Amram and Jacobed. Come to chapter 6 of Exodus. And notice with me verse 20, Exodus 6, 20, we find something out here that seems unusual, at least in our day and age. And raises some eyebrows maybe. Exodus 6, look at verse 20. It says, And Abraham took Jacobed. Now look at this next statement. His father's sister to wife. And she bare him Aaron and Moses. The years of Amram were 130 and 7 years. So he lived a long time. Who did Amram marry? His aunt. He married his aunt. So I got thinking about that. That would make his grandfather his father-in-law. Right? He married his aunt, his grandfather would now be his father-in-law, which would make his father his brother-in-law And he ends up being his own grandfather. No, that's not that's not true. That's an old s poem Would you agree? That's a little unusual to marry your aunt. However, there were no restrictions on marriage within families up to this point, not until uh after the law was given. And it was really fairly common to marry pretty close in relation. And so he married his aunt They had three children that we know of. Again, some Jewish traditions suggest that they had others and they come up with some pretty bizarre stuff But we have three that we know of. Can anybody name the other two children of Amram and Jacobed beside Moses? There's two others Aaron and Miriam. All three of them Moses, uh Aaron, and uh Miriam All three of them were leaders in the nation of Israel, and they would play a very significant role in the development of Israel as a nation. And we'll see that as we go through his life. They were outstanding people, all three of them. They came from some ordinary parents, as far as we know, just ordinary, um and a very uh you know a significant tribe of Israel, the tribe of Levi, that's where the priests come out of eventually. And so Aaron ends up becoming a high priest. Miriam, as we said, was a significant leader, and then of course Moses, the center of it all. There's no indication that Moses' parents were anything other, and I keep emphasizing this because I think there's a lesson here for us. There's nothing And to indicate to us that they're anything other than just a normal man and woman that loved each other, loved their family But what stands out about them, now they're they're living in very difficult days, to say the least. We can't imagine The circumstances that they're getting married in, that they are um uh uh having children. Incredibly difficult circumstances. But nevertheless, the one thing that stands out about them is they had tremendous faith in God. They had tremendous faith in God Um backing up a little bit, when we said they had the three children, there's a little tradition. I think I might actually be getting ahead of myself here a little bit, but The Jews had a tradition I thought this was interesting and there's no basis for this in Scripture, so again it's just s legends, I guess, that have been passed down uh through the Jewish nation over the centuries. But Uh there was said that whenever the decree was made by Pharaoh to kill all the children, the male children particularly. Whenever that decree was made, the legend says that Amram and Jacobed made the decision that they were going to separate. They well in fact one source said they actually divorced each other. The reason being is they didn't want the chance of having a child and then having that child killed And so they thought it'd be better off if they just separated, there wouldn't be a chance of them having a child. And the legend goes on that Miriam actually talk them into not doing it, but uh go ahead and stay together and if they have a child will trust God. So whether that's true or not, this one thing we do know, they did have a child and they did trust God. And that's what stands out about them. Their tremendous faith in God. Average people with great faith, and God used in great ways. And that's the testimony all through Scripture. If we get looking and studying the people that God used in the Bible, there are really very little different between you and I As far as their character is concerned. I remember years ago, Dr. Pat Creed was preaching a missions conference for us, and he was trying to illustrate this same point with the disciples And he was trying to emphasize the fact that these twelve men were no different than any twelve men you might pull out of our church congregation. And some of you may remember him doing this. He pulled 12 men up and he had them stand across the front here and he says, let me introduce you to the 12 disciples. And I thought, oh brother, we're doomed. And um uh no, I was kidding. But um he and he pointed out they were just guys. They're just normal people, but they trusted God. And they had faith in God and they gave themselves the Lord and God used them in tremendous ways. And that's the case here with uh with Moses' parents. Take your Bible now, keep your place here in Exodus We're going to come back here in a bit, but go with me to Hebrews chapter number 11. We find Moses' parents are referenced in Hebrews 11. And come down. And I think it's seven times at least the little phrase by faith, through faith, is used concerning Moses. And particularly his parents here in verse number 23. Hebrews 11, 23. Now it says, by faith Moses. Now this isn't talking about the faith of Moses. Talking about the faith of his parents. By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents because they saw that he was a proper child. We're going to talk about that in another message, what that means. And they were not afraid of the king's commandment. Why would they not be afraid of the king's commandments? Because they had faith in God. They had faith in God. So I got two thoughts, two points to my message tonight. The first one is this: I want us to notice the conditions that they were facing When Jacobed gave birth to Moses. What were the conditions? Now we talked about this a little bit before, last week, and we introduced Moses, but these are extremely difficult dates That's where even to the point where that one legend, as I just shared, said that Moses uh that uh Amram and Jacobed split up because they didn't want to have a child and had that child killed. Can you imagine living in that sort of pressure? That sort of environment where fear was such a profound factor that they had to deal with every day, the whole all the Hebrews had to deal with this. And so they're extremely difficult days. Come back to Exodus now again, if you would. Chapter 1. I want us to notice a few things. And we touched on it briefly last week. But chapter 1, and notice with me verse number 7. Exodus. Chapter 1, verse 7. And the children of Israel were fruitful and increased abundantly. multiplied, waxed exceedingly mu exceeding mighty, and the land was filled with them. I mean Egypt's infested with Hebrews. Now look what happens. Now there arose up a new king over Egypt which knew not Joseph. He didn't care about Joseph. Pushed it out. Didn't even know about him. And he said unto his people, behold, the people, the children of Israel, are more and mightier than we. Come on, let us deal wisely with them. Lest they multiply it come to pass that when there falleth out any war, they join also our enemies and fight against us. And so get them out of the land. Therefore, they did set over them taskers to afflict them with their burdens. And they built for Pharaoh treasured cities, Python and Ramses. And so they have these tasks, they're taken in as slaves. They have no choice. They're they're uh conscripted to be slaves. We hear a lot of talk about slavery in our country, and thank God I I just, you know, I look, this is the way I see that. That was an awful blight on our country, that sin. And we we're ashamed of it. But I think God allowed us to have such a constitution that we could correct that and still keep the country intact. You follow what I'm saying, the Civil War was an awful thing. But we could correct it, and we did, and I thank God for that. But that's the case here. This is awful. They're taken in as slaves. Come down to verse number 13 And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with rigor. I mean they were merciless. And they made their lives bitter with hard bondage. Verse fourteen in bord in mortar of s in mortar and in brick and in all manner of service in the field. All their service when they made them serve was with vigor I mean, it was tough. They were under persecution, they were under opposition and difficulties. And that's what the nation of Israel was born in opposition. They the nation of Israel formed here in Egypt under hatred and bitterness and abuse and really you could call it persecution because the only reason they're being treated this way is because of they were God's people, because they were Hebrews. Um there's no the Jew the uh Egyptians never accused them of dishonesty in their interaction with the Egyptians. They never accused them of of any any crimes. They simply hated them because they were Hebrews. They were God's people. And that's what the nation of Israel was born in. And I want to remind you that is the exact same circumstances, almost the exact same circumstances, that the church was born in in Acts chapter 2. Intense opposition, intense uh uh abuse and uh rejection. It's been the case for God's people all through history Whether it's Israel in the Old Dispensation, the Old Covenant, or whether it's the church in the New Covenant, it was persecution hated by the world Jesus said that very thing in John chapter 16, verse 33. He said, In the world, speaking to his disciples, speaking to God's people. Now get this. And I think it's important for us to remember this. In the world, ye shall have tribulation. We are not going to fit in. We are not going to be accepted by the world. The Jews weren't, and the church, the believers in this age are not. We are not. It's possible for Christians to fall in love with the world. That's why we're told repeatedly in the New Testament: love not the world. Don't love the world. Jesus said that. John said that. It's inferred through the various epistles. Don't love the world. Listen, why would he have to keep telling us, don't love the world? Because we have a tendency to love the world. Because that potential is there. Now, here's the point I'm trying to make. It's possible for you and I to fall in love with the world. However, this world will never love us. The world will never love God's people. Samson fell in love with Delilah, but I'm here to tell you, Delilah never loves Samson. And that is a picture of God's people's relationship with the world. And so we have to guard our heart. We have to be careful. They had fierce opposition. They were facing. That's the conditions they're in. Fierce opposition to them. Then they also had, well notice here, they had forced abortions on them. Look with me at verse 15 of chapter 1. It says in the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives, these are the ladies that deliver the babies Of which the name of the one was Shra and the name of the other, Pu'ah. They were in charge, obviously. And he said, when you do the office of a midwife to the Hebrew women, there's singling them out, to the Hebrew women And see them upon the stools, they're about to give birth, if it be a son, then ye shall what? Kill him. And if it be a daughter, she shall live. Boy, how gracious. Oh, if it's a girl, let her live. But if it's a son, you kill it right at birth. It's technically not abortion, it's infanticide. And it was forced on them. They had no choice. Now the midwives cooperated, and that's another study with God, and they refused to do it So then they stepped it up a little bit, come to verse 22 and notice what Pharaoh says. Now, verse 21, it's saying it came to pass the midnight uh the midwives feared God, so they wouldn't do this. Midwives are saying, this isn't right. I mean, their whole training was to give life, not take it. And by the way, the doctors in our day and age, they're trained to give life, not take it. Any doctor that kills a child in its mother's womb is violating every norm, everything right about life. That's what they're doing, except this is force, forced infanticide. So then, verse 22, Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, all the people, now everybody. The general Egyptian population charged all the people, saying, Every son that is born ye shall cast into the river, and every daughter ye shall save alive. Now think about that. A Hebrew couple, young couple, they uh they know the circumstances, they know the society, the culture, the environment that they're living in. They're hated by the authorities, the government they're under. They're instructed, if you have a child, the nurses, midwives, if it's a boy, they're going to kill it. And the midwives say, Listen, we're not doing that. We're not going to do that. So then he tells the whole population You see somebody, you see a Hebrew couple and you see a little boy, you take that little boy, you go down the Nile, and you throw him in the Nile, and of course, the critters and cro uh is it crocodiles or alligators? Crocodiles over there? So the uh so it's infested, so that the the the child's doom. So the general population is charged by their government, by their authorities That if they see a Hebrew, small Hebrew child, boy, they're to throw him in the river. Would you agree with me? That'd be a little upsetting for a Hebrew couple I mean you couldn't let your child if you did have a child, it's a boy, you couldn't let them play out in the yard. You couldn't take them with you to the store. You couldn't go to the market with them. You would have to be watching your back at all times And you go down to the market and the mob sees that little child and the mob comes in and they take it forcefully from you, go down the river, your child's been killed. How many people agree with me? That's upsetting And that's what they're living under. That's the condition that Jacobed and Amram are in when they give birth to Moses. Fierce opposition, forced abortions. There's no doubt in my mind as I'm studying this and trying to picture in my mind, put myself in their shoes as a young couple. With small children and realizing how I'm having to hide my children from the government. There's no doubt in my mind this was satanically induced. Now Satan's not a dummy. He knew that God was doing something. Satan knew what God had promised Abraham that he would bring the nation of Israel out of Egypt. He knew that. He knew that God had cursed him, that one day the seed of the woman would bruise his head, crush his head And he knows all this, and he, there's no doubt in my mind, he saw where this was leading with Abraham's covenants and promises. with uh prophetic uh statements God had made previously. He saw there where this was heading, and I'm convinced he was trying to cut off the nation of Israel before they ever got started to keep, number one, us getting the scriptures, because the scriptures came through Israel, the Jewish people, and keep us from having a Savior. Jesus came out of the nation of Israel And so it's a concerted satanic effort on the devil's part to cut off the people of God right here in Egypt. There's no doubt in my mind. Of course, he failed. We'll see that here in a bit. But he tries again much later on, about 1,500 years later, he makes that exact same attempt You remember reading in Matthew when Jesus was born and the wise men show up from the east and they're trying to find this king? We saw his star. Remember, they come to Herod and they say, Where is he that was born king of the Jews? And uh uh Hebrew uh uh Herod uh gets the scholars together and he says, Oh, in Bethlehem. And uh Herod says, All right, yeah, he's in Bethlehem, the king of the Jews Hey, when you find him, you come back and tell me, because I want to worship him also. Right? Can you imagine that? A politician lying. Well, God warns the wise men, don't you go back to him. You go another way. Herod finds out that he's been deceived, so to speak. And what's he do? Help me out. All children, two and under, slaughtered, slaughtered, massacre, horrific I have no doubt in my mind that was satanically induced to try and cut off the Messiah before mankind ever has a chance to have a Savior. I'm telling you, our enemy is Satan himself. He doesn't want you and I to get saved, and when we if we do, and when we trust Christ, we get saved, then he'll do everything he can to keep us from winning anybody else to Christ, because his ultimate goal is to keep people from Christ. And I'm convinced that's what all of this. So Moses is born in this environment, a satanically inspired government. That is fiercely oppressive. That is forcing these abortions on the people of God, this infanticide. And then, on top of that, they were born into a society that had foolish idolatry Now we pointed out last week, and it's true, that the majority of the Hebrews maintain their loyalty to their identity as Hebrews. After 400 years, and we pointed this out before, after 400 years, the Hebrews were still Hebrews They they did not they were not absorbed into the Egyptian culture and and uh uh uh worship and all that. They still maintain their identity as Hebrews. And that's a tremendous thing. They never gave that up. They held on to who they were. We are the children of Abraham. We are the children of Israel. They never gave that up. And they maintained their loyalty to their worship of Jehovah. We'll see later on. They're crying out to Jehovah in their oppression. And God them. And so as a nation, the majority maintain that identity And they maintain their hope in Jehovah, they're looking Jehovah, they're devastated, they're desperate, but they're crying out to the true and living God. And God hears them However, there was a percentage of the Hebrews in Egypt that capitulated There was a certain percentage, and I can't give you numbers, but a fairly significant number that had Given in and drifted into Egyptian culture and Egyptian idolatry. Now think about it. For centuries Centuries, these Hebrews have been immersed in this Egyptian culture The Egyptians were the most powerful nation on earth, arguably the most powerful nation on earth at that time. They were incredibly wealthy. Their economy was powerful. They were no doubt the equivalent maybe of the United States in our day and age, as far on the world scene. And these Hebrews for 400 years have been living in that culture, living in that environment. And I'm telling you, you cannot be exposed at that level for that long and not be influenced to some degree. And some of them were very influenced by the Egyptian culture. Some of them actually had abandoned the worship of Jehovah for the worship of pagan idolatry there of the Egyptians. You say, where do you see that in Scripture? I'm glad you asked. Come with me to Ezekiel, chapter number 20, way farther back here. Isaiah, Jeremiah, Lamentations, Ezekiel. And when you get there, find chapter 20. And we're given some information here way back in Ezekiel. About the spiritual condition of many of the Hebrews. Not all of them, and I'm contending the majority stayed faithful, but there was a significant element that abandoned their faith in God, abandoned their identity, and accepted Egyptian Idolatry. Look at chapter 20, and notice with me verse number 5 is where I want to begin reading. Chapter 20, verse 5. And this prophet saying, And say unto them, Thus saith the Lord God, In the day when I chose Israel, And lifted up my hand unto the seed of the house of Jacob, and made myself known unto them in the land of Egypt. So he's going all the way back here to our context of our study. The land of Egypt, when I lifted up my hand unto them, saying, I am the Lord your God. In the day that I lifted up my hand unto them to bring them forth of the land of Egypt into a land that I had espied for them. Flowing with milk and honey, which is the glory of all the lands. So we know what event he's talking about, right? We know what the time frame is here. This is Moses' time, the time of our study. Now look what he says. Verse 7, then said I unto them, look at this, cast ye away every man, the abominations of his eyes And defile not yourselves with the what? The idols of Egypt I am the Lord your God. But they rebelled against me and would not hearken unto me, and they did not, every man, cast away the abomination of their eyes, neither did they forsake the idols of Egypt. Whoa! So there was a significant number of the children of Israel that after centuries of bombardment From the Egyptian culture, centuries of years and years of oppression, that they abandoned their worship of Jehovah began to Adopt idolatry. Idolatry. Joshua chapter number 24. I'll read it to you. This is, they've taken the land, they've come into the land. And Joshua makes this statement to the nation of Israel. Listen to what he says. He says, Now therefore, fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and truth. They're in the land. They're out of Egypt, they've conquered the land, they're settling down, and he makes this statement, and put away the gods Which your fathers served on the other side of the flood and in Egypt. Serve ye the Lord. Whoa! Wait a minute. The Hebrews, the children of Israel, were worshiping the gods of Egypt. Not all of them. We know Miriam and Jacobed didn't. They were faithful, Lord. There were many, many others. I want to suggest, I believe the majority of the Hebrews were faithful, Lord, but there was a certain element that after constant exposure to the world, constant bombardment from Egyptian society and culture, no doubt starting to make friends, going to their parties, uh watching their TV shows, so to speak, and allowing that Egyptian culture, that Egyptian values That Egyptian gods to affect their thinking and gain their affection. And next thing you know, you have an element of the Hebrews, they're worshiping these Shah, the sun god. All these pagan gods of Egypt. I think it's a very it was a very real danger for them, and God had warned them and warned them and warned them. Many of them stayed faithful, but there's a good percentage didn't. That's been a real danger for God's people, the influence of this world, both then and now. I thought about Romans chapter 12, a classic passage. It says, verse 1 and 2, he says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God That you present your bodies, a living sacrifice holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And then he says this: and be not conform to what? This world. But being ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. What's he saying? He says, Don't let this world influence you Don't let this world influence your thinking and your values and your priorities. Don't let the pleasures of the world draw you away from the worship of God. In uh 1 John 2. 15 again we're told this love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. How did these how did this Certain element of the children of Israel, of the Hebrews, end up worshiping pagan gods I don't know. I would guess it began slow. A little compromise here, a little indulgence there. Maybe they allowed their children to get involved in Egyptian entertainment. Things that violated the holiness of Jehovah, things that violated the clear instructions. And so one generation would compromise a little bit, another generation would allow this, and then the next one this, and the next one this. And by the way, that Egyptian culture was ungodly, vile and perverse Yet the children of Israel got into it. I'm telling you, we face that same danger in our day and age Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, this world can become awfully appealing if we don't decide to just present our bodies to God a living sacrifice And we put an emphasis on reaching our children. We have got to guard our children's hearts and minds. The devil is out after them. The world is out after them. We've got to be careful what we let them watch. We've got to be careful what we indulge in. We've got to be careful what we bring into our homes. I'm telling you, we're in a spiritual warfare, and Israel felt it years ago, 3,500 years ago, and it's still going on today. Ron Hamilton, who passed away here a few months ago, wrote a lot of songs, tremendous songs. He wrote one song and they play it on our radio station quite a bit. It's called All That I Need. And it starts out, the very first verse starts out like this. When I look around at all this world offers, I begin to crave the things that I see. I must keep my eyes on Jesus, my Savior. He has promised heavenly treasures to me. And I'm telling you, we live in this world, if we're not careful, we're going to start wanting it. We're going to start craving it. We've got to keep our eyes on Christ. He goes on and says in the next verse, all the pretty toys shine brightly around me, all the pretty houses glisten and gleam. Riches seem to offer peace and contentment, but this is just a lie. It's only a dream. What I need is my faith in Jesus. All that I need is my home above. All that I need is my Father's mercy. All that I need is my Savior's love. This world has nothing to offer you and I that will ever Outshine what Jesus Christ offers to us. And the nation of Israel, certain elements Allowed themselves to be drawn into some of the most ungodly worship, some of the most ungodly lifestyle that this world has ever known. God's people, just like you and I But they weren't careful. Now, praise the Lord, as I said, the majority, uh I believe, from studying w what the Bible tells us, many, the majority, stay faithful, but there was an element That capitulated, that gave in. So that was the conditions that Moses, that uh Jacobed and Amram brought Moses into the world. That's what they're dealing with. You got compromising Hebrews You got forced abortions. You got this fierce opposition. They're working long, hard days for nothing, like slaves, literally. That's what Moses is born into. And then I want us to notice real quickly, and I'll end with this: the confidence of their faith. In the midst of all of that, compromise and death They had faith in God. They had faith in God. When other Hebrews were adopting the ways and the values of Egypt, Jacobed and Amram remained true to their Lord. When Egypt hated them and abused them violently and threatened them, they remained true to their faith in the Lord And I'm convinced that is what God is looking for in 2025. He's looking for some Christians that will remain true to His word and His will and trust Him. Trust them. Don't let the world drag us away. Don't let the world have our children. They remain true. Hebrews 11:23 says, by faith They hid Moses. Not only was their faith genuine, their faith was courageous. In Genesis 15, verse 13 to 16, God promised Abraham that his nation would be delivered out of Egypt. Said you're going to be a hundred years, and I'm going to send a deliverer, I'm going to bring them out of Egypt. They knew that. Moses' parents could read They weren't dumb. They knew what Abraham was promised. They knew what God said. Abraham's parents could add They knew they'd been there 400 years. They knew what God said, and they knew what the time was And they believed God. They believed God. Now, I don't know that they knew Moses was the one that God was going to use to lead them out. But they knew that God was getting them out, and they knew the time was up. It was time. They believed God. It's very unlikely, as I said, they knew that God was going to use Moses, but they were certain that God would do what he said. They were certain that God would do what he promised. They were certain that God would take care of them. Their faith was unwavering, and their faith was courageous. And their faith was confident enough to put their son in a little ark and put him out on the river and just trust God. Would you agree with me? That's incredible faith But they believe God. God said it, we believe it. And no doubt, no negotiation, no debate, we're just going to trust God. Would you agree with me? That'd be a great place to get to in our Christian life. Just get where God said it, and that settles it, and I'm going to act on it. I'm going to act on it. If we can get to the place in our lives that we just believe what God says, if we just take God at His Word and then live accordingly. Just do what God says. Trust him. Follow his instructions. And act on it. And live that way. And I tell you, an ordinary person, an ordinary man or woman, a young mother, a young father, that'll just take God at his word and just trust him. God can do great, amazing things you never dream of. Amen? Let's pray. Father, I ask you to help us to learn from Moses' parents. And Lord, for me it's easy to see how a man of the character and caliber of Moses Got his faith when you look at his parents and what they produced, how you use them to bring Moses into A very difficult world. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I need my faith to be stronger. Sometimes I feel like my faith is just so weak. Any like that? Any like that? My hands raised Oh, I just need to learn to trust God. Just take him at his word. Just follow his instructions. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I can see the world's influence on my life. Maybe it's not real outward, maybe it's not blanton, but all those those lights, the pretty lights and the entertainment, the things of the world have such a draw And I don't want to be that percentage that capitulates to the world. I want to stay faithful to my God. I want to stay faithful to his word. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? I feel the world's pull. I feel it. It's there. Sure. Let's ask the Lord to help us. Father blessed now we ask. In Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together