Thus saith the Lord. Friends, this is not Jeremiah's message. This is God's message. When we were out there door knocking in Suffolk, Virginia, there was two hundred and thirty-five uh doors that we went that first day that everybody's so upset one person screaming at me I said ma'am I am not I am not the author of the Bible I'm just the messenger boy. I said you're upset with God. Folks are so upset with God. Listen, this is God's message. We're just the echo. We're just the servants But God says in verse sixteen, Thus saith the Lord, Stand ye in the ways and see. And ask for the old paths. Where is the good way? And walk therein. And ye shall find rest for your souls. But they said, we will not walk therein. The first little section we talked about was the passage, Stand ye in the ways and see. We said that was all of these are TD, T D. T D number one, thoughtful deliberation Think. Stop and think. Evaluate according to Scripture. Do I need to do these newfangled things that everybody's bringing my way? Do I need to adapt those Do we need to adapt those to our church? I mean, we use these screens here tonight to watch that beautiful presentation. That's not a bad thing. That's a good thing that we just did. There's some things we can do like that that are good things that, yes, Moses did not have those But I'm glad we do have them. They're an effective way to communicate, and I'm glad for it. But we adapt these things. We don't automatically jump on the latest bandwagon We meditate and we we um we scrutinize and we think and and uh we follow God's leading. So the first section. Are you all with me? Stand ye in the ways and see. That's thoughtful deliberation. Number two, some thinking discrimination. Some thinking discrimination. Ask for the old path, where is the good way? The good way. We notice today that it's not the popular way, it's not the smooth way, it's not the instant way, it's not the quick way, but it is the good way. Hallelujah. It's the right way, friend. It's the wise way. Acknowledge God and all our and He shall direct our paths the Bible says. And then we got to the third section, which is thorough determination. It says, and walk therein. Every man in this room needs to make up his mind. Me and you men need to make up our minds that we're going to walk in the old paths. We are going to walk in the old path. No one can talk us out of it. No, no, find God's will for your life. Put your hand to the plow. Do not look back. Keep a sweet attitude. Educate others. Help others. Encourage others. But do not allow anyone to get a sidetrack from these old paths that we're going to be on. Amen to that. And the world will try it. And even some believers that are immature might try that Maybe Christians that don't understand why we do certain things. The things the reason we conduct ourselves the way we do, the reason we dress the way we do, the kind of speech we have the kind of deportment we have, the behavior we have. We didn't come to this just by whim. No, it's after careful study of the Word of God Like the manner of speech, what kind of words that we use. We're careful with what kind of words we use We don't use certain jargon and certain euphemisms because they're too close to saying things we shouldn't be saying. And we want to talk like a noble Christian. And we don't want to blur the lines between godliness and worldliness. No, I don't want to see how close to the world our church can be. I don't want to see how close to the world our families can be. Amen. I want us to listen, I want us to distinctly walk the Christian walk. I get on planes. I get on planes dressed like this. So many times I get on the plane, and the stewardess will say, politician or preacher? Hallelujah preacher. They're like, Praise God. Now I'm praying for the politicians. I'm witnessing to the politicians, but I'm glad I'm in the preacher category. Amen to that. I want to be a preacher for my Lord. God has called me. I want to serve Him with all of my heart I want the Bible. I want to follow it and all of its precepts, all the clear teachings of it. Amen. And I want you to do that likewise. I want you to do likewise. And walk Therein, make up your mind. Young people, make up your mind. I have decided to follow Jesus. One of my early jobs. I've had these different jobs going through Bible college. I worked at the one called Virginia Overpack. And we were building crates for refrigerators to ship to Saudi Arabia. So we're working, we're working, we're working 12 hours, 14 hours a day. The sooner we got this contract done, the more money the company made. So we're we're working overtime, we're working, working, working. They incentivized us with a bonus if we get the work done in such and such times, so we're all working. So we got the job finished and the company decided to throw a party for all of us, us boys Yeah, and had all their beer and all that, and is on the company time and all that, and and they've got the preacher. That was me I was 17 years old, freshman at Bible College, working at Virginia Overpack, trying to let my light shine. Out on the job, and they got all their beer and all that sort of thing. They said, Oh, preacher, we didn't forget you. We got your own six-pack. And they threw me, they threw it, a six-pack of Coke. That was not Diet Coke in those days. I weighed 180 pounds, and I thought I was fat. I want to be that fat again tonight. I got my six pack of Coke. We need to be letting our light shine on the job. Folks ought to know that we're Christians. Amen to that. We've made up our mind. We're going to walk in the old path. Say, Brother Fox, you're trying to be antiquated in every area of your life? Listen, I've got a smartphone. These things are smart. Boy they are. I mean you can text, you can tweet, you can Facebook, you can search the web, you can send text. Woo! You can even make a phone call on these things. They're amazing Nothing wrong with having some modern things, but these old paths about fearing God. And God being in his rightful place. Where is that? First place. He needs to be first. Seek ye first the kingdom of God. And so we've got to make up our minds and thorough determination that I have decided to follow Jesus. Walk therein. We walk with a sense of purpose. Walk in God's providence. Amen to these things. Now, the next little section in the verse. Look at your Bible. The next little section says, Ye shall find rest for your souls. Ye fine shall find rest for your souls. Everybody's got a soul Body, soul, and spirit, everybody's got a soul. You want to find rest for your souls? Get on these old paths And the invitation to get on the old path, the invitation is given to everyone. Everyone in Maryland, it is God's will. Everybody in Maryland to get on the old paths. It's God's will. It's God's will for everybody in West Virginia. It's God's will for everybody in Indonesia. All those million. It's God's will. It is God's will. Thirty-seven provinces there in Indonesia. One of the most unreached people groups in the world is in Indonesia, the ACHA, A-C-E-H. Hardly reach at all. I found six Christians in that province. We've got to get the Kellys there. Amen to that. But here's Jesus' offer. Listen to this. If you're listening, say amen. Yeah. Listen to this. Matthew 11, 28. Listen to what Jesus said. Come unto me. All ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Walk on these old paths, ye shall find rest for your souls So we that are born again, we that are trying to be on the old paths, we do have this rest in our soul because of this redemption, because of this pardon Well, that's a good thing. To be pardoned. Mmm. To be pardoned of our sin. Pardon says you're guilty. But we've erased it. We've exonerated you. Praise God. I've been pardoned by God. And what does that do? It brings rest to my conscience. Freedom from guilt. The guilt of sin. The wages of sin is death. Sin's a horrible thing We've got people all across our country taking drugs and taking alcoholic beverage. By the way, alcoholic beverage is the biggest drug in America Alcoholic beverage is not right. If you've got some in your refrigerator, get rid of that. That's not old path kind of living. Amen to that. No, you get on this old path and pretty soon you say, Woo! I'm able to sleep at night. My conscience is clean between me and God. Listen to this great verse, Hebrews 10, 22. Let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith. Having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water, hallelujah. I like being on the old path where my where my soul is clean between me and God. My conscience is clean. We have rest because I I mean why do we have these rest on these old paths? Because we've got the Word of God. You want to know how to live your life? Well, we got the manual right here. Well, I wish there's a manual on how to live. There is. So I got a manual on my car. Good. You need one. Especially these days. I can't even find the carburetor on that new thing out there. I don't think it has one. It doesn't. Okay. You need a manual. Hey, you want to know how to live? Want to know how to how to be a daddy? Want to know how to be a granddaddy? Want to know how to be a businessman? Want to be a godly grandma Why here's the book But here's the manual. And you get on these old paths, and pretty soon you get realizing, oh, I'm finding rest for my soul. See, we've got that because we've got the Word of God. Proverbs 16, 22. Understanding. Is a well spring of life unto him that hath it. We have this rest in our soul because we trust God in all of our affairs. We just trust God. Friends, when it's out of our hands, that means it's in God's hands. And so I'm not going to worry about everything in the whole world. I'm going to do my part, and then I'm going to trust my Lord. I'm going to try to be on those old paths. I'm going to try to get as many people on the old paths, family, friends, neighbors, work folks, everybody I can. Get on these old paths. Come on, friends, get on these old paths It's the good way. And when you get on these old paths, you find rest. Because you just trust God. You just trust God. Stock market go up, hallelujah. Stock market go down. Glory to God. We're trusting God I'm not trusting the stock market tonight. I'm trusting my Lord. American currency is not worth that much, and we already know that. Better not trust the dollar, better trust God. Amen to these things God is the one keeping us safe. God is the one protecting us, and he's the one leading us. Proverbs 3:5: Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding. We have rest because we've learned to just simply obey God, and when we obey God, it brings rest to our souls. John 13 verse 17, Jesus said, if ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them. So how can you Baptist folk over there at Mountain Lake, how can y'all be happy all the time? Well, we're just resting in the Lord. We're just trusting him. We've got our eyes fixed on him. Listen, we don't stare at the problems at all times. We keep gazing at Jesus. We glance over there at the problem, glance at that problem, but we just keep looking to Jesus. Looking to Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. Yeah, we get rest to our souls Hebrews 4 and verse 15 and 16. For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities But wasn't all points tempted as we are? Yet without sin, hallelujah, we serve a Savior with no blemish and no flaw. Amen. He's impeccable, friends. He can't sin. He's God. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace. We have rest for all these reasons. Here's another reason. We have rest because we've learned the difference between Satisfaction in Christ and self-satisfaction. We're not living for ourselves, we're living for Him And when we live for him, we just rest in him. 2 Corinthians 5. 15. They which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them. So that's point number four. Terrific destination. Terrific destination. What is that terrific destination? Rest. Rest for your souls. Here's the last point of the message. I don't like the last point of the message. It breaks my heart. Here Jeremiah has gotten up. He's given the message from God to the people. The message is, stand ye in the ways and see, and ask for the old paths. Where's the good way and walk therein, and you shall find rest for your souls. But here's the last part. I put it down number five in my notes. A terrible declaration. It's terrible. Look at the end of it. But they said The audience, the people listening said, We will not walk therein. Can you imagine telling God? We will not. It's pretty brazen. See now a lot of folks, a lot of folks they won't say it. But actions speak louder than words. And by not obeying God, we are disobeying God. So I just neglect what he said. I just omit it for. Well then you're you're basically, maybe you haven't verbalized it, but your actions say, we will not. We're not going to do it. But these folks are so brazen. That they said we will not. They said we will not. I tried to think, why would people say that? I thought of two or three reasons. Reason number one, hey, because sin is deceptive. Sin is deceptive. Oh, we say we want our sin. We want the pleasure of sin. Last year I heard a preacher accidentally, I guess accidentally. Either way, he said something that wasn't exactly accurate. He said, there is no pleasure in sin. Well, that's not what the Bible says, is it? All of us have said things that weren't exactly right. I have. I heard that and I said, well, that's not exactly right. Because there is pleasure in sin. How long? For a season. Why would these people be so brazen to tell God we will not? We will not. We will not walk therein. Well, because sin is deceiving. We think that sin, well, it's not that bad. Hebrews 3. 13, exhort one another daily, lest any of you be hardened Through the deceitfulness of sin. The world is alluring Our young people, our millennials, on every hand they're being tempted. From every direction. When I see someone like Brandon I mean, listen, Brother Brandon, I can't tell you how stirred up you get me. To see a 29-year-old, is that what you are? And then to see Brother Brett get up here Leading that congregational segment and that smile, ooh, I like the way he smiles. I like that he encourages us I like the way he gets us singing. By the way, when he announced his number, get the book and sing with this man. Amen. I like these young men and these young ladies around this church. Hallelujah Hey, get on that old path. Don't you do what these people are saying here. Don't you fall for the wows of the devil? No, sin is deceptive. Maybe that's why they said it. Maybe because of self-satisfaction, selfishness is a very ancient sin. Selfishness is a sin, you know. In this same book, Jeremiah chapter 45. Seekest thou great things for thyself, seek them not When Jeremiah preached that little message, what was he preaching against? Selfishness. This is one of the most selfish things I've ever heard in my life. For these people that are listening to God's message, stand ye in the ways and see and ask for the old paths, where's the good way and walk therein? Listen how kind and benevolent and charitable God is being. God wants all of them to be on the old paths. God wants every one of them to to live right and get his blessings and all that. And they're so obdurate. They're so mule-headed. They're so selfish. So brazen that they would say, no, God. No. Why? Well, because sin is deceptive, because of self-satisfaction And then I put this down. Because of stubbornness. Stubbornness. You know, there's some words that we get confused. In Sunday school we talked about pride versus respect. Sometimes we thought stubbornness is a good thing. Stubbornness is never a good thing. You know what the definition of stubbornness is? Stubbornness It's where you resist doing something different, something contrary to your actions, that you resist while you know it's wrong. That even after you know it's wrong, you just keep saying, I don't care, I'm not changing. See, sometimes we thought, well, stubbornness is somebody being determined. No, no, no. A man that's a godly man, when he sees the error of his ways, he changes. He says, Oh, I'm going to comply. Will-co. That little phrase, the aeronautic term, will-co, what does it mean? Will comply. Yeah. We find out the error of our way from the Lord, and we say, We'll come, Lord, we'll comply. We won't be stubborn. Stubborn. Strong. Fortitude. Now that's good. Fortitude some determination. Woo! I like it. But not stubbornness. These people are completely wrong. They have rejected God. They have rejected God's plan. Oh, there's consequences. You and I can choose our sin, but we don't choose our consequences, do we? Do we reap what we sow? Oh yeah. You plant corn, you don't get cucumbers. No, you get corn, don't you? You sow to the whirlwind. You're going to reap. I'm going to reap. Don't y'all hate sin tonight. Don't you want to be righteous before the Lord tonight? Wouldn't you and I like everything to be right between us and God this evening? Don't we all want to be on these old paths? I do. You see, at the beginning of this Little sermon. Maybe maybe some of us said, oh, he's going to try to get us back to the nineteen fifties or back to his childhood, back in the sixties. Yeah, I'm not trying for that. I want us to get back on God's paths. See, that's the old paths that we're talking about. These are God's old paths. Would you bow your heads? Our piano's going to get in place. We're going to have an invitation. We'll talk to the men. Men, do you really want to be on God's old paths? Is that what you want? If somebody looked at your life, if your wife and your family members, would they say dad's on his old paths, he wants us on the old path, he's always trying to get us be on the old paths How we do it, men. You know, we're God's deputies inside the home. I want all the men in this room to get on the old paths. I know preacher wants to be on the old path. I know Pastor Brent wants to be on the old path. I know our deacons. They need and they want to be on the old paths If you want to be on the old path, then would you let the Lord know? Would you raise your hands tonight and say, God, I want you to see my hand. I want to be on the old path. Men, are you going to raise your hands tonight? Is that the path you want to be on? The old paths, is that the path you want to be on? Young men, is that what you want? Boys? Boys, boys, go ahead and make up your mind. I heard in Brother Brandon's testimony about him getting saved when he was a boy. Scott Pawley, one of my dear friends, one of my dear preacher friends. Got saved when he was five years old. I was interviewing him one day. I said, Scott, some people think, well, five-year-old can't get saved. Scott said, well, I'm glad Jesus doesn't think that way because he saved me. Then let's get on those old paths and let's stay on the old paths. Now ladies, how about you? Ladies, would you like to keep yourself unspotted from the world? That's difficult these days, but it's possible. Oh, it's possible. I see the ladies in our church, some godly ladies here. Hallelujah. Now, ladies, don't you want to stay on the old pants? Would you all stand everybody? Millennials, if you want to come to the altar, if you, 18 to 35 year olds, want to come to the altar tonight And lead the way on some dedication to the old paths. I wish you would do that. You can start coming now. We'll start some minute music in a little bit I'll tell you, the great revivals I've read about and studied, it's been the millennial age that led the way. I'm not a millennial. I'm a baby boomer. But I want to be on those old paths. And I want a revival with all of my heart. I want an awakening with all of my heart. Oh God, get our church on the old paths and keep us on the old paths and help us to be righteous. I pray that no one in this room would reject your leading. You've helped me today. Oh Lord, help all of us. May we all submit in Jesus' name. Heads are bowed, music's playing. Those who want to come, come on. All you millennials.