Um for our revival this week. Thank you so much, Brother Leatherman. God bless you. What a joy it's been to be here. I tell you, uh, Nancy and I have really, really enjoyed getting to know so many of you And we certainly have enjoyed uh uh Dr. Ms. Leatherman and uh the fellowship and the food we have eaten ourselves under the table And it's just been an exciting time. And uh the preaching, uh, there's some visits. We were able to make a few visits along the way, passed out a number of tracks just like you have. and invited folks and and got some good promises and some came and some didn't come and you know it's that's just the way it works. But you just stay at it, stay at the task. and how good it is. Thank you for the g for the guest house, the mission house there. And uh that's been been very nice, very comfortable Uh we did have to drive a long way to get to church each night, but it was w the distance is worth the difference, we say. You know, we have folks that our average people our inner core, our inner circle people. We're an inner city church. But to have workers, laborers, people of character and so forth that can carry the load, I would say at least 80% of our people drive an average of 20 miles one way And we have people that come from over forty different zip codes throughout the Greater Louisville area. And so Don't think some of you that maybe you say, well man, I've got to drive 14 miles up the mountain or 25 miles up the mountain to get there. I'm telling you, it's hard to find a church that's trying to do what this church is trying to do And uh and and you say, well, I'm gonna go help this little old church over here that hadn't done nothing in fifty years, didn't do it nothing for the next fifty, but at least it's closer to home. Well, I'm telling you, you'd be far wiser, in my opinion to continue to make an investment. Yeah, it's a little bit of investment. It's costing you something to do it, but it's it's an investment in eternity. And it's an investment in precious souls. And I believe God will bless you and honor you for it. Hey, let me uh go ahead tonight before I make you stand. Last night I had folks standing, then I got making announcements, got to reading, got to preaching, got everything else So I got me a chair and I said, well if they're gonna keep standing, I'm gonna sit down. And it didn't w didn't work out that way, but uh that's what I thought about. Hey, on the back table, especially for young people single young adults and uh and uh college age students, whatever, or even a young couple that maybe feels called to full-time service. We've had a number of married couples over the years and got a couple right now, as a matter of fact, two or three couples And uh if you'll fill out this card and let me put my name on it and turn it in, or you can mail it in, it doesn't matter, there's no address on there, you have to look up the address. But uh if you'll fill that out, I can save you some money on your registration fee. I can say uh about $100, and uh that'll help a great deal because the biggest expense when you're starting in a Bible college is that upfront money because there's registration and uh all that kind of thing. There's the first month's tuition. It all adds up and it like it almost doubles your monthly rate that you normally would pay And so I can help you with that a great deal. And if you'll fill that out and give it to me, uh I'll put my name on it, turn it in, and if my signature's on there. then uh they'll contact me and I can get you uh that little bit of a discount. If you decide, well, that's not where I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go somewhere else, or I'm not going to college right now, or I'm going to a local state school, or whatever you're gonna do It doesn't hurt a thing. It doesn't cost anything to do that. And uh then there's a paper, why I recommend Shawnee Baptist College. The program is right, the place is right, and the price is right And the price is right. Come on down. But the truth is, uh let me just talk about the program. The place is the local New Testament church. The price is one of the best prices that that you'll find anywhere. And uh the Shawnee Baptist Church itself uh adds to what our young people uh pay to come to college there Per young person about $2,000 a year that our church pays in order to keep the college doors open and keep young people coming. That's why we ask churches. to pray about partnering with us to some degree, however the Lord would let you uh would uh would allow you to do that. But uh for example, uh we have an internship program. We we have all the same academics Different colleges have different strengths and different weaknesses. And one of our weaknesses is we're not in a resort town But you guys live in a resort town, so it's no big deal to you. But some colleges, their claim to fame, is they're in a resort town, or they're near an ocean somewhere, a body of water, or there's all that romance, that kind of thing. Well we're not. We're in Louisville, Kentucky and uh the church itself is in the inner city. Now the college is six miles away, right across the river. And it's but one good day here's one of our great features. We're a quarter of a mile from Walmart. And uh But uh when you think about uh when you think about learning the academics, you know, the book of Acts you say, well some colleges have more students there. Well I tell you, uh I think when you're like for example, if you're studying the book of Acts, I think It's still the book of Acts, whether there's 25 students sitting in your class or 50, or whether there's 300 students sitting in your class Matter of fact, I think the class that has 25, 30 students is far better off because they can actually get to talk to the teacher and uh and get some instruction and get some help and get some feedback and that kind of thing But just say, for example, if a young man came and said, Well, I'm going to be in the ministry, I'm going to be a preacher, I'm not sure what I'm going to do yet. Every semester that young man would work with a different staff member in a different area of the work with that and learn the expertise of that staff member. They would work in an internship capacity with him. They would take it like a class They'd work with him three hours a week and then do a little bit about site assignment, one semester maybe with the Sunday school director, another semester with the sewing director Another semester with the youth pastor, another semester with the youth uh the music director, another semester, uh they may even take a summer and work at the camp. That camp they actually make money. And that goes toward their college and plus take home, I think they take home about eighty dollars a week and then get uh sixty dollars a week uh put aside to help them with next semester's college bill. And then if they stay all summer and keep their contract, they get like a $200 bonus at the end of the summer. So that kind of thing. And then there's the print shop for one semester. And then cr uh working with the Christian school principal for one semester. And here's why you say, Well, I'm never going to do any of those things. That's what you say when you join the army, isn't it? And uh then you end up, you know, whatever, wherever they put you is where you end up. But uh you know, you graduate from Bible college and you say, Well, I'm gonna go out here and uh I'm gonna get me a work in a church and I'm gonna be a music man And the pastor says, I need a music man, but I need somebody that can work with the youth, and I need somebody to help me with the grounds. All of a sudden you say, well, I don't know anything about that stuff. Well, if you go to Shawnee Baptist College, You can say, oh yeah, I've had experience in all that. See, you're building a resume while you're doing it too. And uh so it's really an advantage. There's not any other college, Bible college in America that I'm aware of that has that kind of program So let me encourage you in that. Throwing everything under there, I just threw my notes under there. I wonder what I'm going to preach tonight. I mentioned this book last night, and you can go there. And to the young people, I just want to say this The new sword of the Lord has the Shawnee Baptist, uh Shawnee Baptist Church Youth Conference ad in it I understand your church has planned to bring some young people down. And you know the Marvel comics, that's they made a playoff on that. Breaking news, superhero civilian identities are revealed. There's our lineup of speakers for this year. and all the things going on and then the different weeks at camp that are going on. I understand you might be doing something different from camp already, but then there's also the retreat weeks for couples. for men, for women, and for youth, and you might be interested in some of that too. So the the new copy of the sword of the Lord, when they put it out out there, be sure and get a copy of it, stick it on the wall somewhere plan to come. If you you say, well, I'm not in high school anymore, we also have for college and career age young people, single young people, we have a separate track for them. And uh last year I think we had about a hundred uh single young adults, and some of them met their life mate there. This is a great thing And uh it's it's exciting and fun. Take your Bibles tonight, turn to the book of Luke, chapter number 15. Luke chapter number 15. Hey, did you hear about the blonde that she was so excited She was she was just excited. She had worked this puzzle and it only took her six months and and she was she was so proud of herself because on the box it said two to four years Go ahead and moan. Now look, if you laugh at my jokes, I preach faster and we'll get we'll get out of here, you know. And uh I'll tell you one more and I would then we'll have to jump in here and and go. I I just like to lighten up the load just a little bit before I uh before we uh preach. I mean uh uh did you hear about the fellow he was uh he he was uh uh he came out of his his office and He he worked in the government there and he well actually he was uh he was uh a layman in his church and his he was a he was a Methodist, just happened to be a Methodist and You know, old time religion makes the Baptist love the Methodist. You know, that's the thing. And he walked out there, and here come this little boy down the street, and he had a wagon full of pups, brand newborn pups And he was taking them for a walk. You know, he thought he was doing something big. He was walking along and the guy saw him and he said, Well, isn't that cute? So he'd have walked over to a little boy, son, what what do you got there? And he said, I got our our dog had some new puppies. He said, wow. And he's out here walking them. And he said, Well, what kind of pups are they? He said, They're Methodist puffs. He said, he just laughed. He said, That's the cutest thing I ever heard. And so uh the next week he was with his pastor, the Methodist pastor. And uh and he saw that little boy was out there again, pulled that wagon, had them puffs in them, now they're a couple three weeks old. And he saw 'em going along there and he said, Hey preacher, come here a minute, Pastor. I want to show you something. He said, Hey son, stop here. He said, This is my pastor. He said, Tell my pastor what kind of pups these are. He said they're Baptist pups. He says, Baptist pups? Well last week you told me they were Methodist pups. He said, yeah, but they got their eyes open now. Okay. Yeah, you know, that's Well yeah if you're a visiting Methodist tonight, God bless you. I love you and I wouldn't run you off for the world, but uh and uh w I just thought that was kinda funny. It's kinda cute. You can tell it in your church and reverse that if you want to. That's all right with me. But uh I actually when I heard it it was Republicans and Democrats but I knew it I could get some songbooks thrown at me in this place I'm not going there. So we'll we'll just stick with uh we'll stick with the Methodist and the Baptist tonight, all right? And uh hey, in Luke chapter fifteen, if you would please And uh well, I want us to read just a little bit here. Let's stand together, please, and I'll read from the Word of God. Luke chapter 15. I'm going to begin reading at about a verse number eleven. Let me just tell you this. Here was this farmer, this man, this this fella who had done a work built a built a uh a business, a farm, and and uh he he was uh he was successful. He had two sons and the younger son didn't want to wait for his dad to die to get his inheritance Look what he said in verse 11. Says a certain man had two sons, and the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me. The portion of goods that falleth to me. And what did the Father do? He divided unto them his living. And not many days after, the younger son gathered all together and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in the land, and he began to be in want. Heavenly Father. I pray your Holy Spirit will take the Word of God tonight, drive it home to our hearts. Lord, teach us some things that will help us as Christians to be stronger in our faith and to do a better job and to be more committed And then, Father, for those who are here tonight who perhaps are away from the Lord, may they feel that drawing power of the Holy Spirit to say, I want to get back to the Father I want to walk with him. And maybe, Lord, there's someone in this room tonight that really isn't even sure that if they were to die tonight, that they have a home in heaven And I pray your Holy Spirit will just convict them and convince them that they need Jesus Christ and that tonight they would simply call on Him. and be saved. And Father, we give you the praise in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you so much. You may be seated. Hey, this is a good crowd tonight. God bless you. I'm glad to see you Appreciate so much you being here. And uh I want you to think about this. The outline that I have here was given to me while I was uh dri while I was uh taking care of Dr. Hyman Appelman, uh he was preaching and uh and I was escorting him and we were driving somewhere And Dr. Hyman Appleman, uh many of you maybe have never heard of him, but God used him uh as a worldwide evangelist. He was born in Russia He was a Jew. He came to America, got his law degree, and then got saved. And when he got saved, God called him to preach. and he left his law uh he left his position in a law firm, his family rejected him and shunned him and would have no more to do with him because he had found faith in Christ And and they had a they literally had a funeral. They had his funeral. And uh and he tried to contact them. They said, You're dead. You're dead. We don't want to have anything else to do. Because he got saved. Look, thank God that if you got saved tonight, people your family'd be hugging your neck and love you and rejoice with you. Young people, thank the Lord. You don't have to worry about what they did or what the Islam might do, say, Well, you've dishonored the family, so we're looking for a way to kill you. And I mean literally they'd not only have your funeral, you'd have to have a funeral because they would they would they would run over you or cut your head off or whatever. And that's just the way that's the way much of the world is But thank the Lord in the Christian culture that when somebody comes to Christ, we all rejoice and praise the Lord and ask God to bless them and use them. And but but but th this this young man back to our story here this young man he came to his dad he said Father he said look here basically here's what he said He said, as far as I'm concerned, we ought to just go ahead and live as though you're dead. Go ahead and give me my inheritance now. I want my inheritance That means more to me than living here with you, than being your son. I want what you have. And by the way There's a parallel with the prevailing attitude of today in much of the world. We want God's blessings, but we don't want to honor Him with our material wealth. Isn't that amazing? We we don't want to honor God with our with our substance, with our w with our revenue, with our finances, with our income Now I know m probably most of the people of this church couldn't be here, couldn't be surviving and doing what you're doing if it weren't for a number of people that are right here in this room being faithful in your tithes and offerings But isn't it amazing how we get really nervous and you know and I'm not by the way, let me put you at ease, I'm not gonna preach on money tonight. But isn't it amazing how you ought to make clutch your bill fold, you know, that preacher trying to get in my wallet, you know, or or where's my purse, you know, that that kind of thing. Look, folks, uh here's the amazing thing. This this young man, he had He had this attitude that the material things were more important to him than honoring his father. And I think we get caught up in this world. And we think that life is all about getting all the toys that we can, accumulating as much land, our houses, our savings, or gold, or whatever else it is that we can't And somehow we think we're a success, and guess what? When we die, we're not going to take any of it with us. Not any of it. We came into this world naked, we're going to go out the same way. Hey, I'm telling you, my friend We spend our life as a tale that is told and it's later than you think, and I don't have time. That's another message that I enjoy preaching. But I'm not preaching it tonight. But I'm telling you, here's this young man. He said, I want your blessings, but I don't want to honor you with my life. He said, let's live as though you uh let as if you're dead. You know what? This generation is going to go down in history as the generation with its handout Now I don't mean I'm not trying to hurt anybody's feelings tonight, and I certainly don't have any bone to pick with anybody, but and and I thank God. Let me put a disclaimer before I tell you what I'm going to say The disclaimer is this. I thank God that we here in America ha ha because of our Christian heritage feel a responsibility to help take care of folks that have genuine problems that cannot care for themselves. I thank the Lord for the program, for the assistance and help that we give to people who would otherwise starve or whatever else But I'm not for people like this man who just had his hand out, he was fully capable, staying there and working and building his own fortune and doing everything else But what he wanted was the easy way out. He wanted somebody else ought to subsidize me. My friend, that's just not the right attitude. It's not the right spirit. And America can't survive like that And uh do you notice how they said, listen to this, and some of you may still be struggling trying to find a job, but I've noticed that since the Congress refused to extend the 99 weeks of unemployment further than in every state we've had more employment going on this last month than we have in the last two years Yeah. Guess what? As soon as they found out they weren't going to be able to go 129 weeks of unemployment, they went out and got a job Isn't that amazing? Now it wasn't the job they used to have. They may be making half what they used to make, or a third. But at least they're out there working, doing the thing And uh that's you know, you you just have to excuse me, that's where I grew up. But you see, when I was a little boy uh and and into young adulthood when I first began pastoring It was known as when you help somebody, they called it the welfare program. You remember that? And I again I thank the Lord for a nation that takes care of its needy people that have genuine needs People that have real disabilities, people that have that have had emergencies, that have fallen on hard times, that have uh that have terrible sicknesses, that kind of thing And and a nation that steps up and says, we're going to help meet that need. Well, I thank God for that. I love that about America. I do not look you can use all my taxes that you want to to help somebody that really has a need I just resent paying the bill for somebody that's as healthy as I am but just won't work. I just resent it. And I work hard for the money that I make. It may not look like it. I mean you think about it. What we preachers do, we have to work what? One, two, three hours a week? You know, Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night, I mean, come on, you know, it's a tough job. And we earn every penny of it. Yeah, you know. And uh But think about it. It was welfare. Then they turned around and they said, well, that welfare, that embarrasses people, that belittles people. You know, they feel bad about taking charity, taking welfare, and and and we don't want anybody feel bad, so we're going to change the name of it. And about the middle of my ministry, they started calling it assistance Remember that term? It was assistance. Oh, we went from welfare to public assistance. We're just going to assist you. You're doing it, but we're assisting you. I thought, well, there's nothing wrong with that. Now that we've made, in the last number of years, we've made another step. Now we call it entitlement Everybody feels like they're entitled to something. You know, when it was welfare and somebody came along and said, Here, let us help you, people said, Oh, thank you. I don't know how we would have made it without it. Thank you I'm so glad. It's not a whole lot. I'm not going to be able to move up to the wealthy side of town, but at least I'll have food on my table. I'll be able to keep a roof over my head. Thank you. But you know what they do with entitlement? Is that all? I'm entitled to more than this. Hey, my neighbor got a new car. I ought to have a new car. But your neighbor works sixty hours a week. And your neighbor pays the bills and he pays his taxes. Yeah, but I'm entitled, you know, and this is the land of the free and the home of the brave, and and and I'm entitled to it. You say, boy, that's a terrible attitude. And yet Forty percent of the people in America live with some kind Of government income. Now, if you've worked all your life and you've earned your Social Security, praise the Lord. I hope that you live to be 150 and draw it every month of your life. You deserve it. But uh anyway, I just got that off my chest. I feel so much better now. But that's what he said. And we'll go down in history as the generation with its handout. And and He started living for himself. And look at this. It wasn't long. The Bible says look what it says. It says the younger of them said to his father, verse twelve, give me the portion of goods that followeth me And he divided them to him, his living, him and his older brother went ahead and gave him his too. And it says, not many days after. It doesn't take long when you start getting that selfish, self-centered, self-serving attitude. Till suddenly you're away from God. It said that he debated to him not many days after that The younger son gathered all together and took his journey to a far country. And notice this, there wasted his substance with righteousness. Hey, when he went out, man, he went out with pomp and glory. He went out, he, before he left home, he went in town, bought him a new chariot, got him a new steed there to pull that baby. had the fine his clothes, he was strutting his stuff, had his liquor in the in under the seat. He was somebody. He he looked sharp. He had friends all over. Hey Hey, when you got greenbacks hanging out your pockets, you've got friends everywhere. You go to the bar, you say, hey, drinks are on me. Everybody loves you. He went out Oh, he said, this is the life. This is what I've been waiting for. This is what I deserve. I shouldn't have to go in there and work my fingers to the bone and get calluses and sunburn and dirt and grit and and and and all this work I'm gonna live it up. Wow. Bible says, when he had spent all, when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in the land. Let me tell you something. You decide to go some way besides God's way. You want to take advantage of all that God has given us here, but you want to use it all simply for yourself and not for yourself. his glory, here's what's going to happen. You're going to be just like that young man. It may not be physically you may not be like him, but spiritually and emotionally you'll be just like him. And that's one of the problems in America today. They say that over 80% of the hospital beds are filled with people who are having physical problems that result from emotional disturbances. Stress and all kinds of other things. What brings it on? It's what they're they're living for the things of this world. Let me just tell you something The things of this world cannot satisfy. The more you get, the more you have to have to reach that same euphoria, that same high. Once again, that's why people become addicted. That's why they're addicted to tobacco. That's why they're addicted to drugs. That's why they're addicted to alcohol. That's why they're addicted to sex. That's why they're addicted to living in the fast lane. That's why they're addicted to whatever it is. I mean they they get their hobby and they go crazy over it And they go on and on and on. And somehow there's never enough. And it never satisfies. When he had spent all, he tried everything the world had to offer. And there was a famine in the land. He was still empty. Think of that. It does not the world will not satisfy You want, instead of going after the temporary pleasures of this world, the Bible says there's pleasure in sin for a season. But the Bible says also you're far better off to live with the pleasures at the right hand of God. The Bible says he came to want. He began to be in want. He became a slave to his appetites. A servant to everything ungodly and everything against his heritage. Look where it took him. He began to be in one. The Bible says That uh he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. Now you've got to understand, pigs aren't kosher for a Jewish boy. I mean that's what that's the dirtiest animal on the planet. If you touched them, you had to go and go through ceremony some kind of a ceremonial cleansing and and and wait for uh three days or whatever else it was and and and and and be able to present you had to wash your clothes and wash your body I mean that is filth as far as that as that Jewish boy was concerned, all of a sudden he was in the very he might as well have thrown him in an outhouse with the hole It was, he was in the worst place in the world he could be, but it was the only place that somebody would even give him any work to do. Says he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and he sent him into the fields to feed swine. And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat. Look at this And no man gave to him. Where was all those fair weather friends? Where were all those buddies that he had when he when he had a few bucks in his pocket? Oh yeah, hey young people, there's a lot of people that love you if they think they can use you You better be careful. You better ask God to help you walk with Him and you have your standards down. You decide what you're going to be, how you're going to live, and what you refuse to compromise And and somebody says, I want to be your friend, say, good. We have church on Sunday morning. You can go with me. Bring them to the house of God. Let them hear the word of God. Billy Sunday said, fling the gospel at them. That don't get them, God don't want them. And by the way, if they don't want God, you shouldn't want them. Love them, pray for them, but say, you know what, I can't be your best friend. We can't hang out together. It's just not gonna happen. I'm not gonna date that girl that isn't gonna love God. I'm not gonna have anything do with that young man that's not gonna put Christ first in his life. That's the way it ought to be. So he came to want. He began to realize the reality of the law of sowing and reaping, and no man gave unto him. I just again want to satisfy I want to announce to you today, young and old alike, this old world cannot satisfy. Only Jesus can satisfy your soul. You're chasing the temporal, the temporary things. the elusive pleasures of this life. It will literally destroy your future. I said this last night. I'll say it again tonight. Don't sacrifice your future on the altar of the immediate. Stop and think of the consequences of your action. Every action has a reaction. Every action has consequences. And by the way, I'm not going to chase that rabbit. Never mind. I'm going to put that rabbit back in the pocket. I'll chase it. If I if if the Lord ever lets me come back, if the preacher ever l invites me back again, I'll chase that rabbit. Okay. Number one, he came to want. Number two, look at this. Look what it says. Verse 17. Number one, he came to want, or he began to want. Number two, and when he came to himself, he came to want. And then he came to himself. And he said, How many hired servants of my fathers have bread enough and despair, and I perish with hunger? He said, The people that used to that used to work for me. Me, my dad had me and my brother run the whole place. We were in charge. I was the one of the bosses. These same people they worked for me. Now they they're better off than I am What he said, I will arise and go to my father and say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee am no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hard servants. He came to himself. Again, he realized he'd be better off as a servant back on his father's uh plantation or farm, or whatever you want to call it. He'd be better off back there where he used to be an heir than to be away from his father any longer. See, when he was at home, he tried to blame that emptiness he had on everything in the world. He blamed that I'm tired of the old man telling me what to do all the time. I'm tired of having to get up early. I'm tired of having to work late. I'm tired of people always bossing me around. And I just want to do what I want to do. He tried to blame it on circumstances. If I could just get out of this place, I could make something of myself, I could be happy He tried to blame it on authority. He said, I'll be glad when I get to a place where nobody can tell me what to do. I had a young man in our church like that one time. He was about 17 years old. It was right in the middle of his senior year. His parents were on his case, teachers were on his case. You know why there's on his case? Why we're on his case, not the other guy? Because he's the one who kept bucking the system He's the one who thought he knew more than everybody else in the class. He was the one that always talked back to his parents was a smart mouth. He's the one that when they'd let him use the car, he'd always get a ticket or run into something, and then blame it on those other somebody else's fault. It wasn't me. Well finally people began to pick up on him and came down on him a little harder. You know what he came to me? He said, he said, I'm quitting school. I said, what are you going to do? He said, I'm tired of everybody telling me what to do. I'm going to go join the Marines. Do what I want to do. I said, that's exactly what you ought to do. And uh by the way he came back a better man. He came back understanding authority just a little bit. He didn't know what somebody telling you what to do was till he joined the Marines. You had to blame everybody. Hey, for you boys and girls that are in here tonight. I tell you about this little girl. The kids are great, aren't they? I mean, kids are great, but kids do put you to the test sometime. This little girl though, she was only five years old, and her mom took her to the doctor, and she was getting ready for her kindergarten go to go to kindergarten. And the doctor took her set her up on that little table there in his office and he was proud of himself he knew. He always c could put kids at ease and and he had a spot with cartoon characters on it. And he had a jar full of bol blow pops sitting there, he had a a TV up there and had had uh Sponge Bob Square pants on it doing uh with us something and and uh the music playing. So he just thought, boy, I I just you know, kids they're just relax when I'm around. He went over to this little girl and and she was sitting there and mom stood there and she was sitting there, she was staring straight ahead, she wouldn't even look at him. And he he tried to talk to her and she wouldn't look at him. He said, Well, I'll get her here. He went and got his little scope, went over there and looked in her down in her ear. He said, Hey Think I'll see Big Bird in there? And she didn't even bat an eye. She just sat there and looked straight ahead, didn't smile, didn't winch, didn't do anything. He thought, man Yeah, tough case, but I've had tough cases before. He went and got one of those tongue depressors, went over there, pulled her jaw down, stuck that in there. He said, think I'll see the cookie monster down there. And she she just she just like he wasn't even he was right in front of her. It was like she was staring straight through him. She didn't bat her eyes, she didn't smile, she just she just zoned him out. She just sitting there. He said, brother, this is a tough case. I don't know what I'm gonna do here. He got the stethoscope. He said, I got one more shot here. Took that stethoscope, put it on her little chest. He said, hey, think I'll hear Barney in there? All of a sudden, her eyes lit up, her cheeks turned pink, big old smile came on her face, she brightened up, she said, Oh no, sir. She said, Jesus is in my heart. Barney's on my underwear Kids are funny. But here was a kid that was just a rebel He just had a rebellious heart. He just didn't want, and he was blaming it on everything in the world But one day, after he had his opportunity to prove himself, he had tried everything the world had to offer. He still wasn't satisfied. He still wasn't excited. He was still empty on the inside And he was is even if he had been halfway successful in the world, he was still dissatisfied and his heart was crying out. He said, I I've got to get back to the Father And he said, It's my fault. He came to himself. And my friend, tell you, look in the mirror and blame the person you're looking at right there for your problems. You're not ever going to have a life worth living. As long as you're trying to pass the buck and blame somebody else. That's why churches have splits. Why people get mad and get all that. Again, I've quoted this verse two or three times. Great peace have they that love thy law and nothing shall offend them. Next time you find yourself getting offended, say, oh, wait a minute, time out There may be something that's uncomfortable that I need to deal with, but I don't have any reason to get offended. I'm still saved. I'm still going to heaven. Jesus still loves me. And I still have a church I can worship in, and I still have people that are friends. And here's this young man, he had turned his back on all that, went his own way. He thought he knew more than everybody else. And and he he he came he came to want and then it He said, you know what? It's my fault. Those servants back there that I used to boss around are living better than I am today. It's me, O Lord, standing in the need of prayer. He came to himself. You know, when you come to the place in your life Where you recognize that you're you, in one sense of the word, are the master of your faith. I mean, obviously God's the one that's giving you the opportunity, but you make the choices. And the choices you make do have consequences. I talked about that just a little bit. And here's this prodigal son. And he had chosen to get away from the Father. And there are people by the millions in America that God has blessed. And they love having everything God gives them. But they don't want to do much for him. Oh, that's too much restraint on my life Oh, I have to go to church? No, you don't have to go to church. You get to go to church. The big difference. Change your attitude. Quit and say, look, my attitude stinks. I get to go and let everybody know, by my testimony of my willingness to go, how much I love the Lord and how thankful I am for what he's done for me, and I'm going to honor him. And I'm not going to go there just what's in it for me, but to say, what can I do for the Lord today? Or how can I let God change my life today to be a better Christian? He came to want. He came to himself. And then here's the good news. Look what it says in verse number 20. He arose and came to his father. He came to his father. See, that's what we need to do, folks. If you're here tonight without Jesus Christ, God so loved, God the Heavenly Father, so loved the world, that you and me, the people of the world, He so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. You're going to spend eternity somewhere. God said, I'd like for you to spend it with me. But if you want to spend it in the hellhole pit of eternal fire The pig pen of eternal darkness and fire and weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth. That's a choice you can make. Hey, you're on a road to somewhere And the destiny is determined not by where you hope you end up someday. The destiny is determined by what road did you get on. I can get I gotta go home tomorrow. I can get out here and get on 85 and head north. Is it 85? 81. I can get on 81, I can get on eighty I can get on anything out here. I can head north. I'm not gonna get to Louisville very quick if I head north, am I? If I'm going to arrive at my destination in a timely fashion, I better get on the road hidden in the direction that leads to that destination. And you think, well, one of these days we're going to turn. . No, what you're doing every day is you're getting further and further from that destination that you hope to arrive at someday. Here's this young man. He came to his father. He admitted that he was an unworthy sinner. Look what he said. He said He came to his father, and look at verse 21. The son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight am no more worthy to be called thy son. But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe, put it on him, put a ring on his hand, of shoes on his feet, bring hither the fatted calf, kill it. Let's eat and be merry, for this my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found. And they began to be merry. Hey, well think about this Think about this. Here he comes, and he said, Father, it's my fault. You know what? The first thing we've got to do to be saved is admit that we're in the wrong. Listen, listen. The Bible says, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. The Bible says there's not a just man on earth that doeth good and sinneth not. Sometimes I think we Christians give the people that are outside there in the world I think sometimes we give them the impression that we think we've always been Christian and always have deserved what we have and that we're just different from them and we're better than them. And you and I both know that's not the truth God saved us out of the pit. And I said the other night, I I think I said it here, I said it somewhere. I said, we're just beggars who found bread, and we're trying to show the other beggars where the bread is. That's all. Jesus saved us in spite of ourselves. But in order for him to save us, we had to first of all admit that we were sinners We had to understand what the Bible said, that the ultimate end of dying in your sin is separation from God forever in a place Jesus called hell. You're going to spend eternity there. It's not God's will. It wasn't the Father's will. The Father didn't say, Son, I'm sending you off. The son went to his father and demanded nine heritants, and I'm leaving. And did you know God's not going to force you to be saved? But he offers you salvation as a free gift. If you'll come to yourself like that prodigal son did and say, it's me, I'm the one, I'm the sinner, it's my mistake. I can't blame what I'm doing on on I was born in a bad home or and lived in a tough neighborhood or or didn't get the education I needed or or whatever else it is. I I mean it's time to quit trying to blame everything on everybody and everything else and circumstances and hard times and just say, dear Lord, my real problem is that I'm not rightly connected to you. I'm a sinner and I'm separated from you, and there's a penalty for sin, and I know that I deserve that, but I also believe that you sent your son to die for me. And by faith, I'm going to trust Him as my Savior. I'm going to believe that what Jesus did was enough payment for my sins. And if you'll let me, I'm coming home. Just going to trust you. I'm going to throw myself on your mercy. That's what he did. He said, I'm going to go back. I hope Dad will take me back. He didn't know whether he was going to get to go home or not. But he he he by faith started home. And look at that verse right there. It says, and while he was yet a great way off, his father saw him. And look what it says. It says his father ran to him. Can you see that old man? That boy's been gone a few years now. He's wasted his life. He thought he was doing great. For a little while, it just looked like he was the thing. And right now you say, well, hey, I'm not really living for God, and I'm doing okay. Oh my friend, the road's out just ahead. The bridge is out, and you don't know it, you're headed for it. You just mark it down. And that young man didn't see it. He ended up in the hog pen. And now here he comes crawling back home. Now he's not, he he doesn't have that fancy. He doesn't have those new clothes. He doesn't have bags full of money. He he doesn't have all those things. His hair is all matted and greasy and ugly and mud and and and slop from the dog pen and his stomach he's he's lost 30, 40 pounds and he's he's limping now. He's he's not very healthy. His beard is all grown out and scraggly and he looks dirty and And he's he's he's burned in the sun. He and here he comes, he's he's limping down the road. He doesn't even look like the same man But his father saw him. And here's his father. Can you imagine this? Every day at the end of the day, the father had worked hard, but when he got home that night, he'd go stand out on the front porch and look down that road to say, Is my son going to come home tonight? Will I ever see him again? But he never gave up looking for him. And when that boy was a great way off, nobody else would have even recognized him. He said, Well, I didn't even realize you were the same person. But when the father saw him, he immediately knew that's my son. And he ran to him. And the Bible says he put his arms around him, that he kissed him. Look at this. He put a robe on him. You know what that represents? That's the robe of Christ's righteousness. When God saved me, he put the robe of righteousness on me. Not that I'm righteous, but it's Christ's righteousness. When God looks at me, instead of seeing my sin, he sees his son, Jesus Christ. I became a child of God. I got born again into his family. He put a robe on his back. He put a ring on his hand, on his finger. You know what that ring represents? That represents authority. I suppose it probably had the family seal on it. He said, he said, son, you're still part of the family. He put the ring on his finger. A ring of authority. And he put shoes on his feet. Do you know what shoes were for in the Bible? They didn't wear shoes in the everyday affairs of things, and going and coming and going to town and shopping and whatever else and and and sitting around home here in the evening task. They didn't have shoes on They wore sandals. They lived in that rough thing, all that sand, all those little pebbles. If they didn't want to wear shoes, if a dog they'd have to be taking them off, cleaning them out. They just wore sandals You know when they wore shoes? Two times. They wore shoes when they were going to war and when they were going in the field to work. Because that's where the terrain was so rough they had to have shoes on and laced up around the ankles so that nothing could get in there, so they didn't cut their feet up, whatever. Two times at war And it worked. You know what his dad was saying? He said, son, I'm willing for you to go back to work for me. I'm willing. And from God's perspective, I'm enlisting you in my army to serve me. And to do battle for me and to be part of the team. That's what, you know what? God loves you tonight. God is not mad at you. God's heart, Jesus' heart, is filled with compassion for you. That's why He came and died a cruel, bloody death on an old rugged cross. That's why, after he was buried, after three days, he had victory over death, hell, sin, and the grave, and he arose and he ever lives to make intercession for us. He gave himself for you and for me And he offers us that free gift of eternal life. I told you we're sinners. There's a payment for sin. God loves us and sent his son to pay that payment for us. He offers us now the free gift of eternal life. If you're here tonight and not 100% sure you're saved, listen, if you're willing to receive Christ tonight as your Savior, He is willing to save you you. You can have every sin forgiven. You can walk out those doors tonight knowing that you may not know everything else. You may not that's the prodigal son still haven't had a bath yet. He still wasn't cleaned up. He hadn't gotten his health back yet But boy, he's on the road to recovery now. You give him a few months of being home with dad, eating right, working right, living right, getting the right rest, being in the right atmosphere. And that guy's going to be looking pretty good. He may still have some scars that he'll have to carry the rest of his life, but he will have a new life. And God wants to give you a new life. A new life. You can serve Him. You can count Him. For you. Maybe there are Christians in this room tonight. You're saved. But you know, I mean, you know beyond a shadow of a doubt, 100% positive, sure, that if you die tonight, you go to heaven. You know that. But you also know that you're not near as close to the father as you used to be. You've kind of gotten away. Maybe kind of turns your back on you. Maybe you've left your first love like I talked about the other night. Maybe it's time to turn around. And start toward the Father. And if you do, I promise you this. He won't say, oh no, not you. Not you again. It's not happening. No, he won't. Before you can get, before you can take that second step, he'll be right there with you to say, welcome home, son. Welcome home, doctor. Daughter. Welcome home, my child. Let me help you get your life back together. I want you to serve me. I want you to count for me. We we need every soldier in the army that we can get because there's a world out here that needs the Lord. And let me help you. That's the kind of God we have. That's how much he loves you. Let me get back here to the end of the text. We're done See, he admitted he was an unworthy sinner. And when he came, Father ran, fell on his neck, kissed him, blessed him. Prepared a meal for him. Jesus invites you to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And then the Bible says The Bible says that they began to be merry. There was rejoicing. You know the Bible says there's joy in the presence of the angels of God when one sinner repents. Joy. You want to make heaven happy? Just get right with God tonight. Say what would people think? First of all, I tell you again, everybody in this room that's saved would be rejoicing with you. But I'll tell you something else. What do you care what other people think? We're trying to please God, not men. Listen, you ought to just say, I want what Christ has for me. I want us to bow our heads, please, with our heads bowed, with Christ right here with us. Heads are bowed, Christ is right here with us. No one moving around unnecessarily unless you're moving to the altar to pray. I wonder who's here tonight, and you would say, Brother Lonnie, I am I am saved. I know that I'm saved. I know beyond a shadow of a doubt that Jesus Christ lives in my heart. Heads are bowed, no one looking around except myself and the pastor. whoever he might have helping him, you'd say, Preacher, I know that I'm saved and I'm thankful for it. Would you slip your hand up? How many can say that tonight? Preacher, I know I'm saved. I know I am. No question in my mind. God bless you. Many, many hands. Thank you. You know what? There were some who couldn't honestly raise your hand. Now listen to me. Some who could not honestly raise your hand and say, I know I'm saved May I tell you tonight, God loves you. Jesus wants to transform your life. He wants to come into your life. He wants to help you. You say, Well, I don't know if I could live the life. You know what? I promise you, you can't live the life without Him And that's why you feel that way. And that's why the devil's telling you you can't do it. But I will tell you this also, if you'll give your life to him, he'll help you take one step at a time. going in the right direction, and he'll help you get your life right where he wants it to be. It may be quicker than you think. But you need him. I wonder who's here tonight. You'd say, preacher, I do need Christ tonight. I'm not sure that I'm saved, but I want to be saved. Please remember me in your closing prayer. With heads bowed, eyes closed, no one looking around. I just want to pray for you. Just the pastor looking in myself. You say, preacher, pray for me. Would you slip your hand up a moment? Preacher, I need to be saved. Slip it up where I can see it. Slip it up aye. What about it, young people? Do you know for sure you're going to heaven when you die? You know that 100% for sure. What about it, young couples? What about it, senior adults? Visitors, even members. You can have your name on the church roll, but not have it written down in heaven. Anybody at all? Preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. I've been playing the game. I've been going through the motions. I've been pretending. I know how to play the role, but I'm not saved. Pray for me. Let me ask you this. Here's where it really comes down where the water hits the the wheel here in this message. I wonder who's here tonight, and you say preacher. The truth is, I'm not as close to the Lord as I have been. I've, you know, there's that old song that says I've wandered far away from God. Now I'm coming home. Coming home, nevermore at Rome. And there's another song. It says, it says, my heart is prone to wonder. Prone to wonder, prone to leave the God I love. Here's my heart, O take and seal it, seal it for thy courts above. I wonder who's here tonight and you'd say, preacher, that's me. I've got to be honest, there's some areas in my life. Maybe it's your walk with God and Bible reading. and prayer or maybe it's your prayer life or maybe it's your witnessing or maybe it's your faithfulness or or maybe it's uh having an area of service or whatever it is. I don't know. It's really not any of my business. You don't have to tell me, but you'd say, preacher, pray for me. There was a time when I was I know that I was a better Christian than I am today, and I and I'm praying that God will help me to get back home where I need to be. Pray for me. Would you slip your hand up? How many say that tonight? Slip it up. Slip it up. God bless you. God bless you all over the room. Thank you so much. Are there others? Brother Lonnie, pray for me. That's a need in my life. A need in my life. Maybe it's a stewardship matter. Maybe there was a time you were excited about giving. And then maybe one day a crisis came along and the devil convinced you that you couldn't really trust God. And you somehow you fell out of the habit of tithes and offerings. You say, preacher, pray for me. Boy, that's a need in my life. I need to believe God. I don't want to face God one day and have robbed from him. I want to be faithful. I want to be faithful. Or what other some other matter? Telling others about Jesus. Whatever it is. Anyone else? Preach or pray for me. And me too. I'm away from the Lord. I'm not as close to God as I once was. Pray for me. God bless you. One who's here tonight, and again, I can't I cannot give an invitation without going here. I know it's repetitive, I understand that. But I wonder tonight, once again, how many of you say, preacher, I know somebody That I know they're not walking with God. I don't know if they're lost, or I don't know if they're saved and away from God, but I know they're not walking with God Somebody that's on my heart, somebody I love. I fear for them. I'm afraid I want them to get back to God before something happens in their life. There's somebody that I love, somebody I'm praying for. Would you slip your hand up? How many say that tonight? God bless you. All over this room. All over this room. Maybe there's someone here tonight and you're the one. I don't know. I don't know the people. There's just several new people that I have never seen before that are in the service tonight. God bless you. I'm glad you're here. But I don't know everybody in this room. I've only been here since Sunday. And I've met most of you and shook hands two or three times, but that's about it. A lot of hands went up just then. I wonder how many of you would say, we got two more nights of revival And I know you've tried hard this week. I know you've called people and contacted people and you've done your best. And I thank God for it. And God is going to bless you for your faithfulness, not necessarily for the results. You're being faithful. But if you keep on being faithful, I promise you there will be results. But I wonder how many of you would say, preacher, that person that's on my heart, between now and Sunday. Maybe between now and tomorrow or Friday or Sunday. Between now and Sunday, I'm going to do whatever humanly that I can do. To try to have some impact on that person, try to get them under the preaching of the gospel, try to get the gospel to them, try to be an influence on them, with God as my helper. If God will help me, I am going to do my part I'm going to be available to God to try to help. Would you slip your hand up? I mean say that tonight. Preacher with God as my helper. I'm going to talk to him. I'm going to do it. Ask God to give you the courage to do it I mean he'd say, preacher, I would have raised my hand then, but I'm but I but I'm scared. I I need boldness. I need God to help me with that. I need God to give me more courage. I mean he would say that. Yeah, God bless you. Yeah, that's a lot of us, isn't it? I have to battle that. You sometimes people think preachers are never afraid or never have never never timid about talking to people. I have to battle it every day. I talk to three or four different people today. But every time I had to sort of kick myself in the rear and say, get over there and do it. It's just, that's just the way it is. We've just got to do it. But uh ask God to empower you. Here's what we're going to do. Let's just quietly slip to our feet a minute, all of us standing. Pastor's going to be here at the front. If you're here tonight and you're not sure you're saved, if you have a question about it, if you've been saved but never been scripturally baptized since you've been saved. Or if you need a church home, I invite you to come and talk to the pastor. He'll introduce you to someone, and someone will pray with you and help you with that, and you can leave here tonight with that being settled in your life. You can get that thing started right here tonight. Right here tonight. Others of you, I invite you. The altar's open. In just a moment the music's going to play. We'll sing a verse. As the music plays, why don't you just come and Pray. Ask God for boldness in your own life. Ask God to help you to get back to God and stay there. Ask God to give you the courage to carry out what you've asked Him to do tonight is to use you To touch somebody else's life, to make a difference in somebody you love. If if you love them, if you really love them, if you care about them. Then you have to swallow your pride to talk to Him. If you can't make a commitment in here, it's going to be pretty hard to do it out there. Will you ask God to help you? Will you ask Him to help you? While the music plays, will you come right now?