Matthew chapter nineteen. I'm just going to read verses five and six again. Verse 5, Matthew 19, and said, For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, shall cleave to his wife. And they twain shall be one flesh, wherefore they are no more twain but one flesh. But therefore God hath joined together, let no man put asunder I'm going to pray, and then we're actually going to start a series this morning. It'll be the next uh uh three three weeks or so, I guess, or three uh services I should say, and then um Well, yeah, let's just pray and then we'll get into the series that we're going to do on the family. Lord, we thank you for the day that you've given us. Lord, we thank you for your word. Pray, Lord, that as we look at your word now You would uh teach us, Lord. Speak to our hearts. Um Lord, I pray you would expose things that need expose. I pray you bring encouragement where encouragement is needed. Pray our hearts would be open and receptive to your word Lord, I pray you would fill me with your spirit as I try to uh deliver the thoughts that um you've put on my heart and put on my mind. Lord, I pray I would not mishandle your word. If there's anything I'm about to say that is contrary to your word, Lord, I pray you'd keep me from saying it. And likewise, if there's something that uh needs to be said that I might not have written down, I pray you'd bring it to my mind. Lord best way I know how, I just want to yield myself to you. It's in Jesus' name. So um I was looking around for joke cards, because I know Pastor always starts out with a joke. Um but I don't see any. So I guess does he think of all those on his own? I guess he does, right? That's good. So um with that being said, I'm just not even gonna attempt to compete with that uh because I can't. So anyway, um if you want to listen to something funny, um well, just come back to church when he's back. So how about that? Um but in all seriousness, I mentioned it earlier, um what it really is, I really am grateful and it's an extreme privilege. uh to preach behind his pulpit. I'm very grateful for that. Grateful uh that he's entrusted that to me and um it's I'm I'm grateful uh for him to be my pastor. I'm grateful for that So I just wanted to mention that. But anyway, with that being said, I uh I talked to him a little bit about this. Uh I uh texted him, called him And then he left me a voicemail in return. I asked him about what he thought about me doing a series. He said, go for it. So that's what we're going to do. So anyway By way of introduction here, I think it's obvious that the devil doesn't like God. Okay. That's that's kindergarten level. So Satan was lifted up in pride and was cast out of heaven. Remember the I wills, I will be like the Most High, and so on. Pride. Only by pride comes contention. So the devil hates God. Which means he hates anything that represents God. He hates God's image. That's why he hates people. That's why the devil wants people to be killed. That's why he wants lives to be snuffed out. That's why he wants uh less lives to come into the world. Um he hates God. He hates God's image, he hates anything that God has uh created, he hates everything that is sacred the devil is at war with. And there are three institutions that God ordained. There's human government. Government is ordained by God. Romans says that. And government is a good thing. It can be corrupted, but the principle of government comes from God. There's the church. The church was ordained by God. Now we've seen these things under attack. Why? Because the devil hates them. The devil hates them. Why does the devil hate them? Because it's sacred. Church is sacred, human government sacred, created by God. And we've seen through history how the devil has attacked these things. The church has been under attack since its existence. We are kind of in a place in our location in time in history where we don't see very much persecution at all. But if you look at the globe, Christianity is very much under attack. Very much so. The devil hates Christians. He hates those that have trusted Christ. And he wants to keep as many people from trusting Christ as he can, and then once they do trust Christ, he wants them gone. The devil hates it. And the devil will um ally himself with the world and even with their own sin nature to try to combat the things that are sacred, like the church or government. We have seen our church under attack in more recent years as well. We see uh the attacks come in many different ways. Not all attacks on the church are churches being burnt down, although that is a thing. One of our missionaries that has happened to him a couple times. So that is a thing. But sometimes the attacks on the church come from within. Maybe some false doctrine gets in. Maybe there's an attack on God's Word itself. We see people try to slip in perversions of the Bible. We'll see people try to just kind of slip in some doctrines that are heresy. Uh but they slipped their way into the church. Think of things like lordship, salvation, Calvinism, just to name a few. And so sometimes we'll see attacks on the church not just come from that sector, but from another sector, maybe from that of distractions or entertainment. And sometimes we we as the church can become distracted Um, with things that may not even be bad, just are distractions. The devil will use whatever he can to attack God's institutions. The devil use whatever he can and he'll align himself with even other Christians if it means taking out part of God's church or government. We've seen our government under attack, haven't we? My goodness Again, throughout all of human history, governments have come and gone, and you can see when there is a godly influence in the government, the enemy seeks to destroy that. And so within our recent history, we sure have seen that. My goodness, what an attack on our Constitution we have seen. In just my short 32 years, it's not even the same place And then I think about those that were before us, how different it is, and how much their constitution and how much their government of the United States has been attacked. It's a shame. And again, the devil hates it. Why? Because God ordained it. Because it's God's thing, and he hates God. And I'm not going to be talking in this series much about the church or government. I may use them as examples because they are the other institutions that God has ordained. But long before The the Church long before Pentecost, of course God knew about the church, but long before Pentecost, long before um We see Peter preaching there and the church exploded and we see long before any of that we see the family. Family is the first institution. Family was ordained by God before sin, before man sinned. So the institution of the family is older than mankind's sin, if you want to look at it that way. And because of mankind's sin, we need government. Because of fallen man, Christ has rescued, has sent Jesus to rescue us, and we have the church. But before there was the church and before there was government, there was the family. This is the first institution. And it's a beautiful thing. And this is what we're going to be talking about over the next few services. Now the devil, like I said, seeks to attack, and I believe not just the devil. A lot of times I've heard people say this, I've heard our own pastor mention this. A lot of times we give the devil credit for things that we ourselves are guilty of or the world does or something like that. And I think that's true. But there is an attack on these three institutions, and we'll be focusing specifically on the family. But one of the biggest uh tactics that the enemy has used is to withhold Knowledge from people. Hosea 4:6 says, My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. I believe the reason our Constitution, talking about government, Has been under so much attack is because there is a lack of knowledge. Our children aren't educated properly on what their government is. And then they've grown up and then their children have not been educated in what their government is, where it came from, the men that it was the men that formed it, that God used to form it, the biblical principles, things like this. And so because of a lack of knowledge, our government's been under attack. I think because of a lack of knowledge, that's one reason we've seen so much success of an attack on our churches. Because mom and dad quit teaching the Bible at home and just relied on the church to do it. So there's less Bible education coming from mom and dad. We just rely on schools and we rely on churches to do it for us. Therefore, there's a lack of knowledge, and the church has been under attack. And we see our churches just falling apart. Thank God not that we have a pastor here. Thank God that this church hasn't folded. Thank God that this church is still the same as it was when he came here. Praise the Lord for that. But you look across the country, they're folding. I talked to one man, I can't remember who it was. Um I was talking to someone the other day that they knew of that he knew of there was over four hundred churches in the South, just the southern region, North Carolina, South Carolina. I can't remember who that was. Maybe it'll come to me later, maybe not. That's a lot. That's just a sector of the country. We know we know of people around here that are in need of pastors There's the it's not good it's not a good situation. But I think one thing that would help It's not if we just focused on there's empty pulpits, there's not being missionaries sent, things like that. We look at the negative, look at the negative, sure. But what about our own families You know, the church is made up of families. You know, a government is made up of families. And if the families will be what God's called them to be, then the church will be what it's supposed to be. And the government will be what it's supposed to be. The families, that's the first institution. And just like we see attacks on the other two, and there's a lack of knowledge there. I think one of the biggest attacks on the family is just a lack of knowledge Not being taught what the family is in school, college. We just go along with it. Not taught what a family is from God's definition. So, my objective over the next few weeks, not a few weeks, a few services, come back tonight for part two next Sunday for part three is to just look at what God says the family is You know, we'll get we might get to the roles of the of family members and things like that. That's my intention, sure. But today, for the next 20, 30 minutes, whatever, I just want to look and see what God says the family is. What is a family? What is a family? Well, Webster says it this way. Let me find the definition here. I like going to um Webster said this is the definition of family. Collective body of persons who live in one house under one head or manager, a household Including parents, children, servants, and as the case may be, lodgers or boarders. Okay, that was Webster's definition. I think it's accurate. But we don't want to just go off of Webster's, right? We're not preaching from the dictionary, we're preaching from the Bible. What does God say the family is? Well, uh I got this from a commentary, and I'm going to give you this definition, but then we're gonna we're gonna do some digging. A good definition of family would be this. The family is the foundational institution of society ordained by God. constituted by marriage and is composed of persons related to one another by marriage, blood, or adoption. I think that's good I think that's good. We're going to use our Bible a lot this morning in the next few weeks. This is going to be very much of a study, just so you know. Today we'll we'll preach a little bit here in a minute towards the end. But we're going to do a lot of studying first, and then tonight will be a lot of studying. You get the point. But I really want us to understand what the family is. What the family is. Um and I just want to interject this here real quick too. I am blessed in the fact that I came from a great family. I had the I had the luxury of having two parents that loved each other and loved their kids. And I and I know that doesn't always happen. I'm very grateful for it. It should happen. And it's the way God instructs things to happen. And I'm very grateful for it. And I'm very grateful for the family I married into. My wife had two parents that were married that loved each other and loved their kids. Praise God for that. Praise God for that. So anyway. John 10, 10, we if we read that, you would see that the devil seeks to kill, steal, and destroy. He wants to kill the family and destroy the family. And I want to make this statement right at the beginning. First Corinthians fourteen thirty-three, if you wanted to write that down, God is not the author of confusion. Satan is. If there is any confusion in our society as to what the family is, or what family means. The confusion does not come from God. The confusion does not come from God's Word. The confusion comes from the devil and from those that would seek to go against God's Word. God makes it very clear what the family is. And we'll be looking at it quite a bit. 1 Peter 5:8, we see the devil wants to devour. So if there's any confusion, As to what the family is, we know the confusion does not come from God. So, what is the family? Where does it come from? Well, it comes from the first chapter of the Bible. Go to Genesis, chapter 1. Genesis chapter 1. Like I said, we'll be using our Bible a lot here, but that's good. Genesis chapter 1, verse 27. Well, start with twenty six. Genesis one twenty six. God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. So God created man in his own image, and the image of God created he him, male and female created he them. That's all there is, is those two. Male and female created he them. That's obvious. Verse 28. And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful. And multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth So we see God created man and woman, male and female. And he told them to reproduce, because it takes male and female to do so. Then if you go over to chapter 2 and look at verse 20, Adam gave names to all uh cattle into the fowl of the air and every beast of the field. That'd be a tough job. But for Adam there was not found and help meat for him. A man will never get the same companionship from an animal as he will from a woman. A lady will never get the same companionship from an animal as she will from a man. Pets are cool. I like pets. I would tell you what I'm thinking right now in terms of the pet I want, but if I told you, I think I might get in trouble. And I think I think I might get fired. But I would say Jamie cut this off, but then he would really know something's up. But so now I have to just say it. Alright, so during Bible time. We had show and tell, because we like to do that with the teens. And I fell in love with the cat, okay? I did. I want the cat. I I'm I can't help I'm sorry. But I can't because of where we live and things like that. But if circumstances were different, Rachel, I would have that cat. I really would. I love that cat. Anyway Now you're not gonna listen to anything I say. Everything's been discredited. Hang on, let me pull my man card out here. No, I'm just kidding. So anyway, but you'll never get the same uh it's di a cat's different than a person, right? And there's this there's a movement in our society that says you can get the same type of companionship. I read an article about a guy that wanted to marry his cat. This was like years ago, by the way. This was like a while ago And the the whole furry movement going on, it's a real thing and it's not good. It's wrong. It's sin. It's sin. Not that we need to condemn people, we need to love people, but we need to give them the truth. And someone who loves them will give them the truth. Show them that Christ loves them. Right? But that is not natural. Romans 1 talks about a not natural affection. So we're moving on here in verse 21. The Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept, and he took one of his ribs. And closed up the flesh instead thereof. Verse 22: In the rib which the Lord God had taken from man made he a woman and brought her unto the man. And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, flesh of my flesh, shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh. They were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed. This is before chapter three, when Eve was tempted and sinned. Marriage is part of God's perfect design. The family, there's instruction to have a family and for man and woman to come together and to replenish the earth before there was sin. Human government was needed because of sin. We needed a redeemer because of our sin. The family was always part of God's design there. See that? It's why I think it's why the devil hates that one the most. Because it was part of his plan from the beginning, part of his design. It's a good thing, it's a holy thing, it is ordained of God. And we can go back to Matthew chapter 19, where we started from this morning. Of course, the Pharisees were doing what they do, they were tempting him. In that I mean that's that's to me I just find that almost uh humorous. You're gonna tempt the lawgiver. You're gonna tempt you're gonna tempt God. But um They're tempting him. They're trying to trip him up in the law. And you know what he answered? Verse 4, he answered and said unto them, Have you not read, He which made them at the beginning, made them male and female? It said, For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, shall cleave to his wife, and they sh the twain shall be one flesh. Wherefore they are no more twain but one flesh? Therefore God hath joined together, let no man put asunder. They're trying to trip Jesus up and saying, Oh yeah, well what about this? So what does he do? He quotes Scripture. Says what God's joined together. Hey, this is serious. Let no man put that asunder. Marriage is between one man, one woman, the way God created them. He created the male, he created a female. Marriage is characterized by creating a new family structure. When two families come or when two people come together and they become one, they become one family. And a new family is started. It's the way God intended it for it to be. Marriage is a covenant before God between man and woman. It's a covenant, it's a commitment, it's a promise. Um I I've told my wife this before, but her guarantee of her security is not because she looks good or because I'm head over heels. Yeah I am. And she does. But that could change though, couldn't it? Security is that I've made God a promise People's personalities can change, people's looks can change. But if I made a covenant before God, that can't change. That's why we make the statement when we get married for better or worse. And then we just kind of forget about that later on. For some reason, we forget about the for worse part. Sickness and in health. We make the promise for better or for worse in sickness and health, and we just assume that things will always be better in health. Forget about the sickness and worse. But her security is not the fact that things are good and we get along. Although we do, and they are. Her security is that I made a promise to God. And it should not be taken lightly. And when two people come together and make that commitment, A family has started. And God's ordained it, and God's blessed it. And you can see throughout the Bible, we don't have to turn to all these passages, but we you can see where he who findeth the wife findeth a good thing, obtaineth favor from the Lord. Happy is the man that has a quiver full of them, referring to children. But family is a good thing. It's a good thing. to be married and to have children. It's a good thing. Our society has got it backwards. We want to come together, but without the commitment. That's not the way God intended it. You know, the way God's design is, is you get married, you have a commitment, then once you're married, you want once once you agree to the marriage, you come together, you have children. And no matter what happens, you've made a promise before God. But what our society says is, let's try things out. Well now let's try to see if we have kids, see if things work out. Okay, now let's get married. Totally backwards from what God's intentions and design was So anyway, what is a family? A family, we see in Genesis chapter 1, is a man and a woman coming together. That's when the family started. You can have no children, many children, but if you have a husband and wife, you have a family. If you have like if you're a son, you're a member of your parents' family. If you're a daughter, you're a member of your family. And we'll get to at another service, different roles and things like that But right we before we go into any of that, we need to see what the family is. This is what the family is They try to trip him up and he says, no, no, no. He quotes Genesis chapter 1. Marriage is ordained by God. Now this is what I find this interesting. Go to Proverbs chapter 2. This is just kind of a tip. And then also um Malachi chapter two. You look at the word covenant here. I did a little bit of a search and I found a couple things that I just found interesting. Because that's what marriage is, right? It's a covenant between a man and woman and God. Okay. Proverbs chapter 2, verse 17, talking about the strange woman. This is the de this is a c one of the characteristics of her. Forsaketh the guide of her youth and forgetteth the covenant of her God. That's heavy. Forgeth the covenant of her God. Forget that she made a covenant. Now this strange woman I don't know talking about here, it's talking in general, I don't know if it's referring specifically to a married or unmarried person, but if it's a married person, she's forgotten her covenant. Is she made with God? If it's an unmarried person, it says she forsook the guide of her youth, which would be her dad. So it's serious things. This is a covenant we make before God. And when we break this covenant We get labeled some things here in the Bible. Okay? Now, I'm going to get to application here in a little bit, but I just want to interject this. That's why we should be careful when we make covenants. Because they're serious and they have weight. Okay. Um, moving on. Uh Malachi, is that what it told you, chapter 2, verse 14. Yet ye say, wherefore, because the Lord hath been witness between thee and the wife of thy youth. Against whom thou hast dealt treacherously, yet is she thy companion, and the wife of thy covenant. So when you make a covenant, God takes it seriously. God takes it very seriously. So this is what the family is. It's a man and a woman coming together, making an agreement, making a promise to each other, and a promise to God. That's when the family is started. And then children come out of that relationship, and that family has started. So what is not a family? Well, anything that would be other than that. So if a man and a man come together, it's not a marriage. If a woman and woman come together, it's not a marriage. It's not a family. Polygamy would not be family. You know, anything that is other than a man and a woman making an agreement together before God and having children So when there is confusion on this subject, we established this already, where does the confusion come from? It's not from God. It's not from God's Word. It's from the devil. And people that he can use, like the world or even our own sinful flesh and our own sinful desires. Sure. But the confusion doesn't come from God. And when our society is so confused as to who they are, what they are, and have identity crises They should be pointed to the truth. This is what God says a family is. This is what the genders are. Let me help you with this. Not in a self-righteous way because we all have sin, but come on, they need the truth. And we need to be the ones that give it. We need to be the ones that share God's Word. So anything other than a man and a woman. So if a uh guy decides he wants to become a girl and then says, Well I'm a girl now, so I can marry a guy It's still two guys. And it's not it's not a family. Well the well the state of Maryland recognizes a family. Okay? Well then the state of Maryland can say what they want, but God says it's not a family. Okay. Well um but since two thousand what was it, two thousand fifteen? Since twenty fifteen um our gut our government recognizes same-sex marriage. Okay, it's like jumbo shrimp. There really is no such thing. The biggest shrimp is so little, okay? There is no such thing. Thank you for laughing. I appreciate that. Yeah. I've never gotten a fool off of one shrimp. No. Jumbo shrimp. Um but there it doesn't exist. There is no such thing. There there's an article that that someone brought to my attention and it was it said um that these these two men were getting a divorce and of course no they're not because they to be to get a divorce you'd have to be married. And and two men can get married. So it's and I'm not trying to be mean about it. I'm just saying this is the reality. Marriage is a biblical term, and if you want to use it, you've got to go by the biblical definition You know? Um that's that's what that is. Moving on here, the family is not multiple spouses, it's one. It's not uh two men, it's not two women. It's not uh bestiality, it's not changing genders, it's it's not a family. Friends aren't family. Friends can be like family. You w we have some good friends that are like family, but they are different roles, right? We s we say the word like family because They're not. We say they're like it, right? It's like the verse in the Bible that says a day the Lord is as a thousand years and a thousand years is a day. Well it doesn't mean it is a day. It just means to him it's like that, right? So So you might you might have a really close friend that is like family, but it's a different role, it's a different relationship than your spouse or your kids, or your parents, right? So why is this such a big deal? Why why why is this such a big deal? Go to Ephesians. It is a big deal, I believe. And I believe that the devil has been attacking our families. He's attacking the roles of the family members. He's been ta attacking the very institution of family since the beginning. And if you look if you looked at it, if you think about it, right after um we go through chapter two there and we see uh where it says uh husband and w or man will leave his father mother cleave to his wife, they'll become one flesh. God ordains the family. Immediately after that is when we see Satan tempt Eve. Find that interesting as well, but anyway, what did I tell you to turn to? Ephesians chapter five. Look at verse uh twenty-two twenty-one No. Twenty. Twenty. Giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God, wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands as unto the Lord. Notice that word, as unto the Lord. Verse 23, for the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church. And he is the savior of the body. Therefore, as the church is subject unto Christ, with wives be to their own husbands and everything. What's he doing? He's using a comparison here Right? Moving on, husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church. You see that word as it's like unto, as Christ loved the church. It's a picture there. And gave himself for it. You know, I I'm going to just interject this here. I never see where Christ is making derogatory remarks about the church. He might address some problems in the church, but he never makes fun of the church. I think it's pretty sorry when men make fun of their wives. I think it's pretty sorry when men refer to their wives as a ball and chain. It's ungodly. Moving on. Verse 26. That he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of the water by the Word. That he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing. But that it should be holy and without blemish, so ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself For no man hath ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourished it and cher cherisheth it, even as the Lord, the church. Look at verse thirty-one. For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother. We see that again. Shall be joined unto his wife, and they too shall be one flesh. This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ. In the church. Why is the family such a big deal? Because when you distort the family, you distort Christ. When you distort the family, you distort the church. And when you make fun of, when you ridicule, when you try to twist and pervert The family. You're perverting a picture of Christ. I have I don't have my wallet on me. In my wallet, I've got some pictures. One of the pictures in my wallet is a picture of me and my wife. Is it my wife? No, it's a picture of my wife. But is that still significant? Well sure. What if I pulled out that picture and started making fun of it? Making light of it. Drawing some squiggly lines on it or something or marking it up. I don't know. It'd be kind of weird. Why are we gonna ridicule something so sacred and so holy? That God ordained as a picture of His relationship with us Husbands were to love our wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. It doesn't mean that we go and talk trash about our wife. Wives were supposed to I said work. You're supposed to I'm not a wife. To wives, you're supposed to submit to your husbands as unto the Lord. Now here's the thing. We both fail at our jobs, don't we? Because we're humans. We're sinners. I'm talking about what God intended for the family to be. Because sin entered into the world, things got distorted. And you'll never find a perfect family because there's no perfect people. And as we go over the next few services, we're going to look More application type things you can say, but we have got to have the basis of what is this supposed to be. What the family was originally designed to be was a man and a woman to have children after they make a covenant before God. So what are some I I want to give you just a application here. I'm I mean I'm done. You can close your Bibles if you want. This is pretty much it. But I think we need to accept God's definitions of what marriage is, of what the family is. We need to go off of what God says. And now if you are again, the reason it's so important is because it's a picture of Christ in the church and the family of God. And if you can have the greatest marriage in the world, have the have the just sweet, wonderful kids, but if you've missed out on God's family You've not trusted him as your Savior. What good is it to have the picture without the real thing? If I lost my wife and all I had left was a picture of her, that would be sad. I want the real thing. And if you ha if you don't have the real thing, if you don't know Jesus Christ as your Savior, you're not part of that relationship with him. But you can be. But to accept any definition other than God's definition is to say that God's definition is wrong. So tonight, Lord willing, we'll start to look at the different family members and the way they interact with each other in society and things like this. But this is what the family is. It's a man and a woman that got married and then have children. That's what it's supposed to be. And so let's go by that definition. And and I I already mentioned this, but I've got to. If you're not part of God's family, I don't know what's stopping you. You know, if you have a a spouse that loves you, takes care of you, you have a spouse that, you know, you you y you just get along, it's great. But it's pretty sweet when you have the real thing, the relationship with Christ. The picture's good. It's real good. But the thing that it's a picture of is even better. Trust Christ as your Savior. Be a part of his family. Heads bowed, eyes closed. It's hard to give an invitation like this except for What I just mentioned. You're not part of God's family. If you're not part of Christ's family, man, I would encourage you to hop on that. Man, trust Christ as your Savior. You can have a home in heaven. He died for your sins, so you don't have to be separated from him forever in a place called hell. You can be forever with him in a place called heaven, and he will treat you like royalty, literally. It's pretty awesome to know your sins are forgiven, you have a home in heaven, and to be a part of God's family. Now, if you have not trusted him as your Savior, I'd like to pray for you. Is there anyone that says, Pastor Matt, I have not done that? Would you pray for me? You just lift your hand up. I'm not sure that I'm saved, but I'd like for you to pray for me. I'm not going to call you out or make you give a speech or anything like that. I'm just going to pray for you. That's it. Pastor Matt, that's me. Could you pray for me? Alright, next question is this. Actually it's not even a question, it's more of a challenge. As we look at this going on tonight, next week, looking at the family. Is there anyone that says, you know what, I want to be teachable in this? I want God to teach me, and I want to go by his definitions of what he says. Can you pray for me that my heart will be open and my mind will be open to God's Word through this series? Would you pray for me, Pastor Matt? That's you raise your hand. My hand's up, by the way. I want God to teach me and show me what he wants. Cool. The way the best way I know how to give an invitation right now is if God's dealing with you about something regarding the family, maybe you're not right with your spouse. You ought to get right. If you're a husband that's not right with your spouse, you are a poor picture of Christ in the church. If you're a wife that's not submitted to your husband and you're not right with your husband, you are a poor picture of the way church is supposed to respond to Christ. And we're all we have all been there if we're not there right now, but we can get right with God. We can get right with God. So as you stand to your feet, whatever she plays, however the Lord is dealing with you, if you want to do business with God, now's the time to do it.