I'm reading a biography of a preacher back in the early um he he was ministry was back in the early nineteen hundreds, nineteen twenties, thirties, forties, J. Frank Norris down in Texas, great preacher pastored of two largest churches in the world at the same time. One in Fort down in uh in Fort Worth, I think it was, and the other one's up in Detroit. He'd go back and forth by train And both the churches were running four or five thousand largest churches in the world at the time. And just amazing men. And he made a reference In the biography, the uh Dr. Norris made reference to this fellow, Ananias, that we read in scripture here a little bit ago. And so I got looking at Ananias and studied him. And uh I want to speak about Ananias this morning, if you would. Notice, if you would, in verse number 10 of Acts 9, and I just want to use this for our starting point, it says, And there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias. So here's the fella. And to him said the Lord in a vision, Ananias, and he said, Behold, I am here. I underlined that last phrase of verse 10: Behold, I am here, Lord. Behold, I'm here, Lord. As we'll see, as the passage goes on to say, and we'll touch on this in the message, God went ahead, went on to use Ananias To help Saul, who becomes Paul, one of the greatest Christians that has ever lived, used of God to record most of the New Testament And God used this fellow Ananias to make one visit, one job, do this one thing, and had such a profound impact on the life of Saul. And how God used them. And so I'm calling it, I'm entitled the message, The Man of the Hour. Ananias, the man of the hour. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven I thank you, Lord, for a wonderful time we've had in your house here singing songs, fellowshipping, laughing, the kids. Lord, it's sure been a blessing to me. And Lord, as we begin this very busy week, very important week in our church I ask that you prepare our hearts to serve you and to be used of you in the lives of many young people, children, teenagers, and families in our community. I ask you would just, your Holy Spirit's present would be very evident in this service. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. I ask, Lord, you'd speak your word through me to our hearts and lives, and help us, Lord, to make decisions based upon what you speak our hearts about. We want you to use us. And I ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Let me begin by asking a question. Here's my question this morning: is how do you determine the success of a Christian life? Now, here's a person, here's a man, here's a woman, they're Christian. How do you determine whether they've been successful? in their Christian life or not. What are the things that would determine that? If we look at a businessman, you say, well that that fellow there is a successful businessman. He's taken that business, he's built it up, it's profitable, it's doing what it's designed to do We look at a businessman and say, yeah, that's a successful businessman. Or you could take some money as a farmer. You say, that fella is a successful farmer. Farm is operating on profit. producing good products, whatever it may be, crops or cattle or whatever the farm may be, dairy. He's a successful farmer. He's a successful businessman or maybe you'd say uh this person has a medical practice and she's a successful doctor. He's a successful physician You know, they're helping patients, people are getting well, they're administering medications the way they're supposed to, and they're operating on a profit. We say they're successful in that field Well, what about when you look to a Christian? You say, well, that's a successful Christian there. That teenage Christian is a successful Christian. That mother is a successful Christian. That father, that grandparent. How do you determine? Is success in the Christian life determined by how much money we're able to accumulate? Is it possible for a person to be a very wealthy Christian but a failure as a Christian? Sure. Sure. So, my success in my spiritual life, my success in my walk with God, in my Christian life, whether it if it's successful, I don't believe it's based upon my level of financial income. My financial status is not necessarily a factor. In fact, if you study the Bible carefully, you'll find some folks that were in poverty were tremendous believers. Tremendous believers, highly praised of God for their faith. Is it how many houses I've built and how many possessions I've accumulated? Is that what makes a person a successful Christian? Well, he's a successful Christian. He owns 4,000 acres and five farms, and he's built all these Buildings. No, I don't think that's necessarily a measure of success. Is success for a Christian, would it be maybe my level of education Oh, it's a very educated Christian. We have two evangelists with us this week, Mr. Daniel, you met just a little bit ago. He's going to be doing the rally time with the kids in here, first through sixth grade And then we have Mr. Mark. He's out with the teenagers. He's going to be working with the junior high during the day and then the high school teens at night. Mr. Mark's from Haiti, he is a highly educated man. Very educated. He speaks several languages. Very intelligent fellow. And he's a good Christian, so don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But what I'm saying is this Is my level of education, is that what determines whether I'm a successful Christian or not? I tell you, I know some folks back hills, West Virginia I have little or no education, but brother, they're some of the best Christians I've ever met in my life. Love God, know the Bible, know the Lord. And so what is it, my question again is this, what is it that makes a person a successful Christian? My simplistic answer is this, and this may I may be oversimplifying this, and perhaps there's other factors. But this is what I put down that determines whether a person is a successful Christian or not. Let me ask this, how many folks here this morning are saved and you know it? Say amen. How many people you say, I know the Lord, I know I'm saved, I've got that settled, no doubt about it. But I'd like to be a success in my Christian life. Anybody here like that? My hands raised I've been knowing the Lord since 1979. It's a long time. And I want to be a success in my Christian life. I don't want to get to the end of my time and stand before the Lord and hear him say you're a failure, Dennis. Failed. I don't want that, do you? So I think this is an important question. And I think it's important for us to be able to answer what is it That would make my life as a Christian a success, at least in the eyes of God, where it really matters. Here's my simplistic answer. I must determine what God has instructed me to do, and then trust Him and carry out those instructions. Now that may be oversimplistic, but it simply is what we sing, that old hymn we sing, Trust and Obey. Just trust God and do what He says. Jesus told various parables throughout the Gospels, and if you'll pay a close attention to them, there were numerous Gospels that the Lord told. And he would, it would consist of something like this, where he would give some resources to somebody. The Bible term often is talents. And he would instruct them what to do with those talents. In that case it would be finances, but he'd give them some resources. He'd instruct them what to do with it, or he'd give them a farm, a husbandman that has a vineyard. And he would tell them what they're supposed to do. Then in his parable, the owner, the farmer, the husbandman would come back And take account of those on what they had done with what he had given them and the instructions he gave them And then he would reward them based upon whether they did what he instructed them to do or not. Anybody remember reading any of these parables at all? Sure. And numerous times he would end with this, where the husbandman or the steward, the owner of the properties, would say this: Well done. Thou good and faithful servant. Anybody ever hear that phrase? In my mind, he's saying, that's success. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. You trusted what I instructed you to do, you trusted me, you did what I said to do, you followed my instructions, boom, success. We have a number of employees, employers. in our church. We have employees also. If you're not an employee and you're looking for an employer, see me. I know some that are looking for employees. A lot of people looking for employees. And I would venture to say, if you ask some of our employers, say, what makes an employee a success? They would say, well, the guy that does what I tell him to do. The guy that does the job he's given to do, follows the instructions and does what his responsibility is to do, that's success. Now again, there's more to the Christian life than what I'm saying here. I'm being oversimplistic. I know that. And by the way, I understand we're not God's employees, right? We're not God's employees. We're his children. As a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, I'm his children. But nevertheless, the Lord would refer, the Lord is referred to as our Lord and Master. In fact, he rebuked the disciples. I like this phrase. In Luke chapter 6, verse 46, he rebuked the disciples one time, and he said, This: Why call ye me Lord, Lord? And do not the things that I say. Boy, what a rebuke. Disciples are running around saying, oh, Jesus my Lord, Jesus my Lord, Jesus, my Lord. He goes, all right, you say that. Why aren't you doing what I tell you to do? And I think the Lord could look down at modern Christianity in year 2021 and say, all right, y'all are singing songs to me and you're talking about me. Hey, how about doing what I tell you to do? So, my simplistic answer to our question, what makes a successful Christian? My simplistic answer is this. When we trust God And simply follow his instructions. He says, trust me, do what I say. Follow my instructions. If I tell you to stay away from something, stay away from it. If I tell you to make sure you do this, then make sure you do that. If I tell you to rejoice in this and do that, then trust me and just follow my instructions. And if we can get that down, If we can get down where I just trust God and follow what he instructs me to do, I believe we can get to our end of our line. Stand before the Lord, wouldn't it be wonderful to hear him say, Well done. Good, faithful servant. You trusted me. You followed my instructions. You followed my leadership and direction in your life. Well done. Well done. How many people would like to hear that? Yeah. Well done. Now good. By the way, that end of the line is coming quicker than you realize. The older I get, it's like, good night. How did I I thought it would take longer to turn 61 than what it did. Believers are instructed to do a lot of things in the Bible. We have a lot of instructions. We have told things to avoid and promises to claim. And so, but one of the clearest instructions we're given. So here's my premise. A successful Christian is one who trusts God, what he says, and follows God's instructions, does what God says. Now, we're told a lot of things to do, we're told a lot of things to avoid, we've got a lot of instructions. But there is one instruction in my mind that stands out as a New Testament believer. And as a local church and as individuals, we have been given one instruction over and over and over to the point where, in my mind, it is a high priority In the Christian life and in the life of our church, and that is this, to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every single creature. Every one of the gospels were given that instruction. Acts chapter 1, verse 8, the Lord said, And ye shall receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be Witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth. Go ye into all the world. We had across the back of the church for years Big letters. Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Now we're instructed to do a lot of things in the Bible. We've got a lot of in the home, the family, parents have roles, kids In the church, there's a lot of things, but there is this one overriding, crystal clear instruction we've been given by God, and that is we are to get the gospel to every single person in this world. Now, you study the book of Acts. That's where our passage is this morning. You study the book of Acts, and what we have in the book of Acts is a divinely inspired record. of the New Testament church doing exactly what God told them to do and taking that great commission into all the world. From Acts chapter 2, when the Spirit of God came upon those New Testament believers, Peter preached that first sermon. Under the power of the Holy Ghost, 3,000 people get saved and baptized in one day. And from that point on, the church is on fire with the gospel of Jesus Christ spreading like wildfire all through the Middle East, up into Europe, down into Africa, east, over to India. Taking the gospel to the lost, preaching the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now we come to Acts chapter number nine. This is a this is a significant passage and a very significant time in the life of the New Testament church. We have Three personalities in Acts chapter 9. We're not going to be able to look at all of them. I only want to look at Ananias, but I want to introduce to you three people that are, three personalities in Acts chapter 9. The first one, of course, is Saul. The first half of the chapter is dealing with Saul, his key role in the early di in the development of the early church. Saul was a successful Christian in his own right, no doubt about it. And in Acts chapter 9, we have his salvation. I believe it's one of the most significant events in all of church history is when Saul got saved and God used him in such a powerful way. And to this day, you and I are feeling the effects Of the salvation of the Apostle Paul. Then we have Ananias here. He's a relatively obscure believer We know only nothing, we know almost nothing about him. There's three Ananiases mentioned in the Bible. In Acts chapter 5, there's an Ananias here in this passage, and in chapter 23, there's another Ananias. He appears out of nowhere. You're reading the Bible, you're reading the book of Acts, and out of nowhere, and Ananias shows up in verse 10. There's this certain disciple named Ananias. He's given one job to do. He's given a street address and a person. He's given a prospect card, so to speak, to go visit this guy, Saul, that just met the Lord. He's supposed to give him some information and help him get grounded in his faith, and then Ananias fades off the picture. We don't see him again Yet his influence. Now here's my message. You don't get anything. Let me tell you what my message is this morning. This is it. Here you have a relatively insecure Christian. Not insecure, very relatively obscure. All right, everybody get that. He's not insecure. That was um I mean I don't know if he was insecure or not. He doesn't seem very insecure. But a relatively obscure Christian Never heard of him before, you don't hear of them again. Told very little bit about him. And God has a job for him to do He does that job, and you don't hear from him again. But I want to suggest to you that one job that God had for Ananias to do was so profound And so significant that the Apostle Paul gets grounded because of Ananias and becomes this powerhouse. For the Lord Jesus Christ, that you and I still read on a daily basis the inspired writings of Apostle Paul. Isn't that something? Just an ordinary certain disciple that simply, here's my point, that simply did what God told him to do, and the impact they had. Now I'm talking to our church folk this morning. Every one of us has a job to do in the kingdom of God. Say, oh preacher, I'm just an obscure Christian. I'm not uh doesn't matter. You're Doesn't matter. God's got something for you to do. And I'm saying this that job God has for you to do is more significant than you'll ever realize. The impact it'll have. And then later on you get in the chapter you got Bar uh Barnabas, who's uh one of my favorite New Testament characters, one of encouragement Barnabas was. Every time you find him he's encouraging people, encouraging people, and at the end of the chapter you have Barnabas. But I want us to consider Ananias, and in the little bit of time we have left, I want us to consider a few things that I observe about this man Ananias I would like to be like Ananias. I would like to be able to say, God, whatever what you've given me to do, I want to do it. Exactly as you instruct me to. And God, whatever, however you use that, you get the glory for it. You get the glory for it. All we know about him is what's here in these eight, ten verses that we read. Acts chapter 22, he's mentioned. We'll look at that here just briefly. So here's my observations about Ananias. Everybody doing alright? Everybody okay? If you're glad that you're not in Sudan, Africa, say Amen. Say, where in the world does that come from? Uh actually they're having Bible time in the refugee camps of Sudan, Africa right now while we're here. They're over there doing Bible time. How about that So, but I'm glad we're here. I'm glad we're here. Let's look. Number one, I'd like for us to real quickly consider the attributes Of Ananias, the attributes of Ananias. What do you mean by that? I mean this. What are some characteristics about this fellow Ananias? He's a successful Christian. That's what I want to be So, what is it about this guy? What are some characteristics or attributes of this guy? The first one I notice is he's a disciple. Look with me at verse number 10. And there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias. It's the first thing we're told about it. He shows up out of nowhere. He's a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, what is a disciple? A disciple is more than just a believer in Jesus Christ. You follow me? A believer in Jesus Christ is somebody who's recognized the fact that they're a sinner. Because of their sin, they're under the judgment of God, but Jesus Christ loved us enough Each individually enough that Jesus Christ died for us, took the judgment of God for my sin upon himself, was on the cross, was buried, rose again And a believer in Jesus Christ comes and says, I'm going to put my faith, I'm going to put my trust, my belief is in the Lord Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of my sins. To gain the gift of eternal life and have assurance of a home in heaven. That's what believing in Jesus will do. What does John 3. 16 say? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever Believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Question, if that life is everlasting, how long does it last? And it is believing that through that through believing that I receive that gift of eternal life. It's not through baptism. Is baptism important? Yes. For the once we get saved, we get baptized. It's not through church attendance, it's not through my good works, it's not through giving offering. Should we give offering? Yeah, please. But that's not going to save my soul. I can put all my money, I put all my money in there. It's not going to save my soul. It's believing on the Lord Jesus Christ. The Philippian jailer was going to take his life And Paul stepped in and said, Do thyself no harm. And under the great conviction of the Holy Spirit, the Philippian jailer cried out to Paul in desperation, What must I do to be saved? Saved from the wrath of God, saved from eternity, separated from God in hell. What must I do to be saved? Paul gave a very clear, concise, direct answer Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house So salvation, being a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, is what gains salvation, is how I receive eternal life Putting my faith, my belief, my confidence and trusting in Jesus Christ. If you've never come to the point acknowledging the fact that you're a sinner under the judgment of God And humbling yourself before the Lord, saying, Lord Jesus, I believe you died for me. I believe you rose again. I am trusting you to forgive my sin. I'm trusting you to get me to heaven. God says the moment we make that decision, it's settled. He'll save us. Amen? If you've never done that, it's a simple act of faith, a decision on my part to trust Christ. I made May 7, 1979. Back in Harleysville, Pennsylvania. I bow my knees. I call on the Lord. Trust him as my Savior. Now that's a believer. It says of Ananias that he was a disciple. Now, is there a difference between being just a believer and being a disciple? Yes, there's a very significant difference Jesus and for sake of time we won't go out of passages and give them to you. If you want them later, I'll give them to you. But Jesus and Luke Said numerous times and in other part in other uh books of the of the of the other gospels, the Lord says, except a man, take he said he says, if you do not take up your cross Deny yourself and follow me. He says, you cannot be my disciple. He said in another place, he said, if you love your and I'm I'm paraphrasing here. But he said, if you love your husband and wife, you love your family and your friends and others more than you love me, you can't be my disciple. Man, that's a high standard He said, you've got to take up your cross, deny yourself, follow me, or you can't be my disciple. That is different than believing on Jesus Christ for salvation. In other words, this is what being a disciple is, is a person who's trusted Jesus Christ, their personal Savior, their salvation is settled based on the Word of God, they have eternal life, that's all settled facts, it's all taken care of. And then they make a conscious decision that I'm not just going to believe on Jesus Christ, but I'm going to commit myself to be his follower. I'm going to die to my own self. I'm going to deny my own plans, my own dreams, my own purposes. I give them all over to the Lord. I'm going to follow him. I'm going to take up my cross. I'm going to be unashamed, follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I'm going to love him supremely above everyone and anyone else. I love the Lord. I tell you, discipleship is, when we get to the point of discipleship, it is dedication to the Lord Jesus Christ as a believer. You follow what I'm saying? Follow what I'm saying? There's people who trust Christ. I believe they get saved. They believe they got new life. They have eternal life. But they struggle their whole Christian life because they never get to that point where they say, you know, I'm selling all out. I'm dedicating myself to the Lord. On August 25th, 1985, in Chattanooga, Tennessee, at the Highland Park Baptist Church, it's a Sunday night. God had been dealing with my heart. I knew it was saved. I was going in the ministry But I never really came to the point where I said, Lord, it's no longer I, but you. Not my will, your will. And I knelt at an old-fashioned altar at the front of that big old church. And I said, Lord, no longer Dennis Leatherman. It's Jesus Christ. I want to be your disciple. I want to forsake all and follow you. I want to deny myself. I want you to have all of me, every my heart, my mind, my soul, all for Christ, all for Christ. It wasn't long after that God called me to preach. Now not every disciple is called to preach. Not every disciple is called to go to a mission field. But God does have a plan and purpose for every single person to say, Lord, I want to live for you and you supremely. And that's what Ananias was. He was a disciple. A certain disciple. He at some point came in his life where he had heard of Christ, he trusted Christ, and he says, I'm all out for Christ. I'm dedicating my life to the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me ask you a question. You may have been saved a long time. You may have only been saved recently. But if you come to the point in your life where you say it's all Jesus, I'm going to forsake all. I'm going to take up my cross. I'm going to follow him and love Jesus Christ supremely. That's what discipleship is. So Ananias, though fairly obscure as far as any information about him is concerned, he's just a typical ordinary disciple, but he is a disciple. And God can use him in a phenomenal way. In a phenomenal way. So we're told he's a disciple. By the way, it's interesting to notice he's not a preacher. He's not a pastor, or he's not an evangelist. He's not a missionary, as far as we know, and according to the scriptural record. He's not a deacon in a church. He's not even a teacher. We don't even know if he sang in the choir. But we know this. He was dedicated to Jesus Christ. He was out and out for Christ. So we're told that one of the characteristics of Ananias is he was a disciple. But then if you would, come over to chapter 22 real quickly and And uh I'm watching my time here, so relax, Ed. Come over to Acts chapter 22. And in verse number 12, Paul is giving his personal testimony. Paul did that a lot through the book of Acts. Anybody here ever say hear Pastor Leatherman give his testimony about how he got saved? How many people here said, I'm so sick of hearing how that guy got saved? May 7, 1979, 1030 at night. Kathy said, there's people in the church know your testimony better than you do. Well, I have a biblical precedent for that. The Apostle Paul did the very same thing over and over and over and over. He told everybody how he got saved. And that's what he's doing in Acts chapter 22 And he references in his personal testimony, he references this disciple Ananias and how God used him To help him get grounded and get started in his Christian life. And look what he says about him in verse number 12. Paul says, and one Ananias, look at this, a devout man. According to the law, having a good report of all the Jews that dwelt there. He came unto me and stood and said unto me, and then he goes on, tells how God used Ananias to help him But he says he was a devout man. So back in chapter 9, we're told that he's a disciple. And here Paul tells us, under the inspiration of God, he's a devout man. Now, what does it mean to be devout? Well, it means this. Simply, a devout person is someone that's very loyal. Ananias apparently was very loyal to the Word of God. God gave him instructions, and he did exactly what God told him to do. He was loyal to the Lord. He had a good testimony. His life, how he lived his life, backed up with what he said with his lips. Anybody here ever know a Christian? Maybe you worked with them or a neighbor, somebody somebody in church, and I hope it wouldn't be true of anybody in our church, possible. But they talked one way and lived another way. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Boy, with their lips they were the great Christian, but with their light they had a horrible testimony And maybe some of us have been guilty of that to some extent. I know this, it's a whole lot easier to talk to Christian life than it is to live it. Amen or not. No doubt we all fall short to some extent. But Paul says, in his testimony, he says, God used this man Ananias. And he was devout. He was loyal to the Lord. He had a good testimony. And it wasn't just him coming around talking, God. The presence of the Lord in his life and the presence of the Holy Spirit in his life was very real, was very obvious, was very evident. In other words, he's saying, this guy's for real. This guy was the genuine thing when it comes to being a disciple. He was devout. A devout Christian is a remarkable Christian. You may not be very educated. You might not hold a position or have a title. But I'll tell you, if we'll just be for real for the Lord, God can use us in tremendous ways. Man likes titles, don't they? Man likes positions. You know, as a um uh years ago, Brother Sindler and the school we had up in Philly, they gave me a doctorate That was weak. Supposed to go, ooh la la Somebody came to me afterward and they said, Pastor, should I call you doctor? I said, No, I ain't your doctor, I'm your pastor. And I don't mean to be disrespectful. I'm very grateful. It's a tremendous honor. But to be honest with you, I don't think God's real impressed with it. We like titles and we like positions You know, God looks past all that and He looks on our heart. He wants to know, are you for real? Are you for real? I know some dear preachers. I know some dear Christians. As I said before, over in the hills of West Virginia, up in Pennsylvania, in the mountains of up in Pennsylvania, I'm thinking of one fella. Not highly educated, and nobody never had national fame, never had a sermon in the sword or anything like that. But I'm telling you, they love the Lord with all their heart They're serving God and people are getting saved. Lives are being changed. Drunkards are getting sober. Liars are becoming honest. God's using them. Just somebody never heard of, as far as the world's concerned, but they're devout. That's what Ananias was No titles, no positions, just an ordinary Christian that sold out to Christ and was the real deal. I'm worried about America. Kills me to see what's happening to our country. And I don't think the answer to all our problems in the country are going to be solved in Washington. Or in Annapolis, or in Harrisburg, or Charleston. I tell you where I think the problem solved. Problems of our country are going to be solved are in churches like my church and others, our church here, and others all around that just get for real in their Christian life. Just say, you know, we're selling out for Christ. We're not no more hypocrisy, no more talking one thing and living another way. We're going to be devout. We're going to have a good testimony. I need that. We need that as a church, and our country needs that. That will do more good for our country than any particular political party or politician will ever do. God's people being for real. So I look at Ananias, this man, just a simple job, go and visit this house on street called Strait. A certain address. Here's the card. Go visit this person. You talk to them and you help them and uh you show them from scripture what they need to do now Adani is just a disciple, devout. He goes and does what God says, and God changes the life of Saul and impacts the world. through Saul, because Ananias did what God said. So the attributes of Ananias, real quickly, I want you to notice his attitude. Come back there to chapter 10 real quick. And this, be honest with you, is what caught my attention. about Ananias. Chapter 9, verse 10. At the end he says, the Lord says, and said to him to him said the Lord in a vision, Ananias And he said, Behold, I'm here, Lord. Boy, what an attitude. Behold, I'm here, Lord. There's a lot of great people in scripture, God used, that said almost that exact same thing. God approached Abraham, and Abraham said, Here I am, Lord. He offered up his son Isaac in the most spectacular act of faith In all of Scripture, where he offers up his son, his only son, he's going to sacrifice him at God's word. And God says, ho, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Don't kill him. I was just testing you But his whole attitude was, Lord, here I am. What do you want me to do? Can you think of anybody else in Scripture that said almost that exact same thing? Samuel. One of the greatest prophets in all of Israel's history. Samuel! He's laying in bed at night, and the Lord says, Samuel, Samuel. Now I often wonder, wonder what God's voice sounds like. Was it Samuel? Or was it Samuel? I don't know. But I know this. When Samuel heard it, he said, Speak, Lord. My servant heareth. Here I am, Lord. Tell me. Tell me what to do. What is it? You got Abraham. Actually, Jacob made that same statement at one point. Samuel, I tell you, one of my favorites is the great prophet Isaiah. Chapter 6, the Lord, in the year that King Uzziah died, Isaiah saw the Lord high and lifted up, and his smoke filled the temple. And the angels cried out, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. And Isaiah fell on his face before the holiness of God. He says, I'm a man of unclean lips and dwell among a people of unclean lips. And the angel took a hot coal and touched his tongue and said, Stand upon your feet. And he made this statement, here am I, Lord, send me. And God used Isaiah powerful ways. I tell you, the greatest attitude a Christian can have is the attitude of availability. God, here I am. Here I am. What an attitude. His attitude. The greatest ability in the Christian service is availability. You know, God can use an unskilled but available disciple, but he cannot use a highly skilled but unavailable disciple. You follow me? Now I've illustrated this often before with a simple little illustration, but I think it fits perfectly here Uh anybody here ever, you your wife wanted you to put up, or maybe ladies, you're going to put up a picture on the wall and you needed a nail To hammer in a wall. Anybody, you know your situation? I need my wife's redecorating our living room. And so I don't know where anything is. I was just I walk in and it's all different. I trip over stuff. But she's putting these pictures up on the wall Of the grandbabies. That's great. And so anyway, you got a nail, you're gonna put in the wall And what's the best instrument to use to put a nail in the wall? A hammer. Hammers are very skilled at putting nails in walls All they need is somebody pick it up, and man, they're designed just for that. They're fantastic. But you ever get that? And you can't find the hammer. It's unavailable. So you think, oh, I've got to put this nail in the wall, and I don't have a hammer's not available to me. So what do you do? You take your shoe off You hold it by the toe and you use the heel. Boom, boom, boom. Anybody hear? You know that he heels on shoes are not designed to hammer nails in the wall. Anybody ever know that It's true. Or maybe you don't have a shoe with a heel on, maybe you're wearing flip-flops, you're a barefoot or whatever, but you have a screwdriver. And so you hold the screwdriver by the head of the screwdriver and you use the handle. Anybody know what I'm doing? Y'all were looking at me like I'm nuts My point is this, what you do is you use whatever's available, even though the thing that it's designed to use is much better. It's not available So you say, alright, I'll use this. It is available. You know what I think? I think God looks down. There's a lot of people that are very skilled, very gifted. But they're doing their own thing. They're living their whole life. And they're not available to be used of God. And so God will find some certain disciple He'll say they're available. He'll use them to do things they never dreamed that God could do. You follow what I'm saying? Jesus said, pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that we send forth laborers into the harvest. The harvest is great, but the what? Neighbors are few. You say, preacher, I'm not that gifted. I can't speak in front of people. I can't do much. You're exactly what God's looking for. You'll just say, Lord, I'm not much, I'm not much of anything, but here I am. I'm available. If you can use me. That's exactly what Ananias was. Just an ordinary Christian, no special gifts or skills. But he made that great statement here, my Lord. This week we're going to have hopefully hundreds of kids come through here. And we just need somebody that would be willing to invest a little time and effort A little love and attention into the lives of children who are going to be coming from broken homes and drug homes and self-righteous homes and some cases very good homes We're having three hours a day for five days. All we need are some somebody saying, I'm willing to teach a lesson, some little kids, I'm willing to sit with the teenagers and Help them and help with the games in some way. We often say this, you know, there might sometimes you hear a preacher say, you know, there might be, this week, there might be another uh Dr. Lee Robertson sitting in our class, the next Lee Roberts, the next Billy Sunday, or the next D. L. Moody And I always say the same thing. There's not another Lee Roberts, there's not another D. L. Moody, there's not another Shelton Smith, there's not another Bill Barron sitting in our classes. Those guys weren't another somebody before then. But what is sitting in our classes are little Bobbies, Roberts, and uh Edward and Mary and Susie and help me with some names And um Pam's Len was pointing at Pam What I'm trying to say is this, but there are little kids there that if we can point them to Christ, they will have the same Holy Spirit that Lee Robertson had indwelling in them. They'll have the same Bible that Billy Sunday preached. And maybe the great Christian leaders of the next generation might be sitting in our classes this coming week. Isn't that something? All we need, all God needs is a certain disciple that's devout. I'll say, here, my Lord, take me and use me. Maybe run a Sunday school bus. Say, ah, it's just a bunch of snotty-nosed little bus kits. No, it's little children that Jesus loved enough to die on a cross for, be buried, and rose again. And he has a plan for every one of their lives. He just needs somebody to say, Here am I, Lord Gogan. I got sixteen other points. I'm not going to give them all to you right now. Anybody here recognize the name D. L. Moody? A lot of folks in this generation aren't familiar with it. Back a hundred years ago, he was the most famous evangelist in all the world. Literally, millions of people were saved under the ministry of Dilmudi. He had almost no education. They say when he spoke, he spoke so fast and his dictation was so terrible He couldn't hardly understand what he was saying. But God used him to reach millions and millions of people. Say, oh, DL Moody, it's amazing. Can we back up a little bit? When D. L. Moody, I think, is about eight years old, somewhere around there, eight or ten years old, he went to Sunday school up in Massachusetts And he sat in a Sunday school class, just another kid, along with all the other kids. And the teacher's name was Edward Kimball. And Edward Kimball was just an ordinary Christian that loved God and said, you know, I'll teach a class. And he got burdened for his kids in his class. He had junior boys, a whole slew of them. He says, I'm going to go to every one of their homes, and I'm going to make sure every one of these boys knows Jesus Christ as their Savior. And he went out. And Billy and D. L. Moody was living with a cobbler. He lived there making shoes. And he knocked on the door and he said, I'm looking for a little the white lyman Moody. He said, yeah, he lives here. Say, can I visit with him just a bit? Sure. I'm Edward Kimball. I'm a Sunday school teacher. Well, come on in. Dion Moody sat down, or uh Edmund Kimball sat down with little DeWight. He got his Bible and he showed DeWight how to be saved. That young boy bowed his head and trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. And Dale Murdy got saved. And he grew. Be a witnessing. He would go out, get horses. This is back before they had uh vehicles like now. He'd get horses with wagons And he'd run them all through the town and load those wagons up with kids and bring them into church to a Sunday school class. His class outgrew the church, kids getting saved. He'd give them free suits. Whoever brings the most visitors gets a free suit. Bring him in and he'd tell them about Jesus. And it grew and grew and started having meetings. Millions got saved. All because one Sunday school teacher said, Here, my Lord. I'm willing to invest a little time and effort to show someone what the Bible says about Jesus. Isn't that something? And every one of us can here do that. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I hope that you would, Holy Spirit, would challenge us this morning. I know I look at myself and I think, man, alive. What in the world? What a mess. But Lord, if you just, if you can use one, use us, if we're willing, you can use us. And I pray you'd help us. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed this morning, if there'd be any say, Pastor, I'm saved. I know I am. There's no doubt about it. But I really think I need to give myself to Christ. I need to be more than just a believer. I need to be a disciple. I want to sell out for the Lord. I want him to have all of me Is there anything like that? Preacher, pray for me. I want to be more than just a believer. I want the Lord to have all of me. God bless you, hands all around. Denying myself, taking up my cross, following the Lord, loving him supremely. That's what God's looking for. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I want to be a disciple. I'd like to consider my disciple. I'm trying to live for God. And I want to come to the point where I say, here I am, Lord. Whatever you have for me, however, you can use me. Lord, I'm giving myself to you. You show me what it is, where, you show me. Lord, I'll just trust you and I'll do it. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I just want God show me what to do, I want to do it. God bless you. Hands all around. Young and old. Maybe just this morning at an old alder, before we go into Bible time, we just kneel and say, Lord, here I am. You use me however you see fit. You make it clear in my mind. You show me what it is uh you have for me to do and Lord I'll just trust you and I'll do exactly what you say. Is there someone here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. You say, preacher, I need to get that settled. I don't want the doubts. You'd say, preacher, pray for me that God will help me get my salvation settled. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me that I can get that settled and I don't have those doubts. God bless you. How about it? Any others? Now, Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our imitation. Help us, Lord, to trust you and just obey you. In Jesus' name. Amen