Well, we want to be spiritual, but a hundred bucks is a hundred bucks. Amen? Amen. We'll split it two ways, amen. You just keep coming out four every night, I think we can handle it. Amen Well, good to see everybody here. If you have your Bibles, turn over to 2 Chronicles chapter 7. Y'all know where I'm headed? Verse 14. I uh I had another mess here I I could open up my Bible, I could show it to you. I had another message I was gonna preach tonight, and God just kind of kind of switched uh the direction. And uh I believe it's uh the way that uh God wants us to go tonight. Second Chronicles chapter 7, verse 14. If my people, which are called by my name Shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face. And turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their land I want to bring you a message tonight. Here's the title. Now, listen to the title here. There's one word I want you to catch: The cost of personal revival. You say what's different. I didn't say the cost of revival. I didn't say how to have revival. I said the cost of personal revival. If you read, if you study All the, and I've done a study, I've done a lot of reading on this. If you study the great revivals of the past It's amazing there's one thing that leaps out at you. Do you know where they all start? With one person Isn't that amazing? They start with one person and then it spreads. You see, to have revival, there's a cost. There's a price that we as individuals have to pay. It's not some spooky thing that comes over the it's not a spiritual tinkerbell, amen? That comes floating down over the congregation, waves her magic wand, and all of a sudden everybody that's not the way it works, folks There's a price that we as individuals have to pay. Now I'm going to say this before I get started, then we'll pray. We're going to get started. I'm I am I I don't have stupid written on my forehead. Amen. Now I say that to say this. I I don't expect I hope I'm wrong, but I don't expect everybody here tonight to walk out and say, I'm going to pay the personal cost. I I I don't think that's going to happen. Wish it would. But you know what? If we had one, that's where it starts. If we just had one man or one woman or one young person That would just say, I'll be the one to start it. I'll be the one to pay the cost. You could have revival at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. You could. You could. And I hope we'll see that tonight. Let's pray. Father, bless the time that we have here this evening Lord, I pray that just right now, every one of us would uh set aside the things we're thinking about, maybe what we're going to do after church. Help us not even to think about that But right now, help us to focus on what it would take us to have revival. I pray right now there'll be a hunger A softness, a longing for the Holy Spirit of God to do a great work in our heart tonight. Lord, just give us a great, great service. I know we can't do it ourselves. You're going to have to do it. And so, Lord, do it tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. 2 Chronicles chapter 7 and verse 14 is a verse that was given to King Solomon at the dedication of the temple. This verse here is God's promise to those that are willing to turn from their sin and their rebellion. And although this verse was given to Israel, it is also given to every generation. It's given to you, it's given to me. And God says this: those that are willing to meet the conditions found in this verse, get this, you will see revival. Isn't that amazing? Now, here's something else that amazes me. It amazes me, and I'm talking about Christians. It amazes me today that so many of us will do anything to acquire temporal things. We want a car. We want a house. Won't we jump through every hoop in the world to get that? Come on. Something that's temporary, something that won't really last. But we do very little today to see or experience revival in our lives. Well, understand something. Revival, when God talks about revival, revival is for us, it's not for the world. Revival is not for unsaved people, it's for saved people. It's for you if you're saved. God wants you to have revival. And isn't a shame that so many of us go through life and we never see revival? Isn't that a shame? Psalm 85, verse 6, wilt thou not revive us again that thy people, that's God's people, that thy people may rejoice in thee? You see, all the hey America, it's still a great nation, but we are also a nation tonight with great problems. But the problems that we're experiencing in America tonight, listen to me, they're not the result of the unsafe folks. I'm sorry. The problems that we're seeing tonight, they're the result of us. Amen. Some of you don't like that, but that's the truth. You know, we we hear about the election, you know, boy, uh boy, the elections are so, so important this fall. Haven't we heard this? Huh? My wife, I was telling you a preacher, my wife Saturday, she took some of the grand babies out to lunch, went around the corner and ran into Sean Hannerty. I said, did you get his autograph? She goes, no, she says, I was too stunned. But he's taking his tour, uh, you know, Saving America tour and stuff like that. And uh all across America, and there's nothing wrong with this, but all across America we're seeing, we're we're having people say, Boy, you know what, if we can just get the right people in office, we can save America. Wrong. You see, that assumes that politics is our biggest problem, and it's not Boy, if we can just start doing this, if we can just stop this, if we can just stop Hollywood, if we can just close down all the bars, that assumes that all of these things are America's greatest problems, and they're not. Folks, listen to me. The problem is you, the problem is me. And we've got to get to the place to where we've got to quit playing games. We've got to quit playing church and we need to start getting serious about our spiritual lives. Now, in this verse, boy, it is awful quiet tonight Huh? You say, well preachers, you haven't been funny. I'm not gonna be that funny tonight. It's hard to get funny when you're preaching about revival. Come on. You ought to wait until tomorrow night if you want to be funny, amen. Now, in this verse, 2 Chronicles chapter 7 and verse 14, God gives us Five requirements that you've got to meet. You have to meet. Every man, every woman, every young person, you have to meet. If you want to pay the price And see personal revival in your life. Can I make a suggestion? And I don't make this just another sermon. Make a self-test. Make this a test. And then at the end, I'm sure at the end, give yourself a pass or fail. Paying the cost of personal revival. Number one, we must conquer our pride. Who's this written to again in 2 Chronicles 7:14? If my people, which are called by my name, and then what's he say, shall humble themselves? This deals with the area of pride. Folks, can I say, if I say something, will you think I'm not being too mean? Our churches today are overloaded with pride. Whenever I think about pride, I think of the little ditty. Faults in others I can see, but praise the Lord, there's none in me. Huh? Isn't that true? Huh? Hey, isn't it amazing? Think about this. Isn't it amazing? We can see the weak areas, we can see the faults, and everybody else. Huh? Hey if I if I went to Chip and I went to Jerry and I said I told I asked Chip, I said, Chip, can can you tell me can you tell me all the Jerry's problems? He goes, Well, you got an hour And then I went to Jerry and I said, Well, can you kill me all the chips crumbs? What have you got about three hours? Huh? But isn't it amazing that we can't see our own faults? Our own weak hate fault. I don't know about you. But I got too many weak areas in my own life to stick my nose in everybody else's life. What is that when we ignore it or we can't see our own weaker? I'll tell you what it is, it's pride. It's like the lady that came to Charles Spurgeon. She walked up to Charles Spurgeon, she says, Mr. Spurgeon she says, I want you to know I haven't sinned in three months. Spurgeon looked at her and he says, Well maybe he says, I bet you're proud of that. She goes, Yes, sir, I am. You know what pride says? Pride says something like this. I don't need this week. Huh? Pride says, oh well, whoa, whoa, whoa, preacher, I don't need this term, I don't need this point. That's what pride says. Pride says, Pride says, uh, nobody's going to tell me how to live. Pride says, you know what, I I don't care what he preaches on, I don't care how much I come under conviction. Hey, you're never going to get me down the out. Hey, that's what pride says Pride says, I'm the one that calls the shot in my life. That's what pride does. And pride, I believe, is one of the single greatest barriers to revival in our lives. Not long ago, I was out west preaching and and the preacher says the the preacher uh he asked me he says he says you ever you ever been to these old western towns? You remember the old good old days, the old black and white TV. Remember the old Westerns? Cowboys and Indians? Huh? Man, I used to love the, you know, the old black and white kid, Cowboys and Indians. Bananas stuff like that. He says, You ever been you ever been to them old West towns? I says, Well, no, not really. He said, Would you like to go to one And he named all these, you know, all these sho I said, really I said that he said, Oh yeah, the town's still there. I said, Really? Oh he says, yeah, I said yeah, I'd like to go Man, I tell you I could hardly sleep at night. Man, I was like, say I was thinking, wow. We drove over there, drove into the town. And I'm looking around. And there was a town, but when I went through a door, guess what I saw? Prairie. Everything you talk about a disappointment, everything was a facade. All there was was the front. Oh, the front looked pretty good. But there was nothing behind. Hey, you know what? That's a lot of us. Come on. Man, are we quiet tonight? Come on. Hey, listen, we come out to church, oh we drag, hey, nothing wrong, I'm glad you do. We dress nice, we look nice, we smell nice, we smell uh we carry a Bible, we smile, we shake hands, but wait a minute, behind the front All too often in our lives, there's nothing. There's a show, there's shallowness. We have a low tolerance for the spiritual. What causes that? Pride. Proverbs chapter 6, verse 16 and 17. These six things doth the Lord hate. Yea, seven are an abomination unto him. Very first thing he lists is what? A proud look. Proverbs chapter 8, verse 13. The fear of the Lord is to hate evil. Pride And arrogancy, by the way, those two go together. Pride and arrogancy and the evil way and the forward mouth do I hate. Psalm 101, verse 5. Him that hath an high look and a proud heart, I will not suffer. God says, I won't put up with a proud person. That is God's opinion of a proud folks listen. All of us, from me on down, there is nobody here that has anything to brag about tonight. If we got what we deserved, all of us tonight would go to hell. And when you stop remembering that, when you forget that You place yourself on a higher plane than what you want to. If I took a pig And I cleaned that pig up, squirted that pig down with perfume. Put a tuxedo on that pig. Hmm? And then let the pig go. Where would the pig go? It would go back to the hog wallow, amen. Listen, that's what we we are pigs in a tuxedo, amen. And come on, that's what we are. We look good on the out, but listen, inside, if we got what we deserved, all of us would go. We have nothing to brag about. And God says, hey, if you want to experience real revival, first thing you've got to get rid of. Isn't amazing? God could have looked at a lot of other areas. Am I not right? But the one area that God lifts, that He concentrates on, is that area of pride. Because it leads to so many other sins. You want to have personal revival? First thing he says is you must conquer your pride. Secondly, you must be constant in prayer. Look at verse fourteen. Shall humble themselves and pray. Revival revival doesn't come folks by putting that shine out there. I don't bring revival in a briefcase. Just you coming out and sitting here. That doesn't bring hey now. Well, don't get me wrong. I'm glad you're here. Amen. I'd hate to just be preaching to him. Amen. Amen. I'm happy you're here. But you being here, that doesn't mean there's going to be revival. Just because we advertise doesn't mean you're going to have you see what is so, so sad today Is that there are so few Christians that pray anymore. And what's even sadder I believe is that there's even fewer that pray for revival on a consistent basis. I was in North Carolina last year. Got to the church, big church, big church. Preacher uh Sunday school was nine forty five. Pastor said, Brother Baron, she said, we're gonna meet uh he pointed a room. I said we're gonna meet in this room at 9:30. Sunday school is nine forty-five. We're gonna meet in this room at nine thirty And uh we're gonna pray for revival. I said, well, okay, preacher. I said, I'll be there. 9:30, I show up. Big church, 9:30, I showed up. Guess how many other men should take you? Guess how many other men showed up No, me, that was it. I was the only one. He'd been better off not saying anything to me, amen? Hey, I was in another church not long from Pennsylvania, church of over 300. Preacher said the same thing, 15 minutes before the service. He he announced it. Uh at the Sunday night before the 15 minutes, we're gonna pray for a revival. Only three of us showed up And then we go through life and we say, Why why doesn't God send revival? You see, so many of them, I'm not listen, I'm trying to help you here tonight. I'm not trying to be mean But there's so many of us we never pray and then we lie and say that we want revival, but we don't pray How can God send revival when he says, you've got to pray, but we won't pray? And don't ask me to repeat that. Charles Finney said this prayer is the essential link in the chain of events that leads to revival. You can't have revival without it. D. L. Moody one time went on vacation to England. He had purposely made plans not to do any preaching on that vacation to England. He arrived in England, a preacher met him. And begged him to come and preach at his church on Sunday morning and Sunday night. Moody didn't want to, but very reluctantly he agreed to do it. He went and he preached on Sunday morning. That afternoon, he went back to his room and he wrote these words in his journal. I'm quoting. The saddest crowd I've ever seen. The only thing worse than preaching to this people was the fact that I promised to go back at night and preach again How'd you like somebody to write that about your church? Wow. He went back that night. Halfway through the sermon, he began to notice something weird. People started paying attention. People started coming to life. He couldn't figure it out. He thought it was amazing. He got to the end of his sermon. And he wasn't sure what to do, and so he just said, Anybody out here want to be saved? Just like that. Anybody out here want to be saved? Hands went up all over the auditorium. He said, if you want to be saved, go out here to that room and I'll meet you back there after the service. Over 60 people went in that room. And he led him to the Lord. Moody wish he couldn't figure out what happened. The pastor begged him to stay on. Moody says, I'm on vacation. He said, I'm leaving. He took off and he went up to Ireland. When he got up to Ireland, there was a telegram waiting for him from that preacher. Got off the train. The uh train guy handed him a telegram and it said this, Mr. Moody, please come back. We are experiencing revival Moody immediately took the train back. Preached at that church for the next 10 days. They saw over 400 people get saved. Moody, Moody was shocked. I mean, uh that Sunday, the Sunday morning, people were hard, they were dead, they were complacent. And uh all of a sudden, man, it just seemed like things were turned up. I mean, revival. So we began to ask around. And finally, he found the answer. He found out that there was an 80-year-old invalid widow woman. Couldn't even get out to church. Her name was Mary Ann Aldred. One day, Mary Ann Aldred in her home was reading the newspaper. Back in those days, they would actually publish the sermons in the newspapers. And they had published a sermon that D. L. Moody had preached. She read the sermon. And got down on her knees and began to pray that God would send D. L. Moody to her cold-dead church. And that with that, God had sent a revival. Moody came and preached that Sunday morning. But Mary Aldred, being an invalid, she didn't know that Moody was at his church. She had no idea that Sunday morning. Later that day, news came that Moody had preached at her church. Marianne Aldred got down on her knees. And spent the entire afternoon praying that God would send revival. That night, and every night following A little 80-year-old invalid widow woman prayed for revival in her church, and God showed up. And he'll do it for you. He'll do it for you. He'll do it for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Where does this start? With just one. There's just one that is willing to get down on her knees and pray. But here's the question, are you willing to pay the price? You see, we're living in a day and age where we like the fun, but we don't want to pay the price. If your preacher got up here tonight and he said, folks, big announcement, folks, here's what we're going to do. Saturday, we're going to have a church-wide cookout. Shrimp lobster prime rib Kibon Steak Porter House Filet Mignon Ships paying for everything. Now, let me ask you a question. How many be out Wouldn't we all hey? You'd have people that quit this church mad five years ago show up. Am I not right? You'd have your in-laws and your outlaws show up. Why? Because it's fun and it's free. Amen. But then this Saturday everybody's having fun. Man, we're down in the prime rib, we're eating the chicken, we're eating the lobster, kick's paying for it all. Amen? Then Pastor Lovelly gets up and says, Okay, folks, y'all have them follow pressure bad. Let's do this every Saturday. But then he says this, okay, here's what we're going to do. Next Saturday, the exact amount of time that we spent having food and fun and fellowship, the exact amount of time we're going to meet back here and we're going to pray for revival Now, how many will show up? It's going to look like the rapture took place. Why? One's fun, one's free, the other, there's a price to pay. And why don't we see revival? We don't want to pay the price. And that's why we don't see revival. You want to see revival? First of all, you've got to conquer your pride. You've got to be constant in prayer. Number three, you must be consistent in your priorities. Consistent in your priorities. Humble yourself, pray, seek my face. What is this? This is a call from God to us to stop chasing after things of the world. Quit chasing after things of the world. And he says this, and then make me your number one priority in life. Is he? If the truth really be known Is God really number one in your life? Isn't it amazing? We take so much time to get rich. We take so much time on sports and hobbies and things, but we spend very little time seeking God. Samuel Chadwick one time said this the Christian, and I think this is a great statement, the Christian is more responsible For not being revived. Did you get that? The Christian is more responsible for not being revived than the sinner is for not being saved. You say, why is that, preacher? Because we know better. A person that isn't saved and they're on their way to hell, they don't know any better. But you know what? We know better. We know what it takes, but we just don't want to pay the price Can I ask you something? Listen, I I think you're I think back there, I think even your this kind of changed the message around here tonight. I think Pastor Leather as you sit here tonight, when we talk about revival Be honest, in your heart of hearts, is revival an option for you or is it an obsession for you? If revival is something you can live without, then you'll live without it. Because you won't see the importance of paying the price. Our problem today is the average Christian, listen, the average Christian, they don't want to be confronted with their personal sin. They don't want to be confronted with the price they're going to have to pay for revival. The average Christian today would just as soon what what the Bible calls offer the sacrifice of fools. You say, preacher, what's that? The Bible calls certain things in our life the sacrifice of fools. You know what that is? It's coming out to church, basically punching a time clock, and then going home. That's it. And when we get that attitude, when we develop that complacency, you know what? We could care less about revival I get into a lot of motels. Every motel room has these. Y'all know what that is? You know what? Listen, I'm trying to help you here Well I can tell you you all think I'm mean, don't you? You visitors here, I'm really a nice guy. I'm really a lot of fun to be around You know what I've been tempted to do here the last couple years? Order about 10,000 of these. And then just go to churches and just hand them out. Come on, right, right. Do not disturb me. Don't bother me, preacher I got this going. I hey I can't come out tomorrow night. Oh I can't yeah, right there. Come on And I and I'll guar hey, I'll guarantee you, two months from now to save your life, you won't remember the score. But what you could have heard could have revived you tomorrow night. You see, I'm gonna ask you again, is it an option or an obsession? What's important to you? Huh? I wonder, I go to churches and I wonder, when is the last time maybe somebody came to the preacher On their own, they came to the preacher and they said, Boy preacher, you know what? I so bad, I so bad want revival in my life and in my church. I wonder when the last time that ever happened Revival is never going to come to your life until it becomes the number one priority in your life. You must conquer your pride. You must be constant in prayer. You must be consistent in your priorities. Number four, there must be a commitment to purity. There must be a commitment to purity. 2 Chronicles 7. 14. And turn from their wicked ways. Prayer without repentance is worthless. Isaiah fifty seven fourteen Take up the stumbling block out of the way of my people Verse 15. For thus saith the high and lofty one that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is holy. I dwell in the high and holy place. With him also that is of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble and to revive the heart of the contrite ones. Isaiah chapter fifty seven, verse fourteen talks about a stumbling block. What's he talking about? It is something that stands between you and revival. It's a weakness. It's a sin in your life. Listen to me, we're all sinners. And there are things, if we're not careful, that stand between us and revival. What is it? Listen, there has to be a time in all of our lives where we look ourselves in the mirror and say, Bud, you've got a problem. You've got to get rid of the pride. You've got an emotional problem. You've got anger, bitterness, unforgiveness. You're not faithful like you ought to be. Hey, you're not the soul winner that you ought to be. You're not spending your time with God like you ought to You have become complacent. You have become cold. Listen, there comes a time when we need to put our finger on our sin. That is why it is so important that we say soft and sensitive. You know what scares me? It scares me when I become when I start to become a stranger at the altar. Amen. I could preach a whole message on invitations, they're all through the Bible. I want my heart to be so soft that the least little thing I'm aware of. Are you the same way? You ever drive down the road, you guys here, you ever drive down the road in your car, your car, your car And you hear something. And you turn to your wife and you say, Do you hear that noise? You ever done that? And your wife says, What noise? Don't you hear the no, I don't hear any. Now, why can you hear that noise and she can't catch your car? Amen You know exactly how that car ought to perfectly run without any noise The least little thing, do you not pick up on it? But nobody else does because that listen, that that's the way your life ought to run. Your life ought to run so smooth, so soft, so tender, that when the Holy Spirit comes and says, Hey It's a little thing. It's a little thing. But if you're not careful, your pride is going to hinder this. And it's going to become a big thing. And your heart is going to get harder and harder and more callous. And then you can forget about revival. That's why it is so important that we identify sin, confess it, and forsake it. The greatest obstacle to revival in our lives, listen, it's not Congress. It's not the Supreme Court, it's not politicians, it's sim. Constapersonal revival, conquer your pride. Be constant in prayer. Be consistent in your priorities. A commitment to purity. And then lastly, claim the promises of God. There it is. Claim the promises of God. Humble, pray, seek, turn, claim. You say, where's the claim? Then, after you do these four things, huh? Do these four. Then will I Hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and heal their. That is God's definition of revival. God says: when you meet these four conditions Then you come to me and you claim. And then I will answer your prayer and I will send revival in your life. Now you say this, listen, we're all made of the same stuff. And so people say this, Well, Brother Barons, I I understand what you're saying here tonight. I agree with everything you're saying, but you know what? You know, here in here in uh Oakland, Maryland, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, you know, my life, you know, I I I really don't think it's gonna happen to me. Now come on, be honest Isn't that our way of thinking? Come on. The rest of you Pharisees do this. Come on. Don't we all think that way? Huh? Now, wait a minute. I would say yes too if I was dealing with chance. But folks, we're not dealing with chance like God doesn't gamble. Revival is decided by you. That's it. That's the bottom line. What is so sad is that the vast majority of Christians tonight are just satisfied. They're just happy with being saved. Oh! They wouldn't mind being a little bit closer to God, but they really don't think they're that far away. And you know what? As long as we think like that, there's never going to be revival. We say, well, Brother Barrett, I I I I I really would. Oh, I really would like to see revival, but I I just I just don't think it's going to happen. Do you really understand what you're saying when you say that? What you're saying is this. What you're saying is, I don't think my God is big enough to send revival. What you're saying is God isn't big enough to keep a promise That's what we're saying. Genesis 18, 14. Is anything too hard for God? Yes or no? No Luke chapter 1 verse 37. For with God nothing shall be impossible. Let me ask you a question. Can God save anybody? Yes. Can God put a marriage back together again? Yes. Can God send revival? Well. Uh-oh, uh, be careful. Yes, he can. The problem is, the problem is, I don't know if we're willing to pay the price to claim the promise. That's the problem. I go into churches. And when I pull into the churches almost every week Church has put up a sign. Somebody finally spelled my name right first time in ten years. The sign, we put up a sign out there, revival. Here's what's sad. At the end of the week, we take the sign down. There's no revival, and many times people walk out the back door of the church harder than what they walked in at the beginning of the week. I would give anything in the world. I mean this, I would give anything in the world to see and experience a revival at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist. church. Huh? I don't want to read about revivals of past years. Wouldn't you like to experience one? Huh? The question is this now, and we're done. The question is this. It's a personal question. It's not a church-wide question. It's a personal question. Are you as an individual I'm talking the men here tonight. I'm talking the ladies here tonight. I'm talking the young people here tonight. Are you willing to start the process tonight? You see, that's what it takes, isn't it? It takes a man, it takes a woman, it takes a young person to say, you know what, I don't know about anybody else. But you know what? I want to start the process. I want to get rid of all the pride and all the excuses that might be in my life. I want to pray. God, show me anything in my life. God, I show bad want revival. I'm gonna make God number one in my life. Any sin that there is, I'm going to turn from that sin. I'm going to forsake it. And then I'm going to claim the promise. Whatever it takes, I'll pay the price. Are you willing to start the process tonight? Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Every head bowed, and every eye closed Can I just say this? There's a reason. I've done a lot of reading on great revivals of the past. There's a reason. There is a reason why we see So, so, so few revivals. You ever think about that? You say, why, preacher? Because there's so, so, so few of us that are willing to start the process. Are you willing to start it? How do you do that? You conquer your pride. You don't have the attitude, nobody's going to tell me what to do I'm not going to embarrass myself by, you know, walking out. I'm not going to nobody know I'm not going to conquer your pride. Constant in prayer. It's not just a one-time ditty down here at the altar. It becomes a part of your life. Day in, day out. Oh, God, shen revival. Start it with me. Consistent in your priorities. God. You're going to become number one. There's nothing that's even going to come close to me living for you. You're going to be number one in my life. A commitment to purity. Anything in my life, Lord, I want to be soft and sensitive. And then Lord, I'm gonna claim it. I'm not gonna ask for a raise of hands. Not gonna ask for a raise of hands I'm going to pray here in a moment, and then we're going to have the invitation. I'm just going to let the Holy Spirit deal as he wants to deal. But let me ask one other question. Maybe we have somebody here tonight, a man, a woman, a young person, and you're here tonight and you're not saved. Can I just say this, friend? This message was not for you. You see, somebody that has never trusted Christ as their Savior This message was for Christians. You need to get saved. You need to trust Christ as your Savior. You need to ask the Lord Jesus Christ into your heart as your Savior. The Bible says in Hebrews 9:27, it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this is the judgment. You are going to die. It might be a lot sooner than what you think. You know, I just uh I just heard on the news about uh a young man, what was he, 18 years old, that the number one recruit in the nation, going to Notre Dame Went down to Florida, fell off of a balcony, down in Florida, and died. 18-year-old boy had his whole life ahead of him. He thought he had years, but little did he know. That I think it was yesterday or the day before was the last year he'd have on the face of the earth. There's a lot of people here that don't know this is the last week they have on the face of this earth. We better know where we're going to spend forever You see, you're gonna die. The very moment you die, it's already decided where you're gonna spend forever. No stop-offs, no second chances. There's only two places you can go, heaven or hell. That makes it pretty easy to make the decision. And God's word says, in order to avoid going to hell, the Bible says, you need to be saved. You need to be saved. Are you saved? Is there a time and a place that you've asked Jesus into your heart as your Savior? I'm not going to embarrass you. I want you to understand this. I'm not going to embarrass you. But I'd love to pray for you. I'm wondering tonight if we have anybody here, a man, a woman, or a young person, that would just say this, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. If I walked out of here tonight, died in a car wreck on my way home, I don't know if I go to heaven, I don't know if I go to hell, but I do know this. I don't want to spend forever in hell. I'd like to go to heaven. And I do worry about that. Would you also tonight remember me in prayer? Would you just slip your hand and put it back down? Just slip it up real quick. I'm not going to embarrass you But I'd like to pray for you. Just slip it up, put it right back down, and I'll pray for you. Anybody at all? Anybody at all? Just slip it up real quick. Put it right back down. And I'll remember you in prayer. Anybody at all? Now's the time to do it Anybody at all? Father, we thank you for the time that we've had here this evening. Lord, I pray that we'd understand that when we talk about revival, it is probably one of the most serious subjects we could talk about in regards to our spiritual life. Would I pray tonight that we'd have some dear, dear folks here that would just say, I want to start the process. I don't know about anybody else, but I want to start the process. I want to see revival come to my life, and then I'd like to see what God could do here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church God give us that yearning, that burden, that longing to see real revival in our lives. Force in Jesus' name we pray With heads bowed and eyes closed, let's stand to our feet. In a moment, in a moment the piano's going to play. Here's what I'm going to ask you to do. I purposely tonight didn't ask for a raise of hands. I'm simply going to ask you to do this When she starts to play, if you're here tonight and you're just thinking in your heart, you know what? I'd sure like to make that commitment. I'd like to start the process, pay the price Why don't we slip one out tonight? Let's quietly come to the old-fashioned altar and say, Lord, I know it's going to be hard, but would you help me? He's the enabler. Would you help me to pay the price?