Peter chapter or I'm sorry first Kings chapter number one. I want to begin reading in verse five and we're going to read down through verse number ten. First Kings Chapter number one, and beginning in verse number five. Notice what the Bible says. Then Adonijah, the son of Haggh, now Haggith was David's, one of David's wives. Alright? The son of Haggh exalted himself, saying, I will be king. And he prepared him chariots and horsemen and fifty men to run before him. And his father, who was his father? David. And his father, listen to this, had not displeased him at any time, saying, Why hast thou done so? And he also was a very goodly man, and his mother bare him after Absalom. And he conferred with Joab the son of Zariah, and with Abiathar the priest And they, following Adonijah, helped him. But Zadok the priest and Beniah the son of Jehoiada and Nathan the prophet and Shimei and Rei and the mighty men which belonged to David. were not with Adonijah. So there's division here. And Adonijah slew sheep and oxen and fat cattle by the stone of Zoheleth which is by Enrogel, and called all his brethren, the king's sons, and all the men of Judah, the king's servants. But Nathan the prophet and Beniah and the mighty men and s and Solomon his brother he called not. So we're looking at the insurrection of Adonaiah and Adonijah. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts tonight. Father in heaven, thank you that we can come to your house on the middle of the week. And just pause a little bit our schedule, gather around your word for a little bit, and then gather at your throne in prayer. And I ask you to bless now our study of Adonijah, this Fellow here that's just briefly mentioned in your word, but help us learn from lessons from him. So I ask, Father, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit Father in heaven, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, and I pray and ask that you would fill me with your Spirit and speak through me, Lord And speak to our hearts. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As we pointed out last week, if you remember, 1 and 2 Kings is really a continuation of 1 and 2 Samuel. We're introduced to Samuel in the first chapter, first couple chapters of 1 Samuel. We follow his life through. He anoints David. And then the dialogue picks up the life of David through 2 Samuel, and now it runs into 1 and 2 Kings. 1 and 2 Kings then will carry on. the chronology of the kings of the divided kingdom eventually, northern uh Israel and then Judah the south, and uh fascinating history of Israel. A lot of lessons. So we're at the end of, I said all that to say this, we're at the end of David's life. And David is about uh six uh seventy years old, we're pretty certain of that, of his age at this point His health is failing. If you remember, we looked at that last week, and in fact, that's my first point in the message. We're just going point by point. The first one was David's declining health. And David is failing. He can't stay warm. They are trying to figure out a way to keep David comfortable, you could say, in his last days and last hours. He only lives a short time after this. Um and so they're trying to keep him comfortable. And if you remember they had this unique way of trying to keep David Warm. They went out and found a young chick. And they brought her in. And uh she'd sleep with David, keep him warm at night. Now there was no hanky panky or anything going on there, it says And um but uh that was apparently I don't know how else listen I don't know how else to address this. It's what the Bible says. Hanky Panky's in the Hebrew. But um So nevertheless, this was apparently the custom at the time. It wasn't something unusual, although in our understanding it's definitely inappropriate, right, to say the b give it the best. I think it would be inappropriate. So David's declining health. Now we get to the second thought, and here we have Adonijah shows up And we have Adonijah, this is the way I put it, Adonijah's defiant insurrection. We have David's declining health. He's failing physically. Mentally, as far as we can tell, he's fine. But his health is failing, his body's failing. Adonija, now here's the point. Adonijah sees his father's condition. He knows he is very limited on what he's going to be able to do. David is very vulnerable. And his son, his fourth son, as we'll see here in a little bit, Adonijah, sees that, and he seizes the opportunity to exalt himself. Did you see that in verse 5? It says he exalted himself. And this is absolute, deliberate, and defiant insurrection against the revealed will of God. Now I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but I want to lay some groundwork It had been made abundantly clear that Solomon was to follow David. God had told David that. David had made that very public. Adonijah knew that. He knew what God's will was, but he saw vulnerability in David the King And he struck when he thought he had the opportunity. And so, look at verse number five. And I got all that from verse number five. We're told here about David's declining health. And then you get to verse five. What's the very first word of verse number five? Then the stage is set, Adonijah sees the circumstances, and then he steps up and says, Alright, I'm gonna I'm taking a shot at this, I'm gonna be king. I'm gonna be king. Now my first question about Adonijah, we don't know a lot about him. We read about him once or twice previously when in a list of sons of David back in I think it was 1 Samuel, 2 Samuel, beginning of 2 Samuel. They have a list of David's son, Agenijah is just a name in a list But now we're introduced to him in a little bit more, a little more thorough way, although we're not told a whole lot. So my question is: this: what are his credentials to be kicked? What makes Adonijah think that he is qualified, that he has the credentials to sit on the throne of David, the throne of Israel? Does he have any anointing from God to do this? Does he have a lineage right to this? What are his credentials? Who is he? I guess what I'm asking is, who is this guy? His name, Adonijah, means this, the Lord, no, my Lord is Jehovah. Adanijah means to translate it into English and give it a definition, my Lord is Jehovah. How many people agree with me? That's a pretty good name. Right, that's a man, my Lord is Jehovah. Um I looked up my name, Dennis, one time. I was curious what it meant. I thought that's probably some great king from the Middle East. And I looked it up and it comes from the Greek word Dionysius. Dionysius was the Greek god of liquor. And wine. So how many people agree that's not a great name? And so I don't know what my parents were thinking. But nevertheless, Adonisiah had a good name. Now David, his father, and and we know little about his mother here, the uh Hageth is her name. We don't know hardly anything about her But I think we could all agree, and I'm going to elaborate on this here in a little bit, I think we could all agree, he didn't have the best parents in the world His multiple, his father had multiple wives at the same time. How many agree with me? That's probably not the best setting to raise a child in. And so his parents were not the best parents. We're going to look at David, and I don't want to get too far ahead of myself, but we're going to see here in a little bit, David wasn't the best father. In the world. We'll talk about that. But nevertheless, he had a good name. He had a good name. So that tells me that his parents, though they were far from perfect, They wanted their son to be identified with the true and living God. And that's a good desire. We want our children to know and at least be identified with the true and living God. So they named him Adonijah. My Lord is Jehovah. And they wanted him to be identified with the true and living God. I believe names are significant. Now, this, I'm just giving my personal opinion now But I think when we give a name to a child, they're going to carry that name the rest of their lives. It's going to become a key part of who they are. And I know in our day and age, you know, um, and and again, I'm not I'm not making judgment of whatsoever. I mean whatever. Everybody has, you know, make their decision. But um and nowadays I think we throw names around sometimes with little thought of the significance of that name. In Bible times, names had tremendous significance. In fact, they were often given by God to indicate the character of that person. Now you and I, we have a little baby is born. We don't know what that baby's character is going to be like But I think it's interesting that David and Hageth wanted their son, gave him a name that identified him. As a follower of Jehovah. Whether he actually lived up to that name or not, they didn't know at the time, but they wanted him identified with that. So I think names are significant. And I think they uh should be thought through a little bit and given I know we had a little boy rode our Sunday our Sunday school bus. We had an afternoon Sunday school down in Chattanooga back years in the 80s, early 80s And uh hi his name was cornbread. And um that was I d I don't think it was his real name, but nobody else knew any other name for him as cornbread. And he looked like he ate a lot of cornbread, actually And um so sometimes names, you know, are just given without thinking. That that old song just came to my mind, that old song, A Boy Named Sue. Nowadays it won't even think anything of it, but So my point is this. Names, I believe names are significant, and I think it's interesting that this fella here that does that has this deliberate, defiant insurrection against his daddy, against the king of the nation he's a citizen of, is named My Lord is Jehovah. And here's another thought. Though he had a good name, he failed to live up to his name. And I think it's possible, I don't think, I know, it's possible for a person to have a very godly name And yet very live a very ungodly life. And Adonijah did not live like his Lord was Jehovah He lived and acted like he was, like my Lord is Adenijah. And so you and I, how many folks here night say do you know it say amen? That'd be all of us, I would assume, tonight, safely assume, I believe. We've been given a name. We've been given a name Christian. And we embrace that, right? We're not ashamed. Actually, the Bible name for a believer is saint. You could call yourself Ron, you could call yourself Saint Ron. How about that? Get a little statue But God considers us saints. Now here's the challenge that came to my mind. I was studying the name of Adonijah. He certainly didn't live up to his name. I wonder how often we as Christians live up to that name. Or a saint living up to that name. So it's possible to have a very good name yet have a very godly name and yet live a very ungodly life. So, Adonijah, who is this guy? What are his credentials? What makes him think he has any claim to the throne of David? What makes him think he has any claim to rule over God's people, the nation of Israel? Well, as we said, he's the fourth son of. Of David, David's wife Haggath. You can go to 2 Samuel chapter 3, 2 through 5. It lists the sons of David and the order there they're given. And he was David's son. Let's think about David for a moment. We're studying the life of David, and Adonijah plays a key role in this point in David's life. But what about David? David was many things in his life. He started out as a shepherd, right? Little shepherd boy. Very faithful. Very uh I would say a shepherd boy that kills a bear and a lion. with his bare hands, he's pretty successful shepherd, right? I'd give him a five stars. Um he was a warrior. From the shepherd, he comes, he kills Goliath miraculously, boldly, in faith, kills Goliath. Then he goes off and fights for Israel and their wars against the Philistines. And he kills his tens of thousands of Philistines. Would you agree with me? David was a very successful warrior. He was a hero. He was a national hero of Israel. He was many things in his life. He was a singer Remember when King Saul, the evil spirit, would come upon King Saul, and they'd bring in David, and he'd play his instrument and sing for him, and it would calm him down, and the evil spirit would depart He was an author. Many of the chapters in the book of Psalms were penned by David under the inspiration of God. He was a songwriter, a singer-songwriter A national hero, a warrior in every sense of the word, a successful warrior, a shepherd, fearless. He was a fugitive He very effectively eluded King Saul for a long time. He was a king for forty years. He reigned in Israel over Israel. Successful king, one of their greatest. In fact, such a king, such a man that God name the throne that Jesus will sit on in the millennium after King David. Impressive, huh? He's a spiritual leader. He brought the Ark of the Covenant into Jerusalem, the very center of Israel, and led Israel, ru rose the spiritual level of Israel, the and the spiritual uh development and and health of Israel, he raised it to a level they had not experienced, perhaps ever before. This tremendous spiritual leader. So he was a lot of things in his life. There's two I didn't mention. Because it's not mentioned much in the Bible. But he was also a husband. And he was a father. And those two responsibilities he didn't do so hot on. He was a far better warrior than he was a husband He was a far better king than he was a daddy. He was a far better songwriter than he was a husband or father. The two areas, husband and father, were the areas, the two areas he was least successful in. And here we see at the end of his life, we see a little bit Other evidence of that in the actions of his fourth son. We already saw Absalom, right? How that played out. I guess parenting is, I don't guess, I'm telling you from experience, most of y'all, I'm looking at the crowd, most of y'all know, uh parenting is not easy. Amen or not. I tell you who the best parent is. The best parents I've ever met are those that don't have any kids. Well if I had kids, I'm thinking of about three fellas in my past ministries, and it was constant. Well I'll tell you what, Brother Dennis, if I had kids That was years ago. I imagine they have kids now. I'd like to go revisit them. See how well it's going And uh it's he it's either those that don't have kids or those that are still in diapers, and you can do whatever you want with them. What I'm trying to say is this parenting is not easy. And David struggled with it. And studying the life of David, if we're studying the life of David, we've got to be honest about David, right? And he struggled in that area. Like I said, he was a much better king than he was a father. He was a much better soldier than he was a husband. And those were the two least successful areas in David's life. I put a couple thoughts down along those lines. I put this down. Children learn more from our examples than they do from our lectures. We're awfully good at lecturing our children. Tell them how it is, huh? But I'm telling you, they're watching us more thoroughly than they're listening to us. And our actions are having more of an impact on them than our speeches are and our sermons are And David could sing some of the psalms you read in the book of Psalms, some of those that he wrote. I tell you I read them sometimes, and depending on what's going on in my life, I can't hardly read them without weeping And you read some of the Psalms of David, and it stirs your heart, and you're drawn so close to God, or you come under such conviction. And he could write under the inspiration of God such emotional and powerful truths, but yet he couldn't reach his children. Children learn more from our examples than they do from our lectures. I put this one down. Children are responsible for their own decisions Now, having said that, they watch and they learn from us, and our actions influence our children more than our lectures do. But nevertheless, God holds each child responsible for their own actions. In other words, this modern idea that somehow I can blame my parents for my delinquency, it doesn't fly with God. Now the courts may buy that, and society may buy into that, but I'm telling you, God will not buy into that. Adonijah is responsible for his actions regardless of what his daddy and mommy did or did not do. If you would keep your place here and turn with me, I want to show you a verse. Ezekiel Ezekiel, we don't get Ezekiel a whole lot. Good book, major prophet. Ezekiel 28. If you go back past Isaiah, keep running, you run into Ezekiel. Isaiah, Jeremiah, and Ezekiel, and twenty eight If you get to chapter 25, just keep going, you'll run in this twenty-six, twenty-seven, then you'll hit twenty-eight. And look with me if you would at the first uh at uh I'm sorry, not 28, 18. Goodness. Here I'm telling you how to do it, and I'm had it wrong. Chapter 18 and verse number 20. Alright? I have this underlined in red in my Bible. The soul that sinneth, it shall die. Now he's talking about personal responsibility. Look at the next rest of that verse. The Son, look at this, the Son shall not bear the iniquity of the Father. Neither shall the Father bear the iniquity of the Son. The righteousness of the righteous shall be upon him, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon him. Now he goes on, he talks about repentance, individual repentance. But the point I'm trying to make is this. Here in Ezekiel, he makes a statement, I think, that applies to David and Adonijah. Though David was far from a perfect father, Adonijah is still responsible for his own actions. And he's going to answer to God for the decisions he makes, regardless of the home he grew up in. And it's not and I I know I'm repeating myself a little bit here, but it's not going to fly with God. We try and stand before Him and excuse our disobedience and excuse our sin. somehow justify our sins because my mother or my father did this or didn't do that. No, no, no, we're responsible for our own actions. So my first statement under this is children learn more from our actions than they do from our lectures. However, the children are still responsible for their own behavior, their own decisions. their own actions, especially as they grow and get older. And then my third statement along these lines is, and then we'll get back to Edenijah here, But I like this one. God can redeem even the most dysfunctional families. And what I'm trying to say is this just because a child may grow up in a dysfunctional, divided, imperfect home, that child can still turn out for God. In fact, some of the great preachers throughout history have come from very what we would call dysfunctional homes. And yet God used them in a great way. Old Gypsy Smith, that Bangladesh years gone by, come out of a gypsy lifestyle, a gypsy home, anything but godly, but yet God used him to bring millions to Christ. And you the il illustrations are numerous. And so children learn more by what how we what we do, by our beh learn more from our example than they do from our lectures. But they're still responsible for their own actions, and regardless of what their background was or what their home situation was, God can still redeem that and bring good out of it and use them in a great way for God And I'm glad for that. So what is Adonijah's credentials? What makes him think that he has a right? To usurp the throne and sit on that throne of David. Well, uh the I think the only thing I can see that he that was in his mind, we're not told exactly what his thinking was But he was the fourth son of David. And perhaps that is what made him think that he had some sort of right to that throne. Say, well, surely there were some others before him. There were three other boys before him. The firstborn was Amnon. How many people remember? We talked a little bit, we didn't spend a lot of time. How many people remember Amnon? Amnon fell in love with who? His sister Tamar. And that didn't turn out. He raped her. Absalom, his uh young uh a younger brother of his, gets mad and kills Amnon. So Amnon's dead, so that disqualifies him from the throne. Right, if he's dead, he can't be kicked. So he's removed. The next in line is a fellow by the name of Chiliab. Chiliah, what a name. How many people have ever heard of Chiliah? I think he's mentioned once, maybe twice in the Bible, just in a list of names. We know nothing about him. All we're told is he was born to David. And then there's no mention of them. A lot of Bible scholars, people smarter than me, believe that Chiliah probably died perhaps as a child. Very young in life. They think that he is he has died early in his life. He's removed from the equation. That's why he's not mentioned. That's total speculation. It's coming to a conclusion from silence, which is a little risky, but nevertheless, it's possible. So if that's the case, Amnon's dead, murdered by his brother. Chiliah, we don't know anything about him. We are assuming that he passed away at some point, or he would be a factor in this. And then the next one in line is Absalom. What happened to Absalom? Joab killed him along with his thugs, beat the guy to death violently. And the next in line is Adonijah. So can you see where maybe in his head, hey, I'm next in line. I'm the rightful heir to this throne. Can you see this maybe thinking, I don't care what God says, I'm the next for that throne. How many people think nobody would ever think something like that? We don't say it that way, but we act that way sometimes, don't we? We know what God says is his will. We know he says you should do this. We know he says we shouldn't do that. But we what? Still do it anyway. Or we don't do what he tells us to do. That's what Adonijah's doing. He's just doing it in a more blanket way. more visible way, eternally recorded in the Word of God way. And so I don't know what his thinking was, but The only set the only thing I can come up with that he thought were his would qualify him, any credentials he might have that makes him think he could do something like this, was that he was next in line, apparently So, uh, what was his credentials? We speculate a little bit here. Fourth son, the others are all dead, apparently, and maybe that's his thinking. Now, next question is this: what was his character like? What kind of guy Is Anijah, Adonijah. What was he like? Um, you know, was he friendly? Was he mean? Was he arrogant? Was he gracious? What was what kind of guy was he like? We're not told a whole lot about him. Oh in fact the only thing we know about him basically is what we read here a few minutes ago. These five, ten verses here were however many this chapter or two But can can I just give you my impressions about Adonijah? How many people say, yeah, you can, preacher, willn't you? How many people say, I don't care what you think about him Well, since I'm up here and I'm the pastor, I'm going to tell you anyway. Well, great guy First of all, this is what I jotted a few things down. As I'm reading this, I'm thinking, all right, what about this guy? What kind of guy is he? I put this one down. Number one, he's small. Now I'm not talking about stature I'm talking about he's small in character. He's a small man. By that I mean this. He's unkind. His father is ill. His father is on his deathbed And he does something like this. How many of you agree with me? That's awfully unkind. It's a small man. By that I mean this, he's unfaithful. He's not been faithful to his father. He's undercutting his father He's untruthful. He's childish. He exalts himself. I want what I want. Here's the thing that struck me. He waits until his father is uh weak He waits until his father is physically limited on what he can do, and then he makes his move. I don't know about you, but that's a small man would take advantage of somebody like that in their weakness. Small people take advantage of weak people. Small people, coward. I I hate, you know, I wish this wasn't true, but I've done a gazillions of well probably not quite gazillions, not quite that many, but I've done a lot of funerals over the years And been with families and when I was with hospice and different situations and just across the board. And there's more than a few occasions. When mama or daddy has a few days or a few weeks to live, everybody knows it. They're in bedridden. They're not going to make it. And the kids start making their moves to get daddy's stuff. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And before they're gone, and I've had more than a few times, I somehow get in the middle of it. I try and avoid that. Somehow I get in the middle of it. I just not real long ago, someone outside the church, they'd asked me to do a funeral, been working with them. And um and it's and it got gone. And before daddy's even gone, they're working on getting his tools and somebody else is wanting this, and boy, they're after that. And they get fussing and going on. Listen, why didn't they deal with that when Daddy was in his right mind and Daddy was good? You know why? Because they're small. There's small people, little character. Pip squeaks is what Dr. Lee Robertson, the term he used to use. Paul small people take advantage of other people's weaknesses. There's nothing big, there's nothing macho about somebody who tries to take advantage of a person that's weaker than them. So, number one, my impression of Adonijah is that he's a very small man, character-wise. Number two, and I don't have to guess on this because we're told directly, he's spoiled. Look down there at verse number 6, the first part of verse 6. And his father, David, had not displeased him at any time in saying, Why hast thou done so? Now, my understanding of that statement there, at no time in Adonijah's life had his daddy ever confronted him about something he was doing that obviously he should not have been doing. How would you describe someone that can always do whatever they want to do? They are spoiled brats. We run into them a lot. Adonijah was a spoiled black. He believed he was entitled to whatever he wanted. The world revolved around him. I got I came across when I was studying, I thought this was interesting I came across twenty-three signs that you are a spoiled brat. I thought this would be fun. You want to hear 'em? You basically complain about everything You start World War III because someone told you no. You have a credit card linked to your parents' bank account. Uh whenever you say I love you to your mom, she's like, What do you want? I'll skip down some of these. You're very good at spending other people's money. You want everything you don't have. Here's one. When your friends are at work, you don't know what to do with your time because you're not working, right? You hate it when you leave the store empty-handed. Oh, here's one. You fake cry to let people know you're upset. Uh these get old here. Um you break your phone so you can get a new one. Um all right, so anyway Adonijah was spoiled. Look there it says, it says, and Adonijah, the son of Haggh, exalted himself. And he's in love with himself. He's spoiled. Everything's about me. I want you, if you would, real quickly, we've got a couple minutes, come back to Luke chapter number 14. And I wrote that reference, the reference we're going to look at, Luke 14, 11. I wrote that in the margin of my Bible beside Adonijah's here. Jesus addressed what Adonijah just did. Now he doesn't address Adonijah particularly, but he addresses that action. Luke chapter 14, look with me at verse number 11. Look what it says here. For whosoever exalteth himself, that's what we're just told Adonijah did. Right? Shall be what? A base. That means push down, swoosh, squashed. That's like uh you step on an ant. And he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. Adonijah wanted to be exalted, but he went about it the wrong way. We don't exalt ourselves, we humble ourselves, and then God, in his wisdom, he exalts us if we need to be exalted. So Dadonijah, number one, he was a very small man. He cheated his father, waits till his father's ill and on his deathbed, then he tries to take everything. He's spoiled. Come back here to Kings. Did you keep it? Everybody still with me, alright? Look what else we're told about him. This is all we know is what we're given right here. And I wrote this down. First he was small in character. He was spoiled. But look at verse 6, and it says, His father not displeased him at any time, and saying, Why hast thou done so? And he also was a very goodly man. Now it doesn't say he was a good man. Says he was a goodly man. That word goodly means good looking. It means, I wrote the definitions down, it means pleasing to look at. It comes from the same word, get this. It comes from the same word from Genesis chapter 1, where God looked at all he had made, and behold, it was very good. Same word comes from. In other words, Adonijah was a looker. Man, woo! He turned everybody's head when he walked in. He was a good-looking guy. Um There wasn't nothing to his character. But he was a good looking guy. You know what a problem in our society is? A problem in our world and our young people but even older folks fall for it is that our value is based upon the quality of our appearance. And if you don't if you don't match what the world says is attractive, then you are of little value. Huh? The world decides what is attractive and what isn't. I'm here to tell you this world is stupid I'm convinced I wish so badly somebody if they just do it for a joke, I'm convinced if some movie star or some stupid mus music star would walk around wearing a boot on their head, people would think that was great and start walking around wearing boots on their head. I'm telling you, God is not appearance is not determine our value. Adonijah was a tremendous looker. But brother, there was nothing to him as far as character or moral quality about him. He was a spoiled brat that had no character. And so be very, very careful about thinking because someone matches what the world says is good looking that there's anything to them. Look at their character. A young person ought to always marry on character, not just looks. That's nothing wrong with looking nice But there's more than that. And then last of all, I put this down. He was a schemer. He was small in character. He was spoiled. He was stunning to look at. But brother, he was a schemer. Look at verse 7. And he conferred with Joab, here's Joab again, the son of Zariah, and with Abiathar the priest Question, good guys? Joab's been loyal to David, pretty much. A biathar, he's a priest. And they, following Adonijah, helped him. Well, he knew who to con he knew who to go to. Now there's a couple things here. His scheming. Look at some things he does. Look, come back to verse 5 real quickly and I'll wind down here. Come back to verse 5. It says Adonijah, the son of Haggh, exalted himself, saying, I will be king. Now look what he does. His very first action. It's all part of his scheme. His very first action is he prepared him chariots and horsemen and fifty men to run before him. What's he doing? I think this is a PR work. Public relations. He wants to look regal, noble, um, what's the word I want a king? He wants to look kingly. In the eyes of the people. So he puts on this big show. He gets all these fancy chariots, Chevy Escalades, you know, and the big black ones, spinning wheels. you know, pickup trucks with stacks coming up the back, you know, whatever. He gets these fancy chariots and he gets all these guys and he starts riding around. He's trying to make himself look like a what Looks like a king. He's scheming here. So he puts on this show, his public relations show. It's amazing how easily people can be influenced by image By appearance. He's thinking if that if they just if I look like a king, if I look like that boy, people will buy into that. And I'm telling you, they do. The first presidential debate that was televised was 19, I want to say 1959 or 60, back in there. It was Kennedy and it was Richard Nixon. Now just be honest with me, between John Kennedy and Richard Nixon, which is the best looking guy? Kennedy hands down. Guess who gets elected? Kennedy. Television and they all all the analysts agree it was his appearance on there, how he came across that won people over and he won the election That's what Adonijah's doing. He's putting on this image. He's putting on this show. There was an old saying I I came across this the other day and I thought of it studying this. There's a they used to have the Jews used to have a saying, if only two people go to heaven, one would be a scribe and one would be a Pharisee Now, why would they say that? Because the scribes and the Pharisees looked very religious. They had all the appearance. Brother, their outside of their cups was white as, was as clean as could be, but the inside was what? Filthy. It was appearance. That's what Adonijah is doing. He's putting on this big show. So number one, he concocted an impressive image And then he conferred with dissatisfied men. Verse 7, he conferred with Joab and Abiathar. Now, Joab's been at odds with David for some time now. Randy and I talk about that. They've been, the tension between those two has been building from before Absalom, but boy Absalom really, really, they about had it with each other. So Joab, I can see him saying, I'm done with David. He's an old man, he's about to die. Adonijah, he's got the show, he's got the image. I'm going with Adonijah But but Abiathar, I don't know. I'm thinking, what's he seeing this The only thing I can possibly imagine, and this is total speculation, is I'm wondering if Abiathar as a priest is looking to get that high priest position. And if he supports Adonijah and Adonijah gets in as king, maybe he can get that top-notch position He's working his way up. That's one of the reasons I dislike denominational churches There's so much politics, there's so much scheming to work your way up and compromise and all that so that I can get these benefits and I can get my I'm telling you there are good men in denominational churches that are afraid to step out and go independent because they're afraid of losing what the denomination will give them financially I'm not trying to be judgmental. I'm just saying I believe that's true. And maybe that's what Abiathar is Maybe he's thinking, man, if I stay with if I go with Abijah, man, I can work my way up that ladder, that denominational ladder. I mean, man, I'll be in I'll be sitting good. So, whatever the case. Adonijah ties in with these two guys. Apparently there was some dissatisfaction there with them. There were a little bit of disgruntledness there. It's amazing how. Rebels attract rebels. Did you ever notice that? I know I learned this when I was a youth pastor. You'd take a bunch of teens, we'd have 30, 35, sometimes 40 teens, we'd take them to camp or some conference or something. We have this big busload of kids. And there's in any time you have a group that size, you got a few rebels in there. I mean they're there. It is amazing You're not on the camp ten minutes, and they found the other rebels in the camp somehow. It's like they have these magnetic radars. I don't know how they do it. But it's true. And here you have Joab, you have Abiathar, there's something they're disgruntled with, and Adonijah just ties right in with them And then he conveys the appearance of spiritual authority. Now to be honest with you, he slews, verse 9, he slays all these sheep and oxen. And I was looking at it, I'm not exactly sure what he's doing there. And a lot of the commentators just they said not sure what he's doing. I think he's putting on this image that, hey, I'm a spiritual authority Offering all these sacrifices. Do you ever notice sometimes, we were talking about this after Capital Connection, some politicians are very good at talking the Christian language when they know it will help advance them You follow what I'm saying? And I'm wondering if Adonijah isn't doing that. Well, I'm going to say, hey, I know. Let's make a lot of sacrifices out there. Then everybody will think, oh yeah, God's f he loves God I don't know exactly what he's doing there, but he's conveying this image. That's not what I ended with. I put a little poem I learned years and years ago. I don't even remember where I heard it. It's a very simple little poem. Only two choices on the shelf serving God or serving self Adonijah had a choice. He could honor his father in the last days and respect what God had declared. The situation would be with Solomon following in his father's word. He could have submitted to that and said, Yes, Lord, God, I respect that. Or he could Exalt himself. There's only two choices for you and I. Either I'm going to submit and agree with the Lord what God says his will is. Or I want to take it in my own hands and do my own thing and exalt myself, my will. And I'm here to tell you, and I think I'm no I know the crowd here tonight, I think most of us all understand It's always the better to let the Lord have his way. I've done both things in my life. Many of you have also I've submitted to the Lord, his will, and there have been times, I hate to say it, I've exalted myself. And I tell you, every single time I found it's better to submit to the Lord. I've never regretted trusting God. Adonai just going to regret it. He's going to regret it because he's going to lose his life. Here eventually. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to just learn to take you at your word and accept your wisdom and submit to your wisdom. And Adonijah is a tragic example of somebody who bucked your wisdom, exalted themselves, and paid a fatal price. I ask, Lord, you'd help us to learn that in the little things in our lives, the daily decisions we make, as you lead us and direct us. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would pray along with me Pray, Lord, you'd say, Pastor, pray with me. The Lord will help me be submissive to his will. When it I agree with it, when I don't agree with it But I want to be submissive to the will of God. Any like that, uplifting. My hands raised. I don't know what might be going on in your heart and life. I don't know between you and God, but maybe some issues are going on. I don't know. But maybe tonight, say I need to make a decision. I'm just going to trust God. He said, Solomon, be ye the king? Yes, Lord, I'll trust you. I commit that. Lord, you said this is your will for my? Yes, Lord, I trust you, I'll submit to that. Father, bless our imitation. Help us, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen