Proverbs, how many people like that one? Two people. Proverbs chapter 15. I know it's our memory verse, and probably a lot of you have it memorized, but let's read together verse number three. I want to try and preach on our memory verse for this month. Proverbs 15 and read together with me if you would verse number three. Here we go. The eyes of the Lord are in every place. beholding the evil and the good. I want to speak this morning on the eyes of the Lord. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we want to pause now before we look into your word And we ask again for your presence. I ask, Lord, with all my heart, that you fill me with your spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. And I pray that you would challenge us to live every moment of every day in light of the fact that we are That we you are aware of who we are and what's happening, that we live in light of the fact that you see us And Lord, we want to glorify you. So again, fill me with your Spirit, Lord. Please speak our hearts. If there's any unsaved, no assurance of salvation, a home in heaven I pray that today you challenge and committ that they believe and be saved. And Lord help us, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Number of years ago, it's been a good little while ago, as visiting through Mountain Lake Park here, and as I often do, right now it's a little more challenging, but uh for Many, many, many years, all the years I've been here, I try to get out every week and just knock on doors. Just take a neighborhood and go knock on doors, introduce myself, invite folks out to church and um uh you know if I'm able to sh uh share the gospel with them, try and lead them to Christ. And I very much enjoy doing it. Get all kinds of situations, all kinds of people and ideas you get from I was down in Mount Lake Park. I could take you to the house. And uh knocked on a door, a fellow came to the door, probably uh he is probably what my age is now. This was a number of years ago, so he would have been a little older than me then, a young, good looking man. And um And uh but I knocked on the door and he came to the door and I did my little spiel like I always do at a little gospel track. I said, I'm Pastor Leatherman from the Mount Lake Baptist Church And I was just in the neighborhood inviting folks to come visit our church. I'd like to leave an invitation with you. And he was very polite, very respectful. He thanked me for it. And asked, you know, which church is it? Where? And I told him, you know, oh yeah, I'm familiar with it. And chatted a little bit there. And I asked them. always try to do this. I finally said, Well let me ask you a question. I said, Sir, do you go to church anywhere? You member, you attend anywhere at church? He goes, Oh no No, he says, I don't go at all. I said, Well, um, do you ever think about heaven and hell and uh where you'll spend eternity? And he he made this statement to me. He says, uh he said, Pastor Leatherman He says, I am a deist. A deist. How many people ever heard that term? A deist I knew what a deist was. A deist is somebody that believes there is a God, but he is removed from us. He is uninvolved. In our lives, in mankind. He's just, there's a God out there, but he's not active. He's not involved. He's not aware of anything we do. But I wanted to hear him tell me what his understanding of a deist was. You know, sometimes people say stuff and they they just heard it and they don't really know what it is. And so I asked him, I said, well what do you mean by that? You say you're a deist. What does that mean? And he said pretty much what I just told you. He says, well, he says, I believe there's a God. He says, I think that that has to be. There has to be a God. I don't have a problem with that. He said, but God is not active in our lives. He's not aware of us. He's not involved in what is going on in mankind. He's completely removed. And then he used what's a classic illustration that the deists will use. He said, it's like God is a cosmic clockmaker. He said he designed it, he put it in motion, he wound it up, he put it in motion, and then he walks away from it and just lets it run. That's what he's saying world is. Life is. God created this world. He wound it up. He gave us life. And then he walks away and just leaves us. A deist. What made me think of that, as I was looking at our Bemriverse and studying it, is he made this statement. He says, God is not involved and he is not aware. Of what is happening in our world and in our lives. I want to say that man was wrong. He was absolutely wrong. He was mistaken. He was seriously mistaken. He was tragically mistaken. Hebrews chapter 11, I think it's verse number six. Says this. Hebrews 11, 6. He that cometh to God must believe that he is. Alright, so he believed in God. He that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. What that verse is telling me is: God is. God does exist. Hey, I just want to this this is like the most ridiculous understatement in the world. There is a God That's the most obvious thing in the world. I think it's interesting. The Bible begins with an assumption. In the beginning God created every earth. The Bible doesn't try and prove God's existence. The Bible begins with the assumption that there is a God. Nowhere does the Bible try and prove, oh yeah, there is a The Bible begins, there is a God. There is a God. We don't have to prove it, it's obvious. And the thing is, God is active in our lives. God is aware. He is involved in the lives of mankind, in the history of this world. God is active in the affairs of mankind. Now here's the sad thing. I was reading, I believe it was Spurgeon, but I may have been someone else. I read a number of different fellows And they made this statement. Yeah, I believe it was Spurgeon. He made this statement. He says, many Christians profess To believe that God is and that he is active, but they don't live as if God is and is active You get that? Oh, we come to church. We sing it. Oh yeah. We'll say all that. But then we leave and we go live our lives as if there is no God. Let me ask you a question. This is personal, it's between you and God. Let me ask you a question. Does your prayer life indicate that there is any that a God exists or that he's active? Or is it just something we talk about? How I live my life? Does it reflect the fact here's what he was saying? He says, we prof often we profess with our lips that God is and that he's active, involved, aware of us. We profess with our lips, but uh uh we profess with our lives a whole nother different message. Everybody follow what I'm trying to say here God is. God is active. God is involved. We live our lives as if God is irrelevant. Some irrelevant thing that we talk about a little bit here and there. But we don't live our lives as if God really is. And um uh the book of Proverbs addresses this. And our pass our our our memory verse for this month. The eyes of the Lord are in every place, beholding the evil and the good. Now I want to give a little background. on the book of Proverbs. Anybody uh help me out here? Who is the main penman of the book of Proverbs? Solomon. In fact, the first verse I believe says the Proverbs of Solomon. And so Solomon was who? Who was Solomon? King of Israel, but he was the son of David, most famous king of all of Israel, throne of David. There's other penmen that were used of God to record Proverbs. There's several mentioned later on in the book, but primarily Solomon was the penman. Of course, the author of Proverbs being who? God. God is the author of Proverbs. In 1 Kings chapter 4, verse 32, we're told that Solomon spake 3,000 Proverbs. And that he wrote 1,500 songs. 3,000 Proverbs, 105 songs that he wrote. Solomon was uh the book of Proverbs is the greatest source of practical wisdom known to mankind The book of Proverbs. I highly recommend. In fact, if you don't get anything out of the message this morning, if you could walk away with just this one thing, if you walk away just doing this one thing And that is this. If you would read one chapter of Proverbs a day that corresponds to that day of the month. For instance, today's September 13th. How many people find it hard to believe that it's September 13th already? I just I'm I'm boggled by that But this morning I got up, and uh one of the first things I did was I read Proverbs chapter 13. Yesterday was the 12th, and uh anybody want to guess what chapter from Proverbs I read yesterday? Chapter 12. And I'm telling you, that one little thing, all these years I've been doing this, 30 years probably, I've been trying to do this. Just that one thing, read one chapter of Proverbs a day, has been such a blessing and such a help and such a challenge to me that uh I wish every one of you do it. If I in fact if I could, if I could give an executive order mandate, I I'd say I'd say a lot of things if I could do that. But I would make an executive order mandate that every Christian read a chapter from Proverbs every day. The wisdom contained there. And it's practical. It's something you read and it applies to your life. So the book of Proverbs, penned by Solomon. uh um uh uh what the most uh greatest source of practical wisdom in the world. In 1 Kings chapter 3 verse 12, we're told this That Solomon's wisdom was given to him supernaturally, directly by God. Now, if you remember, when Solomon was about to take the throne, God actually approached Solomon. And he says, What would you like for me to do for you? He's going to be the king. And Solomon said, well, who can judge your people, such a great people? And he asked God to give him wisdom and not riches. And God said, Because you ask for wisdom rather than riches, I'm going to give you both. And God gave Solomon directly from God in response to his request. God gave him supernatural wisdom. Boy, how many people would like to have that? I got a little information for you. You do have it. You're holding it in your hand right now. That is the wisdom of God given to us through the whole Bible, but Proverbs particularly. And so, what a tremendous book, the book of Proverbs, is. I haven't read any book of the Bible as much as I've read the book of Proverbs. The book of Proverbs is directed is directed primarily to Solomon's son. Now when you're reading through this, everybody's going to start reading a chapter of Proverbs a day, right? Because I mandated that you're going to do that. But when you do that, pay attention how often he makes this little two-word statement. He says this: my son, my son, my son, my son. It's primarily directed to Solomon's son. It's directed, if you watch how the who he's speaking to here many times, it's directed indirectly. It's addressed to young people in particular. My wife, when she was a teenager, she studied the book of Proverbs. She looked up, she claims, and uh She looked up everywhere in the book of Proverbs in her strongest concordance and got the meaning of all the words. And there's few people in the world that I know that know the book of Proverbs like my wife does. As a teenager, study the book of Proverbs. It is directed to Solomon's son, directly addressed to Solomon's son. It's addressed to young people in general. But really, it addresses all of us. He talks about parents, fathers, mothers. He talks about those in authority, wisdom. It is a tremendous book. How many people are getting the impression I highly recommend Proverbs? Proverbs. It contrasts wisdom and folly. A number of years ago, probably 15 years ago, 10, 15 years ago, I got this idea. I got me a green highlighter. I don't usually highlight stuff with color in my Bible much. I use pens and underline and stuff like that, red pen sometimes. But I got a green highlighter, and I went through the book of Proverbs, and I highlighted every time the word wise or some form of the word wisdom is used. And I'm telling you, it stands out going through there. Then I got me a pink one. I don't like pink. I mean girl I like when girls like pink, but I like My granddaughter loves pink. In fact, she wants pink dolphins. But um that has nothing to do with Proverbs. So I took the pink highlighter and I went down and I found every time the word fool or foolish or some form of that word is used. Got my concordance, looked it up. And it's through there, all through there. Green pink, green pink, green paint, green pink, green paint. The Proverbs is contrasting for you and I what wise actions are and what foolish actions are. I hesitate to say this, but it's true. When I read the book of Proverbs, sometimes I feel like I line more up with the fool. Than I do with the wise man. I read through and see how the wise man acts and the decisions he makes and the approach he has, and I see the foolish man. So often I have to hang my head and say, Lord, I'm more of a fool than I am a wise man. It's a convicting book. It's a challenging book Contrasting wisdom and foolishness. I don't know about you, but I believe this old world we're in could use a little bit of wisdom. We have plenty of foolishness. And we need some of God's wisdom. So the Proverbs is a powerful, powerful book, a very practical book. And again, I want to challenge you. Read a chapter a day that corresponds with that calendar day. It'll make a difference. Now, let's look at our verse here, our memory verse for the month of September. The eyes of the Lord are in every place. Beholding the evil and the good. I jotted down three observations, three thoughts from this passage that came to my mind. Number one, I put this one down. I noticed that God is aware God is aware. There's no doubt there's a God. I'm telling you, you cannot look at this world of creation and honestly say there is no God. How in the world can you possibly come to that conclusion? Um, I was with my son a couple weeks ago, several weeks ago out in Missouri and to visit our new granddaughter. And um did I tell you we got a new granddaughter? Now that we brought it up, let me show you some pictures here, real. And uh stayed over a couple days and he said, Dad, I gotta go, why don't you go to work with me tomorrow? So we did. And uh he's landscaping this big 5,000-acre ranch in Arkansas And so um very difficult job. Might just feel bad. We rode four-wheelers around all day and looked at stuff. And um we're riding along and um I happened to glance down in the dust and here was this gigantic bear footprint. And uh I said, hey, there is a bear footprint back there. And uh he says, yeah, right, sure. And he just kept driving So then we're coming back. He said, where do you see that bear footprint? And I said, right up here somewhere. And lo and behold, I mean it was monstrous. I got pictures of it. This bear had walked up through the dust there. And we got looking at that. And you know how we know that there is a bear in that woods? Because see evidence. The footprints in the dust. You know how I know that there's a God? I look all around me and I see evidence. I see the fingerprints of God in design. and in function and in the walls of creation that God has put in. There is no way in the world, there is no way in the world you can look at creation and not say, somebody made that I tell you what boggles my mind and um I'm getting a little off here a little bit but uh uh I saw years ago they there was an article that when we started flying down in Peru, I think it was, they flew over this one plateau on top of a mountain. And they saw these gigantic outlines of hummingbirds and different kinds of butterflies that from the ground you couldn't see it. But when they got up above, you'd look down on it, and they had these outlines, these uh graphics, rocks putting and carved into the rock, and they said, what in the world? And you know what they said? Somebody had to have made that. That could not have just happened. Of course they said it was aliens. That could just they kept saying it, that could not just happen. Something intelligent made that. But then they turn around and the real actual hummingbird, they'll say, Oh, well that just happened Listen, evolution is not a conclusion based on facts there is no God. Evolution is a deliberate rejection of the obvious fact there is a God. So God is. God exists. But more than that, not just God just exists, but He is aware. Of you and I. The word aware, I looked it up. I used that word and I thought, well, let me make sure this word is what I mean. And I looked up the word aware, and it means this: to have the knowledge of To be informed of, alert to, or to be conscious of. I got thinking about that, that's exactly what I believe is true about God. God is aware, God has knowledge of you and I. He's not just some God removed way out there somewhere. No, no, no. He's aware of what goes on in your life and my life. You ever hear that old song, Nobody Knows the Troubles I've seen? I want to say to you, God is very much aware of our troubles and our struggles, our successes and our failures. God is aware. Proverbs 15, 3 says, the eyes of the Lord. Now I want to talk about that statement, the eyes of the Lord. You understand God does not have literal physical eyeballs. When the Bible references the eyes of the Lord, It's not saying that God has eyeballs. Our God, God the Father, is not a physical being. He is a spiritual being. Jesus told the woman at the well: God is a spirit. And they that worship him must worship him in spirit and truth. God has no physical body. No man has seen God at any time He's invisible. He is not a physical being. He's a spiritual being. I believe God is present right here, right now. I mean, think about that. Right now, the God that created this is here We can't see him, we can't feel him, we can't hear any audible noise of him, can't smell him. But God is here and he's paying attention and he's alert and is aware of everything in your life and my life. Now that's an amazing thing. God is right here. So when it refers to the eyes of God, it's not talking about God having physical eyes. In fact, if God had physical eyeballs His sight would be limited. Right? Just wherever that physical eyeball was looking. God is not limited in any way, physical limitations. Now my mother had eyes in the back of her head. But um the eyes of the Lord. So it's not talking about physical eyeballs that God has. What that is, what that phrase is, it's attributing to God physical human characteristics so that we can better understand what God is. So when when Proverbs, when Solomon writes under the inspiration of God, the eyes of the Lord are in every place What he's simply saying to us, God is aware of everything that's taken place, everything that's going on. It's referring to God's awareness of each of us. God is alert to our conditions. God is alert to our actions. He is aware of the things we say and do. Come down to verse 11 there, if you would. Hell and destruction are before the Lord. God's aware of what takes place in hell. God's aware of the destruction that takes place. How much more than the hearts of the children of men? God is aware of our spiritual condition. Did you know it's possible to put on a show to appear to be one thing and then spiritually be something else I've had people in the years that I've been pastoring, I've been in the ministry, I've had people by outward appearance look like good, solid, godly Christians. And and they come and show up to me and they say, Preacher, I need to get saved. I say, What are you talking about, man? I say, I I I've been putting on a show, I've been religious, I've been doing all that, but in my heart and soul I've never been saved. And what I'm trying to say is this: God is aware of our spiritual condition. Regardless of what show we put on, regardless of what everybody else in the world may think about us. I could be as lost as can be. My daddy got saved when I was 10 years old, 1970. Religious man, church, Sundays, Bible, raised in a godly Christian home, outward appearance. Inside his heart and soul. He used to say it this way. I've often referred to it to say, he was religious, but he was lost. And if he'd have died in that condition, he'd be in hell today. God knows, God is aware of our spiritual condition. Regardless of what show we may put on, regardless of what image we present out there, regardless of what everybody else thinks of us, God is aware of what we really are. God knows what we are. I was thinking, Brother Ed, I was thinking of um Paul Sainz. Deacon in the church here, right? Faithful deacon in the church. And they're having a revival meeting. Paul told me this many times. Of course, Paul's with the Lord now. And he said that he was preaching and he says Uh I I forget if it was right, as soon as they gave the invitation, whatever the preacher was preaching on hell, Paul, a deacon in the church, got up, came down here, went one of the men took him back in the ladies' changing room here, and led Paul's signs to Christ as a deacon. Of the church. He was religious. Oh, he had all the image. But he said, down in my heart and soul, I knew I'd never been saved. I knew I'd never trusted Christ. I did not have any assurance of my sins forgiven on a. He said, I had a hope-so, think so, maybe so salvation, but I didn't have a biblical salvation. And God was aware of that, and God knew that. And when that preacher was preaching, Spirit of God reached down and touched Paul and said, Paul, you need to get saved. To his credit, Paul responded and trusted Christ. We've had many like that over the years. What I'm trying to say is this: Paul is aware, or God is aware of our circumstances. God is aware of our condition. Take your Bible. Now keep it here in Proverbs, but come with me if you would back to the first book of the Bible. Genesis chapter number six. And we have a fascinating account here of the world's condition before the flood. Genesis chapter 6, God gives us an account of the spirit, spiritual condition of the world before the flood. Now, while you're finding your place there, let me remind you The flood is an actual historical event that took place as recorded in Scripture. That'd be a good place to say amen. And by the way, it wasn't a localized flood. It was a universal flood. It's a whole nother subject, but I want to take a swipe at that. The Bible says every hill and mountain was covered with water. There's no way that's going to happen on a localized flood This is the whole world covered. It's funny you read this and they'll find my on the top of this mountain there's tropical f fossils of tropical plants. It's almost like there was a terrible flood. Yeah, almost like that. And look in Genesis chapter 6, and notice with me we would verse number 5, and notice the third word of this verse. And God what saw. God was fully aware Of what was taking place on the world he created. God was fully aware of what mankind that he had given life to was doing Our God is aware, and God saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth. Now look at this. And that every what? Imagination of the thoughts of his heart was on was only evil continually. Does that remind you of any. . . I don't know about you. That sounds a lot like the world we're living in now. And the point is, God saw that. God was aware not only of what they were doing, God was aware of their spiritual condition. The thoughts of their heart were on evil continually. God was aware of that. Let's read on. And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart. And the Lord said, I will destroy man from whom I have created from the face of the earth, both man and beast, and the creeping thing, and the fowls of the air, for it repenteth me that I have made them. Now look at verse number eight. But Noah found grace where In the eyes of the Lord. God looked down on this old planet, all of humanity, and their hearts were on evil, the imaginations of their heart were on evil continually, and there was wickedness. But there's a fella there, and his wife, and his boys, and their wives. But God was aware of Noah, and Noah found grace in the other way. Here was one man in his family. And in their heart and soul, they had trusted God. Their faith was in God. God saw that, and God was aware of that. Um, I don't know about you, but I've I've worked in some places over the years early on, and I felt like, man, I'm the only Christian in this whole place. I'm the only one. And you know what I learned? I learned that God's aware of where I'm at. He knows right where every one of his children are They're never alone. We're always under the eyes of God. God is aware. The awareness of God. He was aware of the spiritual condition of mankind. He could See, he was aware of those that were unsaved, those that uh were lost, and he was aware of those who were saved. Uh take your come here, we're in Genesis, come over to chapter sixteen if you would Now here you have a tragic story of a young lady by the name of Hagar. Hagar was an Egyptian gal that Abraham, when he was away out of fellowship with God, backslidden, he went down to Egypt, and God had to deal with him down there. And he comes back and he brings this young gal, Hagar, back with him, Genesis chapter 16. He brings this young gal Hagar back with him, and Abraham's older, and uh uh Sarah is older, and God says, You're gonna have children, and uh someday, and they're yeah, right And uh so Sarah gets this bright idea. She goes, I'm 90 years old, I ain't having no kids. And uh she goes, she gets this bright idea. She goes, Hagar Now this is seems awfully crude maybe to us, but uh she says Hagar or uh Abraham, you got that gal Hagar we picked up, that little maid, a little servant maid uh down in Egypt, why don't you go and sleep with her, have a child by her, and then I'll take it as if it's mine, and uh we'll have our own child. I don't feel grieved me, that's probably a bad idea. And so Abraham does. And Hagar is with child. Here's the tragic thing. As soon as they find she's with child, as soon as the baby's born, Sarah turns on Hagar. You know, polygamy is never a good idea. Forcing around like that's never a good idea. It always brings bad results. And so she runs Hagar out. Now look what happens here. uh in verse number thirteen. This Hagar's out here. She is discouraged. She is fearful. Let me back up. Let's get the context here. Come back up, if you would, verse four. And he went in unto Hagar, that's Abraham, and she conceived. And when she saw, when Sarah saw that she, Hagar, had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes. And Sarah said unto Abraham, My wrong be upon they. You know what she was saying? Abraham, this is all your fault. That's what she's saying. Don't look at your wife, fellas. My wrong be upon thee. I have given my maid unto thy bosom when she saw that she had conceived, I was despised in her eyes. She's lying through her teeth. She turned it around. The Lord judged between me and thee. It's your fault, Abraham. God's going to judge you for that. Abraham was a lot more patient than I would have been. Abraham said unto Sarai, Behold, thy maid is in thy hand. Do to her as it pleaseth thee. And when Sarah dealt hardly with her, she, Hagar, fled from her, Sarah's face. She says, I'm out of here. She left. Hagar did. I don't know about you, my heart goes out to this poor girl. She's just a young lady down in Egypt. Abraham abyss her or however he ended up with her, brings her back, strange land, away from her family. She does I don't know. I would imagine she's not comfortable accommodating Sarah's Instructions to Abraham. She does it. She probably doesn't have any choice. Now she has a child. Then Sarah turns on her and deals hardly with her. Finally, this poor girl says, I can't live like this. She leaves. Now look what happens. Verse 7, and the angel of the Lord found her by a fountain of water in the wilderness, by the fountain in the way of Shur. I mean, she's out in the wilderness. And he, the angel of the Lord, said, Hagar, Sarai's maid, whence comest thou? And whither wilt thou go? What are you doing out here? Where are you going? And she said, I flee from the face of my mistress Sarah, Sarai. And the angel of the Lord said unto her, Return to thy mistress and submit thyself unto her hands. And the angel of the Lord said unto her, I will multiply thy seed exceedingly, that it shall not be numbered for multitude. And the angel of the Lord said unto her, Behold, thou art with child and shall bear a son, and shall call his name Ishmael, because the Lord hath earned thy affliction. And he will be a wild man, and his hand will be against every man, and every man's hand against him, and he shall dwell in the presence of all his brethren. What's the angel of the Lord saying here? What's he trying to do for little Hagar? Trying to encourage her. Say, listen, you go on back there. It's going to be okay. I'm going to bless your offspring. You're going to have so many. You're going to have tons of offspring. They're going to be rough. He's going to be wild. And there's a whole lot of other stuff we could say about it. But here's the thing: the angel of the Lord comes down and lets Sarah know, lets Hagar know, listen, it's going to be okay. Now look how Hagar responds in verse 13. And she called the name of the Lord that spake unto her. Look at the name she gave to the Lord that spake unto her. Thou, God, seest me. For she said, I have I also here looked after him that seeth me. You know what Hagar said? Wow. God is aware what's going on in my life. God does care. God is involved. He is aware. I tell you, a good thing to write on your refrigerator or somewhere carry with you is this. Thou, God, seest me. God sees me. God's aware of what we're dealing with. So I see the awareness of God. Nothing escapes the eyes or awareness of our God. There's no place that we can be that God is not aware of. There is no deed that we can cover that God does not see. There is no heartache deep down in our soul that God is not aware of. God's aware of you and I. Here, we fool ourselves. We fool ourselves sometimes, and we convince ourselves that we've got something, or we've done something, or we are in some sort of condition, and nobody knows about it. You're only fooling yourself. God is aware. God is aware. We can hide things from our spouse. We can hide things from our parents. We can hide things from our children. Can hide things from our preacher. But we can hide nothing from God We carry heartaches and burdens and and and sadness in our hearts and we put a smile on our face and we're convinced nobody in the world knows. The the burden, a heartache in my heart, but I'm here to tell you God is aware of that heartache. Um In Deuteronomy chapter number 11, verse 12, the Bible says, the eyes of the Lord thy God are always on Israel. Now let me just throw this out there. Israel always holds a special place in the eyes of God. We as a nation must never, ever forsake Israel. That's an important thing. The eyes of the Lord thy God are always on Israel. In Proverbs chapter 5 and verse 21, the Bible says the eyes of the Lord are on the ways of man. He knows the direction we're going in life. Psalms 33, verse 18 and 19 says, the eyes of the Lord are upon them that fear him. Listen to Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 13. Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight, but all things are naked and open unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. God is aware. Of your situation, my situation. He's aware of what we're doing. He is aware of where we're at. My second thought is this: real quick: not only is God aware, but God is omniscient. Now there's a word for you. The word omniscience is one of the most fundamental truths in all of Scripture. It simply means this. God knows everything. God understands everything instantly, effortlessly, and perfectly Now, it's one thing to be aware of someone's condition. It's another thing to know every aspect about that and understand it completely. So God is not only aware, but He's all-knowing. He knows everything about my situation. He knows what could be, He knows what would be, He knows what should be, and He knows what is Now stop and think about this with me. God knows the consequence and the outcome of every possible decision I could make. Now that's mind-boggling. God knows the outcome of every possible scenario there is. God is all-knowing. He is omniscient. He's aware of our condition and he knows everything about me. God knows the end from the beginning. There's nothing about me, my past, present, or future, that God does not know completely The eyes of the Lord are in every place. God knows everything. God knows everything. And yet, here's the thing God knows everything there is possible. God knows me better than I know me. And here's the thing: He still loves me. I don't know about you, but that's humbling. He'll still save me. I have people say to me sometimes, I haven't lately, but o often on over the years I have people say something like this to me. Well, preacher, I know I need to get saved, but I don't uh but I wouldn't be able to live it. If I get saved, I won't be able to live it. I try to say to them. I try to communicate them this. Well, listen, do you think if you called on the Lord that he would save you even if you can't live it? Well, yeah, he said, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Do you think God knows that you can't live it? Yeah, God knows everything. He knows the end from the beginning. And yet he still says, I'll save you if you trust me. You follow what I'm trying to say? God knows what the future is, and yet he still loves me, and yet he'll still save anybody, knowing what they may or may not do. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And God knows what the next thing is God is aware. God's aware of what goes on. God is omniscient. Let me end with this one real quick. God is active. He's aware, knows my condition, he's omniscient, he knows everything about me, and God is active. He is not distant. God is not removed. He's active in my life. The fact that God knows everything about me and God is active in my life, I think that has two effects, depending on my condition. Either one, it's very fearful God knows me. Anybody here ever when you were a kid, you were doing something wrong, and in horror, you look back and there's your mother watching you. I haven't talked about this a long time. It's kind of a sore spot for me. But when I was a kid, probably about eight years old maybe, somewhere around there. Uh uh I've always been fascinated with fire. I just love to burn stuff down. And um and I have not been to California recently, by the way. But um anybody here ever tell your parents tell you don't play with fire, don't play with matches when I was little. Uh I was uh I found a pack of matches. That's not good, Brother Wilbur. And um so I got this ingenious idea that I was going to go down the basement. We had our basement kind of fixed up into a living area I was going to go down there, I got a bunch of tissue from the restroom the the bathroom. I pulled a bunch of tissue out. And I was going to go downstairs and I pulled the sofa out away from the wall and I built a little campfire there And this I'm just telling you what you're dealing with as your pastor, you know, is And uh I got that and I lit that little tissue on fire behind the sofa up against the wall in the basement of the house. What could go wrong? Nothing And that thing's burning away there and I'm just like And um of course the smoke billows up from this and got the ceiling uh the ceiling of the basement And then the stairway went up right to the kitchen area or dining area in the kitchen there. And so the smoke is working its way up from the basement up into the kitchen. My mom's in the kitchen cooking and she's What in the world? And she comes over and she says, she called me Denny. She says, um, Denny, what are you doing down there? I said, uh, nothing. And she come down and she look I can still see she looked down around that where the stairwell come down, she looked down, and I'm over there with a little fire, I looked up and oh terror. The eyes of the mother and terrified me. I was so stupid. I thought I could somehow hide that and nobody would know As silly as that is, as foolish as that is, it's just as stupid for you and I to think we can hide our sin from God. And and just think with me for a minute. When we become aware that God sees what I'm doing That God sees what I'm involved in. That God sees how I'm behaving. How I'm living. Paul referred as a believer to the judgment seat of Christ as the carer of the Lord. I'm telling you, it would do all of us a heap of good to remember that God sees us. God, it would help us. How many people here behave you're not going to admit this? How many people here behave a little differently when somebody's around than maybe when you're by yourself? Anyone at all? Yeah. I walk up there'll be a group of people talking and I'll walk up and you'll hear them say this, there's a preacher. It's true The fact is, God sees us. And that can be terrifying. Or that can be one of the most encouraging things in the world. God sees me. I know. I know. I was again, my mom, I was out as a kid uh in the backyard and we had a swing set and we had a swimming pool. We always had a swim pool and um I was out swinging one time and I could see my mom in the window looking out. I was real young looking out the kitchen window watching me So I just I always played jokes with my mom and um so I acted like I fell off the swing and broke my back. And mom's like, oh she goes fly it out there. She always reacted to everything. She comes fly it out there. Oh my legs, I can't move them. There's no feeling. And uh she said, Oh no, I'll call I'll call the ambulance. Psych. But you know, I felt pretty good. Mom's watching me. Mom's got her eye on me. And I want to tell you, God's watching you. God's got his eye on you. And nobody cares. Nobody knows what I'm going through Yeah, they there is somebody that does care. There is somebody that does know. God does. And he's active and he's involved in our lives. God is active. God is aware. God is omniscient. Let me say this. It says the eyes of the Lord are in every place beholding. That word beholding means to keep a close watchover. To watch closely. I'm glad God sees us, and when we call on Him, He'll receive us as His own when we trust Him as our Savior. God, because He knows all-knowing. He gives us warnings in his word and says, Don't do this, don't go that way, don't do this. I tell you Because God is all-knowing and God sees and God knows the end from the beginning, it behooves us to heed his warning. How foolish to ignore the warnings of somebody that knows where that action leads to. And God promises us some wonderful, wonderful things. He instructs us. The Old Testament prophets would often point out that the false idols That Israel would fall into worship and the pagan nations around them with worship, these little statues, these idols and these gods. And they would often point this out. They have eyes But they don't see. They have ears! You've carved ears onto that stump of wood. Now you bow down and worship it as a god. It has ears, but it don't hear. Has a mouth, but it don't speak. Has feet, but you've got to pick it up and carry it around. And he would contrast these false idols, these false gods. With the true and living God. And he always pointed out God does see, and God does hear. And he does speak to us through his word. And he is active in our lives. And so in this crazy old world, we see our nation falling apart, we see a world on fire, we see blood running in the streets. We don't know what tomorrow holds. We don't know what next week holds. I want to remind you, the eyes of the Lord are in every place. Holding the evil and the good. He's watching. He knows. He's got us in his sights. If we will just trust him and let him lead us and direct us. It's going to be okay. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd take these thoughts. Lord, just take this truth from your word and help us, God. Some of us need to make adjustments in our Christian lives. We believe the devil's lie that you don't know, or it doesn't matter. It does matter, and you do know. Lord, some of us need to take encouragement from the fact that you're watching and you're active and you'll take care of us if we'll just trust you. And Lord, maybe there's some that are religious They believe the Bible, they're all right, but they do not have that assurance of sins forgiven and a home in heaven. God, you know our spiritual condition And help us, Lord, to respond and trust you and get that matter settled. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder if there'd be some say, preacher, you know, it's just it's tough. I'm dealing with discouragement. There's just a lot of issues going on. And I just need to remind myself that God does see me, He does care about me, He's got His eyes on me, and He's going to take care of me. Is there any like that, Preacher? I just need to keep that in mind. I just need that. God bless you. A bunch of hands around. I wonder if there's some, and again you might I don't know how you'd want to respond to this, it's between you and God. But maybe there's some say, preacher, there's some things in my life that, you know, the fact that God sees it is awfully embarrassing to me. Awfully ashamed that this would be in my life and to think that God sees it. Maybe you'd say, Preacher, I really need to make some adjustments Some things I need to repent. I need to change and make right. Attitudes, actions. I want to encourage you, make that decision today. The eyes of the Lord in every place, beholding the evil and the good. Maybe there's some say, preacher, I don't know, I'm saved. I'd like to hope so, think so, maybe. But I need to get this matter settled. I need to know for sure that I've been saved as the Bible teaches. And I want to get that settled. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. I need to get that settled. Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, bless our invitation time now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed.