One more time, uh, well, two more times, but first time tonight, and let's go to the book of 2 Chronicles. 2 Chronicles And turn with me please to chapter thirty-four. Chapter thirty-four. And I want to read you a little story here. Just not going to take too much time reading the story. I'm going to take for granted that uh that uh you know the story. It is a familiar story. There is a boy king Josiah is his name. All right, Josiah. And Josiah, if you look at verse 1, was eight years old when he began to reign. And he reigned in Jerusalem thirty-one years. One and thirty years. And he did that which was what? Right in the sight of the Lord. And walked in the ways of David his father, and declined it, neither to the right hand nor to the left. You know what that means? He did not compromise. Okay? Now, in the eighth year, verse three of his reign, while he was yet young, he began to seek after the God of David, his father. And in the twelfth year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem from the high places And the groves, and the carved images, and the molten images. And they break down the altars of Baal in his presence and the images that were on the high or that were on high above them. And he cut down uh uh he cut down and the groves and the carved images and the molten images he break in pieces and made dust of them and uh uh and strode them uh or strode it upon the graves of them that had uh sacrificed unto them. Alright now, I want you to jump down uh uh to to the middle of the chapter now. I read the first four verses so you will see uh what this young king did. He was a tremendous king, even though he was young He was a great king. And the Lord just brags on him here in this chapter, telling us all the things that he accomplished while he was the boy king. All right, now while while all this revival is happening under his ministry, all this reform was taking place I want you to look down, please, to verse 14. In verse 14, it says, and when they brought out the money that was brought into the house of the Lord Hilkiah the priest found a book of the law of the Lord given by Moses. And Hilkiah answered and said to Shaphan, the scribe, I have found the book of the law in the house of the Lord. And Hilkiah delivered the book to Shaphan. And Shaphan carried the book to the king. And brought the king word back again, saying, All that was committed to thy servants, they do it And they have gathered together the money that was found in the house of the Lord, and have delivered it unto the hand of the overseers and to the hand of the workmen Then Shaphan the scribe told the king, saying, Hilkiah the priest hath given me a book. And Shaphan read it before the king. Now I'll stop right there. I think you know uh probably the rest of the story, but let's pray and ask the Lord to help us. uh tonight and then I want to preach to you uh a message that I have entitled The Lost Book All right, let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for this conference. What a blessing it's been, both last night and today. And Father, we thank you for the wonderful fellowship we've enjoyed. Thank you for uh renewed acquaintances and And just the privilege we have had to uh to be here with uh Pastor Leatherman and and Pastor Matt and Lord I I pray that you will bless their church. and bless their ministry in the days of he ahead. May this conference just continue to bring fruit uh in the lives of uh of uh folks that were here And uh Lord, I pray that your word will not return void, but that we will go from this conference and be more uh uh more uh concerned about souls and uh father more fired up than we've ever been. So blessed now we ask, Father, and bless this message. I need your help tonight. In Jesus' name we ask it. Amen. All right, Josiah was just a little guy when he found himself sitting upon Judah's throne. Now you imagine that. Eight years old. And a bunch of adults come and stick you on the throne and say, You're the king Okay, i i yeah he probably looked around and said, anybody know where my fire truck went, you know? I mean bless his heart. He's eight years old And they made him the king. Now, it didn't take long at all for him to get serious about his responsibilities. And uh and he decided that uh that he was going to take the nation back to the way things were under uh David, his forefather. And so uh that's exactly what he did And in the eighteenth year of his reign, after he had cleaned up all of the idolatry and purged the land of all the wickedness that was going on in the name of false religion. Something amazing happened. Josiah sent out an order that the house of God was to be cleaned up. You see, the temple, out of neglect, had become a repository for junk. and trash and uh was uh a storage bin for worn out printers Right. Yeah. You see what point? Yeah. Man, we got those things stuck everywhere over at our church. They're everywhere. I I I told uh I told one of the guys I said he said, I need a new printer. I said, just look in closets, you'll find all the new printers you want. Well it may not be new, but act like it's new, all right. Uh but anyway, uh that's what the temple had become. It was just a place to store uh uh stuff that nobody wanted And so he gave order that the temple was to be cleaned up. He wanted the temple to look the way the temple was supposed to look Now, among all the trash that they were removing from the house of God, one of the priests found a book that had been lost for for so long that its message was in large measure forgotten. It was a book that once it was found and then read made a world of difference in the lives of those to whom it was read. When they heard the words of the law, their real revival broke out. And folks, I think that's what America needs. We need a revival, but the only way we're going to see revival is if God's people get serious about God's word and proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ. You know, we've lost the book in America, haven't we? We have lost the book. And that's what uh happened in the the days of Josiah. They lost the book. They lost the Bible. Oh not all of it, of course, uh, but the law of Moses. And for years with a lost Bible The nation. You can read about what happened to the nation in verse 2 and 3 and 4 and following. The nation, because they got away from the Bible They got away from God, and the nation of Judah and the city of Jerusalem was nothing more than a cesspool of iniquity Now, I was reading uh uh uh uh somebody gave me a book. They picked it up at at uh at a yard sale this summer And uh and they gave it brought it to me. They thought I would be interested in it, and sure enough I was when I saw what they had. And it was a book that was uh uh written about the ministry of D. L. Moody. And uh it's a great big thick book. I mean it is loaded with information. It has stories about Moody and some of the things that uh that he said and some of the things that he did. Uh it's got sermons. I mean, it's just amazing uh what all is in that book. And uh uh there's a story in there about how he was preaching a revival meeting in New York City, in Manhattan Right down in Manhattan. And he stood and warned America about the danger of losing the book. Now this was in the eighteen hundreds, folks. This was not last month. All right? This was in the eighteen hundreds And to illustrate and make his point, he took the people back just a couple of hundred more years to the French Revolution. And he told how that during the the the French Revolution that the French government spent millions of dollars printing atheistic literature and spreading the message of atheism and of humanism uh uh uh and how the bible was standing in the way of human progressiveness. All right, so all this language you're hearing today, that's not new language. Okay? Uh uh it's not new at all. The only th listen, all that's happened is the old harlot has just put on a new dress. And repackaged a few things for today. But this has been going on for a long time now And uh and uh he said the Bible is standing in the way of revolution's uh uh progress. And the people of France threw away their Bibles. They got rid of them. They uh they then started living completely Heathen lifestyles. And in the way of process, not only did they throw away their Bibles, but they threw away their own country. And at the height of the revolution, when drunkenness was the rage, drug use soared It was off the charts. And half of the babies born in Paris were born out of wedlock. And Moody said, and you check it, you'll see it. Moody said that over 10,000 babies in one year were fished out of the sewers of Paris. What happened? I'll tell you what happened. They lost their book. They lost their book. And folks, that's what's happened to America. Do you not remember back in nineteen uh sixty uh two and sixty-three there was this crazy woman by the name of Madeline Murray O'Hare. And Madeline Murray O'Hare sued the United States To get the Bible and God out of the public school system. Man, oh man, oh man. How's that worked out for us? How's that worked out for us? I remember when I was in the second grade, first and second grade, we went in every morning, and uh Miss Hoon in the first grade and Miss Carmeen's in the second grade They they would we would all get in our seat, that bell would ring, and they would pull out an old King James Bible. And they would read to us from the Bible. And then she would stand at the chalkboard and take prayer requests and write prayer requests down and then she would pray and call on somebody else to pray and everybody in that classroom prayed out loud before the month was over. And the same thing happened in the second grade. And then I went to the third grade in nineteen sixty-three. And in nineteen sixty-three, that was when uh Mrs. Melton said, uh well, boys and girls Now we have always had prayer and uh and read from the Bible, and uh you will notice that I don't have a Bible on my desk anymore. They have said we cannot do that anymore. And now, folks, we have raised a couple of generations without a Bible in their education, and now that bunch That was the fruit of her taking the Bible out of our schools, that group became the revolutionaries of nineteen sixty-eight and nineteen sixty-nine and nineteen seventy, and the sad thing is that bunch is running our country today. We've lost our book. We need to get it back. I told our parents uh uh uh uh uh at the opening of our school year we have um we have uh uh uh the K4 through uh through uh uh twelfth grade. And we have uh, I think 370 some students. And so many of them this year, we had a big graduating class last year. And uh many of the folks who uh who are sending their children to our school now, uh this this was their first first effort at it. And so we make them all come Because I want to make sure they understand what they have done. You know? I want to make sure they know That we are the church of the open door, and underneath our name on the sign And in our Constitution it says an independent Baptist church. We want them to understand we're Baptist and we are proud of it. We are we we want them to understand that we take the education of their children seriously. And I told all of that crowd, uh uh, and our building was was packed. I mean, parents were there, grandparents were there, aunts and uncles were there. Um i i i it was packed. And when I said, I want you folks to know that there will be no critical race theory taught in Carol Christian schools, they broke out in applause. I thought, man, I like that. I'm gonna keep this going. And I said, I want you also to know that we we are not going to have any wokeism in our in our school. Your children are not going to learn sex education in our school. Your children are not going to be taught that America is bad. We're going to salute the flag and we're going to pray to God to start every classroom And that's the way it's gonna be. If you've got a problem with that, your best bet's to get up right now and walk out Say, what happened? And they stood on that one. Amen. We gotta get the book back, folks. Our country was founded on the Bible and biblical principles. But now we have today we have lost a book. I mean, we might have one in our lap tonight, but do we read it? Is it a companion to us in our leisure hours? Are we reading it to our children? And you know the truth is, many folks right here in America have lost the book. We need to get off of Facebook and get our face in the book. Write that down, preachers. That'll go. All right. I might get the deacons meeting on you, but it'll go. You know, eighty to a hundred years ago you could go into almost any church in America, except for the Catholic stuff. You could go to about any church in America and hear a preacher preach a message from the Bible. Now that that's a hundred years ago And you heard how Jesus died on the cross for your sin and how you could be saved from your sin. But today, where's the preaching? Right. Where's the preaching? You know, you go to church today and uh and the walls are all painted black. There are no windows. They do everything they can to make the church building not look like a church. Pews are gone, chairs are set up. They don't want you to look at it as a church. And the walls are black. You say, why are the walls black? Well, when they bring the boogie woogie singers out That's when the strobe lights begin to flicker. And that's when uh the the music starts to jive up. And uh then they bring the oo baby singers out, and they all uh sing and wiggle for Jesus, and everybody just sits there in a daze. And then some revernets. Gives a sermon net to a bunch of Christian net Who as soon as church is over go out on the front porch and smoke cigarettes And we wonder why nobody gets saved in our churches. We've lost a book, folks. I don't care how you slice it, look at me. The gospel doesn't rock. Uh uh uh y well it's i i i it's Christian rock. No it's not. There No, it's not. You have been lied to. Christian rock. What if what if I went down to the bank and I said to the bank, I want to borrow ten thousand dollars? And the lady goes, Well, Pastor, what do you need $10,000 for? And I said, Well, I just don't really know that that's any of your business. And she says, but Pastor, ten thousand dollars. Yeah, I need it Well what do you need 10? Well I'll tell you what I need it for. Our young people are going to take a missions trip, and I need $10,000 for their for their trip She looks at me and she says, Well, you're going to have to go through the process. And I said, ma'am, I ain't got time to go through no process. Give me $10,000 right now. She says, but sir, you gotta have ten thousand dollars in the bank before you can take it out. I said, ma'am, if I had ten thousand dollars I would use it and give it to them. Duh. And so she says, Well, it just doesn't work that way. And I say, Well, ma'am, listen You don't understand what I'm saying. I need and I pull a 30 357 out and I say, you don't understand what I'm saying. I want $10,000 and I want it now She looks at me and she says, But Pastor, that's stealing. I say, Yes, ma'am, but it's Christian stealing It's okay. Huh? Now that's good right there, brother. Don't forget that. That's good, isn't it? Oh, it's it's Christian stealing. It's okay. You say, preacher, you're nuts. No more nuts than you are going and sitting and listening to the world Thinking that you're worshiping God. My Bible says, come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord. That's right. But you see when you throw the Bible out, you're God, then that verse doesn't apply to you. God will say amen. You won't hurt my feelings. And I'm telling you folks, the Bible is a lost book today. And it's lost because more preachers than not, I would say, not going to say most preachers, but more than than than not You not believe the Bible is the inspired word of God anymore. Don't believe it. And the Bible's a lost book in our country today. You know, there are thousands and thousands of churches every Sunday morning, and they'll have a service. And how many pastors will stand and hold a King James Bible high in the air and say to his congregation, This is the way, walk ye in it. How many will do that? Very few. And I believe with all my heart that the reason that we are murdering babies in the womb and out of the womb by the millions and selling their organs Yeah. Yeah, check it. I dare you to check it. That's what's going on. Selling their organs and the reason why we have uh legalized marijuana do you Do you realize pre uh you're not the preacher, you're the preacher. Do you realize, Brother Danny, in November they're going to legalize Maryland all ac uh uh marijuana all across Maryland? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, they'll do everything they can. Don't smoke. Now don't you smoke. Young people, don't you smoke. I agree, don't smoke. I mean you're gonna unlish a tiger that you can't control if you get started doing that. Don't smoke. Commercials on TV. And then the same morons want to legalize marijuana. Now does that make any sense to anybody? I mean, mercy, what's wrong with our state? Well, I tell you what's wrong with it. Liberalism. That's what's wrong with it. I believe with all my heart that the reason that we have approved same sex marriage Is because we have lost the book. I believe the reason that we are seeing North Korea and Iran and Al Qaeda and the Taliban and Hamas and Russia uh threatening nuclear war is directly related to the fact that America has lost the book. We didn't lose wars when we believed the Bible was the Word of God. We didn't lose And now we hang our heads in shame and get out of the country and leave billions of dollars worth of equipment there. In the hands of people who hate us. Hate us. Did any of you see the SpaceX rocket go over Maryland Saturday night about 7:30? Did any of you see that? Oh, it was awesome. It was awesome. I saw it and I said, what in the world is that? And I I I went home and Checked and and it was it and they said the space the the SpaceX rocket went right over Maryland. And but when I saw it I thought, I hope that's not Russia. If that's Russia I mean it's already in Maryland. You know? And if that's Russia, I'm gonna start praying right now that it hits Annapolis. And not Westminster. All right. Mercy. Folks, that's bad when you when you think. Here in America. But what's happened? Well, we lost our book. We lost our book. Now folks, why should you and I know the Bible? I'll tell you why. Because it's the book that tells us who God is. It's the book that exposes the heart of man. You're not going to find in any other source What the Bible tells us about the nature of sinful man. You won't find it anywhere. You can't look that up in in in in in the encyclopedia. You can't do it. The Bible will give you wisdom about any number of matters, but most importantly, it will make you wise unto salvation. It shows us how God has provided himself for our redemption. And how by faith we can call upon the name of the Lord and be saved from our sin. And no other book teaches us that truth. The Bible will show us that there is only one person who can save. The church can't save you. Baptism can't save you. The Pope can't save you. The preacher can't save you. Doing good deeds can't save you Writing a check to the church can't save you. You say, Well, my goodness, preacher, how am I supposed to get saved? Through the blood of Jesus Christ. That's the only way. There is no other way. Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. That's the only way, folks. And the Bible is the one that tells us about all that But then, secondly, it is the Bible that satisfies our hunger for God I have said for many years that there is a God sized hole in every man that only God can fill. I know people who have tried to fill that with alcohol. Won't work. Won't work. I I I uh I've had people come in my office and they're trembling. They're shaking. And I said, what can I do for you? Well I I I'm a drunk and I want to get uh I want to get off I want to get off of the drinking. I want to quit drinking and I can't And I said, well, yeah you can. No, I can't. I've tried. I said, well, h how have you tried? Well, I've been to this program and I did that program and I said uh and I I looked at one fellow here just just a few months ago and I said uh well you're trying the wrong things He said, Well, what do you mean by that? I said, There's only one way you're going to get off of alcohol. He said, Well, what's that? I said, Jesus. You gotta give your heart to the Lord. That's the only way. There's no other way. People try to fill it with drugs. No. Power? No. Games, no. Popularity, no. There's only one thing that's going to fill that hole And that's Christ. And if you don't know him, my friend, that's what's missing. That's what's missing. And yet, men are looking for in everything they can imagine, except for looking in the book. One fellow in our church a few years ago, he I mean he was struggling. Oh my, he was having a terrible time. And he couldn't get to victory. He just couldn't get to victory. And his wife Got fed up with him. She grabbed a hold of him one night when he came in drunk. She grabbed a hold of him and she shook him and she said, if you don't straighten up God's gonna kill you. Man, that hit him like a ton of bricks. Yeah. And the next morning when he sobered up She had breakfast on the table for him. It was a Saturday morning. She had breakfast on the table for him. He walked in and sat down and started to drink the coffee that she had made and eat the breakfast that he had made. She walked over and she put her hands on her hips and she said You call Pastor Norse right now. And you tell him you want to talk to him now. He said, I don't want to go see him. She said, why? Because all he's going to do is take me to the Bible. I think so. So he called me. I I I think he's afraid of her. But he called me. I know w I'm afraid of her. All right. I'll be honest with you. You know there's some people you just don't get them upset. She be one of them. Okay. So he calls me and he says, Can I talk to you? I said, Sure can. He said, uh, how about now? I said, Yep. I said, uh, can I meet you at church? He said, I said, I'm already at church. He said, Oh, can I come over? I said, Yeah, you can come over And he came over and he sat down, told me his story, and I said, Brother, look here. I've been watching you for a while. And I think I know what your problem is. You do? I said, yep, I think I do. He said, Well, what's that? I said, You're a hypocrite. You're a fake. You're a phony. Head went down. You'd have thought I said, shall we pray? Because the head went down. And then he looked up and he said Well you see right through my facade, don't you? I said I yeah. I said, now let me show you something here, and he said, I knew it. I knew it and I later found out from her. He didn't tell me, she did. Went through the plan of salvation. And tears started running down his cheeks. And I said, now it's time to quit playing games with God. Yes, sir. And we got down on our knees. And he prayed and received Christ as his Savior. I told him, I said, your secret is safe with me. I'm not going to tell a soul. He said, I don't want anybody to know. I said, I understand that. I wouldn't want anybody to know I was a drunk if I was a drunk. I wouldn't want everybody to know He said, but you're the preacher. You better not be a drunk. I said, no, you're missing my point. He goes, no, I got it, preacher. And he's doing good. And I hold him accountable. How you doing? Good. Huh? You wouldn't lie to me, would you? No, sir. See, he didn't look down when he said no, sir. You know you look away when you're lying. Remember that. Let's get the book back. Let's pray together. Father, we love you. Thank you so much for your wonderful word. And what a blessing it is to realize that we have the book. The book has the answers. It's our strength. It's our light. It's our compass. Father, it's the voice of the Holy Spirit. It's the will of God for every life. But Father, we've got to get in the book. We've got to read it. We gotta learn it. We gotta know it. And I just pray that you will speak to our hearts tonight and give us a hungering for the Word of God. Father, bless, I pray, what's been said here this evening and stir our hearts with it. In Jesus' name we ask it. Amen.