Alright, here we go. Farmers, this is not mine. This is just tell you right up front, I'll put a disclaimer on here. This is not my joke. I'm just repeating it. Um farmer's out in the bar and he's milking the cow, the old fashioned ch-ch-ch-ch, and he's going at it there and he's making good progress. And uh This fly is buzzing around him and uh he's trying to milk and the fly's there, a big old horse fly. And lo and behold, the horsefly goes into the ear of the cow, flies into the cow's ear What in the world? He's melting away and about a couple minutes later all of a sudden that horse fly comes out in the milk. He goes, well it just goes like the old saying, in one ear and out the other. They like Mary's joke better than mine. Alright, that was Mary Gravely, so she gets credit for that one. Well, Amen. How many folks are glad you're alive this morning? Say amen. Isn't it good to be in the house of God? I appreciate the singing, was a blessing. The fellowship's been good. We're glad you're all here. Let's look in the Bibles. Hebrews chapter 13, I wanna read verse 6 and I want to read verse 5 and 6. What I want to do this is I want to read verse 5 And when I get to verse 6, I'd like for us all to read that together in unison. Hebrews 13. I'll read verse 5. Then we get to verse 6 all of us together. Alright? Everybody have it there. All right, get your place. Here we go. I'll read verse five. Let your conversation be without covetousness, and be content with such things as ye have. For he has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Now, verse 6, all of us together. Here we go. Ready? All together. So that we may boldly say The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what man shall do unto me. Isn't that a great verse? I want to speak this morning on that one little phrase, the Lord is my helper. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our time and your word. And it's been good to be in the house of God. It's been a blessing. The singing, the fellowship, as we mention. And now, Lord, with our Bibles open in our laps, we're asking you to speak to our hearts And I pray, Lord, that you would open our hearts and minds, that we would be receptive to what your word has for us and how your Holy Spirit will apply your word to our lives. I present my body to you, Lord, and yield my will so that you can speak through me. And you be the teacher and the preacher is our prayer. I ask that you would fill me with your spirit. I'd be out of the way And I pray this these things in Jesus' name. Amen. I do want to make one request. I meant to mention this first, but I do want to make a request if we have any cell phones and those types of things, really important that we put them up, turn them off, put them up and uh set them aside. And um this is we just I'm just of the opinion that when the word of God is being preached, that's the most important thing going on in the world. I really believe that. Even more important than what goes on in Washington. I know this is a big week. But I'm telling you, this book here has the answers for our country, nothing they have down there. in DC. So let's put the distractions away, the cell phones, all of that. Facebook can wait, the videos can wait, and uh got all afternoon you can play on that, but uh let's give our attention to the Word of God And then also we do ask that food and drink and those types of things, just keep that out in the fellowship, Paul. We prefer not to have that into the auditorium here. So just a couple requests. I appreciate you respecting them and uh cooperating with us on that. Hebrews chapter 13, we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, and I shall not fear what man shall do unto me. Teddy Roosevelt said, if you want to make a conservative angry, tell him a lie. If you want to make a liberal angry, tell him the truth. A lot of truth in that statement We live in a day that is flooded with lies on every hand. Just about everywhere you go, we're confronted with lies. We see them on the TV and the news. We read them in the news. We hear it on the radio. All around us, we have the lie of evolution is presented as fact. And I want to reiterate, evolution is a lie. To me, it's the most blanket, dishonest teaching there is. And so we live in a world of lies, a world of deceit. A world of corruption. Uh we were at a conference out in Ohio, I mentioned in Sunday school this past few days. We got back last evening. And uh didn't see any news, didn't see any reports, nothing on. I got back last night and before I went to bed I put the news on just to see what's happening. You know, I found out the exact same junk was going on earlier in the week. Nothing changed at all It's still a mess. We live in a world where churches are saturated with heresy. There's immorality on every hand. At levels unheard of in years going by, violence, anger, we're saturated with it. Luke chapter 21 and verse 26, the Lord Jesus spoke of a day when men's hearts would fail them for fear. I don't know, but it seems to me we are if we're not in days like that we're awfully close. Where men's hearts fail them for fear. I don't know. I I I I I'd like to think I'm trusting the Lord I would like to think that my faith is settled in the Lord, but I tell you, this Tuesday makes me nervous for our country. I'm anxious what's going to happen in our country. And so we live in days like this, and we see it on every hand. But I'm really, really glad that God has given to us a book. The Word of God. And this book here is not simply a collection of man's philosophies I mentioned recently I had a young man, probably mid to early twenties, probably early twenties I would say, and he's I was witnessing to him, he says, ah that Bible is that by that Bible is just a book written by man I said, where'd you come up with that? He says, I saw a thing on TV one time said that. I said, oh, brother This is not simply a book written by man full of man's philosophy. This is not even a religious book, really. The Bible is God's revelation of Himself to us. The Bible is God's word. It is pure and true, without error. God has preserved his word, I'm convinced, for the English people, in the King James Bible. I believe when we hold the Bible. We hold the perfect word of God, God's revelation to us. When we read the Bible, it is God, our Creator, speaking to us. The Bible tells us that there is a God in heaven. The Bible tells us that this God is all powerful. Absolutely omnipotent, all powerful. This God is holy To me, the term blindingly holy helps me grasp the holiness Of our God, how intolerant of evil and pure. The Bible tells us the God that created us, the God that is, is good. And that he loves us very, very much. God is in control. And God has a plan. Now God, and my message is not about what's going to happen in our country this week. That's not what my message is about. But I do want to just remind myself and all of us that whatever our nation decides God is still on the throne. And we still have a relationship with Him. Whatever happens in our country has no effect. At least we ought not to allow it to have any effect on our relationship, our faith, and our walk with God. If anything, it'll make it stronger. So we have in the Bible the literal revelation of God, the very literal words of God to you and I. We can trust them completely. We can and should put our destiny into the teaching of this book. We trust that what this book says for all eternity. So we come to the book of Hebrews for our text this morning. Hebrews, I believe, now there's a little debate on this, but I believe Hebrews was penned by Paul. I think God used Paul to record the book of Hebrews. Of course, God is the author, as we always point out. think that under the inspiration of God Paul was writing to Jews. It's obviously to Jews, obviously uh written to Jews. Uh it's the book of Hebrews. So it's directed to Jews and in studying the book we understand that it was directed to Jews some who had made the decision to leave the old law and trust Christ and uh the fulfillment of the Old Testament and put their faith in trust. Some were new believers that had just trusted Christ, others were on the verge. They were they were in that point of indecision. Is Christ the Messiah or not? Do we cling to the old uh covenant or do we accept the new covenant in Christ? And there was an element of wavering on the part of some of them. And Paul makes some strong statements, and particularly in chapter 6 and chapter 10. Or he makes some strong statements. Say, listen, you tasted of the word of God, you've seen the truth, you understand this, and you go back. There's no other way to be saved. And so he makes some strong statements, and he gets to chapter 13, the last chapter of the book. And he becomes very, very practical. Earlier, he's a little more theological and doctrinal, but as is common with Paul At the end of the book, he gets pretty practical. And if you would notice, Brother Grant read a little bit ago verses beginning in verse number one, but verse one through three He's charging, he's um uh challenging or charging these Jewish believers to be to continue in love. To be kind to each other, to be compassionate. Those that had made the decision to trust Christ as Savior were facing intense persecution. From the Pharisees and from the religious leaders, many of them from their families, were disowning them because they trusted Christ. And he's reminding them, he says, listen, don't and he's in a sense saying, don't get bitter. Let brotherly love continue. Even strangers, when you come across people you don't know, be nice to them Be kind to them. And he makes an interesting statement. It would be a great subject for another message sometime, but he says, you may be entertaining angels unawares. That stranger that you come across, you ought to be kind. That's possibly an angel, you don't know it. And so he challenges them to continue in love, to be kind, compassionate, caring for others I always felt like Bible-believing Christians ought to be the kindest people in the community. I always felt like Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, members of our church, we ought to be the nicest people in Oakland, Garrett County area. We ought to be kind, we ought to be compassionate. We ought to be very, very gracious. Then verse 4, he challenges them to continue, be committed to purity He talks about marriage and the uh it's honorable, the bed's undefiled, but outside of marriage. Impurity is strongly judged. He says, Woremongers and adulterers, God will judge. Mark it down. So he's challenged them in an impure world to keep themselves pure. He's challenged them in a society that disregards the sacredness of purity Physical intimacy, a society that disregards the sacredness of that, you and I need to maintain our purity. And hold to God's plan as far as intimacy is concerned. Then the first part of verse 5, he challenges them to be content with such things as you have. I'm telling you, discontent messes people up. There are people that are drowning in debt because they could not be content with such things as they have. There are people who are messing up their homes and marriages and messing up their lives. Because of discontentment. And he challenges them to be contented and be courageous. He says there, verse 5, let your conversation be without covetousness. Be content with such things as ye have. For he said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Then we get to verse six. And this stirs my heart He says, we may boldly say, now here it is, the Lord is my helper. Five simple little words. The Lord is my helper. And yet, what a profound statement. That the God of creation, this all-powerful, holy, omniscient God, knows everything. This God is my helper. My helper. Now I want to get right into the outline. I want to try and get to the point here. I notice, first of all here, I notice an implication. He implies something here. If he says that we may boldly say, the Lord is my helper, by me saying, the Lord's my helper, that implies That I need what? Help. The implication here is I need help. If the Lord is my helper, I obviously need help. And if we're honest, that's true. Somebody says, I ain't I don't need nobody. Uh you're either lying or you're fooling yourself. We do need help. I look back over my life. I thank God for people that helped me. I speak often of my father. He comes down. He's coming down more and more. Anybody notice that? Tried taught for years I tried talking him into moving down here. Now he's seventy-eight years old. He says, Boy, I should have moved down here And I know what it is. He's got uh the seniors uh senior saints are going bowling every Tuesday. He doesn't come down to see me, he comes down to go bowling. I speak often my father, and I'll say it again, I'm very very grateful. My daddy helped me. How many folks hear your father helped you in your life? Thank God. And so we do need help. I look back over my life and I think of my father who helped me. I would not be a Christian today if it was not for my father, humanly speaking, I believe. I'm grateful for Christians in the church right after I got saved that took me under wing and taught me and discipled me and tutored me and what it means to be a Christian. They helped me. They helped me learn to memorize scripture. They taught me how to read my Bible. They taught me the importance of faithful church attendance. They helped me. I'm very, very grateful for that. I'm grateful for different leaders when I was in Bible college that would invest their time and effort. To teach me the things of God and help me make decisions. One name stands out in my mind, and some of you all know, and we've had them through here at least once or twice, I think, over the years. Brother Tom Sexton, pastor is down in Florida And he helped me. He taught me about soul winning. Brother Randy Miller helped me in soul winning. These are people that helped me. I think about preacher friends over the years, Brother Charles Holmesher and others. Dr. Pat Creed has been a tremendous help to me as pastor. You know, as a pastor, you don't really have a pastor. I've often uh considered oh all these years I've considered Dr. Pat Creek to be my pastor. I can go to him for help. Uh brother Bill Barron's with the Lord, it's great help to me. I'm really angry at him for leaving. Um He messed my schedules up for the church calendar, but um I missed Brother Barron's. He helped me. And people in the church here for these 23 plus years now, some great people have helped me. Be a a better Christian. Help me be a pastor. And so my point I'm trying to make is here when when Paul, when God through uh through Paul, I believe, says We may boldly say, the Lord is my helper, there's an implied that we need help. And we do look out. We do need help. And we're grateful for people that help us. And you can stand up just like I just did, and you can list off people in your life that have helped you But sometimes we come to a point in our life, I shouldn't say, and all of us, at some point we come to a place in our life where only God can help us. And as much as our family and friends and church members and others might want to try to help us, there are some things that only God can help us with. And I think what I'm trying to say here is this, we need God's help. And as independent as you may think you are And as self-sufficient as you may believe you are, I'm here to tell you: if you haven't reached that point yet, you will reach the point where you realize how badly you need God to help you. The implication is clear, we need help. I I read through my Bible and I see these great men and women throughout history and throughout Bible history and Even the greatest of God's people came to a point where they realized they needed God's help. I was going through here. Actually, the whole Bible really is a record of God helping man. I thought of Adam and Eve. And God created them. By the way, God created them exactly literally as the Bible says. There's no reason to change it, no reason to give it any other meaning than what it says. And God created man from the dust of the earth, and he created Eve from the side of man. Put them in the Garden of Eden. We all know the record. Gave me you can eat anything you want. One tree you can't eat. Of course they did. The serpent enticed Eve and she sinned. Adam right along with her. They sinned against God. Now here's what happens. They now experience sin. They now experience separation from God. They're no longer in the presence of God. And as I read that record of Adam and Eve disobeying God and experiencing something they never experienced before, experiencing something that is horrific. The creator separated from the creation separated from his creator. Now in spiritual darkness, spiritual death. And Adam and Eve are scared. And they don't know what to do. They sinned. And so they scramble and they hide themselves and they try to figure out what to do and they get They get uh leaves and they make uh aprons to cover their nakedness because they don't they're scared and they don't know what to do. They sinned. And God comes down and he helps them Adam, where are you? I'm hiding. I was afraid I was naked. Who told you were naked? Did you eat of that fruit? Well, the woman. We've been doing that for years, huh guys? It's her fault. And God helps him and God says, All right. Takes a skins an animal and makes coats for them, and he restores their relationship. All through the Bible, all through history, it's a record of God helping us Helping us, helping us, helping us. Um I think about Samuel. I don't know about you, but as far as the Old Testament prophets, Samuel stands out in my mind. What an amazing man of God. Turn with me if you would. Keep your place here. I'm going to try and look at Samuel here real quickly. Go to 1 Samuel chapter 7. Old Testament, of course. First Samuel chapter seven And uh I want you to notice verse number seven. Of course, Philistines were the enemies of Israel. They were just constantly at war, tormenting them and all. And verse 7, 1 Samuel 7. It says, uh, and when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Mizbah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. Alright, they're coming to war again. And when the children of Israel heard it, they were what? Afraid. Afraid of the Philistines. And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Cease not to cry unto the Lord our God for us, and he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines. What do they do? They want Samuel to pray. What are they asking God to do? They're asking God to help them. We're scared. These Philistines are more powerful than us. They're going to come in, they're going to kill us. We're scared. Samuel, you pray to God and ask God to help us. So many words, that's what they're doing. And Samuel, verse 9, took a suckling lamb and offered it for a burnt offering holy unto the Lord. And Samuel cried unto the Lord for Israel. And the Lord heard them. I underscored that in my Bible. I appreciate Jennifer's prayer. God hears answers prayer. And Samuel was offer as Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel. Look at this. But the Lord thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines and discomforted them, and they were smitten before Israel. And the men of Israel went out to Mizpah and pursued the Philistines and smote them until they came under Bethkar. What did God do? He helped them. They were scared. They were going to be defeated. And they said, Samuel, you cry out to God. Ask God to help us. And God responded, and God helped them. And he defeated their enemies. And look what Samuel does, verse 12. And Samuel took a stone and set it between Mizbah and Shen. And called the name of it Ebenezer, saying, Hitherto hath the Lord what? Helped us. Helped us. Here is Samuel, great man of God. And he recognized they needed God's help. Listen, I don't know what's going on in your life. I don't know what the Philistines would compare to that's Israel's facing the Philippines. I don't know what in your life compares the Philistines, Philistines. But I venture to say I'm talking to somebody this morning That you've got a situation, you've got a circumstance, you've got an issue that is really overwhelming And you say, and and and and you're scared. Now you might not admit that, you might not say that in so many words, but in our hearts we're afraid. I'm telling you, as a child of God, just as Samuel and the Israelites did, we can come to God and say, God, help us! And God helps us. God helps us. Samuel learned that. If you would, come over, same book. I'm sorry, go to Psalm 54 with me. Psalms chapter 54. How many people agree with me David was the great man of God? How many people like me you think, boy, I'd love to have the faith that David had. And by like this, man, tremendous man of faith. A passionate man loved God with all his heart. Bible says David was a man after God's own heart. What a tremendous man of God. Was he perfect? No. Did he mess up? Yes. And by the way, w David, his whole life was passionate. When David messed up, he messed up bad. But when he did right, he did pretty good. And David, this tremendous man after God's own heart, saw God do so many amazing things. He understood he needed God's help. He needed God's help. Look at verse number one of Psalms 54. Save me, O God. This is David writing this under the inspiration of God. When Saul is out after him trying to kill him, on every hand, no matter where David goes, Saul's on his back. Saul's tracking him down, tracking him down, tracking him down. David says, Save me, O God, by thy name and judge me by thy strength. Hear my prayer, O God. Give ear to the words of my mouth. For strangers are risen up against me, and oppressors seek after my soul. They have not set God before them. What's he asking God to do? Help me In the verse four, David. David says this, Behold, God is mine what? Helper. God helps me. This is the man that the women in Israel saying Saul has slain his thousands, but David his Ten thousand. This was a warrior par excellence. David knew how to war. David knew how to kill. David knew how to defend himself. But he came to a point in his life where he said, God, I can't do this. God, I need you to help me. Help me. When Hebrews says that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, he's implying, he's assuming we understand we do need God's help. All through history, the great men and women of God needed God's help. Even the strongest of God's men and women needed help. Uh turn turn with me back again to the New Testament, if you would, to 2 Timothy chapter 4. How many people have ever considered the Apostle Paul to be perhaps the greatest Christian ever lived? Wow! What a man of devotion to the gospel. What a man committed to the Lord Jesus Christ. If any, if any If any missionary evangelist, however you want to describe them, apostle, if anybody was fearless for the gospel, it was Apostle Paul. You say, Paul doesn't need help. Good night. Look with me if you would, 2 Timothy chapter 4 and verse number 16. At my first answer, no man stood with me. But all men forsook me. Paul's alone. He's talking about his brothers and sisters in Christ. He's out there preaching the gospel. He's out there declaring Christ in enemy territory. And he got to a situation, a position in his life where he's alone. Nobody else is with him. Look what he says. And my first answer: no man stood with me, but all men forsook me. I pray God that it may not be laid to their charge. I I that kind of tickled me when I was studying this. Like nobody stood with God d don't judge them for that. God be be nice to them God don't lay that to their charge. He's being very gracious. But look what he says. Notwithstanding, the Lord stood with me and strengthened me. That by me the preaching might be fully known, that all the Gentiles might hear. And I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion. What's he saying? He's saying I got to a position in my life where I was totally alone. I got to a position in my life where it seemed like nobody was supporting me. Nobody was standing with me. Nobody got my back. But God helped me. God helped me. However independent we may think we are No matter how self-sufficient we may think we may be, I don't need nobody. In fact the matter is, sooner or later in life we're going to get to a position where we do need help, and we're going to get to a position where only God can help us. We do need help. We may boldly say the Lord is my helper because I need help. I come back to Hebrews here. I want to notice another Truth that's implied here, another implication here. We may boldly say the Lord is my helper. That implies that I actually do need help. But then look at the next statement The Lord is my helper, and I will not what fear what man shall do unto me. Hebrews 13, 6 The implication here also is the fact that we have to deal with fear. Anybody ever see those pickup trucks around, they have a little statement, I haven't seen any lately, but they used to be real big, have a little thing across the back, no fear No fear. Anybody ever see that? Every time I see it, I think that guy's a knucklehead. I don't believe that statement's true. Fear is a very real issue in life Let me say this. Fear is a very real issue in the Christian life. We don't read far into the Bible and we find people, God's people, afraid. We could just pull a few out. Abraham. The father of the faithful Abraham, one of the greatest men of faith in all scripture, is used by God as an example of somebody who has faith in God. And he finally gets to the promised land. He leaves his home, not knowing where God would have him go. He gets to the promised land. He gets there and there's a famine. And he makes a terrible mistake. Rather than trusting God, he got where God told him to be, and things weren't the way he anticipated, so he goes down to Egypt. Rather than staying there and trusting God. Now that's easy for you and I to look back and criticize them, right? We've done similar things our own lives, no doubt. But here's the thing, he's going down to Egypt, his wife Sarah is a beautiful woman, and Abraham gets afraid. And he's afraid that Pharaoh will want his wife. And he's afraid that Pharaoh will kill him to get his wife. And so he tells his wife to do what? Lie. You tell him you're my sister, so that it goes well with me. Now, when I get to heaven, I'm going to ask Sarah, how do you feel about that? Your husband says, don't claim me. I'm not going to claim you as my own so that it don't go bad for me. I would imagine she would say, why don't you stand up for me? But nevertheless, that's another message. Abraham's afraid. And he lies. And he, in a sense, am I wrong? He in a sense forsakes his wife almost. And not claiming her as his wife. Abraham dealt with fear. Think about Israel, the people of God. They saw the plagues in Egypt. They saw God part the Red Sea. I mean, fascinating miracles. Amazing miracles. Can we say awesome miracles? And they get to the Jordan River and they're going to go into the promised land. They send a few spies. Ten were bad. Two were good. They come back, ten of them. The majority report is there's no way. This is too scary. They're giant they're huge. We're just grasshoppers in their sight. There's no way. And they were scared Rather than trusting God, they end up wandering 40 years. We just preached on that recently. Abraham was afraid, Israel was afraid. Peter. Peter fascinates me. What a guy. I look forward to meeting Peter. What is his personality and all. I would imagine he's mellowed a little bit now. He's been in heaven 2,000 years, but Man, he was, oh, everybody will forsake you, Lord. I ain't never gonna we'll die before we forsake you. I'll walk on water. And then the Lord's crucified. And a little maid. You're one of his disciples. Huh? No, I ain't And he's afraid of a little maid. This is what I'm trying to illustrate. Even the greatest, even the toughest, the biggest, the strongest, the bravest. We still have to deal with fear. Sooner or later, God is going to allow you and I to be in a situation where we are scared, where we're afraid. And God says, but I'm your helper. I'm your helper. I'll help you deal with that From Genesis 15:1 to Revelation 1, verse 7, we have people fearful, people dealing with fear. Proverbs 29, verse 25 says, the fear of man bringeth a snare. When we get fearful, we allow fear to take over. It hinders us, it snares us, it limits us. Fear can cause us to act irrationally. We get scared. Sometimes we'll do things that are not good. We'll say things that are irrational when we get scared. Can I suggest this to you? Fear, I'm convinced, many times will keep somebody from getting saved. Sometimes a person is afraid of what others will think. I'm afraid of what my friends will say if I trust Christ. I'm afraid of what my family may deal with. Hebrews, he's writing, Paul is writing again under the inspiration of God to Hebrews, and some of them were on the verge of trusting Christ, but they were afraid What will my family do? What will people think? What will the people at work say if I get saved? There's no doubt. There are people in hell today. had never trust in Christ because they were afraid of what someone might think. Uh let me say this. There is nobody in the world worth going to hell for. There is nobody that is so fearful that it's worth dying and spending eternity in hell for So fear can keep a person from getting saved. Fear can hinder spiritual growth. Well, I'll trust Christ, but I'm not going to get crazy about it. You know, what do people think? I'm not going to fear can hinder our spiritual growth, can keep us from getting saved. If we do get saved, Satan will use fear To keep us from growing. Say, uh, fear can keep us from serving God like we ought to. We live in a world that desperately needs the gospel of Jesus Christ. I I again I'm trying not to get too political here this morning, but I'll tell you what the answer to our country is. It's soul-winning Christians. I like what Lester Off said. If we want to see America saved, we've got to get Americans saved. What this country needs is an army of Bible-believing Christians That go out into the highways and hedges and into the neighborhoods of every community and share Jesus Christ with every single person and give ourselves to win them over, to trust Christ, so that they're born again with a new nature, a new perspective. That'll change our country. But why don't we do that? Why is it in your average Independent Fundamental Baptist Church, three or four or five people go out on a regular basis and share the go. Why is that? Can I suggest fear? I'm afraid to talk to someone, I'm afraid to engage someone, I'm afraid to I'm afraid. And I understand that. But what I'm saying is this: fear is a very real issue in the Christian life. Sometimes it's a real issue in life. Fear sometimes keeps somebody getting saved. They die in their sins and end up in hell Fear keeps Christians from growing and being a good, strong, healthy believer. Fear keeps Christians from sharing the gospel with others. You know, I don't I I don't I'm not trying I don't want to throw this guilt trip out. That's not it, that's just truth. I wonder how many people are in hell today because a Christian that was associate of theirs was scared to give them a track, scared to invite them to a revival, scared to talk to them about their soul. I tell you, I'm I'm as guilty as anybody of situations where I was a hesitant, I was a little fearful to say anything. I look back and regret it. So there's an implication here when he says, The Lord is my helper, I will not fear what man shall do unto me. The implication is we need help and we deal with fear. And then quickly I want us to go on to the next thought is this that not only is there a is there a uh implication, but there's clear instructions. Look what he says here. So that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what man shall do unto me. Here's the great thing. When there are situations where we need help, where we're dealing with fear, here's the great thing. God does not just sit idly by and watch us struggle. God doesn't say, all right, you're lost, you got saved, you you figure it out. God doesn't just sit back, he helps us We're scared. God steps in and helps us. He's not God is not some distant God that has removed himself from our lives. He's not some distant God that has removed himself from our daily living and the issues we face in life. God is very active, and we've been saying this lately in the messages. God is involved, God is working in your life and I And he's not some sitting idly by just watching a struggle. I like what Psalms 118 verse 6 says. It says, the Lord is on my side. I will not fear what God, what man can do unto me. God's for us. God wants us to succeed. God wants us to be strong. God wants you to be saved. He's on your side. He doesn't want us to go to hell. He doesn't want us to be anemic Christians. He doesn't want us to be ineffective in reaching the world with the gospel. He's on our side. God's for us. God wants the unsaved to get saved. He helps them. God wants the Christian to grow. He helps us. He wants us to win souls. Now notice what our instructions are here. He says that we may boldly say I get this. I think one of the instructions, because God is our helper, I need help, I deal with fear, but because God is my helper, I need to first of all declare that God is my helper. Let people know God helps you. Tell people in the job. Tell your kids in the home, hey, God's helping me. I guy I've mentioned this a number of times over the years, uh Bob was his first name. When I got saved in the meepak implant there, Bob gave me fits. I mean it just got under his skin that God saved me and changed my life. I was no longer living the lifestyle he was living. It aggravated him to death. I was a nice guy You know, it's good looking, friendly. I mean, why would he be upset with me? And I'm telling you, it just absolutely, and he says, Leatherman, you're just using God as a crutch. I said, Bob, you're right. I can't live it without him. I'd be on my way to hell if God didn't help me I'd be still in sin and drugs. Now the ironic thing is here's a guy that's on cocaine, crack, and every drug you can think of, accusing me of using God for a crutch. I said, Bob, what's your crutch? God hey, let me just throw this. God's a better crutch than drugs. God's a better crutch than liquor. And we all need the crutch. So let's let people know, yes, the Lord does help us. Man, what You're not going to the party Saturday night? You're not doing this. What's the deal? Oh, uh Jesus saved me. God gave me new life. God helped me. This world needs to know that God is our helper. It says, boldly say this, tell it, broadcast it, let everybody know God's our helper. I believe we have a good church at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I really do. God has blessed us. And I always try and say when we talk to folks, say, you know why we have such a wonderful church? It's not because we're great. It's because God's great. God's been good to us. God has helped us. We give the glory to God. Amen? We give the glory to God Boldly say, it's the Lord that has helped us. I read in my devotions this morning, Psalms 107, verse 2, let the redeemed of the Lord say so. Whom he is redeemed from the hand of the enemy. If God has helped you in any way, say it. Tell folks about it Boldly declare that God is your helper. And so, one, we declare, our instructions declare that God is our helper. Number two, depend on God to help us. When they boldly say, the Lord is my helper. Look at this. I will not fear what man shall do unto me. That's a decision. I'm going to depend on God. God's my helper. I'm going to trust Him to help me. I'm not going to be afraid of what man says. God is for us. Not even the devil can withstand us when we're depending on God's help. I got thinking about this, God helps us in salvation. I already touched on a little bit. God doesn't just say, all right, you're lost in your sins, you die in your sins, you're on your way to hell, you figure out how to solve that problem. No, God comes down and helps us. You know how he helps us? He helps us if we're an unsaved person. You know how he helps an unsaved person find salvation? He'll send a Christian by. Invite them out to a chalk drawing. Invite them out to revival service. He'll send a Christian by and give them a little gospel track. God's helping them come to Christ. You know what God does? God will convict them about their need to be saved. Sometimes they might be sitting there watching some stupid show like Laverne and Shirley. And he'll use a stupid show like that to bring incredible conviction on their heart. Like a young kid did, nineteen seventy-nine, on May tent seventh, nineteen seventy-nine. Isn't that crazy? You know what the conviction, you know what, if you're here this morning and you're not saved and you know it, you're sitting there and something down inside your heart and soul is eating at you about you need to be saved. You know what that is? That's God helping you. Convicting you to come and trust Christ as Savior. God will do circumstances. God will let things happen in our life To make us think about heaven and hell, make us consider our standing with God. Make us consider where am I going to spend eternity? You know what that is? That's God helping me find salvation. God doesn't save someone against their will, but he sure helps them see how badly they need to be saved. Along those same lines, when we go out on Thursdays or Saturday, we're going out in Great Commission Day, or others go out during the week, the bus workers are out. You know, when we're giving tracts out or we're knocking on someone's door and we're trying to talk to them about Jesus, you know what that is? That's God using us to help them come to Christ So God's our helper. If a person is saved, God helps them come to Christ. If you're here this morning, you don't know for sure that when you die, your sins are forgiven, and you go to heaven and not to hell. If you're not sure about that, God has you in church this morning. He has me preaching this truth right now because he is helping you. See your need of salvation. He's helping you. God helps in this matter of being saved. God helps us in our spiritual growth. I'm glad that when we get saved, the Lord doesn't, we trust Christ's Savior. He doesn't say, all right, you're saved now. Figure out how to live for me. You're on your own. Nobody does that for a little baby. Every now and then we read about babies that have been abandoned at a doorstep or at an emergency room or somewhere they'll abandon a baby in a bathroom. That's horrific. Don't do that. And God doesn't do that to us. When we get saved, then God begins a process He helps us grow and mature and be the kind of Christian He saved us to be. And by the Christian, He intends for us to be. Help us be like Christ. See, how does he do that? Oh, he brings other Christians on our path to help us, encourage us, and challenge us. He's given us the church. I'm telling you the local church is vitally important to the spiritual growth of every believer. I cannot grow as a Christian and neglect the local church. That is God's idea. That is God's, that's the body of Christ, and it is designed by God to help me grow. He raises up Sunday school teachers and preachers that will teach us the Word of God and they'll preach the Word of God and will preach against sin. And when we're sitting there and the preacher is preaching on the sin that I'm involved in, and I feel and I get convicted about it, don't get mad at the preacher. Thank God he's helping you. He gives us a Bible and we can read on a daily basis so God can speak to my heart and I can grow. Find promises from God's Word. He helps us grow. He sends trials into our life. James chapter 1 is very clear. God allows us to go through difficult times as Christians so that our faith will grow. Count it all joy when you fall into divers temptations, knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. Perfect work that he may be perfect and entire, mature, full, grown. You say, preacher, I got saved, and now I'm going through all these trials. God, what's he doing to me? He's helping you. He's helping you learn to trust him. He's helping you learn to develop. Remember when the kids were small? And uh Your wife would hold the little toddler there. They're not just learning to work, and you'd uh walk and you'd sit over on the other side of the living room and you'd say, Come on, Sam, come on. Blump. Oh, what are you doing to me, Daddy? I'm Phil. I'm helping you. Challenging you, stretching you to get up, get those legs, learn to balance, learn to walk. Right? That's what God does. He helps us grow. Somebody said to me recently, I have this all the time to me, and I've asked it myself, why is God letting me go through this? Why is God breaking my heart? Why did God take that from me? Why did God put this on me? Well, there could be a lot of various reasons, but one I would suggest is God's helping you grow. He's allowing you to go through that so you learn to trust him and get stronger in your faith. You learn what God is like. When folks go into hospital or surgery or whatever they're dealing with, one of the things I always like to try, if I can, I try again. And by the way, you've got to tell me before you go in if I can be there and pray with you Amen. You follow him saying, Don't preach your come see me. Uh I didn't know you were in. And so anyway, that's another subject. But I like to go in and I pray, and one of the things I like to pray is, Lord, through this surgery, through this trial, through this accident, whatever it is, Lord, I pray that our faith in you would grow. That we would understand a little bit more of your power and your love and your concern for us through this trial. That's God helping us. Are you listening, young people? That's God helping us. To grow and be stronger in our faith and be the Christian He saved us to be. God helps us witness You say, ah, you're always talking about soul wind, always talking about visitation, always talking about giving tracts and witnessing others. Oh preacher, I don't think I can do that It's interesting, some of our best soul witnessers we have in our church at one point in time told me, oh, I could never do that. But they trusted God, they stepped out, and now the tremendous witness. Say, well God, oh I would, uh, but I need someone to help me. God will help you. I like what Jesus said. Go you go and go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptize them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever to command you, and lo I am with you always. What's he saying? He says, when you and I go out and engage people with the gospel, we're not going alone. Christ is there with us. Say, I don't see him. No, but he's there. It's right there. Now, some of you will testify to this. You say, all right, I'm going to witness to so-and-so. Alright, got the tracks, got my little Bible. I'm gonna witness to 'em. You go in there. Uh you start talking to him. And lo and behold, verses come to mind. I never even thought of that verse before. And you start spitting them out, and when it's all said and done, you say, man, I thoughts and verses came I never thought of before. You know what that is? That's God helping you witness Jesus says, I'll bring it to your mind. I'll remind you of the things I said. I've seen that so many times. I said so many soul winners say, man, I didn't even I didn't even know I had that verse memorized. And it came to mind, I gave it to him, I was able to share the gospel with them. God helps us. God gives us opportunities. God puts us in a church where there's opportunities to work a bus route or work a deterrence or coach something or do something God helps us be that witness. God helps us. My uh maybe I'm talking to some young people this morning needs God's help. I'm telling you, God's your helper. He'll help you. Maybe you have a family. Maybe your parents aren't saved. Maybe there's stuff in the home that's not right. You say, I don't know how to deal with it. God will help you. He's your helper. Maybe we're trying to witness to some friends. Maybe there's some homes here that are struggling. Some marriages that are really, really struggling. I'm here to tell you, God's your helper. He can help you through that. There are people in this church who could stand up and testify and say, God helped us work through our marriage problems to get to the point where we have God's blessing on our home now. God helps us. Maybe there's some young people that have real struggles. God will help you. Holmes. Christians. I may be talking to some Christians struggling with sin. I mean, seriously. And you say, I can't beat this thing. It's eating me alive. It's killing me. I'm here to tell you. What's our helper? And there's not one sin in the world that the blood of Jesus can not just forgive, but can cleanse. And it'll help us. We'll trust him and do what he says, follow his instructions. Bus workers, Sunday school teachers. God is our helper. Five words. The Lord is my helper. Man, praise the Lord. What a great promise of God. This all-powerful, all-knowing, eternal God. It's my helper. I got a new computer, a new little laptop. And it's this little thing that keeps popping up in the corner. I forget her name. What is it? Yes. May I help you? No. Deli. She drives me nuts. Can I help you? Hey, you and I have a God in heaven says, beep, I'm your helper. Trust me. I'll show you how to get through this. Follow my instructions. Have faith in me. I'll help you through this. We were uh, Kathy and I were, I graduated from Bible College in 1987, 86 May of eighty-six, on my birthday, I graduated from Bible College, crammed four years into six. It's great. That end of that summer, Kathy and I got engaged. August, I think it was, we got engaged. That next February 14th, we got married. 30 years ago, this Valentine's coming Valentine's Day. Isn't that amazing? Shortly after that, God called us to go up to Indianapolis to be uh go on staff at the Thomson Road Baptist Church in the south side of Indianapolis. I was going to be their youth pastor. Pastor Dennis Oh, that's amazing. We were so excited. We didn't have nothing. We got married, I'm telling you the truth, we got married, we had a cabinet for the kitchen, we had a bed and a dresser. As far as we're concerned, that's all we needed, you know. But God gave us a few things. We didn't have any money. We I bought an old nasty refrigerator for like ten bucks. I had to scrub it, it's all molding there. I had to scrub the thing down and clean it. We used that for a little toaster we cooked everything on. You can cook amazing things in a toaster. And God called us up to Indianapolis and they said, Y'all come up here, here's the date. Alright. I was like, how are we going to get there? I don't got anybody. The little bit of furniture we had doesn't fit in our Chevette. Remember the Chevettes? I called it my bet. I just it's my bet, Ken. I said you had to shove it to get it started, but And the furniture we did have didn't fit in the Chevette. So we had to rent a U-Hawk. It was a stick shift, and Kathy didn't know how to drive stick shift. So I had a quick teacher before we drove up through St. Louis and all the way up through there wherever whatever the Cincinnati guess Uh anyway, we went through all that and we're gonna have to rent a U-Haul. It was like $400 to rent this U-Haul. It might have been four million dollars. I didn't have four hundred bucks I couldn't tell the church. I didn't want to tell the church I needed it. And so we said, we're going to pray and ask God to help us. And it came to the day before we're supposed to move, and we're supposed to pick up the f the U-Haul in the morning and move that day, get up there that evening. I guess we spent a night en route. And uh, but I have 400 bucks. And we're praying, God, you gotta help us. We got this position. They expect me there. And no, what are we gonna do? God help us. Kathy will tell you. If if I ever tell the truth, I'll point it out to you. This is the truth. That night about 830 In the front door of our little duplex we're running off the school that I graduated from. And a lady's standing there and she says, I don't want any arguments. I don't want any fuss. God's been dealing with my heart about this for a couple weeks, and I've been fighting them, and I'm finally doing what God says. This is for you. You're welcome. Goodbye. Zing Said, okay. Anybody want to guess what was in the envelope? Exactly four hundred dollars We went and got the U-Hole. You know what happened? God helped us. And I'm trying to tell you, God will help you. If you're here this morning, you're not saved. God's helping you. He wants you to be saved before you it's up to you to make the decision, but God's working in your life trying to help you make that decision. You're here, you're saved, you're not growing as a Christian. God will help you. He wants to help you grow in your faith and be stronger and be a greater better Christian, a victorious Christian. You're here this morning and say I'm saved, I'm not the witness I ought to be sharing the gospel with others that I want to be. God helps you. Trust them, step out. You don't have to be afraid of what man shall do into you Be bold. God will help us. And God knows this country needs help. Need help. God knows our churches need help. And he's our helper. We just need to let him do it. Trust him. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us. To trust you and have faith in you. To follow your instructions so that you can and will help us. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher? I have some issues in my life where I really, really need God's help. I have some circumstances. I don't know what it is. It's personal for you, no doubt. Perhaps it's between you and God or you and another person. I don't know what it is But you say, preacher, pray with me. I need God's help. Is there anything like that in some area of my life? I need God's help. God bless you, hands all around. If we were all honest, probably every hand would be raised. We need God's help. So you have a specific situation. Lord, I need you to help me. The Lord's our helper. So some here say, Preacher, I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I know I trust in Christ, but I'm not the Christian I ought to be. I need God to help me grow in my faith. I need God to help me grow in my Christian maturity. There's areas in my life that really need to be dealt with. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I need God to help me grow as a Christian. Is there any like that? I need God to help me grow. God bless you, young and old. God bless you. We need God's help. Without him, we can do nothing. I don't hear you say, preacher, I know I'm saved. I'm trying to grow as a Christian. My witness is not what it ought to be. I know that's important. That's part, key, vital part of the Christian life is sharing the gospel with others. You say, preacher, pray for me. I need God to help me to be that witness. That God has commanded me. Anything like that by the uplifted hand. I really need God to help me in this matter witnessing. God bless you. Bunch of hands all around. Maybe there's someone in particular on your heart. See, I need God to help me Engage them in the gospel. Any others? Uplift their hand. Preacher, pray for me. Someone in particular. God bless you. There's someone here this morning and said, Preacher, I'm not saved. I'm not sure that when I die, my sins will be given all my way to heaven You see, I'm concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell. I need God to help me settle this. I need God to help me get this in my heart settled that my sins are forgiven. I am going to heaven. So he like that by liftlifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I need that settled in my heart and life. Any at all? By the uplifted hand, pray for me. I need God to help me get this salvation settled. Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts, a lot of hands raised. I pray you'd help us. Lord, I pray you'd help folks find a place, old-fashioned order, and do some business before we leave here this morning. And get some things turned around and get some needs met So please bless, we pray in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing invitation songs. And now's the time. Whatever that issue is, whatever that circumstance we find ourselves in, now's the time to find a place