Twelve and if you're wondering I'm not texting anybody. I actually received some texts from Jen uh a little while ago and uh just I thought since Pastor's not here, he normally opens up with some sort of jokes and I felt like I need to kinda live up to that a little bit. I don't know. So um there's some one liners of a desperate Christian guy falling for a desperate, uh well maybe not so desperate Christian lady, okay? So uh uh here's one, uh a little short one-liner. Is your name faith? Because you're the substance of things I've hoped for. You can call me Pharaoh because I will never let you go. Excuse me, is your name Grace because you are so amazing I like my women like I like my Microsoft Word documents saved. I was just reading in the book of Numbers and I realized that I don't have yours. So Those are some little tidbits guys, poor guys. They have it so rough. Trust me, I know that I was there, uh it seemed like just last year in that same spot. All right. So Hebrews Chapter 12. Interestingly enough, I did not necessarily plan this this way, but we talked this morning and challenged this morning. about a right walk with God. Now we're going to be talking about a right run with God, okay? We talked about our walk with God. Now we're going to talk about the race of faith. All right. Very familiar passage. I understand that. Listen, both this morning's message in this evening's message is not a new thing. Solomon said there's no new thing under the sun. If I did preach something brand new to you folks then I would probably be a little alarmed by that. So I realize this is not any thing uh overly uh complex, but I do think that it's something that we stand in need of a regular reminder. Alright, so Hebrews chapter 12 Beginning in verse number one, here the writer of Hebrews says, Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight in the sin which doth so easily beset us. And let us run with patience a race that is set before us, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. We'll stop there for now. Let's pray. God, we ask for a special blessing on the remainder of our service. Lord, you said that you honor the preaching of your word. That's exactly what we desire to do this evening. I pray that this familiar text would not breed some sort of just complacency in our life, but we would listen to the admonition And these verses in a fresh new way. God, I need this. And I know your people need this as well. So help us to listen with spirit-filled ears and be changed more into your image. We ask in Christ's name. Amen. So a race of faith. How many of you would describe, whether in your prime of your day or maybe now that you were a racer? You like to run? Would anybody admit to that you actually like to run? Okay, I don't see a whole lot of hands. Good, a few of you up there, I don't think that's you bracking at all, and you just like to run. I actually do like to run if I've got time, but we're all familiar with a race. Maybe one race that we're not overly familiar is the marathon. Marathon is one of the world's longest recorded races competitions. It's twenty-six point two miles. No easy task. But the fastest time Marathon Time ever recorded was by was made by a Kenyan man. His name was Jeffrey Mutai, get this. He ran the Boston Marathon in two hours, three minutes and two seconds. You say, what's the big deal about that? Well I'll tell you, because his average mile time was four minutes. 42 seconds over 26. 2 miles. You know my fastest mile time wasn't even that fast, but this guy was cruising America, realized that this required a lot of training, a lot of endurance, many years of hard work, but when asked some advice that he would give to somebody beginning to train for American He said these three things. He said, um, I have three things to help me succeed. I had a good coach to lean on when it was tough. I laid aside distractions in my life, and I looked ahead. Toward the goal. I was always looking ahead. You know, he said those three things and it's interesting the parallel in our Christian life. He says that I had some good people to lean on. We're gonna look at that. Um he said that I was uh uh laying aside distractions And then he said that I have to realize I'm constantly looking ahead toward that goal. Do you know Paul uses some similar analogy that we read in Hebrews chapter 12? You don't need to turn there. Philippians chapter 3, 13 through 14, he says, Brethren, Christian, I count not myself to have apprehended, or you could say it this way, reaching the finish line. But this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, reaching forth unto those things which are before, I press toward the mark or the finish line for the prize of the high calling. of God in Christ Jesus. Again, you don't have to turn there. 1 Corinthians 9, 24 through 27. Know ye not that ye run in a race, um run in a race all, but only one receives the prize. So run that ye may obtain, and every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate, and all things, they do it to obtain a corruptible crown. But you and I, we do it to obtain an incorruptible crown. He finishes that admonition to the church at Corinth by saying that I need to keep my body under subjection lest I become a castaway. Or can I say it in terms of our interest tonight? that I will be disqualified from the race of faith. That is absolutely something Paul feared very highly, and it's something that you and I ought to take great fear as well. Hebrews 12 talks about how we can run this faith race of faith effectively that we can run it faithfully um to God. So uh but let me say this before I delve into it, I think I would be amiss to not mention this. It's important. It's imperative to realize when the writer's talking about running a race, he's not talking about striving for salvation. He's not not talking about Uh getting saved is some form of struggle. It's not a tremendous amount of effort. It's not a feat of endurance. It's not a race that ra lasts a lifetime. No, but it's simple trust in Jesus Christ Realize when he's saying this race of faith that he's not saying in order to get our faith in God, in order to uh work uh in order to get heaven that we have to race and somehow be faithful in Durance. We understand that here tonight, but many folks don't realize that we are called to a race of faith uh as a Christian. So what are ways that we can effectively run this race. Again, we'll keep things pretty abbreviated. But number one is same thing as that marathon runner had said. Leaning against. Leaning against. Alright, those two words. Think about that. When you're struggling, when you're down, when you're weak, perhaps when you are injured, isn't it helpful to have some form of crutches or some person to lean against, a go-to person. We're immediately jumping to the application. But the same thing in a race, this marathon runner, he said, I did not get where I am the world's fastest record in human history of the marathon race, besides having some uh great staff, a coach to lean against, someone to lean on, someone to depend on Where do I get that from this passage? It's an interesting question because Hebrews chapter 12 says, wherefore seeing we are compass, surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, there it is, that cloud of witnesses We didn't take time to read Hebrews chapter 11 because that would be a little bit of a long night tonight. But you realize Hebrews 11 is what we call the Hebrews Hall of Faith. A lot of heroes of the faith, a lot of people you can learn from a lot of examples, a lot of messages. We're not going to go there, but you realize when he says, wherefore taking into consideration the Hebrews Hall of Faith, that now we got this cloud of witnesses that is surrounding us. Does that mean a fanfare saying, hey, good job, good job? Well that's kind of nice. It's nice to have a cheerleading, you know, kinda sort of thing, cheery on. But that's not exactly what he's getting at here. More what I think he's getting at It's a faithful group of individuals who've been there and have done that. You understand that? So uh he's talking about a great cloud. Think about it, sixteen specific names mentioned in chapter 11, not including time would fail me to tell of Gideon and a Barak and of Jephthah. and of Samson and other prophets also. We are not even including those, but eleven that are mentioned specifically, those are faithful people that we have to glean from. People who've been there and have done that. We look at those stories and uh that's what we treat them as, as just simple stories. But think about, and it may be a slightly more practical level, I hope that you uh are are familiar and not only familiar but fond of your Baptist history. You realize Baptists have a very rich history. Now I realize I'm first a Bible believer a Christian before I'm a Baptist. Okay, Baptist is a label, but recognize that our history is very rich. I I understand we're not where we're supposed to be now. immaterial, but what I'm getting at is we do have a rich history. If you do some digging up in Baptist history, you realize once upon a time we were called Anabaptists. And before that, we we you you can hear other groups like Donatists and men like Wycliffe, who died for the faith, not only the faith, the book that we have faith in. These men, this rich history of people who lived, who stepped out, who put their neck out, who were faithful, vehemently fighting for the in this race of faith. They who this is the cloud of witnesses that almost could be applied here. God saying that, always, always, always I'm going to have a remnant. Remember the prophet that was discouraged about the condition And the uh impossible situation until God opened his eyes and realized, hey, there's a remnant, there's help here, there's something going on. So we uh we've got history, we've got Hebrews chapter 11 to learn from, but godly individuals, like pastors, maybe your parents to learn from. Um There's a uh story of these two schoolboys who went on a school trip to do a little bit of spelunking. If you're not familiar with that term, that just means cave exploration. Except this cave was self-guided. So in their excitement, these two young boys raced ahead of the rest of the group to discover things on their own. And they happened upon this very steep landing overlooking some water. They had a faint enough light to see the water quite a distance below, but not enough to know how far it was. And so there was really no way to figure out how deep The water was below, except one way, one of those boys thought of. And while he was thinking of that, he reached over and shoved his buddy off the landing. plummeting into the water below. He heard as the scream on the way down the splash and he waited there to make sure the coast was clear and everything was gonna be safe and then he was decided that he was going to jump. That exce the problem was that e everything worked out fine, but his buddy was absolutely livid and mad. You say, how do you know that? Because I was that guy. They got pushed in, okay? And but you know something? I learned From that story, maybe not quite what you're thinking, be the one to push him in. No. Um that you can be much more confident when you've seen someone else take the plunge first, can't you? Do you know there are all sorts of folks, there's rich history in this church I'm finding out, folks who have been there. They have done that You have no idea what that means to this young preacher boy. Folks that I'm up here challenging you when your life is a very challenge to me. God calls you to a race of faith, realizing this though, you've got some people you can lean against. You've got some spectacular glowing examples of men that I cannot begin to touch their face from Hebrews chapter 11. But we've got folks here living among us that have been there done that. Can I say this too that um This is why Paul exhorts the older crowd, I'll say it that way, in Titus chapter 2, to actively be seeking out the younger crowd. to instruct them, to take them underneath their wing. You know, unfortunately, I see far too little of this in our churches all across America. It doesn't matter what denomination, it doesn't matter what you call yourself. I just see see far too less of this older generation reaching down and impacting this younger generation. Aged men, can I ask this? Um who is the young man you're actively seeking to instruct in truth? Aged women in church? Who's the young lady that we're taking under our wing to instruct them and truth. Hey, this is where the rubber meets the road. This God desires to use these sort of things in the race of faith. Maybe there's somebody who is reaching out to you, young person, and I find that's a big problem with our generation. is not respecting that faith that's exemplified in some of these uh older generation saints. But uh no matter our job um is to run this race of faith and God gives us This great cloud of witnesses to lean against. Think of the godly example set here. Do you know the common denominator in Hebrews chapter 11? Of course I don't even really need to ask that you know That every one of these situations it begins with what? By faith. Okay? By faith. By faith. Noah built the biggest boat in the world I'd ever seen at that time. Because he believed in the promises of God by faith. Okay. Abraham was willing to sacrifice Isaac. Why? Because he believed by faith in the promises of God. Joseph made mention of the departing of the of his brethren um years to come. Why? Because of simple faith and a promise of God. Moses knew that there was going to be a way to escape through the Red Sea, even though the terrifying Egyptian army was on their back. Why? Because he had simple faith in the promises of God. You and I, sometimes when it comes to this race of faith, we need to take a little bit of a breath, we need to take a little bit of a swig, we need to slow down, refresh our souls with The very promises of this book say, hey, I realize that if these men couldn't make it except by faith and the very promises of God, what a chance do you think that we have? When do you have you grabbed hold of with great desperation of the promises of God I'm talking about some testimonies behind these hymns that we sing Sunday after Sunday of men who lost their entire family, wiped out in one accident, and yet are still able to sing it as well with my soul. When are we going to learn to take hold of the promises of God? Maybe it is sin that we're struggling with, not something so noble as a loss or tragedy. When are you going to take hold of promises of God for deliverance? That that's what God is getting at here. These men and women, this great crowd of witnesses, did everything common denominator by faith, you know, by faith in the promises of God. When was the last time you claimed some promises of God? Although I've never actually run a complete marathon I've heard a lot of stories, by the way, that'll be a theme tonight, but they tell me that if a runner hopes to finish a race, he or she must remain hydrated properly. That's of utmost importance. Unfortunately, a lot of inexperienced runners try to make time by skipping the water. But however, by the time their body actually tells them, hey, I'm thirsty, it's way too late and their body's already experiencing very severe dehydration. The oxygen-rich blood turns into sludge, which eventually stops the best of runners dead in their tracks. So what's the problem? This person, this inexperienced runner, is not willing to slow down to refresh their body to get what they need. You know, sometimes as believers, I find this slow down. And get some refreshment for your soul. You know, I thought stepping into the pastorate that my soul would be as enriched as it could be. I'm doing the very thing I love to do. But I need refreshment. This isn't something I'm challenging you folks to do where I don't think that I need it whatsoever. In fact, I feel like that I need it more. Am I being transparent enough that when it comes to running this race effectively, you've got some people Just the old-fashioned leaning against okay, something where you need to catch your your breath. You're struggling, something fierce. My word, this is all this stuff's happening. And the schedule's busy, I'm getting hectic, and we all get like that, especially now for some reason. We're getting busier and busier and things are kinda like this. Maybe you feel like that. Maybe stuff's kinda piled on you, just dealt with something, now something else dumped on you. And we can get like that. We need refreshment for ourselves. God says, hey, I have given you something. One, you can take the to Hebrews chapter 11 and realize you got a great cloud of witnesses who's gone through, who's been there, who's done that, but you also got some folks around you. May maybe maybe you need to be that person that is that lean to someone asshole, run the race effectively. You gotta uh God's given you people to lean against, okay? But he also tells us this. This is very important. He says, you need to not only lean against, but you need to lay aside. There it is. Lay aside. That's often when we think about these verses. Lay aside every weight in this sin. Oh boy, here we go. So we already know what we're supposed to lay aside. These verses are so familiar, you could probably quote them better than I can. Lay aside every weight. I hear often a perhaps diminishing of weight, but do you realize while different than sin, weights can have the same effects. Lay aside every weight and sin, both of them can equally set you aside. Both of them can distract you from the race of faith. So weight, laying aside weight is very important. A little illustration. Professional marathon runner uses specialized uh uh equipment to get the job done. Take for example your shoes, right? That's what I'm talking about, okay, your shoes. The average weight of men's shoes in this room is probably close to two pounds, whereas the shoes of a marathon runner are about eight ounces or relatively a quarter of that weight. Why? So that they can get the job done effectively. Serious marathon runners even invest in special developed nylon clothing, a shirt, t shirt and shorts to run effectively. I'm told it cuts down friction and wind resistance allows this them to stay cool. You say that is a lot of regular war to go through just to be able to run a marathon, a race. I don't even want to get involved in But what I'm trying to point out is this that there's some serious dedication on these individuals running a physical race. Why isn't there some serious dedication on the part of Christians running the spiritual race of faith? That you've got to lay some things aside. Serious Christians don't ask can I? They ask should I. Is something going to help you in this race of faith, or is it going to hinder you? Okay, we that can come in all forms. One preacher asked it this way, is the thing a weight or a wing? Will it make you sink or will it make you soar? You can answer those questions. I don't nobody needs to spell that out for you. Uh but weights I they come in all forms of shapes and sizes, people speculated what is the writer of Hebrews really getting at. I came up with something that started with a G, I like alliteration, but what about gifts? Maybe you got certain talents that can be good, but they can also get in the way, can't they? I knew one guy who uh was studying at Bob Jones University. He had perfect pitch. He can play almost every instrument under the sun. And I am not exaggerating harp, piano, uh organ, um all sorts of brass instruments and woodwinds and everything that you can this guy was extremely talented and got uh even a master's degree working on his doctorate degree and so forth But I I found one thing is that he's so consumed with the gifts God's given him that he isn't even running the race effectively. He's not serving. Such talent that he has. How about gold or just to stick with the jihad? Money. Money is the root of all the love of money is the root of all evil. all evil that we're told. So it can be money. It could be withholding money, withholding something that God desires for you to loosely It could be gain, trying to earn uh find ways to uh get gain. It could be taking a job simply with consideration of what does that job pay, not what sort of ministry is it going to keep me from What soul is it going to stop me from reaching out to? What person can I not disciple? What way can I not get involved out? What sort of uh compromise am I gonna have to make when it comes to my uh personal uh service for God just because I want to get gain. That could be a a a weight that is slowing you down. Nothing wrong with your business getting game, but when it's a compromising your service for God. How about especially young people, guys or girls? I find that is a huge Wait, every decision is made through the lens of what that guy or what that girl thinks. That can be a huge problem. How about goals, certain goals you have in your life? I want to make X amount of dollars or or I want to be I want to live here or I want to be this kind of person or I want to do this kind of thing. Goals, uh all these things, whether it's Gifts, gold, gain, guys, girls, goals, try to say that ten times faster. Whatever it is, these are just getting you're thinking, hey, God wants me to lay some weight aside. I've got to be willing to do it. But you also gotta lay sin aside. I know I don't need to spend a lot of time on. this, but lay sin aside. Do you know that word laying aside means grabbing from here and setting it down? We often get focused, I know I need to get rid of sin in my life, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. I mean, we don't say that, but even I'm guilty of that. Are you kidding me? That's the most rudimentary portion of the Christian life. Get rid of sin. Okay, duh. We all know that. But what maybe focus on this. Why would we need to lay something aside? What would be the purpose of it? Because it's close to us. Realize that what what the writer Hebrews is saying is we often got this going up. Whether it's our weight or a sin, we're we're just kind of holding on to it. Yeah, I'm gonna be real with you. I I've I've dealt with sin. I've dealt with habitual sin And I get kind of get the shaky feeling when I know God's convicting my heart about something I need to get rid of. And I kind of uh loosen my grip just a little bit. My hands get uh proverbially sweaty. And I kinda tense up a little bit and I begin thinking it through and sort of rationalizing and uh you know uh uh uh and going back and forth on it a little bit. We all know what that is, but the writer of Hebrews is saying, you've got to lay it aside because it's nestled a little too close. You gotta pull that thing apart and just set it down and let it go. Not be so close to your heart. So we're talking maybe about some habitual sins. My pastor in Illinois used to say king sin. Sins that seem to set up throne in your heart, replacing the very throne that uh God that should be on the throne of your heart Very dangerous place to be. Lay aside that sin. You've got to lay it aside. So why why would we need to lay it aside? Well, thinking the terms of the race, right? That's what the picture is going on in Hebrews chapter. 12. There's a race going on. Well, duh, it's going to slow you down, okay? If you got uh something heavier and you're holding on to it, a soldier that's carrying another soldier. is not going to run that mile as fast as he would during training because he's got a little extra baggage and so forth. But it can also steer us from right I've uh been to a few quarter mile uh top fuel dragster tracks before. Has anyone ever been to a Top fuel dragster race, okay? So they're pr very impressive. Don't get caught in the NOS because that'll really uh it's not good, not fun. I did that, and uh you get real teary eye. But anyway These dragsters can now exceed, I'm told, 10,000 horsepower. Whereas they used to only be able to achieve 4,000 horsepower in the late 80s when I was born. So that's a huge improvement. But there's a problem with that huge increase in horsepower. There's an increasing sensitivity to weight distribution. So if the weight gets off just a little bit, we're talking just a few pounds from one side to the other, or additional weight is added to that top fuel dragster as it races down, then a lot of disastrous things can happen. It can knock that uh top through uh that the that uh dragster out of the boundary line. It can disqualify the racer and even probably far more disastrous than that It can send that race car into spirals and probably at that kind of speed certain death. What happens? What's going on there? Weight can also get a sidetrack. It can get us sent off. It can just not slow us down, but it can flat out get you out of the race of faith when you know you're slow. Maybe I'm talking to some folks in here tonight that if you were honest, you don't need to be honest with me You need to be honest with God. And you have gotten off that racetrack. You've been sidelined. You've been grabbed. You've been pulled. You've been topped and turned and flipped over and bruised and battered. And you're out of the race of faith. Can I just encourage you as plainly as I know how, get back into it. Run this race. Set the weight aside. It's uh I have to it can actually this uh not setting it aside, this laying aside this weight and the sin, it can stop us from reaching our goal. Um again back to marathon running. Runners will actually train with weights, but when it comes to the actual race, they will lose those weights. And the same thing um during a marathon runner They make sure that they know their track, they know where they're supposed to run, so that they don't get sidetracked and disqualified by going out of bounds. If a marathon runner steps one foot out of the boundary line, they are disqualified from the entire race. There is no exception whatsoever. And I'm thankful that when we kind of uh maybe step out of boundaries, God's willing to forgive us. and get back up where we're going. So when we're talking about running this race effectively, I understand this is very simple admonition from a very familiar verse, but we not only need to when it comes to running the race lean against Lay aside. But thirdly, I'd say looking ahead. You remember that marathon runner at the beginning? He said three things kept me on track and allowed me to succeed. The only reason I'm here today telling you about my the best world's best record And the last one he said, I always was looking ahead to the goal. I always had something in mind. For the Christian, Jesus Christ is our goal. You'll often hear, hopefully till the day I die in my prayer, God conform us more into the image of God. Jesus Christ. That ought to be your very motivation. When you run this race of faith, hey, listen very close. I can't say this enough, and I'm I can't be eloquent enough to say it properly. But Jesus Christ is the goal. Looking ahead, who's Jesus? Jesus, you realize the Bible says here, looking unto Jesus, who is what? The author and finisher of our faith. I love those terms. We've been studying some very dogmatic terms from uh in Bible doctrines with the team. When Jesus Christ gives this title to himself, when the Word of God ascribes to him, he's the author and finisher of our faith. Think about that, that Jesus Christ authored the very faith. that you live. I want you to also point out something um and I'm going to wind things down here, but I wanted to point out something that I just came across and thought about um while I was preparing for this this evening, that um it says, notice it says, let us run in verse 12, verse 1, let us run with patience what the race that is set before us. It's almost like this. If I were to go to this side of the room and begin pointing you out from the front row to the back, your race is going to be different than the next person. Not a lot of us realize that. In fact, a lot of us get in the get uh in trouble when we take a look at the track next to us and begin to look at that person who maybe has it a little bit differently than than we do. Um, they get to go downhill, I have to go uphill, and all sorts of things we get sidetracked with. Realize Jesus Christ, he's the author of your faith. I kind of think about it this way. I don't know the direct intentions of the writer of Hebrews, but I almost think Man, he's authored my very faith. My life. He knows the end from the beginning. What business do I to have to tell him what what's up and what he should be doing Jesus Christ is the author and finisher of our faith. And he knows all things. He knows the things. He's already done it. I think about finishing the faith. Jesus Christ kept that. Paul often prayed, hey, let me finish the faith, my faith, my race here with patience. God allow me to do this thing right. You know, saints of God. Folks that are a little bit more mature, I hope that your earnest desire is to just finish this race faithfully. And the same right on down to the young folks in this room tonight that we desire to run this race with faithfulness. Jesus Christ is the finisher of our faith. Philippians 3. 14, I quoted this at the beginning of our challenge. I press toward the mark, the finish line, for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Jesus Christ. is our finish line. Maybe you've gotten your eyes off of him. Maybe you say, what what did Jesus do that I don't understand? How is just saying Jesus Christ is is someone I'm supposed to be looking to. He is my goal. How does that help me? What's the practical? Well realize Jesus dying for you. The he points that out here. who um for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame. He sat down at the throne of God. But he the he writer of Hebrews is pointing out something Hey, Jesus Christ, He died for you. He went to the state for you. There's some people, men, women in history who died for the faith. Realize you can read the Fox's Book of Martyrs if you're prepared and you've got a tough stomach because let me tell you It's replete with testimony after testimony. You can go look up some hymn history of these men, these women. They had such a dynamic thing. They had their focus on Jesus Christ. Fanny Crosby, amazing, even though she couldn't see with her physical eyes, she had spiritual eyes that had better vision than most of us. And she got a hold of us I need to be looking under Jesus. There's something about that. He died for me. And that that helps me. That that motivates me, okay? I'm often patriotic and I'll Mentioned a lot of things regarding military. Okay, I was going to go into military once upon a time. And uh these men that sacrificed their lives just sort of makes me wanna Get up and make something of myself. You know what I'm talking about? Our generation kind of has lost that a little bit, but I just sort of want to not in a proud way, but stick my chest out, iron my clothes, and you know, do something. You know Man, they died for me. And I start hearing those stories put in and gotta wipe away some tears because these guys younger than I am giving their lives for me. Who am I? Jesus Christ went through unspeakable, disgusting things. And we just kind of We get so caught up with what we're doing. And oh, it's so tough. Hey, listen, I I realize I'm a very blessed man and I feel like I I I don't have any room to speak, but I I know folks are going through hard times. I respect that. That's why he says, look at Jesus. He died for you. He despised the shame. It wasn't a big deal, it's not as big a deal as what he knew it was to die for you. He wasn't even willing to say, hey, look at me, look what I did. No, no, no. He said, forget about that. I did it because I loved you. You know, I wrote it down some things. Why did he do this? To purchase your salvation, to prove his love, to provide an example. Plain and simple Every good runner is going to tell you the driving force behind any race is the finish line. What good is a start of a race without a finish line? That's ludicrous. It doesn't make any sense. sense. And that's what the Hebrews, writer of Hebrews is saying, is we've all hopefully in this room begun a race of faith. Now God wants to see you run it effectively. and finish it with everything you got. And here's how we do it by leaning against, by uh laying aside, and then by looking ahead on a regular basis. It was the summer of the 1968 Olympics in Mexico City. I'll finish with this. John Stephen Aquari Along with 74 others, we're gearing up for the Olympic marathon race. Approximately 12 miles into this race, maybe you've heard this uh testimony before, that's less than halfway. There was a jostling between some runners and he fell badly. He wounded his knee and his shoulder and his pavement he hit the pavement very hard. His leg was bleeding and his leg, his knee was severely disjointed. Um medical staff urged him to withdraw. However, Aquarke continued running the race less than halfway through this race. at this point. And it was actually a mix of walking and wobbling along, but he did the best that he could. The mar the winner of the marathon had finished the race in this time, two hours. 20 minutes 26 seconds while Aquarky finished well over an hour later three hours twenty-five minutes. 27 seconds. Could you imagine the grueling pain? By this time the sun had already set. Crowds began to dissipate. There were just a few that were left there at the finish line talking and so forth until they saw Quarky stumbling toward the finish line. Apparently with everything that he had, because the small little crowd got a little bit bigger and began cheering him hunt. As he got closer and closer, blood still pouring from his leg at this point, and the television crew diverted its attention remarkably from a uh medal ceremony that was just on the other side of the field and devoted all of its attention to this man as he courageously finished that race that he started. They interviewed him afterwards as a crowby died down just a little bit from its eruptor. Um they uh they asked Aquarki and he said they said, Why did you why did you continue running even though you were so badly inner injured? And he said My country did not send me 10,000 miles just to start a race. They sent me to finish the race. That's a remarkable feat by this man. Very few know the winner of that year's marathon race, but they remember the courage of this man, the perseverance. How about you, Christian, running this race of faith, this marathon of our Christian life? Are you running it faithfully Are you exhibiting that sort of courageousness? Remember, when when you when you're called to this race of faith, God's given you some things. He said there's some help along the way. You've got some people to lean against. You've got to lay aside And you need to look ahead. I want you to close your eyes, put your head down, similar to what we did this morning. And again, I'll uh keep it brief here, but I want to ask And just give an opportunity not just to hear God's word, we did that, but now's the opportunity to respond. Would anybody here just in a quick fashion would say, Pastor Brett, before I can succeed in this race of faith. I think I need to enter it. I'm not sure Jesus is my Savior. I know I asked that this morning. I know it's a slim, faithful crowd here this evening, but I want to still ask that question. Is there anybody that would just simply say, and I promise you could put your hand up, put back down. I'm not here to call you out. In fact, I won't do that that but is there anybody here that would say Pastor Brett I'm concerned I'm not saved I don't know Jesus as my Savior okay I'm going to move on to question number two. That is this, who would say, Pastor Brett, maybe varying degrees of folks in here tonight. Some have left that race of faith? Because of discouragement, sin, whatever it may be, that you say, Pastor, but God's either spoken to my heart to get back on that race of faith or to uh perhaps get involved in some of the these things. I've allowed some weight and some sin to sort of distract me. God, please help me in this race of faith. It was a challenge, maybe even encouragement, for some saints that have been doing it. Would you just raise your hand? Let me know. that? Great, great. Several around the building. Hey, I appreciate that. And I don't know what where your need is at today. And I I just know what God wanted me to preach. So let me encourage you. I'm going to pray like we did this morning. If God spoke into your heart, you can either come up front here, or I encourage you if you prefer just do business with God. Commune with God and let him know how he spoke into your heart. Father in heaven, I thank you for uh dear uh folks here tonight and their faithfulness. I pray for many hands that went up around the room, and my hand is included. I'm very burdened about running this race effectively and faithfully. Help all of us to take into account these things, these simple admonitions and encouragement along the way. And I pray in the moments ahead that as your people do business, that you meet with them. We ask in Jesus' name Amen. Miss Jennifer is going to play and I just encourage you