Hebrews chapter 11, I want us to notice this morning, verse number 23. Hebrews 11, verse 23. The Bible says, by faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents because they saw he was a proper child. And they were not afraid of the king's commandment. I want to speak this morning on the faith of Moses' parents. The faith of Moses' parents. Let's pray together. Father, I thank you, Lord, for the babies. Lord, these little children, and not just the little babies, the other kids downstairs and children's church and Lord the young people all around here. We just thank you for uh uh the youth that you've blessed our church with. And now, Lord, as we look into your word, I ask that you would speak to our hearts. I pray you'd challenge us. I pray you'd encourage and bless and instruct. Father, I yield my will to your will, and I ask that it would not be my reasoning or my thinking that would be presented, but Lord, that your word could pass through my lips. And it would be your thoughts, your purpose, your truths that I would speak. And so please take my will and and I yield it to your will. I present my body anew, dear Lord, in this hour. I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit, and that you speak through me, as I said, and help us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. I preached not too long ago, several weeks ago, from the book of Hebrews, I think it was chapter thirteen. And I said then that the book of Hebrews is one of my favorite books of the Bible, and that's hard to pick a favorite book. It seems like Whatever I'm studying at that time, that becomes my favorite for that time and then something else. But Hebrews all through the years, I've been fascinated with the book of Hebrews. Hebrews presents the Lord Jesus Christ as superior to all other creation. All the Old Testament ceremonies, the angels, the greatest archangels that God has, Jesus Christ, is superior to all. In the summer of 1993, God uh directed us back here to Oakland. We were living in Colorado. Doc Williams and I communicated back and forth a little bit about coming and taking the church. We were praying for the Lord's leadership and we came back, met the folks, and and uh got the go ahead from the Lord to come here and become pastor of the church. And there was several weeks in between. I think it was a month maybe in between from when we got the call till we actually moved here. While I was back in Colorado, I was praying. For the church and for leadership for wisdom. And the Lord laid on my heart Hebrews chapter twelve and verse number two a little phrase. That's become our church's motto all these years. Looking unto Jesus. Looking unto Jesus. That has been what we have endeavored to do all these many years is keep our church's focus on the Lord Jesus Christ. All of our ministries, all of our messages that we preach, every motive behind what we do, we want it to be done to the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ. We want him exalted. We want him preached. We want him declared. We want everybody within the sound of our, within the realm of our influence. to know of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what the book of Hebrews is about. Now we come to chapter number 11, and if you would notice back in chapter 10, come back. to verse 38 of chapter 10, we find the the penman, of course God being the author. We're not sure who the penman is. I have a sneaking suspicion it was Paul I think I'll get to heaven, uh, talk to Paul, say, did you pen Hebrews? I think he's gonna say, yep. I think that's what it'll say. And I I'm gonna say, I knew it. I knew it. I don't know. That's what I think. But look at verse 38. He says, Now the just shall live by what? Faith. The just shall live by faith. Assuming I'm correct that Paul is the penman, writing under the inspiration of God, he is challenging his audience, the people he's addressing, these Hebrews, he's challenged them. To live by faith, to trust God, have faith in God, live by faith. And then Hebrews chapter 11 picks up that thought. And he elaborates on it. And in Hebrews chapter 11, he defines what faith is. If you would look there, verse number one. In chapter 10, verse 38, he says, live by faith. Then verse 1 of chapter 11 says, now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. And then he goes on, and through the rest of the chapter, he gives a series of illustrations of Old Testament men and women Who did just that, who lived by faith. They acted upon their faith in God. And you come down through here and he lists scores, scores of people. Many of them, most of them we're very familiar with, live by faith, live by faith. God blesses the believer that lives by faith. Trust God. Take him at his word. Follow his instructions, heed his warnings, claim his promises. God blesses the believer that lives by faith. God is pleased with the believer that lives by faith You say, preacher, how can I as a Christian live my life in such a way that pleases God? How can I please God? Well, look at verse number six of chapter 11 with me. He says, For without faith it is impossible to please him. I believe that God is pleased. When we come to him, believing that he is, that he's a rewarder of them that diligently seek him, trusting him. When we live by faith, it pleases God. God rewards the believer that lives by faith. Lives by faith. Hebrews chapter 11 is emphasizing to you and I the importance of having faith in God. Faith is the only means of salvation. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8 and 9 says, For by grace are ye saved. Say it with me, through faith. That not of yourselves. It's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. The grace that saves a soul from sin in hell The grace that brings imparts eternal light to an old sinner, that grace is activated or applied through the faith Of the believer who puts their trust in Christ. You follow what I'm trying to say? May 7, 1979. I talk about it all the time. I knelt by my bed. And a conscious, I made a conscious decision that I was going to trust Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. I was exercising faith That what the Bible said about Jesus Christ dying on the cross for my sins, being buried and rising again, I was exercising a conscious decision to exercise faith in that what the Bible said about Jesus was true for me, and I trusted him. And that is what brought the grace that saved my soul. The grace that imparted eternal life. And of course my life's never been the same And for everyone here, you've trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. It was the placing of your faith in Jesus Christ that brought the grace that saved your soul. For by grace are we saved. Through faith, by means of faith, through the channel of faith, we put our faith in Christ. Would you agree with me? Faith is pretty important. I tell you I don't listen, I I got my hands full pastoring Malik Independent Baptist Church. I don't need to worry about other churches, what they're doing or not doing. But I'll say this, any church that teaches you can get saved by baptism is wrong. Any church that saves you get saved by your works, something you do, some ceremony or some ritual or some uh some uh last rites or Eucharist or whatever you want to call it, anything that smacks of works does not save a soul. It's faith. Faith in Christ is the means by which the grace of salvation is applied to the sinner Faith is the only means of salvation. Faith, Jesus Christ is the object of our faith. Looking unto Jesus. Putting our faith in Jesus. I've said it often. God's been awfully good to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. God's been awfully good to this old sinner. But I tell you, it's not because we're wonderful. It's because he's wonderful. And our faith is in him. We look to him to bless us and direct us and meet our needs and take care of us. And it is faith in Jesus Christ that He is the object of our faith, our salvation, our saving faith. Listen to Romans 3, verse 22. Listen to what it says. Even the righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe. What he's saying there is this is profound. And so you say, well, that's just deep theology. No, it's very practical, profound truth. How many people am I talking to this morning? You're saved to know it. Say amen. That means at some point in your life you recognize yourself as a sinner. You recognize that Jesus was the only way to be forgiven of our sins and saved from God's wrath on our sins and eternity in hell and have eternal life. And you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. That faith in Jesus Christ as the object of my faith That brings the righteousness of God to my account. If you'd have known me on Monday, May 7, 1979, during that day You just said, that is the sorriest piece of humanity I've ever seen in my life. But when I bow my knees and I put my faith in Jesus Christ, the righteousness of God was put to my account. And when God sees a believer, when God sees a saint, a child of God, he doesn't see us for how sinful we are. He sees us in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. As if we are as righteous as Jesus Christ. You say, Preacher, I know you, you ain't as righteous as Jesus Christ. Listen, I know me too. I'm even worse than what you think But if you go to God and say, What do you see when you see Jesus? What do you see when you see Dennis Leatherman? He'll say this, I see the righteousness of Christ. That's what makes you and I acceptable to God. And it is faith in Christ that makes that a reality. Faith, faith, faith. Faith is what activates, is the means by which grace is given. It's faith in Jesus Christ that makes us righteous. I was thinking, and I don't hold me, I uh uh this just came to my head while we were saying it a little bit ago And I think it's Isaac Watts, but don't hold me to this. But they made this statement. They said he he was elderly, his he his memory was going bad. Somebody was talking, he says, I don't remember a lot of things, he said, but I know this. I am an awful sinner, but I have a great Savior. And faith in Jesus Christ is what makes that possible. Faith, faith, faith is the only means of salvation. Jesus is the object of our saving faith. Genuine faith in God produces goodly works, godly works, produces good works. If you would keep your place here. Just turn a few pages back to the book of James. And notice with me, if you would, chapter 2 of James. You're in Hebrews. The very next book, as you go back in your Bible, you run into James. And in chapter 2 of James, he touches on this matter of faith and works. Now, I cannot emphasize strongly enough, we are not saved by our works. It is not what we do that saves us. By the way, we are not kept saved by our works. It's faith in Christ. Our faith in Christ saves us. But Faith in Christ produces good works. Look at chapter 2 and notice with me verse 14. What does it profit, my brethren? Now notice the wording here. There's some words that are very important to understand. What does it profit, my brethren, though a man say, I circled that word, though a man say he hath faith And have not works, can faith save him? Just saying, I have faith. If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace and be ye warmed and filled. Notwithstanding you give them not those things which are needful for the body, what doth it profit? And the answer to the question there is what? It doesn't profit them at all. Just saying that to them Words, empty words, are meaningless. If one of you, 16, verse 16, if one of you say unto them Or I'm sorry, verse 17, even so faith, if it hath not works, if all it is is just lip service, doesn't produce anything in my life, it's dead being alone. Now, here, look at verse 18. Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works. Now, here's the key. Show me thy faith. Without thy works, and I will show thee my faith. What's that next word? By my works. He's not saying works save you and I. He's saying that genuine faith in Jesus Christ is going to affect the way I live my life. And the evidence of a man or a woman's faith in Christ isn't just what they say. The evidence, the proof, the visual display of that faith is on how they live their life. You follow what I'm saying? The devils believe in God, but they're not saved. And how I live my life, and again, I want to emphasize this: my works, how I live my life, and these things, that's not what saves me. It's my faith in Christ that saves me. But when I put my faith in Christ, it affects me. And people look and say, oh. I see his faith displayed. I see his faith in how he lives and how he talks and his attitude, his treatment of others, and the places he goes and doesn't go. and the uh the lifestyle he lives, I see the effects of that faith in him. Are you with me? A person can live a godly life, quote unquote godly life, but if their faith isn't in Christ, it doesn't do them any good. It's the faith in Christ that produces that. So I'm emphasizing faith this morning. Faith. That's what Hebrews 11 is all about. Faith in God brings peace and hope to our soul. Let me just read it to you. Psalms 42 and verse 5. Listen to what the psalmist says. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted in me? That means troubled or upset. Why art thou disquieted in me? Hope thou in God For I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance. He repeats it in verse 11: Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God For I shall yet praise him who is the health of my accounts. Then in the next Psalm, verse Psalm 43, he repeats it again. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquiet within me? Hope thou in God. I tell you, when I put my faith in God, I'm trusting God, He gives me hope in life. I'm telling you, this old world without God is a hopeless world. A life lived without faith in God is a hopeless life. Well, you and I come, we put our faith in Jesus Christ, trust Him as our Savior, and then we live by faith Trusting God and following his instructions, heed his warnings. God gives us hope in life. He gives us hope. The importance of faith. The just shall live by faith. Again, faith in God activates the power of God in my life. The power of God. In Matthew 17, verse 20, Jesus told his disciples that they had faith as a grain of mustard seed. They could say to this mountain, be removed. Would you come? Anybody bring your Bible with you today? Let's go ahead and use it, all right? We got them. We might as well use it. Go to Mark chapter 11 with me, would you? Matthew, Mark, New Testament, of course. Chapter 11. Now we'll get back to Hebrews here in just a moment. Mark chapter 11, if you're in the habit of underscoring passages in Scripture, I highly recommend verse 22. It's just a simple little statement. But I'm telling you, verse 22 of Mark 11, carry me through Bible college. Look at verse 11. And Jesus answering said unto them, have faith in God. Then he elaborates. For verily, I tell you, when Jesus says verily, you better pay attention For verily I say unto you, that whosoever shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast in the sea, and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe Now, let me just caution here. This isn't a blanket promise that whatever I want, I just ask and believe I get it, I'm going to get it There are conditions in Scripture given. The prayers need to be in line with the Word of God. However, this is a tremendous promise that if I'll trust God I'll put my faith in God. His power is activated in my life that I can deal with the mountains that I have to face in my life. You follow what I'm trying to say? Faith in God gives us power, gives us ability. So let's come back and look at verse 23 of Hebrews 11. We're talking about faith. And in verse 23, he makes a statement here about Moses and his parents. By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hid three months from his parents because they saw he was a proper child. And they were not afraid of the king's commandment. I want us first of all consider the background of Moses' parents. Verse 23 is not talking about the faith of Moses. Did you notice that? It's talking about the faith of Moses' parents. The following verses, 24 down through 29, is talking about the faith of Moses. But were introduced in Hebrews to Moses through his parents, the faith of his parents. We go, and for sake of time, I wanted to go to all these verses, we won't, but Exodus chapter 6, verse 20, gives us a little bit of information about Moses' parents. We're given their names. We're not told a lot about them. We don't know a whole lot about Moses' parents, but we are told that his father's name was Amram. Amram. Exodus 6, verse 20. The name Amram means Friend of Jehovah. Friend of Jehovah. Now I don't know about Amram's parents, but apparently they loved the Lord. And when Amram, Moses' daddy, was born, they said, we're going to name him a friend of Jehovah. That tells me that he was most likely raised in a godly home. A home that feared God. A home that believed the Word of God. A home that trusted God A friend of Jehovah. He was born into a Levite family, we're told in Exodus. The Levites, of course, were the descendants of Levi, one of Jacob's twelve sons. They eventually became the priestly family, the tribe of Israel. They were the priests in the tabernacle later on and in the temple. It was a god uh for the most part a godly line Now here's the interesting thing, and again, I wish we had more time to go back into Exodus, but Exodus 6. 20 tells us, now this will catch your attention, I think. Amram married. His daddy's sister. He married his aunt. How many people say, well, that's different It's a little odd. In our culture, and of course in our time, it's frowned upon marrying within the family. Right? Now we're talking thousands of years ago, much earlier in the history of humanity, and though it wasn't super common, it wasn't unheard of. Sometimes they would marry a half-sister on occasion. Way back early in that way. Years ago I drove a bus route here. We picked up over um Across the West Virginia line, I shouldn't have said that. Um this boy, he's probably about 14 years old, he's riding the bus and he'd been riding pretty regular. And I'm driving the bus. My wife was on there and we're talking a little bit and he says, I got a girlfriend I said, is that right? And we're talking a little bit. I said, well tell me about her. He goes, yeah, she's my cousin. I said, uh, you might want to talk to your folks about that But nevertheless, Amram was married to his father's sister. He's married to his aunt. Her name was Jacob. Jacobed's name means Jehovah is glory. So she was raised, obviously, in a home. that knew the Lord, loved the Lord, and apparently was dedicated, much like what we had here a few moments ago, was dedicated to the glory of God, to live for God. To bring glory to Jehovah. Whatever the case may be, we don't know a lot about them, but we do know this. Amram and Jacobed were two just ordinary Jews. Just ordinary people. We see nothing exceptional about their intelligence or their education. I can find nothing exceptional about any natural gifts or talents or abilities they had. What I see in Moses' parents is an ordinary man And an ordinary woman that were living in incredibly difficult and dark days. They were slaves in Egypt. The Egyptian government was oppressing the Hebrews that were living as their slaves. They were afraid of them. And they oppressed them and persecuted and worked them to death, and eventually declared: every male child born is going to be murdered, forced abortion on every male child. Those were the days. That was the environment. That was the circumstances that Amram and Jacobed were living in. Nothing exceptional about them, gifted or educational. I don't see that they were extremely wealthy, they most likely were not in that circumstance. But I tell you something Jacobed and her husband Amram had. They had faith in God. They had extraordinary faith in God and his power and his ability to take care of them. Moses' parents were extraordinary in their faith, and God used both of them. Amram and Jacobed, ordinary folks, difficult times, difficult times. Yet they had faith in God, and God used them to birth. And eventually raise one of the greatest men that has ever walked this planet, Moses, the prophet of God. The background of Moses' parents. Number two, the boldness of Moses' parents. As I said, they were living in dark hours, dangerous days. They lived in what one commentator referred to as a culture of death. If Pharaoh had his way, all the Jews would have been decimated. They were hated. They were persecuted, oppressed. Every son that was born to a Hebrew in this time frame was to be cast into the river. Now the Egyptians worshiped the river as a god. And it is believed that his instructions, Pharaoh's instructions, To take these Hebrew boys, these uh Hebrew male infants, and cast them in a river was actually an act of sacrifice to the God of the Nile River That's the environment they lived in. Persecution is always rooted in fear Anytime a government persecutes its people, it's because that government fears its people of taking away its power. Now I'm not going to get political this morning, but I'm saying this. A government should never have too much power. The people should be free to worship, to live, to defend themselves And any oppression of that is because of fear on the part of the authorities of those whom they exercise authority over. That's exactly what was happening in Egypt. They were afraid of the Jews. Persecution in religion is always fear. You have one religion persecutes another religion, it's because they view that other religion as a threat. Biblical Christianity, hear this, biblical Christianity never has, and if it's true to the Word of God, never will, persecute another religion. But what we do is we preach the truth to other religions. We present the truth. The truth is what sets a person free. If you have a religion that says either you convert or you die, that religion is vulnerable, and that's why they present it that way. You follow what I'm saying Amram and Jacobed lived in a persecuted environment. Amram and Jacobed had to make a decision. The day came, and I pictured this in my mind, Amram comes to, or Jacob comes to Amram, her husband, and says, sweetheart, I'm expecting. Now put yourself in the environment therein. If that baby in that womb is a boy, It's going to be killed. Generally, the news of a child conception is a joyful thing I wonder in this circumstance how joyful it really was. Let's pray. Let's pray. Baby's born, it's a boy. What are we going to do? The law of the land says, turn that male infant over. Be cast in the Lisle. Do they have alligators or crocodiles? Crocodiles. They probably had both. Throw it in the Nile. The baby's destroyed. They got a decision to make. It's a boy. Are we gonna obey the government? Murder our child? Or are we going to trust God? They had to make a decision, one way or another. And by the way, notice it says verse 23, by faith Moses when he was born was hid three months of his parents. Plural. They were both on this. They got together and said, What are we going to do? And they both agreed, we're going to trust God. We're going to trust God. We will not obey a government order that is wrong. Well not do it. Well not do it. They trusted God. They decided they would trust God. Very seldom is it easy to trust God in difficult circumstances. Faith usually requires tremendous courage. To say it is better to obey God than man does not always come easy. And requires courage. Faith usually requires courage to do right to do right. They decided we're going to do right. We're going to trust God. We're going to have faith in God. I notice the persistence of their faith. Notice what it says there, verse 23. It says by faith, Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents. Now think about that with me. You've got their little baby boy, he's an infant, he's just born. Alright, we're gonna hide him. We are not giving him over. We're gonna hide him. And whatever the situation was, whatever, they had the little baby hid. And for a day, wasn't too bad. They could hide him. Two days, three days, a week, two weeks, a month Two months? It's getting harder and harder and harder. We're trusting God. God's going to take care of us. God's going to see us through this. God's going to help us. But day after day after day after day, and nothing changes. And it's the same circumstance and the same danger and the same threat hanging over them day after day after day. And I tell you, time is a tremendous test on faith. We can trust God for a day. But when those days turn into weeks, and those weeks turn into months, and sometimes those months turn into years, it is hard to be persistent in that faith. Am I right or wrong? They're trusting God, and they're trusting God, and there's no change, and there's no change, and there's no change, but we're trusting God. It's one thing to trust God for A few days but months become difficult Faith is trusting God regardless of circumstances, trusting God regardless of whether I understand or not. And time, waiting, waiting, waiting, waiting, without wavering in my faith. That's where the test of our faith is. Look at verse 27. Talking about Moses, it says, by faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured As seeing him who is invisible. Wonder where he learned that from. I wonder if it wasn't Amram and Jacobed. We just keep trusting God. He said, uh maybe uh Amram comes and says, Jacob had done it's uh another week's gone by and nothing has changed and the baby's getting bigger and he's getting noisier We'll just keep trusting God. We'll just keep trusting God. Just keep trusting God. Just keep trusting God. Their persistence of their faith, they endured. Means to remain strong, steadfast. I notice their perception of their faith. Look again at verse 23. When he was born, he was hid three months. Why did they hide him? Because they saw he was a proper child. In Acts chapter 7, Stephen is given the sermon and he's given an account of this. And he says he was a goodly child. Now some take that to mean that Moses was a very attractive, a pretty baby, a very good-looking baby. I don't believe that's what God means by this here. I think when they saw Moses, it wasn't say, oh, he's so cute, we've got to save his life. I don't know about you, but that would be very petty. Well, if he was ugly or not By the way, every baby when they're fur I've never seen a cute baby when it's first born. They look like raisins. Purple and I heard a black guy say one time, he says, You call us color, you're born purple, turn white, and Doesn't mean, oh, he's so cute and pretty, we're going to save him. I think what happened, this is me, and I've there's several Bible scholars suggest this also. I think somehow God had communicated to them that Moses was significant. There was a divine purpose for this child. And he was a proper child. He was significant. And so they hit him. Now that's not to suggest the other children were not. And I want to remind you this morning, every single child that is conceived is of tremendous value to our God. And has a purpose, regardless of the circumstances behind it. You say, well, I was born, I was a mistake. Listen, there are no mistakes with God. And every life is significant, and every life has a purpose, and every life deserves to live. Every child. I like what the choir sang open. Jesus loves the little children. But they saw that God had a plan. They saw that God had a purpose. Now, I don't know how they knew. I don't know how and if God even did tell them anything. Believe somehow they knew. And it prompted them to be bold in their faith. It prompted them to be courageous in their faith. Every parent ought to view your child as something incredibly precious. And that child deserves to have a parent, a mother, or father, whoever's responsible, somebody that has faith in God and says, I will stand and trust God. To raise this child up for the Lord. They saw, they had perception, they saw the value of their child Sometimes great faith waits for three months hiding it. Sometimes great faith has to act. And it came to a point where we have to do something. And we know the story, and we don't have time to delaborate on it, but finally they make the decision. We're going to build a little, what the Bible calls an ark. It's a little floatable bassinet type thing. They pitched it all around. It was a little ark, it's called, and put little baby Moses in there. And by faith, we're going to trust God and push that out. Didn't throw him in the Nile But pushed them out in a little arch in the Nile. And we know the story. Pharaoh's daughter sees, and there's interesting things about that, sees the baby, takes it in. hires uh uh Jacobed to raise and nurse the baby. God does a wonderful amazing work. They never dreamed What God would do. They had no idea when they pushed that little ark out in the in the Nile what was going to happen. God, we just trust you. Oh God, we just trust you. You'll be careful. We always think we know what God's going to do, and I found that so often God does things we never even dreamed of. What amazing story. The product of their faith. Look with me at verse 24. By faith, Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. That phrase, come to years, means when he became a man. And I am convinced this morning that Moses was the man that Moses was because of the faith of his mother and father. And their willingness to stand against what was wrong, not fearing the king's command. Now, if you would, come down to verse. Look at verse 23, the last part. They were not afraid of the king's command. Come down to verse 27. Look at this. Look at the wording. Not what Fearing the wrath. Where do you think Moses learned not to fear King Pharaoh? I'll tell you where he learned from his parents. From his parents. You know where a child learns to pray? Generally? From his parents. Every child ought to have parents that pray. Amen? You know where a child comes to fear and respect the Word of God? From their parents. Generally, from their parents. My father. My father lived in the word of God. There was no doubt in my mind from a small child that the Bible was God's Word. I learned that from my daddy. From my mother. The product of their faith produced a tremendous man of God. I'm convinced Moses' faith Moses' great faith in God and leadership in Israel can be traced back to the great faith of his parents. Now I want to leave you with this. Let's fix our faith in God. We live in a world that looks to the government for everything. And I'm being honest with you, I'm getting a little concerned about Christians who are looking to the government to solve our problems. I don't care which party you're talking about Our hope is not in the Republicans, the Democrats, or the Independents. Our hope is in Christ. Hello. And don't be comparing politicians to Jesus Christ. Please. Our hope is in. Let's fix our hope in God Our faith in God. Let's build our faith in God's Word. I want to challenge you. Spend time every day as a believer. Spend time every day in God's Word. Read it. Take it in. Meditate. Memorize it. Ingest it into your heart and soul. And then let's display our faith to our children. I pray. That our children, when we're gone, can look back and say, my daddy had faith in God. My mother had faith in God. They taught me to trust God, to love His Word, to live for Him. Live for Him. I read about a French sculptor. I don't know nothing about this guy. I just came across him His name was Rodin, R-O-D-I-N. Apparently he was a phenomenal sculptor. He makes statues and um uh what do you do carve statues? What do you chisel him? Did you ever make statues, Doc? No. Anyway, this guy was a sculptor. And they say he was very, very gifted. And they say he carried around in his pocket a little statue. That was phenomenal detail. And they said he would, this rodin fellow, would carry this little sculpture everywhere he went, and when he was working on something, he'd get it out of his pocket. And he'd look at it. And he said it encouraged him by the exquisite beauty of it as he worked on his statue. That little sculpture encouraged them. What I'm trying to illustrate here is this. Let's as parents Let's be an example to our children of what faith in God is like. And they can look to mama and they can look to daddy and say, that's what it means. To trust God, to have faith in God. I'm convinced Moses was the man he was because of the faith of his parents Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I pray you'd take these thoughts and challenge us and help us. I pray for these little babies that we've Met here a few moments ago and all the youth. And you would help us as adults to leave a testimony, to be an example, to be something they can pattern To be a Christian, they can pattern themselves after, their faith after. Help us to establish that home Bible reading and prayer. The godly atmosphere. Lord, we need it so bad. Wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I want to be a testimony. I want my life To be a testimony of what a Christian is, so that others could see and learn and be encouraged. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Sure, what Christian wouldn't feel that way Now maybe there's some of us we need to make some adjustments. Maybe we need to get in that book like we ought to. Maybe we need to uh make some rearrangements in our life and our priorities, our schedules, or what we do and don't do. I wonder if there's someone say, preacher, pray for me. I need to make some adjustments in my life as a Christian. I want to be that testimony. Is there any like that? Preach and pray. There are some things I need to address in my Christian life. God bless you. Hands all around I wonder how many of our church folk would commit to pray for the youth of our church. That they would grow and be strong in the Lord. I'm sure all of us would. I'm sure. Maybe there's some here this morning say, Preacher, I've never trusted Christ as Savior. I don't know for sure. My sins are forgiven. When I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm saved. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me, that God will help me get that settled. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I can get my salvation settled. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask, in Jesus' name.