Consider Ronald Reagan one of the greatest presidents in all of history. It was my privilege to vote for him. The very first president I voted for is uh nineteen eighty uh I was able to vote for uh uh Ronald Reagan. He made this statement about the Bible. He said, within the covers of the Bible are the answers for all the problems men face And I agree with that statement wholeheartedly. Within the covers of the Bible are all the answers, or are the answers for all of the problems. that men face. That is absolutely true. I don't know what you're going through. I don't know what situation you may find yourself in this morning. I don't know what issues or challenges you may be dealing with today, but I know this. The Bible has the answer, and the Bible has direction for every single situation we face. Every single challenge we have to deal with. The Bible gives us instructions on what to deal with. Now, we mentioned this in a message recently. The Bible doesn't give specifics a lot of times on the various situations we can face. They're innumerable. But what the Bible does give us is principles that we can study and learn, and then apply those principles to our situation, and then God leads us through us and God helps us. So uh when the president said uh President Reagan said that the Bible contains the answers for all the problems men face, he is absolutely right. The greatest gift that God has ever given to mankind is the precious Word of God, the Bible. Without the Bible, we would not know of Christ. Without the Bible, we would not know of God's holiness. We would not know of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible uh is without a doubt the greatest gift that God has ever given to us. Let me make a few statements by way of introduction about the Bible. I'd say first of all this morning, the Bible is a powerful book This is a powerful book. Listen to Hebrews chapter four and verse number twelve. The Bible says, For the Word of God is quick and powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit and joints and matter, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. The Bible is a powerful, powerful book. You can take the most hardened atheist. You can take the most hardened unbeliever. And this book is able to melt the hardest heart and convert the coldest soul. Um, I was r uh saw recently I was reading an article recently about uh street preacher was out in California somewhere, one of the cities out in California. And you stand on a street corner and he was just preaching the gospel, and I think you had an illustration there, and people were engaging them in debate and and going back and forth. And there was one fellow there that was absolutely Uh I don't know the what word to use other than just hateful is the way he was described. And he was hard, he was bitter against God in the Bible, and every statement that preacher made he challenged Every truth that was given out, he refuted, and seemed like the hardest unbeliever you would ever imagine. Well the article went on, and lo and behold, about five years later, that same team of Christians that were out doing street evangelism or uh some other city somewhere, and they came across, and here's a fella standing on the street corner preaching the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ And one of them said, that fella looks awfully familiar. And they had some video of the the the the event that took place earlier that I mentioned where the sky was challenged and everything And they got it out and they got looking at it, and lo and behold, the fellow that was so hard, challenging their message of the gospel, is now on the street corner preaching the very same gospel. You know what that is? That's the power of the Word of God. And they went up and talked to him. He says, Yep, that was me. You're right. They showed him. He said, that was it. So what happened? He says, you know what you guys said just bugged me and bugged me and bugged me. And he went on to a little more detail and he told how he had trusted Christ eventually and now he was out sharing the gospel with others. This is what I'm trying to say. This book is a powerful, powerful book. Powerful. It can change lives. It can melt the heart. You say, preacher, I've got a family member so cold against God, so hard against the things of the Lord. Tell you what, you just graciously, kindly give them the word of God. You pray that God uses that. I'm telling you, this book is able to change their heart and melt that hard, hard heart. A number of years ago, every April, we we uh we declare April to be track month. And uh many of you familiar with this. We uh uh set a goal to give out so many gospel tracts through the month of April. And I mean we just go after it. And I like to take these road trips on Saturdays. We'll go to different cities and just saturate that area with gospel tracts. A number of years ago we were in Morgantown, as we always do every year, and in the in the dormitories and the apartments all around the university there. I love going to those. And uh we'll just saturate gospel tracts, give them out to people and leave them out So we were there one Saturday, about 2 o'clock, 2. 30 in the morning. It's probably about 2. 30 in the morning. My phone's beside my bed, and I have the church phone forwarded to my cell phone. So my phone's beside my bed and it starts buzzing. Well, I'm sleeping and I hear this my phone's buzzing and I'm trying to figure out are there bees attacking me? What is this sound? And I'm in a stupor and By the time I figure out what's happening, the phone's buzzing, I get over and I reach and grab it to answer it, and they hung up before I could answer it. So that's what I said. And um So I I looked on there and I looked at the number because you know in the middle of the night could be emergency or something. I looked on there and it was a West Virginia number. I didn't know I didn't recognize the number, it was a West Virginia number. And I thought, well Everyone in that West Virginia's nuts anyway. So uh I just uh I'm joking sort of. But um Anyway, I put it down. I thought, well uh and I'm trying to think, what should I call him back? And about that time my phone went Bing Oh, voicemail. They left a message. Oh, I better listen to that. So I plug it in. I listen. And as soon as it comes on the the the recorded message, you could hear this loud rock music just blaring And you could hear a lot of people, it's kind of like, and uh a voice comes on and says, I got to my apartment just now and I found your little literature you left on my door. And the guy's laughing and just carrying on. He's having a hoot. And he begins reading the gospel tract that we had left at his door. He begins reading it to me. He just starts reading it. And I knew which tract it was. We'd given out about two, three thousand of them that day. And he starts reading his way down through that. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. And we're sinners and we need and it comes down through. And there was a quote from the Bible where it says it says, It is appointed unto men once to die And he got down to that verse, and he's reading it to me on recording it on the voicemail. It is appointed unto men once to die. It is a fact. You will someday die. And he read it just that way. Click. You know what I think happened? I think God used the word of God to stop that boy right in his tracks. It was a joke. It was funny. Religion, God, Satan. God. Now I don't know whatever happened. I never heard anymore. I have no idea who that boy was, young man. I would like to believe that God's Holy Spirit has and continues to work on his heart. Maybe someday he'll come to know Christ as Savior. What am I saying? I'm saying this book is a powerful, powerful book. It can melt the hardest heart. It can change the most messed up life. It has the answers for every situation you and I will ever face. The Bible is a powerful book. The Bible is a pointed book. What do I mean by that? By this. It points to the Lord Jesus Christ Every chapter of this book points to the Lord Jesus Christ. Every book of the Bible. Jesus Christ is the central figure of the Word of God. From Genesis to Revelation. Jesus Christ is spoken of or pictured in one way or another in every book of the Bible. When you read your Bible, and I like to recommend to folks to read their Bible from Genesis to Revelation at some point in your Christian life Just get through where you're reading that Bible all the way through, every book. And uh when you do that, I challenge you, you look for Jesus Christ on the pages of the Bible. You'll find them in picture or in illustration or typology, in some way, Jesus Christ is all through there. So the Bible's a powerful book. The Bible's a pointed book. This is what I wanted to get to. Number three, the Bible's a personal book The Bible is a personal book. It deals with us individually. It deals with us personally. I remember uh back when uh I got saved in nineteen seventy-nine, the months leading up to my uh decision to accept Jesus Christ as Savior in May, those months, January, February, March, April I had been praying, asking God to help me. I'd made such a mess. I'd made such a mess. And I would pray, God help me, and and God impressed in my heart to read my Bible. And I would read my Bible. And here's the amazing thing. And this still stands out in my mind 30-some years later. As I would read that Bible many times, three, four o'clock in the morning, out all night, come in, and I lay there under conviction, knowing I needed Christ, I'd open that Bible and I would read it. And I'm telling you, it was like God just wrote that book that day directly to me. And I would read that and I thought, God is speaking to me. This is written to me. And such conviction would set in and such awareness of the fact I needed Christ and such an awareness of the fact of what a sinner I was. And I'm telling you, that book spoke directly to my heart and my situation. That is a personal book. God takes it and applies it to each of us individually, personally. I don't know how many times. I could write books, no doubt On the times I preached a message, maybe just a simple message, maybe a message I felt like wasn't that great. Maybe it's I felt like maybe I laid an egg or something. That was a bomb And I'd be in the back there and shaking hands and people would come by and they'd say something like this, Preacher, you really dealt with this situation in my life right now. And I thought, I never said that. I didn't even preach about that And somebody else come up and say, Preacher, this really helped me in this area of my life, and this area, this, that, and the other. You know what I realized? Didn't take me long, I realized. God takes his word and he applies it to every one of our hearts in various different ways. And God may speak the one heart one way in a message and another heart and another way in a Bible message, and God applies this to our lives. Now there's only one interpretation of each scripture, but there are many, many applications. And the Holy Spirit of God will apply it to our lives in so many different ways. So many different ways. That is a powerful book. It is a pointed book It is a personal book, Billy Sunday. How many people recognize the name Billy Sunday? Old preacher back in the early 1900s. Baseball player, professional baseball player, played for the p play for the private uh the the privates. Pittsburgh Pirates uh played for them for many years. Boy, they could use them again. But um uh he got saved out at the uh uh gospel mission in Chicago and became a great evangelist. God used them all across this country. Preached powerful uh uh citywide revivals and and many many millions saved. He made this statement. Listen and uh he he was pretty straightforward. He was kind of uh rough in his preaching. He said this the reason you old sinner hate the Bible It's because it knows all about you. You know what? It's a personal book. That book knows all about me That book moved. How many how many folks here? How many Christians here? Did you ever read your Bible, maybe in your morning devotions, and it's like that verse just jumped off the page and said, hey, screaming at me, that is what you're dealing with. Anyone know what I'm talking about? It's a personal book. It deals with us personally. Now, you say, what does that have to do with Romans 8. 28? I said all that to say this I look at Romans 8. 28 as the greatest promise to the Christian in all the Bible. Now somebody else might say, preacher, I think there's another verse is the greatest promise in all the Bible for the Christian. For instance, some people might suggest John 10, 28 might be the greatest promise in all the Bible for the Christian. John 10. 28 says this: and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. God says that those he gives eternal life to will never perish. They will never die and go to hell. Now, how many people agree with me? That's a great promise for a Christian. Praise the Lord. I hold on to that Someone else might suggest, preacher, I think the greatest promise to the Christian is Jeremiah 33. 3, God's phone number. Call unto me and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Some might say, Preacher, there's a promise of God that he'll answer prayer. I can call on him, he'll do things I can't even imagine for me. How many people agree with me? That's a great promise. Sure, maybe for some that would be the greatest promise in all the Bible. For others, John 10, 28. Maybe someone else would uh say, no, preacher, I think Matthew chapter six and verse thirty-three It's the greatest promise in all the Bible. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things will be added unto you. Someone might say, Prazer, I think that promise there, if I just put God first and I'll trust and obey him, God will meet all my needs. By the way, Matthew 6. 33, I claimed that verse many years all through Bible college, and I can hear testify firsthand, right from the horse's mouth Horse's mouth. Um uh uh that verse is true. I've proven it. I had a Bible years ago, and anytime I had a verse that I experienced was true, that that I knew it was true because the Bible said it, but a verse that I experienced was true, I put a little P beside it, and what I meant by that was proven God's proven that true in my life. God's proven that true. Matthew 6. 33 is true. So somebody might say, preacher, Matthew 6. 33 is the greatest, greatest promise to Christian in all the Bible. Others might say Hebrews 13 verse 5. I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Man, what a great promise that is. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. Isn't it a great thing to know that God will never ever leave his child? We used to teach little children, I've Taug I've shown this here many, many times, but when I was young, I worked with a Child Evangelism Fellowship. We did backyard clubs in nineteen eighty-one all through Uh the North Philadelphia area, we'd go through neighborhoods, we'd gather kids together. We do four or five a day for about six, eight weeks through the summer We get the kids in on a daily basis for one week, for an hour time. We get them all in. We tell them a Bible story, a missionary story. And uh we teach them this verse, and when they trusted Christ as Savior, we would do this with them. Many of you saw me do this before. Hebrews 13, 5. Jesus said, I will never leave thee. So we have all the little kids that had trusted Christ. Part of our discipleship with them was get their hand out. Come on now, get your hands out. Everybody say get your hand out And uh we'd have them do this. Say it with me. Jesus said, I will never leave thee. Alright? Did everybody do it? Point to the person that did not do it. No, I'm kidding. Don't do that. Let's do it again. Here we go. Ready? Jesus said, I will never leave thee. Alright, so we get him down to do that. Then we would say, alright, now we're going to change it. We're going to personalize it. Jesus said, and then we'll tell him you say this, I will never leave Dennis. I said you put your name there. So we get it all out. Here we go. Ready? I will never leave Dennis. No, don't say Dennis, say your name. This crowd is no different than the first graders You agree with me? That's a great promise, isn't it? Person that trusts Jesus Christ as Savior, God promised he will never leave them. He'll never forsake us. So there's the Bible's a personal book. God uses different passages in our lives and different times in our lives, but I want to suggest to you this morning, at least in my mind, Romans 8. 28 is the greatest promise that a Christian, that God gives to a Christian. All things work together for good. To them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. What a promise What a promise. Now let me back up here a little bit and say this. There's some wonderful promises. Now these ones I mentioned are to the Christians. But I want to say this. There's some wonderful promises to the unsaved also. You say, oh, God doesn't promise unsaved people anything. Oh, yes, he does. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but of everlasting life. Isn't that a great promise for an unsaved person? Understand as a as a sinner, God loves me and died for my sin, was buried, rose again, if I believe on him, receive him as my Savior I'll have everlasting life and I'll not die and go to hell. What a great promise. I'll tell you another good promise for the unsaved is Romans ten thirteen. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved There's two key words in that verse. The first one is whosoever, that's anybody in the whole world. Now listen, don't you fall for this little teaching going around That God chooses some people to be saved and some people to go to hell. Oh, no, no, no. God wants all men to be saved. Jesus died for everybody. And just because he died on that cross doesn't mean everybody's going to heaven, but everybody can be saved. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord. And the next word in that verse, that's a great promise to the unsaved, is whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Not might be, not hopefully will be, not can be, but absolute promise shall be saved. And so there's a lot of great promises there. As I said, Romans 8. 28, at least for me, is one of the greatest promises, if not the greatest promise to all Christians. Now let's look at this real quickly. I just want to make a few observations from Romans 828. And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God To them who are the called according to his purpose. The first thing I notice here is that this is a certain promise. The certainty of this promise. Notice the first few words there. And we know. Doesn't say and we think. Don't say and we hope. Says and we know. I looked up how that word no is used throughout the Bible. It has this idea to be to confidently understand that something is true. And we confidently understand that the following statement is true. We know this We don't hope it's true. We don't think it's true. We don't wish it will be true. We know It's the idea of somebody that has already experienced it and they are absolutely confident that this is the case. This is a certain promise, the certainty of this promise. The Christian faith. Is a no-so faith. Follow what I'm saying? The Christian faith is not a hope-so faith Salvation is, and we've got to be very, very clear in this, salvation is not a hope-so salvation. It's not a think-so salvation. Salvation is I know that I'm saved. I know Christ has saved me. That is what salvation is. If you would, if you if you got how many folks brought your Bibles today? Got your Bible? Listen, we got them here. We might as well use them, right? So let's look at some verses here. Go with me, if you would, to 1 John chapter 15. Not the Gospel of John 1 John, back towards the end of your Bible there. You get the revelation. You're at the end. Back up a little bit. You get the 1 John. Little ways. And chapter number five. Christians ought to be very, very familiar with this passage of Scripture. I highly recommend you underscore this in your Bible. Commit this passage. to memory. First John chapter five. And um I want to reign reading. Let me get here. Uh first John I want to begin reading in verse number 11. And this is the record that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Let me just stop and say this. Eternal life is not found in the church. Eternal life is not found in baptism. Eternal life is not found in any good work I do. Eternal life is found where In Jesus Christ, the Son of God. So he's making that very, very clear. Verse 12. And he that hath the Son hath life, hath this eternal life. And he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. Very clear-cut distinction. These things, now here's what I'm getting to. These things have I written unto you. That's this passage of Scripture and really the whole Bible by application. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life. God gave us the Bible so that when we believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, our personal Savior, we can know that we have eternal life. Not hope we do, not think we do, that Maybe in the end it'll all work out and somehow I'll end up with eternal life. No, we can know that. All God's people said, Amen. That's a great thing. What I'm trying to say is this Christianity is a no-so s uh is a no-so faith. Salvation is a no-so salvation If you're here this morning you say, Preacher, I hope I'm saved. I hope I end up in heaven. I hope I don't go to hell. I hope God will forgive me all my sins. Well, I hope so too, but I'm here to tell you, God, you can know that God Saved you from hell and given you eternal life, forgive your sins by trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. That's why He gave us the Bible. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of Sag. That you may know that you have eternal life So, no-so come down, look at verse 15 of this same chapter. Here's another no-so. And uh verse 14. And this is the confidence that we have in him. That if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. And if we know that he heareth us, what shall we ask? We know. That we have the petitions we desire of him. Here's another no-so aspect of our Christian faith. And this is this if I ask something according to the will of God, I know God hears me and God will answer Listen, we don't have to hope that God answers prayer. We don't have to wish that God answers prayer. I'm here to tell you, God answers prayer. We know that. You say, well, preacher, I prayed for something and God didn't do what I asked. No, sometimes uh how many people I'm going to give you something profound. You're going to be glad you came. God knows more than you and I. Seriously? Anybody anybody here ever had your child ask you for something that was dumb? Anybody? And you say, I'm not doing that. Are you crazy? Listen, God's a good daddy. And sometimes we ask for dumb stuff. And God, in his love for us, in his wisdom, says, uh no, we'll do something else. How about that? Dad, can I play out in the middle of the road? Now I don't remember I boys ever asked them something exactly that, but they asked stuff just about that dumb. You know what I answered them. Uh yeah, there you I answered and said, No. No, you're not going to play in a road. So you say, uh, but I'm here to tell you, my point is this, God answers prayer. If I ask anything according to his will, we know that he heareth us And so Christianity is a no-so salvation. We could look at other passages, John 14, 1 through 6, we know Jesus Christ is coming back again. We don't hope. Oh, I hope Jesus comes back someday. You don't have to hope we know he's coming back someday. Now we don't know when. We sang a little bit ago Um maybe morning, maybe noon, maybe evening, it may be soon, it might be soon, it might not be soon, it might not be for another hundred years. But man, uh I know he's coming back at some point We don't think so. We don't hope so. We know Jesus is coming back. The Bible is very clear. We know Jesus is the only Savior. Nobody gets to heaven except through the Lord Jesus Christ. So we come back to our text here, our greatest promise for the Christians, and it says, We know that all things work together. That is a certainty. As a Christian, I don't have to say this Well, I hope this all works out okay. Anybody ever say everybody anybody ever been there? Oh, what a mess. Oh, I hope somehow this works out No, no, no. This verse tells me we can say this. I know this is going to work out for good one way or another. And we know. So there's a certainty. This is a certain promise. I put this down, number two, it's a comprehensive promise. And we know that, what's the next two words? All things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the call to according to his purpose. And we know, that's a certainty, we know this is true. I know this is true. That all things, that's comprehensive. All things. Some Christians, if they were writing this verse, they would write it this way. And we know that some things work together for good. Some Christians would write it this way, and we know that a few things work together for good. I know a few Christians, so negative, they'd write this. And we know that every now and then one or two things might work out for the good. But God says this, and we know that all things Every single individual, event, circumstance, issue we face, every single one of them. Works out for good to them who love God, to them who are the call to according to his purpose. It is comprehensive. All our afflictions, every single you say, preacher, I don't see any way anything good can come out of this then you're not reading your Bible right. This Bible says all things work together for good. Preacher, this uh uh every single one of our afflictions, every single one of our trials, every single one of our disappointments Hey, let me put this down. Every single one of our failures work together for good to them that love God, to them that are called according to the purpose of God. I know one thing true about every Christian. There's not one single Christian that doesn't fail God at some point or another, some degree or another. And that verse, all things, includes our failures Now that doesn't give us an excuse to be presumptuous and just say, well, it doesn't matter. God will work it out somehow. We're not done with the verse yet. But he is saying this, it doesn't matter what you're dealing with, doesn't matter what you're facing, doesn't matter what the issue is, God, God is bigger than any circumstance I can ever get myself into God is greater than any problem or challenge I will ever face. And He can take whatever trial I have, He can take whatever challenge I face, He can take whatever failure I've had And God is all powerful, and he can take that and turn that around and bring good out of that. All things. work together for good. So number one, it's a certain promise, and we know it's a comprehensive promise I wrote this down. I don't know where I came across this. I wrote this down. God is not intimidated by anything. Anybody here ever face something a little intimidating? Yeah. We did the self-defense class, uh we did it yesterday. That's why I'm all crippled up today. But um I didn't know it was so hard to beat people up But uh some time ago we did it and I was paired up with Lonnie Lewis. I'm supposed to take him down and pin him. That is what you call intimidating. Um God's never intimidated. Never. You say, brother, if you knew the situation I've got myself in, what a mess, there's no way this anything can good come out of this. Hey, God's not intimidated by that. God can turn that around. God can work that out. Listen, you would oh, you wouldn't believe how the devil messed things up. Oh yeah, God's greater than the devil. God can take that devil and use his devilry and turn that thing around and bring good out of it. Devil thought he had Jesus when he na uh when he killed him, had him on the cross, but God says, oh yeah, I'll just rise him up from the dead. Huh? All things work together for good. So, number one, it's certain. Number two, it's comprehensive. Number three, I want us to notice the content of this promise. And we know that all things And we know certainty that all things comprehensive work together for good. That is the content of the promise. That's what the promise is. All things work together for good. Now there's a very important word in that phrase there, in my mind, at least. That word together. It doesn't say all things worked for good. It says all things worked together for good. The idea is this. all the events that are taking place, all the various aspects of my circumstances, all the different issues that that I deal with in my life. God works them together. He incorporates them all together, and out of that mix, he produces good. An event in and of itself might not be good in and of itself, but God works it together Together with the other aspects, and he brings out of that good. You follow what I'm saying? Um uh uh for instance, I like biscuits. I like homemade biscuits. Kathy makes some pretty good biscuits. How many people here like biscuits? Well I got some attention right now. Some people woke up. What? Biscuits? Huh? I love biscuits. I don't eat them as much as I used to, but uh I like biscuits. Um uh but when you're gonna and I'm not a cook, but I I looked this up and I found out when you're making biscuits you need some yeast. Right? Am I right? Chefs? You need yeast if you're gonna make biscuits. Um I j uh I've don't don't answer negative. Just play along with me, okay? No matter what I say, just agree. Uh so all right we're gonna make biscuits, here's some yeast. First they get some yeast. And Kathy's making she gets the yeast out. I'll walk over. Yeast, I love biscuits, and yeast is in biscuits. I'm going to taste some of that yeast. You know what I found out? I hate yeast. Yuck And then uh she gets up and she gets the drawer and she gets some flour. Alright, we're gonna need flour to make these biscuits. Oh, I love biscuits. Flour's in biscuits? I'll take some flour. Get a scoobbled. I hate flour. It's disgusting. Uh and then she's all right we're mate. I love biscuits though. And then she gets some salt out. Gets the big salt. We're gonna have to put some salt in here. I like biscuits. There's salt in biscuits. I'll take some of that salt. Take a big old spoonful I hate salt. And then she gets some uh I don't know if baking powder Alright, we gotta put I love biscuits. There's baking powder in biscuits. I'll take some of that baking powder. I hate baking powder Now each and every individual ingredient in and of itself is yucky. Right? Nobody wants to eat just flour. What's for what's for lunch? Flour. But you take all of that together and work and what she does, she takes each of those ingredients and she works it together. And out of that comes a biscuit, and I love biscuits. And God says all things work together For good. The individual and then in and of itself somebody does something very, very hateful. That isn't good. I fail God in some way and I get caught up in something and I make some decisions that are sinful decisions or take some actions that are sinful actions. That in and of it that's not good. He doesn't say all things are good. He says all things work together for good. Together for good. Take your Bible, if you would. I want us to go to another passage. The very first book of the Bible, Genesis. First book of the Bible, last chapter of the first book of the Bible, we have Joseph. And in Genesis chapter 50. Joseph is number two in command of Egypt. Now we know the story. The famine. Joseph interprets the Pharaoh's dream, and he's put up in charge of the whole country, basically, and seven years of good, plenty, and then seven years of famine. Now that notice in verse number, I think it's 49, uh chapter 50, no, verse uh 20. Genesis chapter 50, verse 20. But as for you, now he's being addressed by his brothers. They had done things, and I'll go back and go through this. He's addressing his brothers here. And he says this: But as for you, ye thought evil against me But God meant it unto good, to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save much people alive. The margin of my Bible, beside that verse, I put Romans 8. 28. You know what Joseph was doing? He was saying the truth of Romans 8:28. You meant it for evil, but God worked all things together for good. Now let me ask you a question Back early on, when Joseph's brothers became very jealous of him because of his father's favoritism, was that good that these brothers be jealous of him? No, that's sin. That ingredient in and of itself was not good, the brothers being jealous. A brother ought never to be jealous of another brother. However, God blessed him. They got to the point where they hated Joseph. Question, his brothers hating him. Was that good? No, that wasn't good. That was sin. His brothers attempting to murder him. That wasn't good. That's sin. Selling him as a slave to Egypt and lying to Daddy about it, saying some beast killed him on the way and this covering up uh uh uh setting up the evidence with blood on his coat and convincing daddy that he was dead, that he was killed by a line or something. That wasn't good. That was a lie Uh being falsely accused by Potiphar's wife, falsely accusing him of trying to rape her. That wasn't good. That was a lie. Joseph thrown in prison unjustly, innocent man in prison for a number of years. That wasn't good. Butler and the baker forgetting about him and leaving him in there for years. That wasn't good. In and of itself, any one of these events, in and of themselves, were not good. But God worked them all together To produce some good and save millions of lives. Be a beautiful picture of the Lord Jesus Christ and reunite the family together. What God is telling us in Romans 8:28 is whatever that situation that you may be dealing with, that immediate situation, that in and of itself may not be a good thing. He's not saying this is good But what he's saying is he can and will work that together with other things, and out of this some good will come. It's not good that some drunk gets through behind the wheel and drives and goes through a car uh red light and smashes in and kills a young family. That in and of itself isn't good. That's horrific But God is saying he can take the most horrific issues and situations, and he can bring good out of that. He can bring so much. They work together. That's an important phrase. How many people remember the story of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego? King sets up an image, says, when you hear the music playing, you've got to bow down the image. That's not good. That's blasphemy. That's idolatry. That's pride. That's not good. Uh the boys say we're not gonna bow down to that, we worship God. Well, praise the Lord, that was good But then coming in and throwing them in a thing, that wasn't good, but I tell you what, God took their stand and all the hatefulness of the king and the and the people there and throwing them in the fiery furnace. God worked all that together good. And you know what those boys found out? Shadrach, Meshach, and Abend, you know what they found out? They found out that Jesus Christ was right there in the fire with them. They found out that God could get them through a fire and not even smell like smoke when they come out of it. So God took things that in and of themselves were not good, but they worked together And produced good. And produced good. Am I making sense? So God says that there is a the content of this promise, that's a comprehensive promise, all things It's a certain promise, we know, but the content of it is God takes the various aspects Various things that in and of themselves are not necessarily good, but he works them together to bring out some good. Does anybody here recognize the name Joni Erickson Tada? I think I'm saying her last name correctly. Uh she's a y uh it was years ago a young lady. She dove into a swimming pool, it's just a young lady And uh the water was shallower than she believed it was, if I understand the story correctly. And she hit the bottom and snapped her spine. She didn't drown, they got her out, but from that point on the rest of her life, she's paralyzed, if I remember correctly, from her neck down Rather than getting bitter, rather than saying, this is terrible, this is nothing good can come out of this, my life is ruined, nothing good will ever come out of that Joni decided she's going to trust God. She decided I'm going to love God. I'm going to trust him and just let him lead me through this. Now let me ask you a question. A young girl, I don't know how old she was, 12, 13 years old, young girl snapping her spine at her neck. Is that a good thing? No. No, nobody would say that's good. But we have an amazing God. And God can take things that in and of themselves are not that great. But he can work them together and out of that work some good. Work some good. And for many, many years, this lady, Joni Erickson Tada. Has had a pretty tremendous testimony of the grace and goodness of God. Now she's not exactly on the same page we would be on a number of things, but God has used her to encourage people And many, many people have come to know Christ. And out of a bad thing, God worked together good. God worked together for good. I could go on. I could give instances in my own life of the home uh and different things. How in and of themselves we're not that great, we're not good, but God worked them together. You know, I'm talking to some folks right now that would not be saved if some bad thing had not happened at some point that God used to bring about and bring a person to salvation. Follow what I'm saying? Something in and of itself was not good, but God worked it together to bring someone to Christ. So, number one, this is a certain promise, and we know. We don't hope so, we don't think so. We know that all things, comprehensive, all things, no matter what it is. The content of the promise is work together for good. You say, preacher, I made a terrible mistake. I've done something, I don't know how to undo it. I'm here to tell you God's able to take that, work things together, and bring some good out of that. I mean, just fill in the blank. Work together, work together. Here's what we need to do. Let me say this. Here's what we need to do. Here's where we get hung up. All we see is the present. All we see is the storm I'm in right now. All we see is the failure. All we see is the valley I'm in. And we think, oh, this is terrible. There's nothing good about this. Right. Baking powder is terrible. This is terrible. There's no good in this. But you've got to be able to look beyond that and say, all right, God is using this. This is part. Of a series of events that God is using to bring some good out. We're so hung up here and now, we don't see what God has down the road. And that's what's killing our country. That's what's killing our churches. All we're doing is living for here and now, and we forget there's a tomorrow We're squandering away our finances and our time and all of that to have a big time now, and we fail to realize, wait a minute, I still have to deal with tomorrow. Um so comprehensive. All things, the content, work together. Now let me give you this You say, oh, this is great. You're right, preacher. This is the greatest promise ever given. All things work together for good. Period. Uh no. Anybody notice the verse doesn't end there? That's where a lot of Christians stop quoting it. Well, you know, all things work together for good. It's not what that verse said. There's a condition. There's a condition. All things work together for good to them that love God, who are the called according to his purpose. That is that last phrase is what I'm going to call the fine print of the promise. Ooh, wait a minute. All things work together to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. I'm oversimplifying that statement here by saying this. What God is saying is all things work together for good to them that love God and trust him and obey him. Listen, if I as a Christian make the decision, you know, I'm just going to take things into my own hands. I'm going to handle this, this my way. I'm going to get myself out of this. I'm going to do this. And we try and live and function independent of God's clear will. I cannot claim that promise. I cannot claim that promise. He says, for those that love God, love God. And again, I'm oversimplifying, but love God and say, God, I love you so much. I will do, I will trust you, and I will do whatever you tell me to do. God says, All right, that person, I can work all this together, bring some good out of it. Now you take the person that's has whatever situation, they don't love God and say, God, I I don't care what you say, I'm gonna do things my way. I'm gonna I'm gonna live my life the way I want to live. I'm going to handle my situation the way I want to handle it. I'm going to lean on my own understanding. I'm going to do that which is right in my own eyes. And God says, go ahead, and you're going to have a mess. You know, there's a way that seemeth right unto a man But the end thereof are the ways of death. Death And so there's a condition to this promise. This is, I think, one of, if not the greatest promises to a Christian. All things work together for good. But there's a condition to them that love God. and are the called according to his purpose. If I decide I'm going to go ahead and live my life and I'm going to ignore Scripture, I'm going to ignore the clear teachings of Scripture, And I'm just going to handle things and deal with things my way, I'm telling you, you are heading for a train wreck I'm talking to some people this morning that are ignoring the Word of God and doing what they want in their life and handling things according to their own understanding, and I'm telling you, you are heading for a train wreck. Don't claim this promise. Don't say I can just do what I want and it's all going to work out for good. God does not promise that. He warns us. And if we do what uh there's a way that seems right unto man, but the end of that way is death, is death. Now at any point in that process, I can stop and say, wait a minute, I'm wrong. I'm not handling this right God. I'm sorry, I confess, I love you. You show me what to do. I will trust you, and I will do according to your purpose in this situation. God can take that and turn that around right like that. But if I'm not willing to meet those conditions, I am not qualified to claim this promise. That's a good statement right there. There's a condition here. This verse is not saying whatever happens to a Christian is good. It's not saying that. Don't say it says that. It doesn't say whatever happens to a Christian is good. It says all things work together for good to them who love God or called according to his purpose. This verse is not saying that God works all things out for our good pleasure or for our wealth, some of our TV preacher friends like to suggest. That God wants us all rich and wants us all healthy and God wants us all to have whatever we want That is not what this verse is promising. It says it worked out for good. You know what I found out? Sometimes I think something's good, and when it's all said and done, what I thought was good wasn't that good. I'm putting I'm let's go back to my biscuits. I'm getting hungry. I come back to my biscuits and I I'm looking at it and you say, All right, we got all this stuff. You know, I really, really like hot mustard I'm going to squirt some hot mustard in there and we mix it up. Uh I think it might be good. But I would imagine hot mustard in a biscuit wouldn't be that great. I don't know. Um what uh my what I'm trying to say is this. This verse isn't saying that everything's gonna work out so that, oh, we'll just have We'll just have all the pleasure we want. Everything. God's going to work this out and I'll get everything I want. And I'll live in a rice, rich house, and I'll have a n I'll drive a fancy car, and everything's going to be wonderful. I won't ever be sick again. That's not what this verse is promising. This verse is saying all things work together for what God determines is good. And sometimes, and there's people all across this auditorium would testify, sometimes with something which at first seemed terrible When it's all said and done, it says, you know, boy, this is pretty good for me. You know who I was thinking of? Some of you all remember. Nina McRobie. She's with the Lord now a number of years. Her husband, Jim, was one of the hardest, meanest cusses I've ever met. The guy was a rascal. Now that was my experience. Well it showed up here as pastor. I'm a young Buck. I don't know anything. I never pastored before. One of the men in the church said, Preacher, we got a little bit of a mess here. I know you got a plan. You know exactly what you're doing. I said, yeah, sure do. I was lying. But it worked together for good. But uh Anyway, Nina said, preacher, would you go visit Jim, my husband? I said, sure. I didn't know. I said, sure, I'd be glad to. By the way, I thought I'd tell you, he hates preachers Okay, I'll go visit him. Uh he probably won't invite you in. Alright, and he'll probably cuss you out and tell you to leave. Alright, I can't wait. It's like going to the dentist, you know? I can't wait. I showed up and she was right. It happened exactly the way she was. Lo and behold, they diagnosed Jim with cirrhosis of the liver. They say, we're going to try and do a liver transplant. They went to one of the hospitals and uh they were doing so they were putting a stent in his by his liver and they inadvertently went too far and they punctured his liver. And the, I guess the cancer, whatever, spilled out, and they said, we can't do the transplant now. There's nothing we can do. Jim got saved. Through all of that. I mean the old boy got born again. He quit cussing me out He uh he'd welcome me in. Uh wherever he was at in the hospital I'd go. He was so glad when I was there. He was up in Pittsburgh at the hospital in the middle of the night he got got scared and He kept telling the nurse, I need Pastor Leatherman, I need Pastor Leatherman. He said, We don't have no Pastor Leatherman, we don't have him on our records. He's downtown Pittsburgh. He goes in, he's in Oakland. They looked through Oakland, Pennsylvania. We don't have any Leatherman. No, Oakland, Maryland. What? That's two and a half hours away Middle of the night. And uh they never called me. I didn't know. I'd gone up if I need if uh he needed me. But he when he got back, he said, Pastor Lem, he told me that and he said, Pastor Lemon, you know what I learned? I learned I can pray right to God myself. Said amen. That's good. About the time for Jim to die. I was busy with him. He'd get all our CDs, he'd listen, or they were cassette tapes back then. He'd listen to them over and over and over. In fact, our sound system, the original, he bought that for us Because I kept walking away from the mic, he couldn't hear it and he'd get mad and cuss. No. No, he didn't And not long before he passed away, old Jim was sitting beside his bed and he said, Pastor Lederman, he said, getting cirrhosis of the liver is the best thing that ever happened to me. He said, if I hadn't gotten cirrhosis of the liver, I'd have never gotten saved. And I'd have died and ended up in hell. I thank God for cirrhosis of the liver. All things work together for good. Is having strokes to the liver good? No. But God worked it together. And here's an old boy is thanking God. For cirrhosis of the liver. How about that? How about that? Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us to trust you and obey you. Help us to love you. It's what you want more than anything else for us just to love you and trust you and obey you. Our head bowed and eyes closed. How many this morning would say, Preacher? I got a challenge on my hands. I've got a situation, a circumstance. I just, in and of itself, it's not good. I don't like it. Yuck. But you say, preacher, I'm going to claim this promise and I'm going to meet the conditions. I'm going to just fall in love with God. Whatever God says I'm going to do. I'm just going to trust Him to do what is right, do what God clearly says. I'm going to trust him to work this out for good. How many Christians would say that? Preacher, that's my heart this morning. I've got a situation serving. Maybe you messed up. Maybe it's something out of your control. I don't know. But you say, preacher, I want God to work this good, and I'm going to trust him, obey him, do what he says. Uplifted hand. How many people like that? God bless you, hands all around. One thing's true about every person, we face trials. We face difficulties, and God gives us a wonderful, wonderful promise that if you will trust him and obey. Let me ask this. Maybe this is too personal, I don't know. But I wonder some this morning say, preacher, I'm dealing with the situation, but I'm not dealing with it right. I know I'm not. God showed that to me. And I need to change. And I need my action and reaction to line up with what God says and quit doing it the way I think. So that God can bring some good at it. Would there be any like that, preacher? I know there's a situation. I know I'm not dealing with the way I should And I want to do it God's way. And I want to do it, I need to change, I need to alter how I'm dealing with this. Is there any others like this? Many hands went up just now. How about it? Any others? God bless you. Many hands around. That's the Spirit of God using the Word of God to change us and to help us. So someone here this morning said, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I don't want to hope I make it. I don't want to just think I make it. I'd like to know that my sins are forgiven, that when I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that God would help me to settle that in my heart, that I could have that confidence, that assurance. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I appreciate you for you to pray with me that God would help me settle that. Thank you. God bless you. How about it? Any others? Preacher, I want that assurance. I want that settled in my heart that God has forgiven my sins. I go to heaven, not to hell when I die. Now many of us know folks going through tough times. Many of us know people that are dealing with issues. We can pray for them. That they'll trust God and let the Lord have his way. We can be a testimony to them to help them love God. And obey them and trust them. Father, bless our invitation time now. A lot of hands raised, a lot of hearts, I believe, touched. I pray you'd have your way and help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand up.