If you would r uh like for us to read together in unison verse number ten, familiar verse for a lot of us, and um no doubt many have this verse memorized, very not a difficult verse to memorize But a very important verse. Luke chapter 19, verse number 10. Let's read it all together. Here we go. For the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which is lost. I'd like to speak this morning on the purpose for Jesus' coming. Yesterday, we celebrated the birth of Jesus Christ, his arrival on planet Earth And uh what was that all about? Why did he come? I noticed in some of the excuse me, some of the posts uh on the computer and different statements around. And uh people talk about the coming of Christ, the coming of Christ, the birth of Christ, but it always stops there And we need to understand that Jesus didn't come to be born just for the sake of being born in a manger. He came for a very specific purpose. He came for a very uh significant reason And we need to understand that. And I'll tell you, if we understand why, if we understand the why of Christmas, will appreciate the fact of Christmas a whole lot more. And so I want to speak this morning on the purpose for Jesus' coming. Let's pray together and we'll give this some thought. Father in heaven, we thank you for the word of God That we can come and find these truths and learn of you. I thank you for the church, Lord. We can get together even on the day after Christmas and have fellowship and sing and rejoice and to praise you and laugh and just enjoy one another. Now, Lord, as we look into your word, pray you'd speak to our hearts. Teach us. Things that are important for us to understand. Lord, I pray you'd challenge us in our faith and our walk with you. Lord, some of us need to uh uh we need some adjustments, maybe. Others just need some encouragement Lord, maybe some of us need some instruction. But whatever the case is, I ask, dear Lord, that your Holy Spirit would fill me, and Lord, that you would speak through me to each of our hearts. I yield my will, present my body again for this moment, for you to use me and just be a conduit that you can speak through. Help us To be obedient and Lord to trust you and follow your instructions as you speak to us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. There's two indisputable facts About the Lord Jesus Christ. Number one, Jesus Christ was an actual historical figure. Some people try to tell us that, uh, oh, he's just a myth of the Lord Jesus Christ. No But there's more than abundant of documentation. Jesus Christ was an actual historical figure. Don't let the unbelievers uh qu get you have questions in your in your mind. Jesus Christ the historical figure. Second indisputable fact of the Lord Jesus Christ Not only is he an actual historical figure, but he has affected this world like nobody before him or since him. He has absolutely and significantly impacted the world that he showed up on, particularly the Western world. Um in a few moments we're going to take the offering and many of you are going to write checks, large checks. And uh I don't know what you're going to get. That's between you and God. But you're going to uh some are going to write checks and you're going to put on there, and in the top right-hand corner, you're going to it's going to ask you to put down today's date 12, 26, 21. Did you know every time you write that date down, you're acknowledging the fact that Jesus Christ impacted this world? Nobody in the history of the world has been the factor on determining the dates that we are in. You follow what I'm saying? You have BC, before Christ. The entrance of Jesus Christ in this world is so significant, had such an impact that we set our dates by his arrival into the world. I'm telling you, that is a tremendous amazing thing. How much one man, the Son of God, Impacted this world by his arrival. Now, as profound as the impact of Jesus Christ arriving in this world, being born in that little manger And can you imagine putting yourself in the shoes of Mary and Joseph, this son of God being born? The impact that that had on the world is significant. But uh this is what I'm trying to get. Uh the pro the as profound as his impact on nations and the world has been. It is his influence on individuals that I believe is most significant. We think of great crowds, oh, these great crowds. But if you study the Bible carefully, particularly the gospels, You'll find individuals were ones that were most impacted by the Lord Jesus Christ. God, here's a good statement. God works on an individual basis. He works with individuals. Do you know how you change society? By seeing individuals change. I quote this uh pretty often since I've heard it. Uh a couple years ago I was listening uh to the radio. I'd like to listen while I'm working back there And uh Lester Roloff comes on at 1030 every day, Monday through Friday, Lester Roloff, the family altar program. Boy, ought to listen to that. He has some different ideas about eating and stuff, but uh uh he made this statement one time and it stuck in my mind. He says, if you want to get America saved, if you want to see America saved, get Americans saved. You know what he's saying? He's saying exactly what the Bible tells us, that the way you impact a society is by reaching the individuals of that society. I don't know about you, but I'm concerned for Mountain Lake Park. I'm concerned for Oakland, Maryland. I'm concerned for Garrett County and this region here spilling over into West Virginia. And we do let West Virginians attend church here. And um we We're thinking about starting a special class and uh No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. My wife's from West Virginia, so I have license to say stuff like that. And she's from West Virgin Uh oh, she's watching. Um she's from West Virginia and she's blonde. Yeah. Brother, and uh her sisters uh would send blonde jokes back and forth to each other. But her one sister in particular, I don't she thought they were testimonies, she didn't realize they were jokes. But um So anyway, I'm burdened for our area. How many people agree with me? Mountain Lake Park needs Jesus Christ. Accident, Maryland needs Jesus Christ. Grantsville, Carolda. They need Jesus Christ. You know how we'll say, how do we reach a whole town? I tell you, you reach a whole town by reaching individuals Each individual home, pointing them to Jesus Christ. So Jesus Christ comes into the world, an actual real literal figure in human history. And he impacts this world in ways it's hard for us to grasp. Nothing is the same after Jesus Christ shows up. We even set our dates by his arrival into this into our existence and he and the impact he's had on nations But yet it was the individual, individuals, his impact on, that um uh that the Bible emphasizes Luke chapter 19, we're here. Pastor Matt read verses 1 up through verse 10. The first part of the chapter there, what he read, we have the story of um the account of Zacchaeus Coming to the Lord Jesus Christ. Zacchaeus, he was just a wee little man, and a wee little man was he. But he wanted to see Jesus Christ. He had heard about him. Jesus Christ sent shockwaves when he began preaching and teaching. And Zacchaeus, a very wealthy, a very wicked man A very wee little man, uh, but he heard of Jesus Christ. And you know the story, we tell it to the kids, we sing the song And he couldn't see because he was small stature. He climbed up the sycamore tree. Lord came by. Lord said, You come down, go into your house today. And you know what happened to old, we little Zacchaeus? You know what happened? He got saved. And God changed his life. And look there, if you would, in verse number eight, Jesus went to his house. And Zacchaeus stood and said unto the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor. Now this is a very selfish, rich man. This is complete transformed thinking on his part. This is completely new values, new priorities. He got saved and it's no longer about himself. It's no longer about materialism. It's no longer about pleasure. It's about honoring God and helping others, serving others. The half of my goods I give to the poor, and if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold. I'm telling you, this is a transformed life. This man is born again. A new creature in Christ. And he says, the half of my goods. And so an individual impacted by the presence of Jesus Christ, by the presence of Jesus Christ. And that same story is repeated all through the Gospels. Individuals meeting Jesus, hearing of Jesus, believing on Jesus, and their lives changed, and their values transformed, and their priorities transformed. And because of that, a community is affected. Think of all the people that were affected by Zacchaeus, by the change of life, all the people that he had stolen from. Can you imagine him showing up, somebody he had stolen from some folks, he shows up with a pile of money, maybe a briefcase full of money, says, hey, listen, I stole some money I want to give it back to you. I want to give you a more above it. I want to give you a fourfold above from what I did for you. How many people agree their mouths probably drop open? Um I remember uh when I got saved, uh uh there was uh a fella that had stolen a bunch of sound system uh from a school, you broke into the school, one of my buddies broke into the school and stole all the sound system. Now you know back in the nineteen seventies uh sound systems were huge, you know, everything. Now you got it all in a little thing in your ear and but then it wasn't it took a pickup truck to haul this stuff. And so he he stole all this stuff and I bought it off him for almost nothing And I knew it was stolen, and I bought it off them, and I had this phenomenal sound system, and I got saved. Suddenly God had changed my values and my priorities. And it wasn't long after I got saved. I was in my room there and I saw that sounds this I got looking at it. I thought, you know, that ain't right. That was stolen. And so I uh loaded it all up. I went over and uh I said, his name was Joey. I said, Joey. I said, listen, I I need to give this back to you. He said, what are you talking about? I said, this is stolen stuff. I don't want it. He says, you need to take it back to the school. You need to make this right, but I don't want it. I'm giving it back. He goes, well, I ain't giving your money back. I said, I don't want the money back. I said, you need to go and and I so I took I gave it back to him. Now maybe I should have taken it to the school, I don't know. But I gave it to I I got it back. I didn't want that in my life. You know what? He was like, what in the world's got into you, Leatherman? And I had an opportunity to be a witness for the gr uh what the Lord had done for me. And what I'm trying to say is when individuals are impacted by the gospel of Jesus Christ, It impacts a community. No man lives to himself and no man dies to himself. We all have influence. You get a young person in school, get saved, their life is changed, that sends an impact, a testimony into that school. Follow what I'm saying? Jesus Christ came into the world, literal human figure, actual historical figure, and uh shook this world to its very core, very foundation of this world, society was shaken But it was because of individuals that he impacted. And Zacchaeus is one of those, all through the Bible. The way we reach our community is by reaching individuals for Christ. The way we reach our nation It's by reaching individuals for the Lord Jesus Christ. Listen, well you know I'm for voting, I'm for contacting and lobbying and all of that. I'm trying to pressure, I want to pressure our elected officials all we can But we're not going to change America very much until we start winning souls and getting individuals to Christ, and then that will produce a change in our nation. I believe the answer to our nation's problems isn't necessarily at the poll booth. I believe it's in the neighborhoods on the doorsteps as God's people go out and share the gospel of Jesus Christ with individuals then that will affect the voting and the pol and the and the policies there. So individuals, individuals, individuals. You say, preacher, I can't reach a whole town. No, but you can reach a person in that town. I can't reach my whole neighborhood. No, but you might could reach somebody in your neighborhood, and then they can reach somebody in their neighborhood, then those can reach somebody in their neighborhoods And we have an impact. Individuals. And so Zacchaeus is reached by the Lord Jesus Christ. Just one man, yet the influence that he had. Then in verse 19, this is what I'm trying to get to. In verse number 10 of chapter 19, in response to Zacchaeus' salvation, look what the Lord says, verse 9 And Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this house. Forasmuch as he also is the son of Abraham. Then look at verse 10. For the Son of Man is come. To seek and to save that which was lost. I believe verse 10, the Lord is kind of summarizing in response to what just took place with Zacchaeus. He gets saved, his life has changed. Now he's influencing others. And Jesus makes this statement to you and I, in the crowd there, and to you and I now, he makes this statement. Listen, this is why I've come To see souls saved and lives changed. The Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which is lost. I've made a few observations about that one little statement there in verse number 10. The first thing I notice is the favorite title of our Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse 10 with me if you would. For the Son of Man is come. Who's he referring to when he says the Son of Man? Himself. He's referring to himself as the Son of Man. Now I got looking up in the Bible all the different names That are given to the Lord Jesus Christ. Of course, Jesus. Mary was told the name of Jesus could save his people from their sins. Can you think of any other names or titles that are given to the Lord Jesus Christ? Somebody help me out. What else? Jesus. Emmanuel, God with us, any others? Jehovah? Messiah? How about others? The Christ, the Lamb of God. If you would what's the other one? The Son of the Highest. If you would keep your place here. Go with me to Isaiah chapter number nine. We're going to look at some verses this morning. So have your Bible handy there. Isaiah chapter 9 And I read this on Christmas Eve, our Christmas Eve service, but I want us to look here. There's some of the names of the Lord Jesus Christ. Isaiah chapter 9 and verse number 6 Isaiah chapter 9, verse 6. Open your Bible in the middle, you're probably in Psalms, work your way towards the back a couple ways a little ways, you'll run into Isaiah. Chapter 6, chapter 9, and verse number 6, Isaiah 9:6. Look what it says. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given. That's Christmas. And the government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called what? Wonderful. What else? Counselor. Next. Mighty God. What else? Everlasting fire. The Prince of Peace. Here we have a list of names given to the Lord Jesus Christ. And we go through the Bible and find all other Titles and names given to Jesus Christ, the Son of God, Rabbi, Messiah. But I got looking in the Bible, and I got looking in the Gospels. You know what I came to the conclusion? I came to the conclusion, Jesus' favorite title for himself, the one that he refers to himself more than any other title given to him in the Bible. is the Son of Man, the Son of Man. Sixty-nine times in the Gospels, Jesus refers to himself as The Son of Man. The Son of Man. The Son of Man. He never says, I couldn't find anywhere in the Bible where he says, oh, I'm the wonderful one. I'm the wonderful one. Is Jesus wonderful or not? Good heavens, if you know Jesus Christ Savior, you'd say amen to that. He's wonderful. Oh, he's wonderful. He's sure been wonderful to me The older I get, the more grateful I am every day for just the wonderful gift of life, every day that God gives me He never goes around saying, oh, the wonderful one has come. No, he doesn't say that. Oh, I'm the Prince of Peace. He doesn't say that. The Almighty God. Now he does refer to himself on occasion as the Son of God. He does on occasion, but not nearly as often as he refers to himself as the son of man. He doesn't walk around, I'm the mighty one. Doesn't say that at all. The son of man. The son of man. Sixty-nine times he refers to himself by the son of man. I think. If we can understand that term, Son of Man, we'll have a better understanding of the heart and mind of the Lord Jesus Christ. Why does he refer to himself? The Son of Man has come. Why did he say that? Why didn't he say the Son of God? It had been true. Why didn't he say the wonderful one prophesied of in Isaiah? It would have been true. He doesn't say that The Son of Man. I came up with two reasons that I see that Jesus loved that term, the Son of Man. He would love to refer to himself. He wanted people to see him as the Son of Man First reason is this. I put this down. I think this term identifies his connection with mankind. I think he, of course he knew he was God, God in the flesh. But he wanted to emphasize the fact, hey, I'm one of you. I'm one of you. I'm part of humanity. I've become a man. He identifies with us. His connection with you and with me He's with us. Take your Bible, if you would. Now, don't lose your place here in Luke, because I want to come back and look at this. But go with me to Hebrews, back towards the end of your New Testament. Hebrews chapter 4 is what I want us to see. The Son of Man, 69 times he says, the Son of Man, referring to himself, I think he is trying to emphasize, I think in his heart and mind The fact that he became man is very significant and very dear to him. He is one of us. He is one of us. Look at Hebrews chapter 4, and notice with me, if you would, at verse number 15. Hebrews chapter 4, verse 15. Look what it says. For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. Anybody here ever have infirmities? Anybody? You say what in the world's infirmities? Let me put it this way. Anybody here ever go through a tough time? Yeah. Anybody here ever have some trials or heartaches? Anybody here ever been tempted Tried. Anybody here ever been tempted and failed? Yeah. You know what this verse is saying? We don't have a high priest that doesn't know what that's like. We don't have a high priest who doesn't know what it means to be hurt or uh or to be tempted. Look what he says. He says, we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities Now this is almost mind-boggling if you think about it, but was in all points, look at this, tempted like as we are. He understands. Yet without sin, he didn't sin. Praise God for that. But he was tempted in all points, like as we are. Then he goes on, verse 16, let us therefore, because Jesus Christ became a man like us, because he understands the trials and difficulties, temptations we face. Because of all that, we can come boldly through the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in a time of need. I don't know about you, but I'm glad that we have a Savior that isn't some far-off God that doesn't understand what my life is like And doesn't understand what you and I deal with, and doesn't understand what it means to be hurt or tempted. But he was in all points tempted like we are. And I can come to Jesus Christ and I can say, Jesus I failed. I sinned. I'm hurting. My heart is aching. And Jesus says, I know exactly what you're going through. Phew. The Son of Man is come. It meant something. I believe it meant something to Jesus Christ that He became one of us. God Becoming one of us. It's his favorite term. All through the scriptures, the Son of Man, the Son of Man, the Son of Man. Now, Jesus wasn't always man He wasn't always man. Jesus did not become man until he was born of that manger, until he was conceived, really, in the womb of Mary. He wasn't man uh three thousand years ago. The Son of God was not the Son of Man. 10,000 years ago, the Son of God was not the Son of Man. He did not have flesh and blood. But he became the Son of Man on that first Christmas morn. And get this, he will always be the son of man. From here on out. He wasn't always the son of man in eternity past, but he will always be the Son of Man for eternity future. Isn't that an amazing thing? You know, when you and I pass away of this old earth or the rapture takes place, either one of those, you know, either one of those could happen this year, right? For any one of us. Rapture could take place. We may go on into eternity. If we know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, one of the first things we're going to see when we enter heaven is the Son of Man. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, but yet in a physical body. A man just like a human being, just like you and I. Standing there, glorified, sinless, the Son of God, but the Son of Man. We can go up to him I don't know. We can shake his hand. I don't think there's social distancing in heaven, I'll tell you right now. Oh, uh I'm not gonna fill me with shaking hands. I'm gonna give him a big old hug A man, a sinless God man, but a man nonetheless. Oh, I'm so glad that that Savior that came to earth is the Son of Man And he can relate and understand. Did you ever go through, maybe some, and I know not maybe, some here, uh lost a loved one, maybe a spouse or a child or a parent. And you get with someone else that went through that same thing and there's a connection there. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Uh my daddy, of course, went to heaven going on two years now. And uh you know what, I meet someone else, they say, my father died. And you know, before, before daddy went on to heaven, before I always felt sorry, you know, saying but now it's different. I understand there's a connection. You know what I'm saying? There's a connection. Or a spouse. You get with others. You say, I understand. Oh, we have a, our Savior is the Son of Man, and he understands. And he connects with our trials, our difficulties, our failures. Of course, he never sinned, but he was tempted. And so when you and I are tempted, he understands. He never sinned, but I tell you, he experienced the consequences of sin when he took responsibility on that cross. And so the Son of Man. So why does he use, why is that such a favorite title of his, The Son of Man? I think for one reason It identifies his connection with mankind. But I think another reason he likes that title, the Son of Man, is it displays, it identifies his qualification as our substitute. He is emphasizing, I believe, the fact that he is exactly what is necessary for you and I to be able to have our sins forgiven and have eternal life. All through the Old Testament, they would take the blood of bulls and goats. And they would offer up those bulls and goats as a sacrifice. Now they had to meet the qualifications. They had to be without blemish They had to be offered a certain very specific way. They were told in Leviticus. But you know, the Bible says that the blood of bulls and goats Could never cleanse away the sins of man. Hebrews teaches us that. But the blood of Jesus Christ, the Son of Man His blood doesn't cover our sins, the blood of bulls and goats. Oh, it covered our sins. It was a temporary appeasement of the wrath of God until the Son of Man came. And Jesus Christ, as man, sinless man, could offer himself and not a blood of bulls and goats, but the blood of a sinless man. And offer as a substitute in your place and my place so that our sins could be forgiven It had to have been a man, and it had to have been a sinless man to be able to atone for your sins in mine. Everybody follow what I'm saying? Does it make sense? It had to be. If he was a sinner, if all he was was man and just a sinful man like you and I, then his death on the cross would have been for himself and himself alone. But because he was sinless, as the Son of God becoming the Son of Man, he could be the perfect sacrifice. Jesus Christ is everything that was needed to atone for the sins of mankind. To pay for the sins of mankind. We're talking about this in Sunday school. Listen, we want to make it very, very clear. It's Jesus and Jesus alone that saves us. Getting baptized is very important for a new believer, but baptism never saved a soul from hell. You can put all your money in, no you can put all your money in, I joke about it, but you can put all the money you have In the offering plate, that won't do, that won't take one sin away. Must be through Jesus Christ and Him alone. And I think he used that phrase, the Son of Man, to emphasize the fact that he was the sacrifice. On the part of all of mankind. The bulls and goats were a temporary covering. But the Son of Man paid the price in full. So the first thing I notice, come back here to Luke 19 and verse number 10, for the Son of Man. The second thing I notice here very quickly is not just his favorite title, the Son of Man, but his eternal existence Now this gets interesting here. It says, for the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which is lost. I got looking up that word. And the meaning of the word itself is very interesting. It means this: to leave one place and show up in another place. The Son of Man has come. He left one place and he showed up in another place. You know what that tells me? That the birth of Jesus Christ was not the beginning of Jesus Christ. He wasn't, he didn't just begin to exist on that Christmas morning way back when Mary gave birth The birth of Jesus Christ is not the beginning of Jesus Christ. He, unlike you and I, existed before he was born. I remember as a child, I was told one time that before I was born, I was an angel in heaven. Before you were born, you were an angel in heaven Well, I could kind of see that a little bit, knowing me, an angel in heaven. And um but uh I got studying the Bible a little bit and I found out I wanted to know angel in heaven And I know what some of you are thinking, I wasn't a devil in hell either, by the way. We didn't exist before we were born We didn't exist. The Bible's very clear. The moment it moment of conception, that life begins. That life begins to exist. Your existence and my existence began the moment of conception. By the way, that makes abortion murder Makes it murder. But Jesus did not begin to exist at his birth or his conception. He existed before. When he showed up there on that first Christmas morning, he was coming from someplace else He had existed before. He existed before he was born. In John chapter 8, verse 58, he told the Pharisees, and by the way, this made their heads explode. He said in John 8. 58, he says, before Abraham was, I am They said, What? You're but 30 years old, and you uh you were you saying you were around before Abraham was? Yeah. Yeah, he's the eternal son of God He existed before he was born. In Colossians chapter 1, I wish we had more time. I wanted to go to all these verses, but in Colossians chapter 1. We are told that Jesus existed before the universe was created. Now, did you ever stop and think, this will boggle your mind, did you ever stop and think, what was it like before the ex the universe existed and before there was time. What is it what what was it like to e to what was it like before there was any material or there was any time, space and time. There was, what was it like before that? Oh, I'm getting a headache just thinking about it right now You and I and our finite minds can't grasp that. But the Bible is very, very clear that Jesus Christ existed before this world, this universe even existed, before there was time. Now, we can't grasp what it's like to exist in that type of setting. All our finite minds are limited by time and space. You and I are prisoners of the moment You and I are prisoners of the physical. We're trapped in this physical space we are. But God is so far beyond all of that. God is so far beyond our comprehension of who and what he is. I tell you, don't ever, don't ever refer to God as the old man upstairs. He is almighty, infinite, all-powerful, comprehensible God and Jesus Christ. Part of the Godhead existed before this world ever existed. I tell you, what an amazing man that was standing there when he says the Son of Man is come. I've left a world and an existence that you can't even comprehend. And I've come here to be one of you, to be a part of humanity. What an amazing Savior we have. He existed before he was born. He was existed before the universe was created. In fact, Colossians and other places we're told that Jesus Christ is the one that created this universe. Now think about that. Here's Zacchaeus, this wee little man. He was we, he was wealthy, and he was wicked And he's up in this sycamore tree looking down. And there is the Son of Man walking by. I'm telling you, I'm convinced it never entered his mind. The depth and who exactly that was walking by that day. You and I one day will see it You and I one day will experience the presence of Jesus Christ, the Son of Man, that existed before the universe existed, before there was time, before any of this He exists all eternity. We'll see him. How do you think we'll respond? Well, I said we'll hug him. You know what we'll probably do? Fall down at his feet. And humility and worship of this uh incomprehensible God that saved our souls The favorite title of Jesus Christ, the Son of Man, the eternal existence of Jesus Christ. He has come. He left his eternal glory in heaven and came to earth. To be with you and I. Number three, real quickly, let me I also notice his total submission. For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which is lost. Again, keep your place here. Turn over to the Gospel of John You have Matthew, Mark, Luke, and then John. And notice with me, if we would, in chapter 6, and I want to go down to verse number 38. Now this is a parallel statement concerning uh with uh uh Luke 1910. Luke 19:10, the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which is lost. Look down, John chapter 6, verse 38. Look what Jesus said. He's speaking here. He says, I came down from heaven. The Son of Man is come. I came down from heaven, look at this, not to do mine own will, but the will of who? And that sent me. Who's that? It's God the Father. God the Father. God the Son willingly submitted Himself To the will of God the Father. In John chapter 5, just come back a page there. John chapter 5. Look with me if you would at verse 30. John chapter 5 and verse 30 says, I can of mine own self do nothing. As I hear, I judge. He's referring to himself in the capacity as the son of man. He laid aside prerogatives of deity. He laid aside some of his uh his uh uh rights he had that he could practice as deity he laid that all aside he became a man he said I can of my own self do nothing as I hear I judge and my judgment is just look at this Because I seek not mine own will, but the will of the Father which has sent me. He said, I willingly, as a man, as the Son of Man, I submit myself to God of God's. To the Lord God Almighty, and I submit myself to His will. Luke chapter 22 and verse 42 in the Garden of Gethsemane, the night before he's crucified, he made this phenomenal prayer. And he said, Lord, if it be possible, and I'll put this in my words, Lord, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. The cup being the wrath of God being poured on him for the sins of all mankind. Lord, if it's possible, if there's any other way. Let this cup pass from me. And then he added that tremendous, tremendous prayer that secured your salvation and my salvation. Nevertheless. Say it with me, not my will, but thy will be done. Jesus Christ, when he refers to himself as the Son of Man, it's his favorite title. He says he existed before he was there, he says, uh is come. And all of this involves a total submission on the part of Jesus Christ. I believe the earthly ministry of Jesus Christ can be summed up by humility and submission to the will of God. Humility and submission to the will of God. We are never more like Christ than we humbly submit to the will of God. How many folks here? You're saved, you know it. Say amen How many of us would like to consider ourselves to be disciples of Jesus Christ, a follower of him? Anybody feel that way? I'd like to think of myself as a disciple of Christ. As a disciple of Christ, one of our desires to be like Christ. We want to emulate Him in our lives, in our interactions with other people. We want to emulate him and our values and our priorities and the principles we live by. And I tell you, you're not going to be more Christ-like. Than when you humble yourselves and submit to the will of God. Jesus said, I came not to do my will, but the will of Him that sent me. Would to God every Christian would have that same attitude. Total submission to God. We've been preaching on Sunday nights from Peter about the will of God the last month or so. And the biggest conflict in the Christian life, the biggest challenge in the Christian life is the conflict between my will and the will of God. And that is where spiritual battles are won and lost. That is where spiritual victory and spiritual defeat is determined, whether it's my will or it's God's will. And if I can get to the point like Christ that I can say, nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done, I tell you, I'm on victory road, then. I'm on victory road. There's no blessings of God apart from submission to God. There's no fulfillment in life apart from Submission to God. So number one, his favorite title. Number two is eternal existence. Number three is total submission. Last of all, I am with this, his specific mission I tell you, uh Friday night our um uh Christmas Eve service, and I had already uh knew where I was going with this, but uh I had I I asked we're taking Lord's Supper And I asked Brother Mark to thank God for, I believe it's the broken body of our Lord Jesus Christ, the way we do in Lord's Supper. I asked him. Mark got up and he prayed, and he made a statement in his prayer that triggered something in my heart and mind. He said this, Lord, you came for one very specific purpose I thought, that's exactly right. This whole Christmas business, this whole manger, nativity, these shepherds and angels, the wise men, all this Was because he showed up for one very specific mission. That is to seek and to save that which was lost Hey, he didn't come he didn't come to earth to teach us a better way. Now, he did teach a better way. He's a tremendous teacher. I'd challenge any teachers or Sunday school teachers, I'd challenge any of them. Any teacher. If you want to be a better teacher, study the teaching of the Lord Jesus Christ, his methods His teaching. I tell you what, he was a phenomenal teacher. He had phenomenal lessons, but that's not his purpose for coming. He was amazing miracle workers. How many people would have loved to see some of those miracles Jesus performed? Wow. How about raising Lazarus? Wouldn't you love to be there? I'd probably passed out. I don't know. But uh man, Lazarus, come forth! And this dead guy comes out. He's alive. Amazing But that's not why he came. That's not why he came. Listen, I'm all I believe God can still do miracles today. Amen. I believe he can't. I don't believe these yard birds on TV I don't buy into that nonsense, but God is still powerful. We have people in our church been healed, I have no doubt about it. Healed by God. Miraculously in some cases. But that's not why he came. Listen, we make a mistake if we put too much emphasis on the healing and we neglect the real purpose Jesus gave. The specific purpose. He did miracles, he uh did teaching, but that was not his purpose. His purpose was to come to seek and to save that which was lost. I was doing a little reading about Vietnam. And during the Vietnam War, uh Americans, I think we probably had it before, but they kind of highlighted this or perfected it. It was called a strategy called Seek and destroy. Anybody ever hear that? Seek and destroy. And what they're doing, the strategy was they'd take some soldiers, some highly trained soldiers, and they'd inject them in behind enemy lines. And they would seek out key ammo depots or bridges, and they would seek them out sneakily go and destroy them. And then quickly be extracted back out from behind enemy lines. Seek, go into enemy territory, uh, destroy everything you can, and then get back out as quick as you could, and hopefully as safely as can be. Seek and destroy It sounds like a movie or something, doesn't it? That was our strategy. I tell you, God has a similar strategy, except it's not seek and destroy. It's seek and what? Save. Jesus came into enemy territory. The God of this world is Satan. Jesus Christ showed up in enemy territory, and he goes out seeking for anyone and everyone that will believe on him and be saved. And it's um the Son of Man didn't come to to condemn the world. But that the world through him might be what? Saved. He came to save. That's what Christmas is all about. I preached a message a number of years ago. Christmas is for sinners. It's exactly what it is. It's Jesus Christ's coming to find the lost, to find the unsaved, to find those who are under the wrath of God, to seek them out, and to save them and give them eternal life. If you're here this morning or you're listening online and you never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, if you've never been born again, you've never turned to Christ, I'm here to tell you Jesus Christ is seeking for you There's things happening in your life. There's things happening in your life that God is using to try and get your attention. That's Him seeking That's him seeking. Revelation 3. 20 says, behold, I stand at the door and knock. You know what knocking is? That's trying to get someone's attention. That's trying to get someone to see. And Jesus Christ is right now in our world, December 26th, not 19th, 2021. He is looking for people, trying to get their attention. I'm telling you what, I I I think this whole pandemic stuff going on, I think we're missing the point. God allowed this. Whatever it is, God allowed it. And I think God's trying to get this old world's attention. Now I can't prophesy. I have no idea when Jesus is coming. It might be another thousand years. I don't know when he's coming. I can't imagine it's that long off But I just got a sneaking suspicion that he's trying to get this whole world's attention and say, listen, you better wake up. This life is awful fragile. This life is awful brief, and you better get right with God because there's a day coming when the wrath of God is going to be poured out on this world like it has never known before, and it will never know again And we're sitting here on our little electronic phones and watching our stupid ball games, and people are dying and going to hell, and God is trying to wake up humanity, I believe. He's come to seek and to save that which is lost. God doesn't want anybody to go to hell. He's not willing that any should perish. He's out there looking, looking. And you know how he finds people in our day and age? Through you and I. He says, as the Father hath sent me, even so send I you, our great commission of God is to carry out the purpose for which Christ came to seek. Now we can't save them, but we go find them and we point them to Christ, the one that can save them. You follow my thinking? I read about a young fellow Nine-year-old Wally Perling, years ago down in Georgia. He was nine years old, just a short little squirt, second grade. He was educationally slow. He had a little hard time speaking. But his Sunday school teacher wanted him to have a part as the innkeeper in the Christmas play. Now he's a little slow, he's just nine years old, short little squirt, and says, you're going to be the innkeeper. And um Mrs. Lumber thought, well, he could learn these lines. All he has to do is just say, we have no room at the end. That's all he has to do. And so the big night came, they practiced, and little Wally had his part down, and they practice, and Mary and Joseph would show up, and he'd open the door, and they'd say, We need a room. He'd say, I'm sorry, we have no room. That's all he had to say. And then they would go on. And um so the big night came and the church is crowded and and uh everybody's always just an electric atmosphere there And the play is taking place and finally it came to the part where Wally is to uh step out of the door. And Mary and Joseph show up And um they knock on the door and uh little Wally opens the door, just a short little guy, and they say, Sir, we've traveled a long way, and my wife is with child. Do you have a place we can stay? And just something about the way that boy said that, it touched little Wally's heart. And with a tear in an eye, he said, we don't have any room in the inn for you. And the fella ad-libbed a little bit and he says, he says, oh well, we need one so bad. My wife is with child. Is there any way that you can spare? And he didn't know. And he says, no, we have no room at the end And though Joseph and Mary were sad started walking away, and a little while we started crying and crying. He says, wait a minute, come back, you can have my room You can have my room. You know what I think the great thing to say for you and I as a Christian this Christmas season? Jesus Christ, you can have my room You've come to seek and to save the lost. Here am I. Use me. Take me. I'll be that agent of yours to bring others to Jesus Christ. Let's make 2021 a year of soul winning. Let's make it a year of reaching the lost, getting the gospel to our family and our neighbors and our community. That's the whole purpose he came. Let's get involved in that. Amen. Father in heaven, bless our invitation now, I ask. Help us to get on board with your purpose for coming to this older. To seek and to save that which was lost. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many of us this morning would say, preacher, I know someone, maybe they're very dear to you You see, I'm not trying to be judgmental, but they're not saved. They're lost. If they go out into eternity this year, they'll be lost for all eternity. Maybe it's a neighbor, a co-worker, a family member, I don't know, a close friend. But you say, preacher, there's somebody on my heart right now as you're speaking. They're on my heart and mind. You'd say, preacher, I want God to use me to be that witness that I need to be this year. Maybe I could win them to Christ. I don't need to be. Is there any like that preacher? I'm thinking of somebody very specifically right now. And I want God to use me. God bless you. Hands all around. That's why Christ came. That's why we're here. To get on board with that. Maybe some this year would say, preacher, I want to get involved in soul winning, even people I don't know, but I want to invest some time, maybe on a weekly basis To do my part in getting the gospel into our community, into our neighborhoods, maybe beyond that mission field, go visit a missionary, help them, whatever. But you'd say, Preacher, I want to be more involved in this great purpose of Christ than I am now. Is there any like that? Preacher, I'd sure like to be more involved in this. I'd sure like to be more effective. God bless you We just give ourselves to the Lord. Now let me ask this, is there someone here say, preacher, I've not been saved? And God's been working in my heart I don't know why, but I've been thinking about eternity. I've been thinking about things of the Lord. We say, I need to get that settled. I need to get my soul's salvation settled. No more playing. No more horsing around. I need to nail this down. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get my soul's salvation settled. I want to know that my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. Any at all. If you're online and you're watching, you're not saved, please contact us. We'll show you from the Bible how to be saved. We sure will. Father bless. Now, as we give the invitation, in Jesus' name, amen.