James chapter number four. I'd like to I know it's our memory verse, we already went over it, and I know Pastor Matt read it a few moments ago, but I'd like for us to read together in unison verse number four or I'm sorry, verse number six, chapter four, verse number six, if you would. Read with me. Here we go. Ready? But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud and giveth grace to the humble. Would you come down to verse 10 with me? I'd like for us to read together verse number 10 also. Chapter 4, verse 10, altogether. Ready? Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. We declared June to be humility month. What I'm praying and the idea I'm trying to convey is that it's very important for us as Christians, people of God, to humble ourselves. Before the Lord and before one another. So we're going to be considering this subject today and throughout the month when we can. So I want to speak this morning on the dignity of humility The dignity of humility. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts in the little time we have. Father, I ask now as we consider this important subject, this important characteristic of a believer. That you would help us. Your Holy Spirit would challenge us and convict us in this matter of resisting the proud and submitting ourselves in humility. So fill me with your spirit as I pray, Lord. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew with all my heart. I ask, dear Lord, that you would speak through me and challenge us, help us uh to follow uh your instructions here in this in the word of God. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I don't know about you. I don't know how you feel. I believe I'm probably speaking for the majority of us. I'd like to believe it at least. Is um I really, really want to be a good Christian. I want to be I want to be I want my Savior to be pleased with my life. And I think I'm speaking for a lot of us. Um I want my faith to be strong. I don't want to be weak in my faith. I think one thing I pray every day, and usually numerous times throughout the day, is Lord, help me to trust you. Help me have faith. Help me grow in my faith. I want to be a mature Christian. I don't want to be a babe in Christ. I want to be a good Christian. I want my Lord to be pleased. I want when it's all said and done. And by the way, It'll be all said and done before we know it. But I want to pray, when my life here is all said and done, I stand before my Savior at the judgment seat of Christ. I really, really, really want to hear him say, Well done, Dennis. Well done. You were good. You were faithful. That's what I want. Can I get a witness? Anybody with me on this? That's our desire. Sometimes we hear preachers refer to, they'll use this term. They'll say, I'm going to give you the secret to the Christian life. Or sometimes you'll see a book in a Christian bookstore somewhere will be advertised, The Secret to Victorious Christian Living. The secret to spiritual growth. Well, I'm here to tell you this morning there are no secrets to the Christian life. There are no secrets to spiritual growth. There's no magic wand that you can buy and wave over yourself and somehow all of a sudden you're a good Christian. There's no little uh spiritual vitamin pill that you and I can buy at the drugstore and we take that pill, then poof, oh, I'm a mature believer. My faith is strong Fact of the matter is living a life that pleases the Lord is not easy. I was just talking with someone yesterday about this. It's not easy. We have a fallen nature. We live in a sinful world. We have a spiritual enemy that is far more powerful than you and I ever imagined. And so living the Christian life is not easy. There are no secrets, there's no shortcuts. The spiritual growth. There's no secrets to eternal life. God's instructions to you and I are very plain, very clear in the Word of God. What it means and how to be a good Christian, how to grow in my faith, how to please the Lord. It's given to us very clear. Proverbs 8 verse 9 says this. Speaking of God's instruction. It says they are plain to him that understandeth. I interpret that to mean that if you have a if you have an ounce of common sense, you can understand what God tells us to do in the Bible. They're plain to him that understandeth. He says, he goes on, he says, they're right to them that find knowledge. In other words, if you really want to know If I really want to know what it means to be a good Christian, how to please the Lord, if I really want to know it, it's very clear. It's right there in His Word. There's no secrets. There's no magic wands. There's no super pill you take and poof, I'm this great Christian that God's pleased with. No, no, no. God tells us in his word. It's no secret. Back in January, the first Sunday of January, we declared, as we always do, we declared our theme as a church. For 2023. And leading up to it, the months leading up to the new year, I always pray earnestly. I talk, Pastor Matt and I talk about it, and we try and discern the mind of the Lord. We came to the conclusion this year that our theme should be from Psalms 85, verse 6: Revive us again, that thy people may rejoice in thee. Revive us. I, as we were leading up to the new year and our theme, I began studying, and I have over the years, but I began studying anew, and maybe with new intensity, what the Bible says about revival. If I want revival, if we're seeking the Lord to revive us again, we ought to know what revival is, right? Have a little idea of what we're talking about, what we're asking for. I began reading and studying, and many of you no doubt have done the same, but revivals in history, through church history. And how they came about and what they produced and how it affected the church and how they affected individuals. I mean in a practical way. Not just the theory of revival, but what does it look like How does revival affect my whole? How does revival, Holy Ghost revival, how does it affect the way I think and my values, my priorities? What effect does it have on me? And the Bible's clear again, and you can study church history, and there's tremendous examples. Of what revival is and how it affects a church, how it affects a home, a marriage, an individual, a ministry. And I've come to this conclusion. In studying revival, I've come to this conclusion. Revival begins with humility. Spiritual growth begins with and is founded upon the characteristic, the attribute of humility. Without humility, there will never be revival in our church or any church. Without humility, there will never be revival in a home or in a heart. Humility, I'm convinced of that. Studying scripture, looking at history. 10 Chronicles 7. 14, we reference that often. But my people Which are called by my name shall what? Humble themselves. Seek my face. Turn from their wicked ways. Pray, seek my face, turn from humble them. It begins with humility. That's a principle all through Scripture That's how God operates. God responds in grace to the people that humble themselves. That's the basis, that's the beginning point of God's blessings, of God's revival. So that leads me to this conclusion. If I want God's blessings on my life, if I want God's blessings on my home and my marriage, my children, if I want God's blessings on my ministry, my church. Then I've got to humble myself. Are you with me? I've got to develop an attitude, the mentality of humility We want revival, and that's what I'm praying for. I know many in our church are praying for that. We Saturday nights we pray here at the altar and we pray for revival. Men's meeting, Wednesday nights. In my personal, and many of you in personal devotions, you're praying. And it has to begin with revival. We can pray all we want. But until we humble ourselves, there'll be no revival. The joy of the Lord comes as a result of humility. So, as if we want God's blessings, if we want revival, if we want the joy of the Lord back in our heart and life and in our home, our ministries, if we want that, uh we've got to begin with humility. Humility. The world's all worked up about pride. Can I be very honest with you this morning? I'm not so much concerned about the neighbor that flies the pride flag in his front yard as I am concerned about the pride that's in my own heart. That's where the problem is. Our government flying a pride flag isn't what keeps God from reviving the church. It's not pride on a flagpole, it's pride in our hearts that hinders God's revival. You say, oh aren't you against that? Yeah, God's against it, I'm against it. But I'm here to tell you, God's against pride in our hearts just as much as He's against pride on these stupid flags. So if we want God's blessing, if we want God's hand upon us, if we want revival, if we want the joy of the Lord, it begins with humility. I put this down. Humility, I believe, is the root of all Christian virtues. All other Christian virtues come out of that attitude of humility. I believe it's the greatest of all Christian virtues. You say, well, holiness is the greatest virtue in a Christian life. I'm suggesting to you, you can't have holiness if you don't have humility. Compassion is the greatest. I agree with you, but if you don't have humility, your compassion is tainted with self-love. Huh? It's the greatest of all virtues. It's the root of all other Christian virtues, humility. Humility is one of the hardest lessons to learn in life. It goes against everything that is natural in us. Humility is not taught in schools We've had Institute here for 25 years. We've been teaching Bible Institute. We cover every book of the Bible. We cover 10 major doctrines, eight major doctrines. But there's no class that you can take to learn humility. I've taught a little bit in Bible colleges, a couple, not a lot, but some. I've never seen one Bible college that had a class called Humility 101. Now, to be honest with you, that worries me a little. If God resists the proud, and the only avenue to get God's grace is through humility, why do we study it so little? Why do we give it such little attention or effort to be humble if God says He resists the proud and gives grace to the humble Can't learn it in school. It's a har one of the hardest things in the world to learn. You can't learn it from books I have several books on humility, and some of them tied in with revival. I've read them and studied them. And you know what? Uh I hate to admit it, but there's been times I finished reading a book on humility and was very proud of the fact I read that book on humility. I think there's only one place we can learn genuine humility, and that is in the school of Christ. And by that I mean this. As I deliberately and consciously decide that I'm going to submit my will to the will of God, the Word of God, the will of God as it's expressed in the Word of God. Then I begin to learn humility. As I establish and seek to maintain a close walk with my Savior, a walk of faith, trusting Him. Following his instructions, heeding his warnings, claiming his promises, as I make a conscious decision, I'm going to do that, then I begin to learn humility. And I found as I walk with my Savior and as I claim God's promise and seek to follow His instructions, as I do that, many times I'll go through deep valleys. Many times I'll face heartache and pain. You know what's happening? God's teaching me humility. God's teaching me humility. Can't be learned in a school. You can't read a book and put the book down and say, boy, now I'm humble. No school in the world is going to give you a diploma on humility. We're so proud here he's first place in the humility category If we're gonna, if humility is so important, we can't have God's blessings, we can't have revival, if God resists the proud, then we need to understand what humility is, right or wrong? How can I pursue something I don't even know what it is? How can I seek to be something I don't even understand? So let's try this morning. And again, it's not the easiest thing in the world to define. My first thought, in the little time we have, real quickly, I want to go through this. I want to, number one, consider the concept of humility. What is, what do we mean? What does God mean when he says, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble? What are you talking about? Well, let's look at the Word. Let's do the same thing we always do. Let's look at the Word. What does the Word mean? I found that humility is a major theme all through Scripture. Used over a hundred times the term humility is used in both the Old and New Testament. The New Testament word that we have our English word Humility or humble yourself, or variations of the term humility or humble, the New Testament word that it comes from means simply this To place low to the ground. Now that's the literal, that's the academic definition of the word, to place low to the ground. Another definition for that word is to place in a lower rank. Rank of Honor, ranks of recognition. We give out awards today. The word humble or humility, as used in the New Testament, means to have a very, very lower rank down below others. Somebody asked George Mueller, great man of God in England, of years gone by, had the orphanage homes. Many of you are familiar with George Mueller, tremendous man of faith The hand of God was upon him in powerful ways. Man of great prayer. You ought to read his biography sometime. It'll stir your heart Somebody asked George Miller, they said, what's the secret to the spiritual power on your life? Your life influences hundreds of thousands of people. What's the secret? What's the answer? What causes that? And as he spoke, he was an older man at the time, it was later in his life, and as he spoke, he said this. He said, There was a day When George Mueller died. And he got down, the biographies tell us, he got down and laid prostrate on the ground. He said that is where the grace, the presence, and the power of God comes. You know what he was saying? He was illustrating the New Testament word for humility, placing himself low. Of died. The Webster's definition for the English word humility means this: freedom from pride and arrogance. Let me just throw this out, and maybe I don't think preachers are the only ones guilty of this, but I've noticed it in preachers. Sometimes a preacher will confuse confidence with arrogance. There's a world of difference between those two. You can be very humble and be very confident, but you cannot be humble and be arrogant. Webster says that humility is the absence of arrogancy, the absence of pride. It means, uh Webster says the word humble means this, to have a modest estimate of myself, an attitude of submission. Humility. The Bible says repeatedly, God resists the proud but giveth grace to the humble. We just tried to describe what the word implies. Humility, as I studied humility in the Bible, I come to this conclusion. Humility is not a feeling. I just really feel humble today. It's not a feeling. Humility is a frame of mind, it's a way of thinking. I study scriptures, I've come to this conclusion. Humility begins in my heart and my mind, the way I think, my attitude about myself and about others, my attitude about God. If you would, keep your place here in James. Turn with me, if you would, to the book of Philippians, real quickly. And I don't believe we're going to get through all this this morning. But Philippians chapter number two. I tell you, you want to study humility, Philippians chapter two, it's a powerful passage of scripture Not just defining militar uh humility for us, but giving us the greatest example of humility in all of history Philippians chapter 2, and I want to begin reading in verse number 5. Notice the Bible says, let this mind, I circled the word mind there, let this mind be in you. Which was also in Christ Jesus. The word mind there has this idea, your way of thinking, your attitude He's saying, adapt the mind of Christ. Adapt for yourself the way Jesus thinks. You think that way. The attitude that Jesus maintained about himself and others and God You adopt that same attitude for yourself. That this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Okay, what was it? He goes and describes it. Who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God. You can't rob something that's already yours. Jesus is God. When he claimed to be God, he wasn't robbing a title for himself that he didn't that wasn't true. That's what he's saying. But made himself, look at verse 7, but made himself of no reputation. This is the Son of God. This is the King of heaven. Made himself of no reputation and took upon him the form of a what? Servant, and was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he what? Humbled himself. And became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Wherefore God hath highly exalted and given a name which is above every name. He humbled himself. Humility is not a feeling, it's a decision I make. It's an attitude. I adapt. I choose to make my own. It's a way of thinking. I choose to think this way. If you will, we'd come over to Romans chapter number twelve. Subject is addressed here in Romans chapter twelve Romans twelve, and we get there, come down to verse number three. Give everybody a chance to find it. Romans 12, look at verse 3. Romans. Chapter 12, verse 3. For I say unto you, through the grace given unto me, look at this. To every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think what? Soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith. That word soberly means this, to have a modest opinion of myself. He's referencing humility, not thinking highly of myself, not thinking exalting myself. But like George Mueller said, lowering myself, dying to my pride, my self-love, my self-worship, my self-exaltation. Humility. It's an attitude. It's a decision I make in my mind as to what kind of person I'm going to be, what kind of Christian I'm going to be. Most Christians go through life Not deciding what they are, just doing whatever is next. Just going with the flow. Humility, I have to stop and I have to decide. That's not what I'm going to be Humble yourself. The decision I made. Do you know it's possible to have an outward display of humility And yet have a heart filled with pride? A lot of people are very proud of how humble they are. Seriously. A lot of us sometimes get the idea, boy, I'm pretty humble. You know? But it's a way of thinking. It's not this show I put on. It's not some act I put on. Humility is a conscious decision I as a child of God make as to where I'm going to think, is how I'm going to behave. How I'm going to treat others. How I'm going to r respect my God. 2 Chronicles 7. 14, we already referenced it. If my people, which are called by my name, listen, shall humble who? themselves. It's a decision I make about me. A lot of folks spend a lot of time trying to humble others. I'll tell you what she needs, a good dose of humility. Does anybody notice the irony of that statement? It's about the most proud statement you can make. It's a decision I make. If my people, which are called by my name, 1 Peter 5, 6, we won't turn there for sake of time, he says this. Humble yourselves. In the sight of the Lord. You humble yourselves. You decide. Either you're going to do it or you aren't. It's a decision I make. Our text, James chapter 4, and down in verse 10, humble yourselves, beside the Lord, he'll shall lift you up. It's a decision I make. You say, well, who's responsible whether I'm humble or not? You are! I decide. Number two, if you would come back to Peter or James here real quick. He says there in verse 6, our memory verse. But he giveth more grace. God wants to give us grace. God wants to help us be victorious Christian lives. He wants to strengthen us and enable us and bless us. He wants to. But we have a responsibility. But he giveth more grace. Therefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble. There's a contrast here between the proud and the humble. Pride and humility. That's in our news every day. It's shoved in our face. Pride, pride, pride. There's a contrast between that. Which am I going to be? Am I going to be a proud Christian or am I going to humble myself? Am I going to be proud the way I think, or am I going to be humble in my thinking? It's up to me. But there's a contrast here. I want to suggest to you, pride is the greatest enemy of God's grace there is in existence. Pride. You say, oh, the devil's the greatest enemy of God's grace. No, pride is. The devil cannot touch a humble Christian. I don't have to be beat up by the devil. You can attack me and give me a rough time, but if I'm humble, I have God's grace. The only person that can hinder God's blessing and grace from my life is me. And it's either pride or humility I decide that. Pride is the greatest enemy of the child of God. Our greatest enemy. Again, as I'm thinking this, I'm studying this, I'm praying over this, I'm coming to this conclusion. Why isn't there more preaching against pride in the heart of believers? If that causes God to re if that brings God's resistance to grace, if God brings God's resistance, Then why in the world are we preaching more about sodomy than we are about pride in the heart of believers? Am I right or wrong? I know I'm right. Again, a statement I made before. I'm telling you, and I don't like this garbage going on. It's wrong. It's a perversion and it's rebellion against the holy God in its rawest form. But I'll tell you what's more dangerous to Mount Lake and to my your home and my your heart Isn't that pride flag hanging out there? It's the pride in our own hearts. That's the root of the problem. And I think until we get pride out of our hearts, we're not going to see this pride stuff out there go away Because the spiritual well-being of a country is dependent upon the people of God in that country. Not the politicians, not the socialites, not the influencers The people of God. Pride is our greatest enemy. God resisteth the proud, he says. The word resist means to battle against. When you and I are pride, when we fail to repent of our pride, we fail to put away our pride, we are declaring war against God. That's what the word resist means to war against. It means to be in opposition to. I don't know about you. I don't want to be in opposition to God. I don't want God to be in opposition. I don't want God to be against me. I need Him. I'm here to tell you this morning, it's far better to have the whole world against us than to have God against us. God resisteth the proud. I think humility is the greatest ally in the Christian life. Pride versus humility, the two attitudes that determine the quality of my Christian life, two attitudes that determine my walk with God. Pride or humility. Every one of us here, right now, at this very moment, either we're proud or we're humble. There's no in-between, there's no middle ground. God resists the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. Someone has pointed out, I love this statement. Can't tell you who said it. I don't know. But someone has made this statement. It was the pride of Satan that introduced sin to humanity. And it was the humility of the Savior that made salvation possible for humanity. As stark a contrast as you can get. Number three, and last of all, end with this We have the concept of humility. It's a decision I make to lower myself, not exalt myself, to be sober, modest opinion of myself, to die to self. The contrast between pride and humility were one or the other. And number three, the Christ-likeness of humility. And by the way, this is where I think it boils down to. The ultimate what is the ultimate What is God's ultimate end for every Christian? For us to be what? Somebody, see if you're on the same wavelength as me. To be Christ-like. Study Romans 8. Be conformed to his image. To be like the Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible says when we get to heaven, boy, what a day that will be, huh? We get to heaven, the Bible says, uh we shall see him as he is, for we shall be like him The ultimate end, the ultimate goal, the end of our Christian life, we will one day be Christ-like in perfection. Perfectly Christ-like in every way. Anyway. Anybody here, does any of that appeal to anybody at all? Man, alive. Can you imagine that? But our life here on earth, our life here in these temporal bodies, our life here on a fallen planet, is a process of work that's going on in our lives to develop us to be more and more like Christ until ultimately we're called to heaven. will be perfectly like Christ. But God wants us to be as Christ-like as is possible for a person living in a fallen human body. That's the goal. So, I guess my question is this was Jesus humble If I'm going to be Christ-like, I'm suggesting to you I cannot be Christ-like and not be humble. If there's an ounce of pride in my heart and mind, and there usually is, huh? Right or wrong, usually is. I cannot be Christ-like. I don't have time to go off on all this, but if you would, one more passage, come with me to the Gospel of Matthew, first book of the New Testament, Matthew. And Jesus makes an interesting statement here. He reveals a little bit about his nature, a little bit about his personality. He reveals to us a little bit of really what Jesus as the Son of Man here on earth, what he really was like. And notice what he says in Matthew chapter 11. Look with me if you would at verse 29. All the way at the end of the chapter, Matthew 11. I'll start reading in verse 28. Familiar passage for many of us. It says, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. What a great promise, huh? Now look, he describes himself. In the next verse, pay close attention. Take my yoke upon me and learn of me. He says, you come, put, humble yourself, take this yoke on me, let me, Brother Nathan and I were talking, let me be your Lord He's talking to believers, let me be your Lord, take my yoke upon me, and learn of me. He says, let me tell you what I'm like. If you submit to me my will, my plans, and purposes for your life, you submit to that, here's what you'll learn about me. This is what you'll begin to understand about me. This is Jesus speaking. For I am what? Meek and what? Lowly in heart. You know what that is? That's humility. I'm a humble. You learn of me, you'll see it. Notice what he doesn't say. He says, take my yoke upon me For I am meek, and he says, take my yoke upon me and learn of me, for I am brilliant. Question, was Jesus brilliant? Yes, he's omniscient. There's nothing. Let me put it this way, so some of y'all understand. There ain't nothing he don't know. Yeah, he was brilliant. But he doesn't say, take my yoke on me and learn of me, for I'm brilliant. He doesn't say, take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am really powerful. Question, was Jesus really powerful? Yeah, he was all powerful. He spoke this infinite universe into existence. Yeah, he's powerful. But he says, that's not what I want you to learn of me. I'm meek and I'm lowly. You know why he said that? Because that's what we are to be. He was our example to use a Bible term. He says, here, I'm giving you a pattern. This is what I created you. Let me put it this way: you and I were not designed mentally, physically, or spiritually to operate in pride. That's not the way we're designed. And every time I get proud, every time I obviously become proud, you know what happens in my heart and my mind? I become frustrated. Become irritable. There's restlessness there, snapping, barking at others, pointing out everybody else's faults and mistakes, and I need to correct them. I'm telling you, that is not joy of the Lord. That is not the peace of God. That is the fruit of pride. We weren't designed to operate that way, mentally, or physically, or spiritually, or psyche in our psyche. We're not designed to operate that way. That's why this whole world is in chaos. And everybody's angry. And everybody's on edge. And it's creeping in our churches. And you hear God's people snapping at each other and barking at each other and angry and frustrated and irritated and slamming around. Jesus says, no. Let me show you what you were designed, how you were designed to operate. You come, submit to me, take my yoke, and learn in me. I'll show you how to do this. I tell you the greatest example and pattern for humility that has ever walked this planet was the Lord Jesus Christ. And we're designed to be like him. And everything God is doing in my life, the things he allows, the things he hinders, the disappointments. The heartaches, the questions, the trials, all of it, God is allowing to develop in me a Christ-likeness that is characterized primarily by humility. And out of that humility comes compassion. Out of that humility comes patience. Out of that humility comes holiness. I'm telling you, there is a dignity to humility. The world hates it. The world mocks it. It's weakness. But God says no, there's dignity there. I'd what last night I read over my notes again before today and this morning and a thought came to me and I put this as my last statement in my notes. I don't know me. There's a lot of preachers love to post on social media and stuff. They like to advertise about their great preaching. How many twelves I preached in? I was here and we did that and we had this. And I'm all for giving God the glory. Don't misunderstand. But you know, I can't find anywhere. We're finishing up the life of David. And I can't find anywhere, not one place in any of the songs or any record of David's life where he referenced his killing of Goliath. Not one time. Now if it was me, everybody would know I'm the guy that killed Goliath. Right? I mean I'm the guy that walks down the hall in the nursing home and tells everybody. Right? I mean I want you all to know what this lady said. But not one time in all these Psalms, David never one time says, I'm the guy. I did this, I did that. You study David's Psalms very carefully, you know what he does? God did it all. God did it all. The dignity of humility. I'll just throw this out. I think there's a shame and self-exaltation. But the world is so proud, they love the boast, proud bang, I did this, I'm this, I got all these degrees, I got da-da-da-da-da-da. I think in God's eyes, that's a shame. Humility is where the dignity is. Humility. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn this hard concept. Lord, I pray, and pray hesitantly, Lord, that you would teach us to be humble. I pray you'd pull that seed, that root of pride. That's so deep in our hearts. I pray your grace, your Holy Spirit, would root that seed out, pull that root out of our hearts. And replace it with humility. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, we give the invitation. I wonder if there's some of us here tonight say, Preacher I need to take this matter of humility seriously. Never gave a thought. I look in my the mirror of God's word and I see a proud man I look in the mirror of God's word. I see a proud woman. Proud father, a proud mother, a proud teenager. I see it. I don't want God to resist me. I want God's grace. I want to be a good Christian. Is there any like that, preacher? I see pride in my life. I need God to help me. God bless you. Hands all around. Hands all around. Often it's the proudest Christian that fails to see their own pride. I don't know if there's some would say, preacher, I need to start developing some habits in my Christian life. That enable me to be humble, that will foster that hum attitude of humility, Bible reading, obedience, faith deliberately choosing to be a blessing and rather than seek to seeking someone to bless me. Is there any like that? Preacher, there's some a habits in my life need to be developed and fur nurture A humble attitude. God bless you. Hands all round, young and old. Pride knows no age boundaries. Humilities for all of us. Is there some here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die, and I don't want to go to hell I want to come to Christ humbly. I need Him to forgive me and save me. So I can have eternal life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I need you to pray for me. I don't want to die and go to hell. God bless you. Any others around, preacher, I'm concerned about it. I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know I'm saved. How many say, preacher, I know someone that's unsaved? I'm concerned for them. Any like that? Uplifted hand? I know someone. Father, bless our invitation now. Have your way. I pray that every person raised their hand would find a place this old altar. And do met do business with God, please, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, Isaac