2 Samuel chapter 3, begin reading verse 22. And behold, the servants of David and Job came from pursuing a troop and brought in a great spoil with them But Abner was not with David in Hebron, for he had sent him away, and he was gone in peace. When Joab and all the host that was with him were come, they told Joab, saying, Abner The son of Nur came to the king, and he has sent him away, and he has gone in peace. Then Joab came to the king and said, What hast thou done? Behold, Abner came in unto thee. Why is it that thou hast sent him away, and he is quite gone? Joab is incredulous that David would let this happen. Verse 24, then Joab came to the verse 25, Thou knowest Abner, the son of Nur, that he came to deceive thee, and to know thy going out and thy coming in, and to know all that thou doest. Now notice he doesn't stick around, give David a chance to respond. Verse 26. And when Joab was come out from David, he sent messengers after Abner, which brought him again from the well of Sira And David knew it not. And when Abner was returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside in the gate to speak with him quietly, and smote him there under the fifth rib That he died for the blood of Ashiel his brother. I've entitled the message, The Murder of Abner. The Murder of Abner. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts tonight. Help us. Father in heaven, I thank you for David, Lord. What a testimony, what a life lessons we see in his life, the ups and downs, the good, the bad And I pray you'd help us tonight to learn from this experience, this event, and um apply it to our lives, Lord, that we can be wise in our Christian life, that we can um Have faith in you and that you would just use us. Make us more usable, I pray. Fill me with your spirit is my prayer that you would be the teacher, the preacher, speak through me. And yield my will, present my body. Pray you'd have your way in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. We're at this stage, as I said, in David's life. He has been anointed king of Judah. And I'm just briefly reviewing here. He's been anointed king of Judah by God, initially, he was anointed king of all Israel by God as a young man. Now Judah has recognized God's choice. They publicly anoint him as a public recognition. This is God's man to be king. Eleven tribes have not. They have, under the influence of Abner, have placed Saul's son, Ishbasheth. Up as king, a counter-king, a counter-kingdom to David's kingdom and really God's kingdom. And what we find here is we find Israel is a severely divided nation at this point in time. Not the last time that happens, but at this point in time they are very, very divided. One tribe, as we said, Judah, they say David is our king, God recognized him, God chose him, he's our king All the other 11 tribes that make up the nation of Israel, they have uh rebelled against God. They've rebelled against David's uh administration. And um here's what I'm getting at under the influence Of a very wicked man, and maybe you conclude Ishbasheth in that, a rebellious man, a wicked man, I believe. They have rebelled against God's choice and against David's kingdom. A very, very divided, divided nation. In fact, it was so divided that it broke out into open warfare. God's people are fighting God's people. The citizens of one nation are fighting each other. In fact, at the end there of uh chapter number two, uh we notice that, or at the beginning of chapter number three I should say, it says it was a long war. between David, tribe of Judah, and the rest of Israel. Seven and a half years. They're fighting, fighting. If you agree with me, that's bad. For a nation to be divided like that, nation to be fighting itself like that. That's a bad thing. However There's a turning point here. And out of the blue, I mean they're fighting. It has to be a discouraging circumstances for the nation and for the people that make up the nation so divided and yet out of the blue Abner shows up in David's palace and uh he says, Hey, I'm gonna make a deal. Now he and Esbush had that fallen out, if you remember. He goes, hey, I got an offer for you He says, you let me come work in your administration. I'll bring the other 11 tribes in underneath you, and we'll be one unified nation. And David says, okay, and of course he made some ground rules there. We looked at that, said some criteria, get Michael back and stuff. But David takes him up on his offer. And that actually is the that actually is the is the trigger, I guess, that brings this nation together This man Abner, who I have I don't think very highly of as a person, character and all, but yet God used him To bring this nation together. God had a plan. God knew what was going to happen. God knew how this was going to play out from the get-go. How many people here realize God knows how it's going to play out, right? God knows. Dale saying, I don't worry about tomorrow. I know he's got it. He's alright. God's got it there. And so Abner shows up out of the blue, completely unexpected. Nobody saw this coming. He says, Hey, let's work things out. I've got a plan. We can bring this nation together and work it out. And lo and behold, eventually. God uses that to make to heal the nation, to reunify the nation. Very unlikely person, very unexpected timing. And yet God is in control. I put down two observations, and this is all by way of introduction, but and I want to encourage you to jot these down. Would you, if you got a paper and pencil there somewhere, two Two statements I want to make that I think are very, very helpful and that we can learn from This event with Abner showing up and God using that, eventually, it doesn't happen instantly, but eventually, this nation coming together. Two things we must never do Let me give you this. Two things we must never do. Write this down with me, if you would. Write this down. We must never assume that we know God's plans. We must never assume that we know what God is up to. I don't know about you, but there's been more than one occasion where I thought I had it all figured out how God was going to do something, and you know what? Without exception, I've been wrong every single time. I cannot assume I know what God's plans are, what got how God's going to work something out, or what He's up to If you would, take your Bibles. Now keep your place here. I want to show you a couple verses that I think will be helpful. Go to Isaiah chapter 55. Now we'll get to this passage here eventually. Isaiah chapter 55 is one of, I mean it's hard to say what your favorite verses are, but I'll tell you, Isaiah 55 And verse number 8 is very, very helpful for me. Verse 8 and 9. Now, who can tell me, let's see how our Bible scholars here tonight, who can tell me what Proverbs 27, verse 1 says? Dale. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. We have no idea what tomorrow holds Anybody here ever worry about something? Worry yourself sick, stay up all night, and next day, and it never even happens. I thought anybody here ever get all excited about something, boy, this is going to be great, the greatest thing in my life, I'm going to win the lottery, and it doesn't happen. We think we figure stuff out. We think we know what tomorrow holds. We think we know I'm telling you, we cannot assume that that we know what God is up to What God's plans are. Look at Isaiah 55 and verse number 8. This is God speaking. Look what he says. For my thoughts Are not your thoughts. Now let me stop there and just point this out. That word thoughts there, the definition of that word thoughts means this: my plans and my purposes. My thoughts, the things that I'm planning, that I'm purposing, God speaking, my thoughts are not your thoughts. Neither are your ways my ways. In the word, ways there has the idea of a manner of operation. I don't work the way you work. My plans are not the same as what you anticipate and what you uh think will happen. Now look at the next verse. My thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. Look at this. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, So are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts. We must never assume that we know what God is up to. No, no. His ways are higher than our ways. His methods of operation don't go by ours. His plans and purposes are higher than what we see, what we think. So, number one, the first thing I'd like for you to write down is this: we must never assume that we know God's plans. We know how God's going to do something, or even what he's up to necessarily My second thing I want to encourage you to write down that we should never do is this. Never underestimate the power of God. Never underestimate the power of God. Again, I'd like you to go with me to the book of Jeremiah. You're in Isaiah, work your way back. And uh to Jeremiah, and you'll get to chapter 32, if you would. Jeremiah chapter 32, and this is another one of those great verses in the Bible. Let me get there. Isaiah chapter 32. And look with me if you would at verse 17. Now, if you're in the habit of underscoring verses in your Bible, which I highly recommend, this is a good one. Isaiah 55 is a good one. Notice Jeremiah 32, verse 7. Look what it says. Ah, Lord God, behold, thou hast made the heaven. And the earth by thy great power and stretched out arm. And there is, look at this, what's that next word? And there is nothing too hard for thee. I don't know about you. I'm glad there's nothing too hard for God. And so we come back to David's situation. He's king. He's king of Judah. Not king of all Israel, and he's not pushing to make this happen. He's waiting on God, trusting God. But Abner raises up, stirs up trouble, puts Ishbosheth in as a counter-king and a counter-kingdom. And of course the tensions rise as a result of that, and I think Abner instigated a lot of it. We saw that there earlier. And lo, behold, war breaks out, and God's people are fighting God's people. And I think we know David well enough to know that surely grieved his heart. That surely grieved his heart. And yet God had a plan. And God is able to take even that horrendous situation, that awful circumstance, and even use some less than ideal people To bring about his will and accomplish his will and make things that are wrong and make them right. Now I want us to look here, if you're back here in 2 Samuel. Chapter 3, I want us to notice a few things. The first thing, oh, let me back up here while you're getting back there where you are. What we're going to see here in this passage, and I think. That Abner shenanigans are going to catch up with him. Are catching up with him. I put this down in my notes. I put this statement down. You cannot rebel against God without paying a heavy price. Now mark that down. Be not deceived. God is not mocked And he shows rebellion, and he shows division, and there's a heavy price to pay. There's a heavy price to pay. And I think what we're going to see here is Abner's shenanigans catch up with him Now, here's my outline of our passage, verse 22 down through verse 27. Number one, the first thing I notice is David's assumption. David's assumption. Now, I'll allow for the fact I may be reading a little bit into this. I can't say this for certain, but as I'm reading and studying this It appears to me that David, when he made this agreement with Abner, that Abner was going to go and he'll bring the other eleven tribes in and And uh he'll he'll bring everything under David's kingdom. David says, All right, well you get me my wife, you bring her back, and uh and uh we can work this out. And finally it all works out, and notice it says there at the end of verse 23 At the end of verse 22, it says, For he had sent him away in peace. He sent him away, he's gone in peace. So David makes this deal. David makes this league with Abner. And my impression is Now again, I'm not certain of this, but my impression is that David assumed that everybody else in his administration would go along with this. You assume that everybody else would be okay with this. Obviously David's okay with it. Man, there's peace. The war's going to end, and we'll all have one kingdom again. And David makes this assumption that Joab and others in his administration around would be fine with the decision he makes. I see no indication here In fact, it's very clear he did not include Joab in this council, in this meeting. And David assumes Joab's going to be on board with it. Do you ever hear that old saying? I've heard it my whole life. Never assume. That's good advice. Never assume. David, I think, made a mistake. Now that's easy for me to look back 4,000 years later and evaluate by what we have here. But it seems to me he made a mistake. I think he should have included Joab. This is an important meeting. This is a huge, huge turning point. This is very significant. Everybody's affected by this Now David says, oh, I see is good coming out of this. Why would anybody be opposed to it? But he assumed that that would be the response. I put down a few dangers of assumptions. Anybody have you ever assumed something was so you found out it wasn't, and boy, it stung you. Yeah. I put down four four dangers of assumptions. Number one, assumptions, at least in my case, are almost always wrong. Not always, but almost always wrong. Well, I assume I turned the iron off when we left. So a lot of times our assumptions are wrong. I assume I lock the front door. I assume they're gonna uh I assume the I assume the electric company's fine with me waiting three months to pay the bill. Assumptions are almost always wrong, or at least often are wrong. I put this down. Number two, assumptions often hurt relationships. There's a lot of truth in that. Well, I assumed they'd be okay with this. Well, I assumed you wouldn't mind. Well, I assumed, and I tell you, assumptions have hurt a lot of relationships, not just in a family, but in ministries, in workplace, in friendships Never assume it doesn't hurt to just touch base with someone and say, hey, listen, before I do this, I want to make sure you're okay with this. You follow what I'm saying? I want to make sure you're on board before we make this decision, particularly if it affects more than one person. And so assumptions will often hurt relationships. I put this one down, number three. Assumptions can damage trust. Can damage trust. I trusted you. You assumed that all these things were in place and they weren't. We were depending on you. We were trusting you. And I tell you, the person you can trust is the person who's just going to double check and make sure everything's good. Double check, make sure everything's right. And often assumptions damage a trust. And then last of all, I put this one down, number four, assumptions are often very costly. Very costly So they're often, if not almost always, if not often, wrong. They often hurt relationships. They often damage the trust we have in someone. And they're often very costly. Um when I travel and mission trips in different places, fly a couple, three times a year at the most, not as much as some people, but I noticed That while you're getting on the plane or before you get on, you look out at the plane, and oh, and I have a little thing, uh little um web thing I follow on the computer where it's pilots. It's all about pilots and they have cameras in the in the cockpits and you can literally spend two, three hours, it'll just film the whole thing from when they get in They go through all their stuff, they fire up, they take off, and you can see their point of view, you see what they're doing. It's a fascinating thing. I watch it for hours on end. I went, No, not really But I notice something when I'm flying, and I notice something on this, watching these pilots, is they never assume that the plane is good to go You know what they do? They get out and they do it they walk around. They have a check. They go around there. Even in little little private plates. Before they take off, they'll go and they'll check, see if there's any oil leaking, see if there's fuel in the tank And they'll just go around and look at some one they were following this female pilot and she was going around, she explained everything she checked, and we said we do this every time before we take off. We have like a 75-point checklist. We walk around the plane And we check all this. Then once they get in there and that pass is mustard, then they get in there and um I notice the one pilot says, um, uh some some kind of gadget, uh the electromagnometer, uh on. And the other person says, on, check, and they go through that whole thing. You know what? They never assume That everything's in place, everything's right. They double check and they confirm it. What I'm trying to say is this. We can learn from David here. He assumed that Joe, uh, that Joab was on board. Joab wasn't on board. And it cost them, it hurt them. And we can assume things and it hurts us. We should not assume. And anybody want to take a guess Anybody want to suggest, let me put it that way, anybody suggest what is the most dangerous issue to assume What would be the most dangerous thing in the world to just assume it's okay? The destiny of my soul. Salvation of my soul. And I meet people all the time out visiting and talking to people, and people say, I think I'm alright Yeah, I think it's okay. Yeah, I'm probably good. You know what they're assuming? They're assuming that God will accept them into heaven, but that assumption has no basis in Scripture. And I always ask people, what gives you that assurance? If I ask someone, oh yeah, I'm going to heaven, very first question after that statement, I'll ask them this: what gives you that assurance? What makes you sure? What are you basing that on? You cannot just assume. The worst thing in the world a person can do is just assume that I've been saved, that everything's okay. I need to settle that. 1 John chapter 5 says this: These things have I written unto you that you may know that you have eternal life. Not assume. No, no, no. So if you if you don't have that settled, don't assume everything's safe. Make sure you've trusted Christ and you've got that settled. So David, the first thing I notice here, and again, I I can't be certain about this, but it sure looks to me that David assumed That everybody would be on board with him. Then the second thing I notice very quickly is Joab's alarm. We have David's assumption, then Joab's alarm. Look at verse 23. When Joab and all his hosts that were with them were come, now David had sent them out, uh, and I did a little background, this really doesn't relate to the events here, but Joab was out probably dealing with the uh uh Amorites and uh uh a bunch of these little kingdoms around them that were just like mosquitoes at night. They were just constantly nitpicking at Israel and raiding this And so Joab's out there dealing with all these other things. And he comes back in verse 23. And when Joab and all the hosts that was with him were come, they're out dealing with these problem nations. They told Joab, saying, Abner, the son of Nur came to the king, and he has sent him away and he is gone. Joab becomes very alarmed When he hears that. And he goes immediately to David, came to the king, and said, What have you done? What hast thou done? Why is it that thou hast sent him away? And he's quite he's gone. Now, the first thing I notice in Absalom's alarm, as soon as he hears about this, man, he gets alarmed. The first thing I notice is the concern of David's men. Now look there in verse number 23. There's a word there, and I don't know who these people are. When Joab and all the hosts that were come with the uh that was with him were come, they told Joab, who are they? We're not told. I assume it's people that are in David's administration, part of his staff, maybe. Some people that knew what took place, people that knew what were going on. And they're very concerned about this decision that David made. But the interesting thing is, here's my question. David made the decision to bit make this league with Abner. These people were obviously aware of it. They're very concerned about it. Here's my question. Why did they go to Joab? If David made the decision, and their concern with David's decision looks to me, they ought to go to who? David. He's the king. He's the one that made the decision. He's the one that's responsible Why didn't they go to David and talk to him and get his input and get his? But they didn't. I think this is the second mistake in this whole terrible event that takes place. The murder of Abder. Number one, David made an assumption. I think this is my I'm not the brightest thing in the world, but I look at it, I think, David, you probably ought to have Joab in on this. This affects you guys have been at war. And now we're going to do peace. You ought to, my chief of staff, my military advi my uh captain of the host ought to be in on this. And he wasn't. And the second thing is they, whoever they are, went to the wrong person. They should have gone to David with their concerns. But the one to Joe up. I've noticed that a lot of times. People will and it hasn't happened often just over the years, but occasionally somebody will disagree with what a decision I make or some leadership or some dire something we do And rather than coming and talking to me, they'll go find someone else and say, Well uh, do you agree what Pastor said or did Do you agree what Brother Mark did? Do you agree, Pastor Bat? And rather than coming and talking to the person responsible, they'll go and do that. What does that do? When you don't go to the one responsible, you go to other people and great, what does that do? It it it causes what? Dissension and division. I'm so grateful that there's a number of people in our church that if they something they don't not sure what I did, they would question or concern about, they come and talk to me. I think the I think they, wherever they are, made a terrible mistake. And they went to Joab and it didn't work out so hot. So we have Joab's alarm. First of all, the concern of David's men. They go to Joab, not to David. Then I notice the confrontation of Joab. He is alarmed, and he is going to go talk to the king. Look at verse 24. Then Joab came to the king and said, What hast thou done? I can hear him just yelling at the king. I can see him steaming. What hast thou done? Maybe he slammed his fist on the table. Adner came to thee, our enemy, the captain of our enemy's host, and responsible for seven years of war. And you let him go? Joab is absolutely incredulous That David would do this. Now, Joab was one of David's most loyal military men. He had been by his side. He had fought for him. I think he should have been included in this meeting, but he wasn't. And I noticed that his confrontation with David takes the form of questioning David's judgment. Verse 24, what have you done? He's questioning his judgment. Now that in and of itself isn't wrong. But then he questions Abner's sincerity. Look at verse 25 Thou knowest Abner the son of Ner. They knew what kind of guy he was. They knew more about him than you and I do. And he came to deceive thee and To know thy going out and thy coming in and know all that thou doest. Now, I'm not convinced that what was Abner was up to. I don't think Abner was doing this to try and take over the kingdom. I think he was doing this to advance his own agenda and get in on David's good side. But Abner knows Joab, or Joab knows Abner, and he says, David, what in the world? This guy's not sincere. He's sneaking in here. He's trying to get an advantage of us and take us out. Joab is your classic military god. Not only that, there is bad blood between Joab and Abner. He rebelled against against Joab's king. And I think that stung Joab. If there's somebody you love and you're loyal to and you hear somebody else bad-mouthing them, how many people like me? That stings. I don't like to hear that. Don't talk about them that way around me And soab or Abner was rebelling against Joab's king, and Joab was very loyal to the king. And the second thing here is we didn't touch on this, we skipped over a section because David wasn't directly involved, but uh Abner had killed Joab's brother. Come back to chapter 2 with me, if you would, and look at verse 23. This is when war breaks out. Remember they had a bunch of fellows on each side said, let them come and play together. Anybody remember that? And they all twelve of them killed each other. And then boom, war breaks out. And Abner is running away from Joab's brother, Asheel. And verse 22 gives the account of Abner killing Asheel. And Abner said again unto Ashel, now they're running down this path or whatever it is. They're running, he's running as fast as they can. He turns back and says, Turn thee aside from following me. Wherefore should I smite thee to the ground? How then should I hold up my face to Joab, thy brother? He says, I don't want to kill you. Quit chasing me. Now look at verse 23. Howbeit he refused to turn aside. This is Joab's brother. Wherefore Abner, now listen, look at this. Picture this in your mind if you like gross, gory stuff. Abner with the hinder end of his spear. So he's running, he's got this spear. Eshiel is right behind him. Abner with the hinder end of his smear smote him. He takes the back side of the spear, not the pointy side. And he rams it into Ashiel's fifth rib, that it went completely through his body, came out the back behind him, and of course he fell down there and died in the same place. So, Abner, whether in self-defense or whatever you want to call it, he killed Joab's brother. And I'm telling you, in fact, we're told there at the end of verse, if you come back here, notice at the end of verse number 27 that Abner is ticked and he is vengeful about uh or Joab is vengeful about Abner killing his brother And so there's bad blood here. So number one, we have David's assumption. Number two, we have Joab's alarm when he finds out about this deal. Then last of all, we have Abner's assassination. Look at verse 26. And when Joab was come out from David, he sent messengers after Abner. Now Joab found out what went on. Abner's already left. He's heading back. Joab sends messengers after him, brought him again from the well of Sirah. David doesn't know anything about this. David knew it not. And when Abner was returned to Hebron, that's important. Joab took him aside in the gate to speak with him quietly, and smote him there under the fifth rib that he died, for the blood of Ashiel his brother Three things here under the assassination of Abner. Number one, it was reactionary. Job just reac or Joab just reacted. I tell you, a lot of people, a lot of people have been killed because somebody just reacted, pulled a gun, boom, just got mad, threw a fist Grabbed somebody, threw them down. Best thing for Joab to have done, I think, in my humble opinion, is to just calm down, think this through. What's the best way to approach this I found when I react to things, a lot of times I react the wrong way. Can I get a witness? Anybody here ever react, say something afterward you say, Oh, I wish I hadn't said that. Yeah, done something. And so I see here, I mean he doesn't it looks like he doesn't even give David a chance to answer. He throws He challenges David, rebukes him, and he just storms out, I'm taking care of it. I'm taking this into my own hands. So it's reactionary. Reactionary. Number two, I notice it's deceptive. He doesn't give Abner a chance to explain himself or try and at least explain what his motives are. He don't trust them anyway. Verse 26, he says. He sent messengers which brought him again from the well of uh Syrah. So Abner thinks, oh, Joab's in on this. We got some other plans. How we're going to work this out, how this is going to play out. He doesn't know David doesn't know. And when Abner was returned to Hebron, now we're going to talk about that in our next message. Hebron was a city of refuge. Abner had killed Joab's brother, and under the this Old Testament economy, if you killed someone You were to go into a city of refuge and you were safe there. Nobody could take vengeance on you. And notice uh Joab catches him at the gate before he gets back into that city, because once he's in the city of Hebron, Joab can't do a thing. Joab knew exactly what he was doing. And so it was deceptive. By the way, most assassinations are deceptive. You know, you ambush them. And then last of all, I noticed it was vengeful. This was more than just a concern for the nation of Israel, Joe on Joab's part. It was a whole lot more than just concern for the nation of Israel. This was personal. You killed my brother. You're going to pay for that. I'm telling you, vengeance, vengeance is a very popular theme among Hollywood movies, among novels, fictitious novels, vengeance, vengeance. I tell you, vengeance can be an awful, awful thing in the life of a person. In fact, we noticed this earlier. God says Vengeance is mine. I will repay. We have to be very, very careful. About making sure that that person pays for what they did. Tell you what, let's let God deal with that. Let's let God take care of that. So two things I take away from this. One is what I started the message off with. God is using all of this, all of this violent and awful Actions on the part of Joab and everything, this whole thing. God's using that. He's playing, that's all part of God bringing about the nation and making it well. Which at any given point here you'd be saying, this is terrible. This is a horrible situation. How can anything good come out of this? Don't ever assume that we know what God's doing. Don't ever assume that we know what tomorrow holds or what God's plans are. We trust them. Don't ever underestimate God's power. God's able to take the worst situation and bring good out of it. And I know sometimes people say, yeah, you always quote that verse, but it's as true as John 3:16, all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are called according to purpose. Don't underestimate God's power. And then third, the last thing I take away is this. Let's let God deal with those who hurt us. Let God deal with them. Let God deal with them. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to trust you, to wait on you, to have faith in you And Lord, help us not to react, but to let you lead us and direct us and let you deal with those that Do wrong. Wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, just by way of introduction, would say, Preacher I'm bad habit of trying to figure out how God's going to do something, and then I worry about it because I don't see it. Anybody like this? I just man, I just maybe we just need to say, hey, you know, God knows what he's doing. I I can't assume that I know what he's gonna do. Um there any here that would say I tend to underestimate God's power. I tend to think this is so bad, nothing can come out of this. And I forget that God created everything. He can sure do this. Anybody like that? Any like that? I forget how powerful God really is. I forget what he's capable of doing. We need to be reminded of that. And then I'm not going to ask you to respond publicly to this, but in your heart, is there someone that's hurt you and you feel like you need to make them pay? Somebody did wrong. Whatever it might be. You say, oh, it just gets in there, it eats away. It's in. Maybe we need to just say, Lord, I put that on the altar. That's yours. You take care of that. I'm gonna go on. Father in heaven, I ask you bless. And uh help us to trust you in Jesus' name.