Um, I just want to take a few moments. When you find Romans fourteen, if you would mark that there and then find Second Corinthians chapter number five. I have two texts this morning for this morning's message. It's our children's uh awards Sunday. I got thinking about awards in the Bible. And I want to look at one event that's going to take place, perhaps the not too distant future. Where God is going to provide and distribute some rewards. If you would, there in Romans, if you have it, Romans 14, and notice with me verse number 10. He says, Why dost thou judge thy brother, or why dost thou set it not thy brother? Now look at this last statement. For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Take note of that term. The judgment seat of Christ. Keep your place there. Turn over to 2 Corinthians if you have it. Chapter 5, and notice with me verse number 10, 2 Corinthians 5, 10. He says, this is Paul writing to this church at Corinth, in the city of Corinth. He says, For we must all appear Before the judgment seat of Christ, that every one may receive the things done in his body According to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. The judgment seat of Christ is what I want to speak about for a few minutes we have left. Let's ask the Lord to bless our message. Father in heaven. I bow before you this morning. I'm so grateful for our children that you entrust us with as we try to teach them the Word of God. Lord, we try to introduce them to your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. God, we try to encourage them and support them as they grow and seek to fulfill your will for their lives. And now, Lord, we ask for ourselves. That you would use this passage and this coming event to challenge us, encourage, and help us to take seriously our spiritual well-being. Take seriously what the future holds. And so, Lord, I yield my will to you, my mind. I ask that you would guide my thinking as I preach. I yield to you and present anew my body. Pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, with all my heart, I ask you to use this message to challenge and help and direct us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. There are two passages in Scripture that reference the judgment seat of Christ. We just read the two. They're in Romans 14. 10 and 2 Corinthians 5. 10. There are a lot of other passages in Scripture that reference this event, this judgment seat of Christ, but doesn't other passages that reference it, but don't necessarily mention it by name We know from studying that passage that maybe in one of the Gospels the Lord is referencing the judgment seat of Christ throughout the epistles, even into the book of Revelation, there's reference to this event I've come to the conclusion, I've been studying this Bible a long, long time. This past May. It's been 45 years since I came to know Jesus Christ as Savior. And I know there's a lot of folks in our church been knowing the Lord long before I did. But I'm here to tell you, as I've studied this book, I've come to this inc conclusion. The most important event in my life as a believer. Is this day I stand before Jesus Christ at the judgment seat of Christ. The most important event in my life as a believer. May 7, 1979, I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. And from that point on, every day I've lived, every word I've said, every deed I've done It's going to be is noted by the Lord. And on that day I stand before Jesus Christ as Savior, give an account for how I live my life as a Christian. You cannot study the Bible and take it at face value and not come to the conclusion there is a coming day of judgment For both the unsaved and saved. Our understanding. I've tried to preach on Bible prophecy all these many years. And our understanding of Bible prophecy, we have to be very, very careful that when we think of prophecy and we think of coming events like the judgment seat of Christ, that we don't let that just be some curiosity. Or just some interesting event. We get caught up in prophecy and we wonder what's going to happen. What does the Bible say? And it can be very curious. It can be very fascinating. But our understanding of Bible prophecy must always be based, it must always produce an effect upon our lives. There must be a result. We believe Jesus is coming back. Amen? If that's true, we believe that, then that ought to affect how we live our life. Amen or not? I've often said we're a fundamental Baptist church. We believe the fundamentals of the Bible teaching. That must never simply be some statement on a doctrinal sheet. It should be something that affects how we live our lives on a daily basis. And this fact that Jesus Christ is coming back, and you and I will someday Stand before God and give an account. It ought to affect how we live our lives on a daily basis. Fact of the matter is, every person who is under the sound of my voice right now Is someday going to stand before God in one of two judgments. There are two judgments coming. One is the judgment seat of Christ that we've referenced here. We've read But it's also the great white throne judgment. Now the judgment seat of Christ is for believers, folks who have been saved. The great white throne judgment is for those folks who have not been saved, folks who have not trusted Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. They're unsaved, they're still in their sins. And there's a coming day when every unsaved person will stand before God Almighty and give an account for their For not accepting Jesus Christ as Savior, the great white throne. So I want to take a moment right up front here, and I hope you'll take this message seriously. I hope you won't think, well, that's prophecy, I'll just write it off. This is reality. This is truth that every one of us are going to have to face someday. The two judgments is the judgment seat of Christ. That's for believers. The other judgment is the great white throne judgment. We go to Roman uh Revelation chapter twenty and it's described in somewhat detail there. Who's there and what it is So the judgment seat of Christ, is there scripture for it? Sure, we just read here, and uh if we had time, we could go to a number of passages. 1 Corinthians chapter 3 Verse 10 through chapter 4, verse 5 references the judgment seat of Christ. This judgment seat of Christ is a Bible teaching. It's sound in Scripture, taught clearly in Scripture. How about the great white throne judgment? That is a scriptural teaching In Revelation chapter 20, 11 through 15. Again, we don't have time to turn there, but it gives uh gives the uh in somewhat detail The great white throne judgment. Hebrews chapter 9, verse 27 says this. Now, this is a sobering truth. It is appointed unto man once to die. And after this, the judgment. I believe that is a reference to the great white throne judgment. An unsaved person dies. They will face God at the great white throne judgment. So, comparing the two, we have scripture for both. Who is the ones being judged? I've already mentioned this a number of times, but at the judgment seat of Christ, it is saved people. It's the child of God. How many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. You know you've trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. There's a lot of things I don't know about you, but there's one thing I know about all of us that have been saved. We're going to be at that judgment seat of Christ. It's for believers. As I said, the great white throne judgment is a fearful judgment, and that is where the unsaved are going to stand before God and give an account of themselves. There will be, no doubt, unsaved drunkards there. There will no doubt be unsaved adulterers there. There will no doubt be unstaved liars there. There will no doubt be unscathed blasphemers there. But there will also be unsaved church members there, also. There will be unsaved folks who paid their bills and were honest in their business. But never trusting Christ as Savior, they will be at that great white throne judgment before God Good and bad, young and old, rich and poor, educated, ignorant, every person that did not trust Jesus Christ as Savior will be at the great white throne judgment. So, the people being judged, judgment seat of Christ, believers. Great white throne judgment, unsaved, of all classes, all stripes Of every type. Who is the judge? Who is the one going to be judging at the judgment seat of Christ? Will it be Moses? No, it will not be Moses. Will it be the Apostle Paul? No, it will not be an Apostle Paul. In fact, it will be the Son of God, Jesus Christ Himself. It's the judgment seat of Christ. Jesus Christ is the judge. Who will be the judge at the great white throne where the unsaved stand before God? Who will be the judge there? It will be Jesus Christ Himself. In the Gospel of John, Jesus told us that God the Father has given all judgment unto the Son. Judgment at the judgment seat of Christ and the great white throne, it will be the Lord Jesus Himself on that throne making that judgment. And so, uh, saved and unsaved, um, the Lord Jesus is the judge. What's the purpose of these two judgments? What is the judgment seat of Christ all about? Well, why are we standing before God? What are we giving account to the Lord for. For the believer, this judgment, and I'm probably going to make this statement several times in the little time we have left, but the judgment seat of Christ is not to judge the sins of the believer. The judgment seat of Christ is not a legal judgment. The sins of the believer have already been judged in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. when he died on the cross years ago, was buried and rose again. A child of God, a person who has accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, will never, ever ever be judged for their sins. You say, well, what about if a believers get sav a believer, somebody is saved and they get involved in sin? They will be chastened for their sin. You mark it down. God does not give a license for a believer to sin. If a believer disobeys God, God will chase and discipline that believer till they get back in line. Hebrews chapter 12. Very, very clearly teaches that. So the judgment seat of Christ is not a judgment on the believers' sins. They were all nailed to the cross of Christ. And he took that judgment in our place, and all God's people said, Amen. You and I do not have to fear judgment and being cast into hell as a believer in Jesus Christ. Jesus said He that believeth in me shall never perish. And so the judgment seat of Christ is not a judgment on our sins. That's already been dealt with. It is a judgment on how we lived our life as a believer. Our service to the Lord, our love for the Lord, our living for the Lord. And we'll talk a little bit more about that. Now, what about the Great White Throne judgment? What's the purpose of that? What is that all about? The Great White Throne judgment is what I refer to as a sentencing judgment. It is not to determine whether a person is saved or lost or not. That is already determined when they die in their sins. What I want to say here is this. Listen, if you're listening to the sound of my voice and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, you are still in your sins. Your sins are unforgiven. If you die in that condition, if you die unsaved, unforgiven. The Bible is very, very clear. That person is separated from God for all eternity. The Bible is clear. Person dies in their sins unforgiven, they go to hell. At the great white throne judgment, all the unsaved who died in their sins, unforgiven, they are resurrected and brought before this judgment for their sentencing. And if we had more time, we could look into this and maybe another message sometime. But it is a fearful judgment where the sentence is pronounced to every unsaved And Revelation 20 tells us that they are cast into the lake of fire where they will be forever and ever and ever and ever and unending ever Now, I don't know about you, but that is a difficult for me to comprehend. That is a disturbing thought. If a person dies unsaved for all eternity, separated from God in a horrific condition, the lake of fire. I just want to stop here. If you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, I plead with you. Come and trust Christ as Savior. Do not play, do not gamble with your soul. Make sure you've trusted Christ. Make sure you're saved and born again. So the Great White Throne judgment is a sentencing judgment for the unsaved. So when will these take place? Reacher, when is the judgment seat of Christ? When will that take place? Again, we don't have time to dissect this. But the judgment seat of Christ takes place immediately following the rapture of the church. The next event on God's prophecy, the next event we're looking for from the Bible, is the rapture of the church. The trump of God sounds, the archangel shouts, and a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, every believer will be caught up to be with the Lord and in the air And that is when the judgment seat of Christ takes place, during that tribulation period which follows the rapture of the church. We will be with the Lord, and the judgment seat of Christ takes place. When does the great white throne judgment take place? That is not until the end of what we call the millennial reign. After Christ returns, at the end of the uh of the uh uh tribulation period, and some of you are familiar with prophecy, you know what I'm talking about. Then you have that one thousand year reign of Christ right here from earth, right from Jerusalem, rule the world, and at the end of that time The great white throne, when death and hell give up the dead, they stand before God, and sentence is pronounced, cast in the lake of fire, and then the new heaven and new earth Judgment seat of Christ could, uh, by the way, by next week this time, we may be could be at the judgment seat of Christ. The rapture couldn't take place this week. Now, uh I don't know about you, but I vote for that happening. I make a motion, Lord, come back. Now it's his call, his timing. But the rapture could happen any moment, which means the judgment seat of Christ could be at any moment. The Great White Throne, we know, is down the road at least 1,007 years from now. So when do they come? What is the outcome or the results of these judgments? I stand before the judgment seat of Christ as a believer, a child of God, a Christian, a saved man. I stand before the judgment seat of Christ. What's the outcome of that? The judgment seat of Christ, as I said, is not for, it does not deal with punishment. It does not have to do with retribution. The judgment seat of Christ deals with rewards. We're going to look at that here in a moment. Reward. Reward for a life lived for Christ. The great white throne judgment, on the other hand, the outcome of that, as I've already mentioned, is separation from God for all eternity in the lake of fire. I can't make that statement without stopping and saying again, if you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, that is the most important issue in your life. Getting that settled, getting that settled. By the way, that is why we spend hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of thousands of dollars over the years to get missionaries on the field so folks can get saved and not stand at that judgment. It's why we run buses. It's why we go out uh throughout the week and give out gospel tracts and knock on doors. It's why we have a radio station for 25 years broadcasting how to be saved. In my mind, the sobriety and the consequences of the great white throne judgment I believe every newspaper, every radio station, every website, every government ought to be broadcasting. Ye must be born again. Ye must be born again. They're not going to do it. So it's the church's responsibility to get the gospel out. Get the gospel out. So the results of the judgment for the judgment seat of Christ, reward or loss of reward. The great white throne judgment, sentencing to eternity in a lake of fire. So what to do? Alright, preacher, I'm gonna uh uh every one of us is gonna be at one of these two judgments. What to do? If I'm saved, I need to serve God humbly, sincerely, and faithfully. That when I stand before the judgment seat of Christ as a believer I can stand there and hear is what would be the greatest, sweetest music to my ears is to hear my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ say, Dennis Leatherman. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. What to do? Be faithful to Christ. Humbly serve Him and trust Him Believe his word, follow his instructions, do what God says in a humility and in gratitude for what he's done for us. We stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Well done. Well done. Great white throne judgment. I think I've said it four or five times already. What to do? I'll tell you what to do when dealing with the great white throne judgment. Come to Jesus Christ and trust Him as your personal Savior. That is so vital. That is so vital. If our church does anything Our church must preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. If for no other reason than the fact of the great white throne judgment. The great white throne judgment. Whether you're listening on internet and this message, Lord willing, it'll be on the radio in a couple weeks. Go around the world However you're hearing the sound of my voice, however you're hearing this message right now, if you do not have assurance of your sins forgiven. I urge you, come to Christ, trust Him, be born again, get that settled. Eternity is too long. The lake of fire is too horrific To reject Christ and neglect your soul's salvation. Two judgments. Every human being that ever lived, ever will live is going to have to stand at. Either the judgment seat of Christ as a believer or the great white throne judgment as an unbeliever. Now I want to, I have a few minutes. I want to just give some thoughts, considerations about the judgment seat of Christ. The judgment seat of Christ. We have it named by name twice in Scripture. We read it. Romans and 2 Corinthians. That term judgment seat, in the English, it's a judgment seat. That phrase comes from one Greek word. Well, I guess it'd be two, but it comes from a Greek phrase. And if you've been around Bible preaching very long, you've probably heard this term It's called the Bima seat. How many people have ever heard a preacher reference the bima seat? It's a Greek term, and Paul is using this term. It was an actual seat. In Corinth, where they would um uh uh it was uh it was an uh elevated uh um it it was a large stone platform that they had built. And it was elevated to look out over like an open arena area. This elevated stone platform held this bhima seat or this judgment seat. This seat, this Bhima seat, is where the authorities would stand and pass judgment On various things, but what Paul is referencing here was on their athletic events. The Greeks were captivated with athletics and competition. They were intensely disciplined. They were intensely competitive. In fact, we have the Olympics come from these events that Paul is referring to where they use this BEMA seat to make judgment on the uh on their athletic uh competition This seat was also used in judicial situations on occasion. In Acts chapter 18, I think it is, and verse 12, Paul stood before this BeamA seat when he was being examined. That was a judicial, legal type thing. Primarily they used this beamaseat to judge sporting events And the basis of this judgment, this Bemacy, was to consider this. They're having some type of maybe Olympic event, I don't know they called it that, but they would have some sort of sporting event, and then after it was over the the athletes would come before this bhimasi. Is everybody with me? Everybody doing alright? And they would stand before this bimacy and the judge, the authorities, would determine two primarily two things. Number one Did they accomplish the task they were given in that event? Maybe it was wrestling. And the task, if you're going to wrestle somebody, Joel, your task in that match is to what? Beat them. Pin them down. If it's a race, if it's a sprint or a marathon or 50-yard dash, whatever they had, the task of the athlete is to what? Win that race. And so the judgment was, did one part of the judgment was, did this athlete accomplish the task? In other words, did they win their competition? Did they win? Did they do what their task was to do? What their desire was to do was to win that. Did they accomplish that? The other judgment was, did they do it legitimately? Did they follow the rules? Did they follow the principles that were given in that particular competition? So when Paul says that you and I, as believers, are going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ, the Bhima seat of Christ. He is communicating, and by the way, the Corinthians in Corinthians when he write, they knew exactly what he was talking about. It was right there in their city. They had seen this and been here many, many, many times. They knew exactly what he was referencing. And the judgment For the believer at this Bhima seat, this judgment seat of Christ, will be number one, did you accomplish the task God gave you to do? You say, well, what is the task God gave me to do? Well, the task is to fulfill the will of God for my life. God has a plan and purpose for your life and my life. How many people believe that God has a purpose for the preacher's life? Amen. I have no doubt about it. But it's equally true that God has a plan and purpose for every Christian that makes up the body of Christ You say, well, uh, well, he's the preacher. I'm telling you, the preacher ain't no different than the person sitting in the pew, just God has a different will, a different role, a different purpose in the body of Christ for each of us Sunday school teacher, bus worker, uh uh church cleaner, nursery worker, you name it It's all part of the will of God. This nursery worker, the preacher, isn't going to be rewarded any more than the nursery worker if they do what God entrusted them to do. Are you with me? So the judgment seat of Christ is: did you fulfill the task God gave you to do in the home? In your personal life? Have you fulfilled the will of God for your life? If I say, well, I'm going to do my thing. I want what I want. I don't care what God says. I don't care what the Bible says. I don't care how God's leading in my life. I'm going to do what I want to do. As a believer, you have that option. But I'll tell you, the judgment seat of Christ, I've got to give an account for that. I give an account for that You have another believer, get saved, loves the Lord, say, I want to live for God. I want to do God's will for my life. I want him to be pleased. I want to obey his instructions and trust him. And they live their life humbly, not perfectly. By the way, none of us are going to fulfill that task perfectly. But if we do it humbly and sincerely, we stand before the judgment seat of Christ, we hear the Lord say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. And so this judgment is: did we fulfill our task? Did we accomplish the task God gave us to do? And then secondly, did we do it legitimately? In other words, did we serve the Lord and fulfill his will within the principles of Scripture? Did you know it's possible to do the right thing in a wrong way? Do you know it's possible due to the right thing with wrong motives? Somebody is serving the Lord and they want to uh be a witness and maybe they're trying to win souls, but they're doing it. So that they get the attention, so that they get the praise of God's people, so they get exalted and they get all kinds of attention. I'm telling you, that is not a legitimate way to serve God. We do not do what we do for the Lord to get man's praise. We do it for God's glory. I've had people all the years in the ministry, and it's very, very rare, praise the Lord for that. But I've had people get offended and upset and they're not going to serve God because they did not get the attention from people that they thought they should have gotten. Now we try very hard to express our gratitude. We try very hard to let people know we appreciate what they do for God. But if nobody sees us doing it and we're doing it for God, then God will reward us. We're doing it for ourselves, for our glory, for our attention, for my pride and my ego, and I'm some kind of great Christian. I'm telling you, you're going to suffer loss at the judgment seat of Christ. That is not legit. It's not legit. We ought to, our church ought to function not the way we think it should, but the way God tells us to. Legitimately, legitimately. So the judgment seat of Christ is for the believer that I accomplish the task that God gave me in my life. Did I fulfill it legitimately for the glory of God out of humility and gratitude for his praise? If so, then the appropriate rewards will be awarded. Again, this is not a judicial seat, a law seat. The judgment seat of Christ, there's no guilt determined. There's no sentence given. It's simply I stand before Christ. How I live my life, why I did what I did, what sort of service I did, did I fulfill His will? Did I do it legitimately? I stand before Christ and give an account. Doesn't deal with my sins. There's no sentencing given that I fulfill the task, did I do it legitimately? And if so, there's reward. If not, And I suffer the loss of that reward. And there's no reward. Number two, consider the individuals at this judgment seat of Christ. If you're still in Romans there, verse 10, he says, For we shall all stand before Christ. In Romans verse number 12, again he says, every one of us shall give an account to the Lord. 2 Corinthians 5. 10 he says, For we must all There's two important words in these passages. One is we, and the other is all. When Paul says we must stand before Christ, he's talking about believers, as we've been emphasizing. We means believers. All means all believers. Comprehensive. At the judgment seat of Christ, there will only be believers there, and all believers will be there. Don't think for one moment you and I will be exempt from the judgment seat of Christ. Not one child of God will escape it. There will only believers, and there will be all believers. Young and old, rich and poor, from all nations. Red and yellow, black and white. They all stand, every believer, stand before the Lord Jesus Christ. So the individuals here are only believers and all believers. Consider the timing, and I've already touched on some of these. I'm a little repetitious, but the timing of the judgment seat of Christ. The Bible's clear, there is a very specific time and place That this judgment is going to take place. The time is, as we already said, is right after the rapture of the church. By the way, the judgment seat of Christ could be going on tonight at 9 o'clock, for all we know. Rapture could take place today. Kicks in the judgment seat of Christ. So it immediately follows follows the uh the rapture of the church. It's the time of the Lord's return. Immediately follows the rapture. Where will this judgment take place? Well, wherever the Lord is, because Thessalonians tells us, we'll be with the Lord in the air. And so the timing of the judgment seat of Christ. And then the rewards. You say, all right, preacher, what are these rewards you've been talking about? Again, the judgment seat of Christ is a judgment of reward, uh, but not for sin. Has nothing to do with my salvation. The moment you trust Jesus Christ as Savior, your salvation is settled. It's secured. It's in place. This judgment is not about my salvation. I want to remind you, salvation is not a reward for a good life lived. Salvation is not a reward. Reward is for something I do. What can I do to save my soul? Nothing! Not of works that I have done, for by grace are we saved through faith. That not of ourselves it is a what? Gift of God. A gift. You can only do one of two things with a gift. You can accept it or you can reject it. If you try to buy it, it's no longer a gift. It's a purchase. If you try to earn it, it's no longer a gift. It's a payment. A gift is simply received. Or rejected. A person tr gets eternal life simply by turning and putting their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, receiving that gift of God, which is eternal life. Or he can say no. You can say no. So the the judgment seat of Christ is a reward. That's not talking of salvation. So, preacher, what are the rewards at the judgment seat of Christ? Well, I wish we could stay till 5 o'clock this afternoon. And nobody said amen when I said that, I noticed And I didn't say amen either. There's five categories. The Bible's clear. There's five categories at the judgment seat of Christ that you and I will give an account for as believers. Number one, our faithfulness to God in trials. James 1:12 says, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. That word temptation means trials, difficulties. Blessed is the man that endureth temptations. For he, uh blessed the man that endureth temptations, for he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord has promised to them that love him. God has a crown of life, he calls it, that he gives at the judgment seat of Christ for every Christian that remain faithful to the Lord even through difficult trials. Even through dark valleys, even when it seemed like everything was against me Yet you remain faithful to Christ, God says, I have a reward for that. A reward for that. Do not think, listen. Do not think that being faithful to God in a difficult time is unseen by our Savior. God sees that faithful servant, that faithful saint, unknown to others, suffering and hurting. And yet they trust God and they stay faithful to him and they love him. Nobody else may see it. Nobody else may know. But our Savior sees it. The judgment seat of Christ says, I'll reward that. One category is faithfulness to the Lord in trials. Another is fulfilling God's call 1 Peter 2 and verse 4 he talks about the crown of glory that is given to the faithful elders. Now, if we'd had time, we could go there and look. And what this is, this is what I call the pastor's crown. It's a crown of glory. And God says for those preachers that he is called, those pastors, he has a particular crown if they stay faithful to the Lord. God rewards that. I am so tired, and I've just about given up on social media and all of that. I am so tired of people, preachers posting on social media how difficult it is to be a preacher and how unappreciated they are and how depressing it is and how tough it is. Oh, toughen up, you sissy Paul said, endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. Don't go whining around on soldier, oh, it's so terrible. Oh, you'll feel sorry for me. Good night, give me a break. I'm telling you, it is a joy and a privilege and an honor to serve God as the pastor of a church. Don't ever give our young people the idea that somehow pastoring a church is some terrible, difficult unimportant thing. I'm telling you, I believe in the eyes of God it's one of the highest offices in all the land. And it is not to be taken lightly and it is not to be neglected. God says there's a reward for that. Uh categories, faithfulness in trials, fulfilling God's call. I'm uh now I'm just going out on a limb here, but I think any child of God that's faithful to what God calls them, he'll reward that. But he mentions pastors particularly there in Peter, in Peter. A third category, fervent in reaching the lost. 2 Thessalonians 2, 19 and 20, Philippians 4. 1, Paul mentions a crown of rejoicing. And this is a reward at the judgment seat of Christ for those who gave themselves to try and reach the lost for the Lord Jesus Christ, that preached the gospel fervently. It may be a little old lady, it may be a teenage boy or girl, it may be a mom or dad, it may be a uh uh an old a senior citizen I was trying not to say old person. But it can be anybody, but they give their heart and soul and they they want to reach others for Lord Jesus. I tell you, the dearest thing to the heart of God is winning souls to Jesus Christ. And God says, I'll reward that with the crown of rejoicing. The other category is affection for the Lord's return. 2 Timothy 4:8 says that there's a crown of righteousness for those who love the coming of the Lord. Oh, we're looking forward to seeing Jesus. Now sometimes we think, boy, uh when I was in Bible college, we'd have a big seminary uh or uh uh big um uh final in in the in the university there. We'd have a final coming up and I wasn't ready for it. And I would pray, Oh Lord, come quickly. I don't want to take this test. Oh Lord, won't you come quickly? Now my motives were a little skewed. And some people say, you know, the only right motive for the Lord coming back is just because we love the Lord and we want to see him. Now I agree that's the highest motive. But you know what Paul said? He said that if I could go and be with the Lord, that would be gain. He said it would be better than here here on earth. I think You say, I'd like for the Lord to come back because I love the Lord, but also I'd like to get out of this old sinful body. I'd like to be free of this spiritual warfare going on. I'd like to be free of heartache, difficulty, and struggle. And you know, I think that's a legitimate reason to desire the Lord to come back. And God says those that long for his coming, he has a reward. He has a reward. One more and I'll quit It's one other category at this judgment seat of Christ. And it is living a firm or disciplined life. And I get that from 1 Corinthians 9, 25 through 27. Our intention was to look at all these verses no way. And there we are told that we receive an incorruptible crown, and it is for the believer that disciplines themselves. And they say no to what they should say no to. And they say yes to what they should say yes to. Paul actually, in that passage, compares it to an athlete that disciplines their body so that they can win that race. So they can win that fight and beat that opponent. And they practice and they exercise and they discipline themselves so they can be what they need to be. And God says, that Christian who disciplines themselves and works at being what God intends for them to be, God says, I'll reward that. With an incorruptible crown. Revelation 4. 10 tells us that when we get these crowns Some will suffer loss, the Bible, John and other places in the Bible, there's going to be some people come up and they're going to suffer loss. They're going to have nothing. Lord says, sorry. Sorry, you didn't meet any of the qualifications to get a reward. Suffer loss. Suffer loss. But Revelation four ten tells us, four ten, that at the throne Those that receive these crowns, you know what we're going to do with them? We're going to stack them up on our heads and we're going to strut around heaven. Say, looky what I got. And we're going to do like these little children carrying these awards around. And I'm not disparaging. God bless them. I'm glad for them. We get to heaven, we're not stacking these crowns up and we're not strutting the golden streets of heaven. You know what we're going to do? We're going to realize that was all because of Jesus Christ that I could do anything. I take those crowns, say, Lord, I didn't earn these. It's all because of you. The Bible says we're going to cast them at his feet and say, Lord, all glory goes to you. This is you, Lord. You did it. All glory. The Lord's calling up and saying, you're right, preacher. That's exactly what's right. Actually, it helped me. Yesterday for noon got some later. I usually do this Saturdays almost every Saturday. I took take some time and I went out, I got a street, I'm working, just going door to door, knocking on doors, and introduce myself, invite folks out to church, and if I can, talk to them about the Lord and their soul. I went to several houses and people were very, very receptive. I don't know if something's happening in our community or not, but people seem more open to the gospel than I've remembered in a long, long time. I knocked on doors and people were so receptive. I came to one door, it's an old trailer and little little wiener dog there. So I just boom. No, I didn't. I said a whole cute little thing. Knocked on the door, fellow said, Come on in. I walked in, he's sitting there, he's got his little grandbaby. We got talking a little bit. Same as Ron. I said, Ron, let me ask you a question. You go to church anywhere? He says, nah, I used to when I was a kid. I said, you know, church is important. It really is. I said, but more important than going to church is knowing for sure your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. He said, Do you ever think about that? He goes, Oh yeah. I said, Ron, could I take a moment? I got my Bible right here. Could I just show you from the Bible? Just take me a few minutes how you can know for sure you're going to heaven, not to hell. He goes, Yeah, that'd be fine. I knelt down beside him, I got my little Bible out, and I went through what we call the Romans Road, most who are familiar with that. Showed him how he's a sinner and wages of sin is death. Earnity in hell. How Jesus died and suffered hell in his place for him personally. Rose again Jesus at the right hand of God the Father, and if he would call on the Lord, acknowledge his sin, confess for and repent of his sin and turn to Christ, Jesus would hear his call and forgive his sin and save his soul I said, Ron, since Jesus was willing to die on that cross for you, would you be willing to call on him and trust him as your Savior? Ron looked at me and he said, Preacher, I sure would. Ron bowed his head with me. And as sincerely as I think a person can, he called on the Lord Jesus to be his personal Savior. I heard his name in the back of my Bible here. Pray for him. He's got some physical things. I don't know how much he can do. I know this. If he was sincere, my Bible says, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. He's got a home in heaven. Someday he'll be at that judgment seat of Christ. I don't know how much time he has left on this old planet, but I know that God pays attention. God pays attention to how we live our lives as Christians. That's what the judgment seat of Christ is about. Father, bless us now. Help us. To keep this truth in the forefront of our mind. Help us, Lord, never get away from that coming day. Heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there'd be any, say, preacher. I need to give some attention in my Christian life, what I'm doing, why I'm doing it. Am I doing what the Lord's instructs me to do? Am I living the way God instructs me to live? Sincerely and honestly and humbly And maybe some of us need to give some attention. Maybe there's some areas that really need adjustment, some priorities that need to be rearranged. Because that coming judgment of Christ. Is there any like that? Uplift the hand, preacher, pray for me. There are. Some attention I need to give, some priorities need to range. God bless you, hands all around. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I'm not, I don't want to be judgmental, but I've got some friends and family and associates that are unsaved. I'm burdened for them. I don't want them at that great white throne judgment. I want them to be saved. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I've got folks I'm burdened for, need the Lord. Any like that? Uplifted hand? Sure, probably about all of us. Ask God to use us. Ask God to help us. Be that witness, that testimony. That folks have come to Christ. Let me ask this, is there anyone under the sound of my voice would say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I don't want to be at that great white throne judgment. I want to know my sins are forgiven that God's given to me. Eternal life. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I need that settled. I need that settled. Any at all? Any at all? Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our invitation in Jesus' name.