Chapter one I was thinking this week about Bushrod Hardesty. What a blessing that man was. God changed God got a hold of him, saved his soul. And uh when we were sitting up here it came to mind, he used to always, him and Mary would always sit right over here, right around where Len is, maybe a pew in front of them. Him and Mary and then Gary, remember Gary's brother got saved, baptized, he'd be there with him. And then Tammy got saved, his sister got baptized, she'd sit there, and then Brett got saved, and they had that row there. And um every Sunday morning he'd come in, he'd be early, he'd come and sit right there while folks are coming in And he'd go in the bulletin and he would look up in his Bible what I was going to be preaching that morning. If he couldn't find it, he'd get my attention. He'd say, come over here. He says, where is this in the Bible? And I tell him, and he was so hungry for the Word of God. He just wanted God to speak. God saved him, changed his life tremendously and um I just I don't know, I was thinking about him this morning and uh I thank God for his hunger for the Bible. And by the way When we talk about the Bible, we're talking about the perfect, inspired, inerrant Word of God. This book is God's word, every single word of it. And we thank God for it. And we thank God for it. Second Corinthians chapter 1, if you would notice with me, and we'll not read together in unison like we do sometimes But I would like for you to notice the end of verse number 3, chapter 1, 2 Corinthians. The last statement of verse number 3, Paul, and this is his opening statements in the letter, his greetings somewhat And he references the God of all comfort. The God of all comfort. Then verse number four, he kind of expands on that. And he goes and he and he and he builds on that statement, the God of all comfort. Verse 4 he says, Who comforteth us In all our tribulation. Now he's speaking of believers. When he says us, he's talking about folks who have trusted Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. They've been born again, like Bush Rod, we mentioned. Came to a point they trusted Christ. They have new life in Christ. They have eternal life. And he says, God of all comfort, who comforteth us in our tribulation, but he doesn't stop. Look what he says. That we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. Now that caught my attention. God's Paul is telling us the inspiration of God and the Word of God here That our God, the God that created this universe, the God that gave his Son Jesus Christ, died on the cross, buried, rise again, so we can have eternal, that God is the God of all comfort. And when we as his children, when we as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, we face trouble, and we do. Can I get a witness? We face trouble, we face difficulties, no doubt about it. And when we go through them, God comforts us. But he, and I'm getting I'm getting into my message here, but he doesn't comfort us just so that we will be comfortable. He comforts us so that we in turn may be able to comfort others who are going through trouble with that comfort he gave us. You follow me? I'm a believer. I get in trouble. I get I have a adversity, some tribulation, tra challenges, trials I face in my life, and I look to God, and God is my heavenly father He gives me comfort. And that comfort he gives to me is not to is to see me through that tribulation, that trial. But then when I come out the other side, Then I can take those lessons I've learned that what he did for me, and I find someone else, a brother or sister going through a trial, then I take, hey, let me share that comfort with you. And that's something. The God of all comfort. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, we thank you for the Word of God. Lord, I have based my eternal destiny on the veracity of your word, on the reliability of your word. Lord, we are trusting you. Lord, we are taking you at your word about heaven and hell, about sin and judgment, about love and life. Your plan and purpose for our lives. And so, God, we come to you humbly this morning. And we're asking you to speak to our hearts from your word. We're asking you to instruct us and challenge our faith. We're asking the Lord to comfort where comfort is needed Lord, we want you, I believe I speak for our church as a church, we want you to use us to be a help to others. That folks would come to Christ for salvation and grow and know you. So I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew for this moment, for this message. And I pray that you would speak through me and challenge us and revive us. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. The uh book of 2 Corinthians is actually a letter that was penned by the Apostle Paul. Uh in verse number 1 there you see at chapter 1 it says Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God And he references Timothy and he gets into the letter itself. It's a letter that Paul wrote. Now we always say this, and I always try to emphasize this. Paul is the penman, but God is the author. God's the one that inspired it. God moved on Paul to record this down. And so Paul's the penman here, and he is writing this second, this letter that we know as Second Corinthians. He's writing it as a follow-up. To previous correspondence he had had with a church that was in the city of Corinth. Now you need to know a little bit about the city of Corinth. The city of Corinth was a very, very wicked city. The city of Corinth was very perverse. And Paul had gone there with the gospel into the midst of this paganism and this perversity and this blasphemy. This vile living. I mean it's hard to imagine the depth, the depravity of this city. And he goes into the very midst of it with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And he preaches the gospel, and lo and behold, people get saved. And lives are changed. And he organize a church. He established this church. And Paul was writing, he started this church, of course, under the leadership of the Lord. And he is, 2 Corinthians, he had been corresponding with this church, and this is a follow-up letter, as I said. We believe, by because of different statements made in 1 Corinthians and 2 Corinthians, we believe there was probably several other letters that had gone back and forth not just the two we have in our Bible. Now these two are given by inspiration. God has preserved them for us in the Word of God. But we believe there was at least two other letters The church had sent to Paul with some questions about various issues, and then he, in 1 Corinthians, he wrote back and responded to their questions and dealt with a bunch of issues. We think there was another letter in between 2 Corinthians or 1 Corinthians and 2 Corinthians. We believe there was another correspondence had taken place in between there. We do not have record of that Uh we d we have no idea what it consisted of, but there's statements made that seem to imply that. And now he's writing 2 Corinthians. He had written 1 Corinthians to address some severe dysfunction that was going on in the church. The church at Corinth, of all the churches mentioned in the Bible, was probably the most dysfunctional of all the New Testament churches. And we've studied it in Sunday school uh uh the last several years uh several years ago. But um he so he writes in First Corinthians he writes, I mean he's dressing this dysfunction going on within the church. And it was severe. They were divided over frivolous things. Now there is a place for separation in the Christian life. There are some times we need to separate ourselves from disobedient brothers and various things. But they were divided, not over doctrinal issues, nothing of any substance. Their division and their fussing was simply over personalities Some people in the church would say, I'm of Paul. I'm a follower of Paul. Others said, I can't stand Paul. That is in the Greek. Some said, I can't stand Paul. I'm a follower of Peter. And others, I'm a follower of Apollos. Well, thoooy on you guys. I don't follow any of them. I just follow Christ. Let me ask you a question. Was Peter's doctrine any different than Paul's doctrine? No. Was Apollo's doctrine any different than Christ's doctrine? No. It wasn't doctrinal issues at all. None of these men were living in immorality. None of these men were living in disobedience to the word of God. They were all living for God. They're all preaching the same message, same word, same gospel. But yet, personalities. I like him and I don't like him. I'm telling you, to not get along with somebody, I just don't like him. I don't like her. That's about as frivolous and immature as you can get in the Christian life. And Paul rebuked him sharply. And he said basically, and I don't mean to preach 1 Corinthians, but he said basically to him: listen, you all need to grow up. He said, I can't talk to you as mature believers. I've got to talk to you like babies. Chapter 3 says that, literally. And so there was this frivolous division going on in this church. There was foolish behavior. Um they were s very spiritually immature. I mean there uh you got a guy, I hate to even say this, but there's a guy, a member of the church, a prominent member of the church Who was committing adultery with his father's wife, his stepmother? And they were fine with that. And the whole church was, oh yeah, we have liberty in Christ. And Paul said, and again, this is in the Greek, you knuckleheads. Not even the Gentiles do that. Unsaved people don't even behave that way. And so they had serious problems. They had foolish behavior. They had false doctrine. Oh, by the way, foolish behavior. Lord's Supper, they got drunk. At Lord's Supper. There was a big, big banquet, drunken party. How many people would have a problem if you went to a church and that's the way they behaved? Yeah, I would. And then they had false doctrine. There was people in the church and the church wasn't addressing it that were teaching there is no resurrection from the dead Now, brother, you can't read and study this Bible. You can't take it at face value and not understand there is a day of resurrection coming. And so the church was severely dysfunctional on multiple levels. And Paul wrote 1 Corinthians to address all of that, and he and he was very blunt. He was very forward with them and said, this is it. And you need to correct this and this is wrong. And to their credit The church at Corinth responded, for the most part, favorably to Paul's rebuke, Paul's correction. They responded favorably. They dealt with the various issues that he addressed and corrected. And lo and behold, the church is experiencing a bit of revival. They're getting back in line with the Word of God. They're getting back in fellowship with their Lord and Savior. They're getting back to being a church that God intended the church to be. And Paul was writing as a follow-up to them as to that. And now we come to 2 Corinthians. The church was a mess. It was addressed. They experienced revival. They responded in humility and repentance. God's blessing them again, and the joy of the Lord is there again. The presence of God is there again. Now they're not perfect. He still has some areas. But the overall message of 2 Corinthians is this, and I hope you'll get it, and I'm I'm boiling this down to its bare basic minimum. The overall message is when you and I are weak as believers in Jesus Christ, when we're weak Whatever that weakness may consist of, God is strong. When we're weak God is our strength. If you would, go to chapter 3 with me, just real quickly. Look with me, chapter 3 and verse number 5. Now I'm just gonna pull out a few statements that Paul makes through the book just to kind of document this theme that uh this message of the book. Lotus chapter 3, verse number 5. He says this. Paul is writing this. He says, not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything as of ourselves But our sufficiency is what? Of God. Then look at the first part of verse 6 who also hath made us able ministers. Now that word sufficiency there has kind of has the idea, it's not exactly, but it has the idea of being competent. If somebody is incompetent, what does that mean? They're not reliable, they're not able to do what they need to do. They're not up to they're not up to um up to par. I was gonna say up to snuff, but some of y'all I've seen some of y'all's back pockets. They're not they're incompetent. When Paul says not that we are sufficient of ourselves, here's what he's saying. He's saying, Listen, I'm not, as far as living for God and serving God being what I ought to be, I'm incompetent. I'm not sufficient of myself. I don't have what it takes to be what I ought to be. How many times have I heard somebody say this to me, Preacher? I know I need to get saved. And I would, but I don't think I could live it. I'd get saved, but I can't live that Christian life. When somebody says that to me, I always put my hand out and say, put her there, man. We're in the same club. I can't either. Fact of the matter is we are not sufficient of ourselves. We're not confident in our own abilities to live The Christian life. The Christian life is a supernatural life. Study your Bible. It's Christ in me. It's the Holy Spirit bearing fruit in me. It's not me working up stuff. And so he says, not that we are sufficient of ourselves, but our sufficiency, our competency is in what? Christ God. He's the one that enables me. I'm too weak to live the Christian eye. I'm too weak in and of myself to overcome sin and addictions or whatever it is. But Christ! He is able. He's my strength. He's my sufficiency. And he enables me to live that life. If you would come over to chapter number four. Again, this is the major message of this book. Look at chapter 4 and verse number 7. He says, but we have this treasure, this life that God has given to us. We have this treasure in earthen vessels. That the excellency of the power, the ability, the power to live for God like God intends for me to, that the excellency of the power may be of God and look, and not of ourselves. He says, God is our strength. God is the one that enables us. I don't know how many times I've experienced in my own life, but I don't know how many times there's folks that they would get saved and There be some besetting sin. And by that we mean some sinful habit or something that's not appropriate for a Christian. And they just cannot get victory over it. They just cannot lick that thing. And they try and they try and they grit their teeth and I'm gonna beat this thing. And they never can. And they finally come to the end of themselves. And they say, Lord, you've got to do this. And God sends victory. God sends victory. That's what he's saying. Power's not of us, the power to live the Christian life and defeat the flesh and the sins. It's God gives that to us. When we're weak, God is strong. One more, if you would, come to chapter 12. Then we'll get a look at our text this morning. 2 Corinthians 12. This is a classic passage. And this stirs my heart, and we won't take time to read the whole passage, but Paul had some sort of physical ailment that was very painful. He called it a thorn in his flesh. Now we're not told what it is. People speculate, but we don't know. Whatever it is, I'm convinced it was a physical ailment and it was very, very painful. And he says, I besought the Lord three times that he would remove this thorn in my flesh. Whatever it was was afflicting him. He sought the Lord three times. Now that doesn't mean he just came to the altar, three services, and prayed. Doesn't mean he just asked God three times. What he's saying is, I sought the Lord for three extended periods of time. I sought the Lord, take this from me. God, please take this from me. Wait, see if God would do it. He didn't. He came back again. Lord, take this from me. I think it would be best if you took this from me. Waiting, God didn't do it. Three times, and then finally God spoke to him. And notice, if you would, verse number nine, 2 Corinthians 12. Verse 8, he says, I besought the Lord thrice that it might depart from me. Verse 9, and he, the Lord, said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee. Look at this. For my strength is made perfect in weakness. That's what the Lord's telling Paul. He says, Paul, this ailment is making you weak. You don't have your own strength to be able to do what I've called you to do, but I will strengthen you. When you're weak, then my strength will kick in. And enable you to do what you need to do. Now notice how Paul responds. You talk about mature faith. He says, most gladly therefore will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore, I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in necessities, and needs, is what he means there, in persecutions, in distress. For Christ's sake. And he makes that classic statement: for when I am weak, then am I what? Strong. That's the overall message of 2 Corinthians. You and I, in and of ourselves, are we. You and I in ourselves have infirmities, we have physical shortcomings, we have emotional shortcomings. Some of us, more than others, have mental shortcomings. But when we're weak, then Christ steps in and says, I'll be strong. I prayed years ago as a young preacher, boy. This just came to my mind. For years I prayed in Bible college when I when I realized it was probably going to my life is going to end up in the ministry. I began praying this. And I get the Lord just put on my heart, I guess. But I began praying. I said, God, I want you to use me in a way. That only you can get the credit for. Because I know what I am. I know how weak I am mentally. I know how weak I am in character and in discipline. I know how weak I am in leadership, natural leadership abilities. I know how weak I am. And God, when I'm weak, I need you to be strong. And Lord, use me in a way that only you would get the glory. I'd like to believe God has blessed Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church And I'll tell you why God has blessed Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Not because we're a great congregation or because you have a great pastor. We are blessed, God has blessed us because God is strong. And God is good. And where we were weak, he became strong. And he gets all the glory. He gets all the glory. Nobody's going to stand the judgment seat of Christ, not like independent. Oh, it's because of this person. Oh, it's for. No, no. We're all going to bow. Say it's because of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Paul said, but I'm weak, he's strong. It's not my strength. It's not my natural abilities. It's not my great intellect. It's not my tremendous talents. It's Christ. Christ in me. Christ working through us. So now we come back to our text. And he says in verse number 3, verse 2, he says, Grace be to you in peace from God our Father, Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be God, even the Father. Of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies. Now I'm tempted to part there a little bit. He ends with the God of all comfort. In verse 4, he expands on that a bit. But before he mentions God's comfort, he references the Father of mercies. That was a very that statement there, verse 2 and 3, the first part of verse 3, is very similar. The Jewish historians tell us. That is a very similar statement to what the Jews would use in their synagogues when they would open up their services. They have what we call a benediction. And the Jewish benedictions would always emphasize, strongly, heavily emphasize the mercies of God. And the mercy of God is an attribute of God that is emphasized all through the Old Testament. The mercies of God, the mercies of God. The word mercy or some form of it is used 247 times in the Old Testament. The Jews saw and understood and had phenomenal appreciation for the mercy of God. God is emphasized in the Old Testament as a holy God, a just God, a God of judgment. But he is also a God of mercy. And the Jews saw that and understood that and appreciated it. The word mercy or some form of it is used 128 times in the book of Psalms. The Psalms were songs that were sung in praise to God. And one of the major themes in the book of Psalms, the Jews would sing to God. One of the major themes of their praise was God's mercy that He showed them. In fact, in Psalms 138, every single verse in that psalm mentions the mercies of God. For his mercies are new every morning. Lamentation says that. Well Psalm 137, 25 times, every verse, reference. For his mercy endureth forever. His mercy endureth forever. Thank God for the mercy of God. Say, what is mercy? Well, the word itself refers to God's pity, God's compassion, God's kindness towards sinful man. In fact, mercy was the basis of God's interaction with Israel. Mercy is the basis of God's interaction with mankind. We are sinners. God is holy. His holiness demands judgment. A God in mercy. Does not dish out the judgment, at least not immediately. It's because God is merciful that God's judgment on us is delayed. For 19 years, and many of you could testify the same thing. The amount of time may vary, no doubt, but for 19 years I lived under the judgment of God. I look back 44, almost 45 years later, I look back on some of the things that these hands have done in the eyes of God. That deserves the full wrath and judgment of God because of things these hands have done. I look back in shame. Words that have come off these lips. For 19 years, the name of God, along with some of the most vile words known to man. And God withheld his judgment. Thoughts. Things are done. And God in mercy postponed his judgment, delayed his judgment. Until finally one day I started reading my Bible. I saw that Jesus was judged for me In my place, he took responsibility for my sins. He was judged in my place. The wrath of God poured out on him for the things that I did, the words I said. God in mercy heard me when I called God. Please be my personal Savior. I'm trusting you. And God forgave me all my sin. And every single person here that knows Jesus Christ as Savior, the exact same thing happened to you. It might not be the same types of sins, it might not be the same depth of sin, but sin is sin. And God in mercy withheld. First he postponed his judgment till I come to Christ. And then when I trust Christ, then he removed his judgment off of me and applied it to Christ. What a wonderful God we have. I like what the choir is saying. If God never did another thing for me, just that one act. Is worth all my praise and all my life. So he says, the Father of mercies, the basis of all God's interaction with us as sinners. Mercy is not receiving the judgment I deserve. So I got hung up there. I saw the Father of mercies. I bowed my head. I said, thank you, God, for being merciful to me, a sinner. Thank you. And then he references the God of all comfort. He uses that word comfort in one form or another ten times in five verses. Verse 3, the God of all comfort, verse 4, who comforteth us in the middle of the verse, that we may be able to comfort them. He says down a little farther in verse 4, by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted Then verse five he says for as the sufferings of Christ abounded us, so our consolation comes from the same word consolation, comfort. Verse six, whether we be afflicted it is for your consolation, your comfort, right down a little farther, whether it be uh whether we be comforted, it is for your consolation, comfort. And then the end of verse seven, y shows uh so shall ye also uh so shall uh so shall ye also uh So shall ye be also of the consolation. Ten times in five verses, he references the comfort consolation of God. Now, if God says something one time, we ought to pay attention. Amen? If God says something ten times in five verses, we ought to pay attention to what he's saying. We ought to stop and say, wait a minute, let's look at this. I want us to notice first of all the praise of God's comfort. Now let me back up just a moment. And what do we mean by comfort, consolation? What does that word mean? It means this. It's a tremendous word. I love word studies. It simply means this, to come down alongside of, to come near Somebody's struggling, somebody's having a difficult time. To offer comfort, to offer consolation, it means I come down beside them. I join them in that struggle. I seek to encourage them in that struggle. I seek to strengthen them in that struggle, to assist them. I'm comforting them. I've used this just recently in Uh I hesitate to use it to overuse it, but I mentioned when the boys were small and uh we had snow Uh w when there was snow on the ground probably eight inches or so and the back of our house there's just a slight little hill. I know a lot of you heard this before, but it illustrates perfectly what he's talking about. And Daniel was all bundled up, had twenty-five jackets on, and could hardly walk. So they had this little toboggan, this plastic toboggan, and I mean the hill is about as high as this altar You know, and it slides down, they can just go and they're done. So Dan went down. I'm in the kitchen uh doing some things in the kitchen there at the sink. I'm looking out the window watching them. And you know, as a father, you see your kids Playing together, you know, and it's a blessing. And I'm just watching there having fun. Daniel gets down and there was a little tree there and he goes bonk, I think he bonked into the tree and fell over. And he couldn't get up. And he's crying. And I'm watching, and our other son, Samuel, and he was only two years older than him. They're both small. He goes running over to them. He gets a hold of him under his arms and he picks him up on his feet and Daniel's just bawling. And he puts his arm around And he helps them and he walks them over to the house and gets them up in the house where mommy and daddy can take care of them. You know what that was? Comfort He was coming down. He was in need. He was hurting. He'd come down to be with him where he was and then assist him and strengthen him and help him get into where he needed to be. And Paul says, God is the God of all comfort. He comes down to where we are. He assists us, he strengthens us, helps us get through what we need to get through. And so we have the praise of God's comfort. Notice the first word of verse 3. Blessed be the God. And then he says, Living the Father, Lord Jesus Christ, the Father mercy. Blessed be the God, the God of all comfort. The word blessed means to speak well of. As it's used here, it means to speak well of, to praise, to speak highly of Paul was one of the most persecuted Christians in the New Testament. He documents a little later on in Second Corinthians, he documents some of the persecution he faced and the unjustice that he faced. He was one of the most persecuted Christians in all the New Testament, one of the most mistreated believers in Jesus Christ in all of the New Testament. And you will never find Paul criticizing God one time You will never find Paul one time accusing God of being unjust to him. All Paul does is praises him. Praises him. Praises him. You never one time find Paul speaking ill of the Lord Jesus Christ or of our God. Even in the Philippian jail. He sang praises and praised. Paul praises the God of comfort because, in the most severe mistreatment he ever faced, in the most severe persecution he ever dealt with, He says, God was with me. God was with me. He says, one place, all men have forsaken me. But the Lord was with me. Paul knew firsthand that his God was a God of comfort. I thought it when I was looking at that word blessed and how it's used and how Paul was using it here, I couldn't help but think of Fellow in the Old Testament, the most, perhaps the one who suffered the most in the Old Testament fell by the name of Job. And we won't take time, I don't have time to get there, but let me just read to you Job chapter 1 And I want to begin reading in verse number 20. Job has just lost his family. He's lost all his possessions. Inexplicably. It's gone. And Job says this. And Job wrote, the Bible says, and Job arose and rent his mantle and shaved his head and fell upon the ground and worshipped. And said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave. And the Lord hath taken away. Listen to this. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Same word. He says, I have no criticism of my God. I find no fault in my God. I see no injustice in my God. Blessed be his name. And all this Job sinned not, listen, nor charged God foolishly. Job knew what it was to suffer. Job knew what it was to hurt. But Job knew what it was to be comforted. By an all-powerful, all-loving, perfect God. And he said, God's good. His comfort, his blessings, his love for me is greater. And anything I'm suffering. Paul praises the God of comfort. Blessed be the God of comfort Blessed be the God of all comfort. I'm here to tell you, no one can help us like God can. No one can strengthen us when we're weak like God can. No one can encourage us when we're down like God can I want to remind you this morning, I want Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church to understand very clearly that our God cares deeply for every single one of us. Peter tells us, casting all your care upon him, listen, for he careth for you. God loves us deeply. God cares deeply for us. And Paul praises this God of all comfort. Our Lord has comfort. There is comfort available to us from our Lord that this world knows nothing about. I'm telling you, there is not a bottle of liquor in this world that can do for me what my God can do for me. There's not a nightclub that man has ever come up with that can do for me and comfort me and help me when I'm down. Like the God of all comfort can. Brother, many of us here, we've experienced southern comfort. We've experienced what liquor, how liquor comforts us, and it destroyed me. I'm here to tell you the biggest lie of the devil. Is that somehow liquor will make your life better. And somehow you'll be a little happier, and your life will be a little better off if you just drink this beer. Or you just swig this whiskey, or you just sip this wine, and I'm here to tell you it is a lie of the devil. There's never a marriage been made better because of whiskey. There's never a life that has improved and found peace and meaning and fulfillment in a bottle of beer. Not one time. You say, preacher, you're worked up about it. Somebody ought to get worked up about it, because this stuff is killing our society. It's creeping into our churches. I'm here to tell you we have a God that can do for us something this world could never do for us. He can comfort us, he can help us, he can strengthen us, he brings fulfillment and peace even the most difficult of times. And Paul praises him. Blessed be the name of God. Blessed be the God of all comfort. The Lord, we find help and strength in the Lord the world can never provide. There's nothing on that internet that can do for you and me what our Lord can do for you and me. Paul knew firsthand what God's comfort could do. You know how he responded? He said, Blessed be the God of all comfort. Number two, I want us to notice quickly, and I'm running out of time, the place of God's comfort. Notice verse number four. He says, Who comforteth us. Now there's little words. Excuse me, I can feel it going. This is not moonshine. I just preached against it. There's little words in the Bible that sometimes we just read over and we don't pay much attention, but they're significant. Notice in verse four, who comforth us, what's that next two-letter little word there? In All our tribulation. Who comforteth us in our tribulation? The word in, I looked it up Guess what it means? In means in the midst of. Right, smack, dab in the middle of it Not after, but in during the tribulation. Wow, it's happening. We can have strength in the midst of trials. We can have peace even when our world is falling apart all around us. Can I get a witness? We can. I've experienced it. Many of you have been through horrendous heartaches. Many of us Have cried so hard, our heart was so broken, we cried so hard. And in the midst of it, we find peace. presence of God. We find comfort of God. He comes down alongside and he weeps with those who weep. And he's with us. Remember when Mary and Martha, remember when Lazarus died? And they were confused and they said, Jesus, you could have, if you'd have been here, you could have stopped this. Whoa what? And they're weeping. And he says, Let's take me to where you buried him. And the Bible, one of the shortest verses in the Bible, but one of the most potent verses in the Bible. They're weeping, and Jesus saw them all grieving. Two-word verse. And Jesus wept. You know what he was doing? He was comforting them in their heartache, in their trial, in their sorrow, in their grief. I've seen godly Christians stand at the graveside of a loved one. It's lower down in the ground. And they're weeping and tears stain their cheek and their heart is broken. But there's peace in their heart. And there's a comfort there in the midst of that grief. God comes down and he Comforts us in the tribulation, in our trials, in our heartaches. We have God's presence In the midst of our trials. Psalm 23, verse 4, yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. I will fear no evil, for thou art with me in the valley of the shadow of death. If we had time, I wish we had time. In the book of Daniel, we have three young Jewish boys, godly young men, tremendous faith, unmovable faith Strong convictions. And the government passes a law that you can only worship this false God, the statute. And when the rock and roll and rap and country and western music play, you've got to bow down to this ungodly statue. And everybody bows down except for these three boys. You know who I'm talking about, don't you? Shadrach, Meshach, Nebednego. That was their Babylonian names. And they refuse to bow down. Nebuchadnezzar is infuriated. He brings them in. He gives them one more chance. Hit the uh uh hit hit the music, Paul. Music plays and they stand their shoulders back. Next step, we are not bowing down to this false, ungodly statue. Nebuchadnezzar is infuriated. Set that furnace seven times hotter than it's ever been before. The whole place is glowing. Bind them up. Throw him in the fire. In fact, that thing was so intense, the heat was so intense, when the guards threw him in, it burned and killed the guards that threw him in. Nebuchadnezzar's looking in that fire. He doesn't smell any flesh burning. In fact, he looks in and those boys are walking around. And he looks a little closer and he says, How many do we throw in there? Three. Look in there, how many do you see? I see four in there. Four. Look at it. That's the Son of God. It's the Son of God in there, in the fire with them. You know what that was? God was comforting those three boys in their affliction. He's right down there. He didn't keep it from them. He didn't intervene and say, nope, you're not going to go in there. Can you now I'm putting myself in their shoes? Can you imagine the terror? And their hearts as they are being thrown in that fire. I mean they're not budging. We don't care. God can deliver us, even if He doesn't burn us. But I'm telling you, they're human beings. There had to be fear, right? And that terror turns to absolute jubilation when they get up and look, and there is the Son of God. Right there in the midst with them. I tell you, the place of God's comfort is in the trial, in the tribulation, in the heartache. The Bible doesn't tell us he'll remove us, he'll remove from us all tribulation. Nowhere does the Bible promise that he'll remove all trials and difficulties and heartaches and pain from us. He never promises that. Not in this life, but he does promise that he will be with us in the tribulation He'll strengthen us as we go through that tribulation. I wish I could tell you this this morning, as pastor of this church, that God will remove all trials from your life. I cannot promise that. Because the Bible does not promise that. But I can promise you that in the trial, in the tribulation, we have a God that is with us and comforts us as we go through it. I can assure you, God will be with you in tribulation. I can assure you, as a child of God, He will not leave you in tribulation. This thought came to my mind just a month or two ago. As believers in Jesus Christ, we have to come to terms with the fact that God allows things we don't understand. We have to come to terms with that. We have to come to terms with the fact that there are aspects of God's plan for our life that we do not know. There are factors in life we cannot change. There are events in life that are inevitable. And we have to come to terms with that. But in the midst of that, we trust God. And we take him at his word and we believe him. And we allow him to lead us and to direct us and comfort us as he allows us to go through difficult things. I'm here to tell you, in spite of what this world throws at us, in spite of what this world tries to tell us, our God is a good God. And he cares deeply for us, and he helps us, and he comes down with us through our trials and through our difficulties. In the midst of our trials, we have God's presence, we have God's strength. Next week, after the morning service, there's several of us are heading down to D. C. We're flying out next Monday morning, a week for tomorrow, for Dominican Republic. We'll be down there ten days ministering, distributing literature on the north end of the island. Same thing we did a year ago. Next Monday we're gonna meet up with a lady By the name of Joy Wesson. Many of us know Joy Wesson. She's been here. Many of us know her. I've been down there with her numerous times. Joy Wesson, you want to talk to somebody that knows a little bit about heartache? You want to talk to somebody that knows a little bit about understanding? Talk to Joy Wesson. You know what she'll tell you? God has seen me through all of that. God has been good. God has blessed me. I'm telling you, she is one of the most pleasant. happiest, most positive people you will ever meet in your life. Lost her husband, drowned, saving other teams that were drowning. Her only son, Leukemia, had to deal with that for years. She has severe heart issues. We just we were communicating with her this week. And she's praising the Lord. We asked her, is there some things we can bring down for you? Something you can't get down there we can bring from the States. And she goes, oh God's been good to me. You just don't you worry. Now, maybe some nutty candy. She ended up giving a list like that long. You know what Joy experienced? The comfort of God in her tribulations. The peace of God in her trials. I gotta quit. The last one I don't have time for it, but the purpose of God's comfort. And he points it out here, man. I wish. But he says, God doesn't comfort us so that we can just be comfortable. He comforts us because you know what? Some of us older folks, we've been through some heartaches, right or wrong. Come on now, talk to me. Some of us had our how many people here say, preacher, I've had my heart broken to some extent? Sure You know what? These young people, they're gonna face some heartaches. I hate to tell you girls that, but it's gonna be rough. And um There is. It's life. It's inevitable. But you know what? God comforts us. We trust him. We lean on him. We rejoice in. We experience his blessing, his peace, his strength as we go through trials. And then we take that and we say, hey, when you go through the trial, Bella, let me tell you what God did for me. Let me show you how God helped me. I was saved out of drugs, broken home. God did so many things for me. I hated it. I was so bitter. So bitter. You know what? God showed me stuff. God did things for me. You know what? I can go to somebody that maybe went through that same thing. And I can say This is what God did for me. And this is what God will do for you. The whole purpose, God lets us go through things and try things, is so that down the road we can help someone else. People come in my office for counsel sometimes and be honest, I'm not a big counselor, and I gotta quit. I'm not a big counselor, but I do know this And I say this just about every time. I'll say, listen, the issue you're going through now, the struggle you're dealing with now, the difficulty you're facing now, this issue. If you'll trust God and let Him help you and follow His instructions as you go through it, I'm telling you down the road somewhere, you're going to come across somebody that's dealing with that same thing, and God is preparing you now To help them then. To help them then. God is not just a cheerleader up in heaven saying, Yeah, you guys hang in there He's not just the cheerleader up here, come on, don't you quit. You break your teeth, you get through that struggle, you get through that trial. He's not up there like that He allows me to go through a trial and then he comes down there with me when I'm all bundled up in my snow clothes and I can't get up. I'm crying. He comes down. He picks me up and he carries me through that so that someday I'm going to come across somebody that's all bundled up, laying on their back crying, so I can pick them up the way I was picked up. Amen Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray that you'd take these truths and help us. Lord, I pray that we would be a blessing. A help, an encouragement, a strength to others around us because of the comfort and grace and strength and help you've shown us. Bless us, I pray. Heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I'm facing a bit of a trial. Some worse than others, no doubt. To say it's a difficult and it's I'm weak. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me trust him God helped me if just have faith in God and follow what He says and trust Him to help me through that. Is there any like that by the uplifting hand? I think you know what I'm saying. God bless you. Hands all around. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I know someone else that's going through a trial. I know someone else that's struggling. And you'd say, preacher, pray that God will help me be a blessing to them. God's done some things for me, and maybe I can help encourage them. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Sure, probably all of us. God wants to use us to help others. God wants to use us to be a blessing to others. Maybe there's some this morning who say, Preacher, I don't know that I'm saved. I don't know for sure my sins are given. When I die, I go to heaven. I'm telling you that don't want to go to hell. Christ showed mercy, died for us, rose again, so we can be forgiven. Have eternal life Is there any like that? Say, preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure. I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. You say, preacher, pray for me. I can get that settled in my life. Anything like that by the uplift of hand. We'll pray for you We sure will. Father, bless our invitation. I know I went a little long. Lord, I pray that you would help us in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads up