Psalms chapter 121. The book of Psalms 121. And I want to use this passage of scripture And uh bring a message that I've entitled Our Helper in Times of Need. I don't know what you need this evening, but I know one that can help you And certainly the Lord Jesus is able to meet any need you might have, any need I might have, whatever problem I'm faced with, whatever challenge I have before me. I'm thankful that he is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think. Now, if you don't need a helper tonight, then this message isn't going to be a blessing to you. But uh if you need some help in something, I think this passage of Scripture will be a great challenge to all of us. I want to begin reading with verse number one, and if at all possible, if you can stand for the reading of God's Word in reverence to His Word, I'd appreciate that. Psalms 121 There's only eight verses, and we'll read all eight verses. I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills from whence cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is thy keeper, the Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil. He shall preserve thy soul. The Lord shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from this time forth and even forevermore. Isn't that a tremendous passage of scripture? The psalmist knows where to look when he needs help. And certainly this passage of Scripture is directing our hearts in the right direction. Let's have a word of prayer, and I'll bring the message the Lord has laid upon my heart. Loving Father, we thank you this evening for your great love and the mercy and grace that you show us over and over and over again. And I pray, Lord, as we look at this passage of Scripture tonight, the Holy Spirit will be pleased to use it, to speak to our hearts, to challenge us, to comfort us And and Lord certainly to instruct us in the way to face the problems and difficulties of life. I pray tonight for Pastor Leatherman that you'll be with him Heal him, raise him up, and Lord, if you are pleased to have him back in the pulpit this week, we certainly will praise you and thank you for that. Now open our hearts to what you have for us. Save the lost, I pray, and encourage and bless each believer here this evening. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Thank you, may be seated I'm sure that you would agree with me this evening that life can be rather difficult sometimes It's up and down, it's in and out, and we're not always on the mountaintop, and we find ourselves many times down in the valley facing the challenges that we find in those valleys. Uh the Makamis have a song that they sing that God is God of the mountain. But I'm also thankful that he's God of the valley as well. If you're going through high times and wonderful times and blessed times, God's right there. If you're going through challenges in life and you find yourself in the valley of despair, I'm thankful that God is there as well. He's promised never to leave us and never forsake us. But this psalm is all about the difficulties and challenges that we face in life. And as I said a moment ago, life can be up and life can be down. There's times in your life and there's times in my life that things are solid and faith is operative. But there's also times that we face a moment of doubt and discouragement. Life at times can bring us to the point of fear And uh bring us to that point of doubt. But I'm thankful there are times, great moments of faith that is strong and exercised in the things of the Lord Uh l life sometimes can bring us weakness. But I'm thankful that he's the strength of our life and is always there to lift us up in our time of need. I'm sure that you've never been sad before. That you're always rejoicing and happy and thrilled and excited and just full of a lot of vim and vigor. Sometimes life can be sad, can't it? Life has its hurts. But when you look at this psalm, it's really telling us how to find stability. Whether we're on the mountain or whether we're in the valley of despair, you can get overwhelmed sometimes with things that occur around us. I was a little overwhelmed at the last election. Wasn't exactly sure how that was going to go. I'm thankful it went the way that it did. But it wouldn't make any difference who's in the White House as long as God's on the throne. And he's right there all the time. And our hope is not in the White House. Our hope is in the Lord. And no matter what might be overwhelming you this evening, we can be confident the Lord is able to handle every need that you and I have. When you come to Psalms 121, it's actually a commentary on a New Testament truth. The Bible tells us in 1 Peter 1 and in verse number 5, who are kept. By the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. I'm thankful this evening that we are kept by the power of God. That word kept there has the idea of being preserved. He is our preserver. I can stand in the security of my salvation Because of the promise that God has made us to preserve us and to keep us and to hold us and never let us go. I've heard people say, well, as long as you hold on, everything is going to be okay. As long as he's holding on, everything is going to be okay. And he's promised us never, never to let go. And so the Lord is there to guard us. The Lord is there to preserve us. The Lord is our preserver. And that's what Psalms 121 is all about. It's revealing to us how we are preserved and kept by the power of God Almighty. Psalm 121 gives us insight on how to cope with the issues of life and how not to get to that point that you're overwhelmed and unable to function properly in life. And one of the first things that I see here, if we're going to keep from being overwhelmed, is you better be searching for the right helper. Can you say amen to that? You better be searching for the right helper. The Bible tells us in verse number one: I will lift up my eyes onto the hills. From whence cometh my help. If you don't know where to look when you have problems, you're going to be in straits of difficulty. The psalmist knew he needed the Lord. And the psalmist knew that the Lord was his helper. And so the Bible says, I will lift up mine eyes to the hills from whence cometh my help. And in verse number two, he recognizes that his help is the Lord himself. My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. I don't know what you might be challenged with this evening. What problems you might encounter in this coming week But our help comes from the Lord. And if you're looking in the right place for the help that you need, you're going to find it And the psalmist was looking to the Lord for the help that he needed. Is life difficult for you? Does life have its challenges for you? There are times in your life that the obstacles seem to be bigger than what you're able to cope with? Just remember, if you're searching and looking in the right place for help, you're going to find it. And our help is coming from the Lord. That's where we need our hope. And that's where we're going to find our deliverance. My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. When you think about this vast creation. That God has made, and then the problems that you and I might face in life. What's bigger? His ability to put all of this creation together in six days and rest on the seventh? Or is your problem bigger than that? I'm thankful that he compared it to the Almighty's power to create and to make and to sustain and to keep. Because the Lord indeed is our helper and the one that is there to help us in our time of need. Hope comes with salvation. Aren't you thankful for that? The day that you got saved, you were born again, and you were born into the family of God, and you were born into the hope that comes as a result of your faith In Christ and Christ alone. I'm thankful that with our salvation comes the great hope that we have. Now, first of all, let me remind you that hope, Bible hope, is not wishful thinking. Okay. I didn't think I was gonna need that tonight. I didn't know it was there either, but I I saw it when I went over there. So if I need one, you better give it to me real quick Hope is not wishful thinking. Hope is a gift that God gives to us when we're born into the family of God. So if you're saved tonight Your name's recorded in the Lamb's Book of Life tonight, then you have been born into the hope that comes as a result of your faith and trust in Christ and Christ alone. Now, watch this. Our hope is grounded upon the promises of Scripture. You can't hope for something God never promised. I uh I have always hoped for a fifty seven Shivvy. And I've searched from Genesis to Revelation, and I can't find a promise anywhere that I could claim that God would give me a fifty-seven Shivy. When I'm driving down the highway or I'm in a place where one might be, I begin to drool. You know what it's like when a your favorite stake is being made and that baked potatoes put before you and you douse it down with some butter and and you put some sour cream on that and you just lap into that and the juices just roll down your cheeks That's the way I get when I see a fifty-seven Shiv. I drool. I I I search the scriptures trying to find somewhere where I can claim a promise and that I one day will have a fifty-seven Chevy. I don't know whether they're gonna be in heaven or not, but I put my application in that if they are, I'd sure like to drive across the streets of gold In the 57 Shiva. You see, our hope is built upon the promises that God gives to us. Hope is given to us as a gift with our salvation. But hope is anchored in the promises that He has given to us so that we can claim them. And we're not wishful thinking that God will do that. We have solid, unshakable ground. Upon which to stand. Boy, I feel a shout coming on right there. There are pressures in this life that we need the hope that only comes from the Lord. There are times of despair, there's times of obstacles, there's times of trials, and we search the scriptures and we find the promise, and the hope that it gives to us carries us through. the day. Hope is rock solid belief in the character of God Almighty. He's able to fulfill what he promised. A promise is no greater than the one that made it. When he makes a promise, he has the ability and he has the power to fulfill that. Have you ever taken the time just to write some things down about the character of the one we serve? My Bible says that he's God of love. Aren't you thankful for that? Where would we ever be without the love of God? Not only does the Bible say that he is love, the Bible also tells us that he's a holy God. There's no blemishes, there's no error, there's no discrepancy with the character of our God. Now you and I might have flaws. You and I might come short of that. He never will. His character is solid and holy. The Bible describes our God as a God of mercy. Where would we be without the mercy of the Lord tonight? Where would we ever be without that mercy that He's shown to us? He's a God that is all-knowing. He knows you. He knows me. He knows what you're thinking. He knows what's ahead of us. Where we've been behind us. He knows. He knows it all. His character is displayed for us in the fact that he's all-powerful. Nothing, nothing is impossible for him. I remind myself constantly as we take on these challenges to reach out to the world, placing Bibles into the hands of people that have never had a copy of God's Word. I claim the promises that God has given over and over and over and over and over again. That we can get the word of God. I'll never be pleased. I'll never be satisfied till every person this side of glory has a copy of God's word in their language. Our God is a holy God. He's a just God. He's a faithful God. He's a worthy God, a trustworthy God. And his promises are based upon that character. The one that has no flaws. The one that always knows the beginning from the end. Always. That's our God. And so when He makes a promise You've got solid ground upon which to stand. That's what hope is all about. Hope is a wonderful gift that God gives to us. It gives us light I was thinking about that the other day. I was on the Pennsylvania Turnpike driving and uh over on the uh west eastern side of the state there's a couple a couple uh tunnels over there and of course when you go in it's it's kinda They have lights in there, but it's kind of dark and dim and you can't see the the the exit uh end of it. But boy when you c make that turn and You see light at the end of the tunnel. It's kind of refreshing to know you're going to get out of there without that mountain falling on you. That's encouraging to know. You know, you know what I mean? Well, let me explain. When they build a tunnel, they tunnel through a mountain. And there's a whole bunch of rocks and dirt and a whole mountain on top of that tunnel. And when you're halfway through, you're hoping and you're praying that whoever build it, build it solid When you see light at the end of the tunnel, all of a sudden you're getting some encouragement now. The mountain didn't fall yet. Now watch, probably next week I'll have to go through that tunnel and the mountain will cave in on me. Hope is a wonderful gift. It gives you light at the end of that tunnel. It it lifts your spirits. You can be down in the dumps and leafing through the Bible, trying to find some encouragement and some help and some hope. You run across a promise, and it just lifts you right out of that dismal Difficult, hard feeling that you have. Just lift you up. That's what God's Word will do for us. It builds hope within us when we read the scriptures and we see those promises that He has given to us. Just keeps reminding us that God is in control and He knows what He is doing Hope gives us that patience to trust in him. Even though it might not have happened today, our hope is built on a promise that he's made, and it soon or later is going to come. to pass. So hope begins with salvation. Hope is anchored in the scriptures. And hope is dependent upon the Savior to fulfill what he promised. That's hope. And I'm thankful tonight our God is able. He is able. He's able to save completely. He's able to sustain us from sin. He's able to supply our needs. That's the God that we serve and the one that we live for. So if you have a problem tonight, you better be looking in the right place to find your help You know, let me just say this, and I'll give you something else. When you have a problem in life Somebody has some counsel for you. Somebody has a word for you. Someone has a solution for you. A solution might not be based upon the Word of God. That's bad counsel Now let me ask you a question. How how many of you ladies watched The Hallmark? You're afraid to admit that. There's one little phrase that they constantly make. Verify it with me. When someone is faced, you know, they're so predictable. They meet. They break up. And at one minute to the end of the program they kiss and make up. Am I right? And this is the phrase that they constantly use. Follow your heart. Is that good advice? The Bible says the heart is wicked, desperately wicked. Who can know it But someone will tell you and try to advise you, you need to follow your feelings. No, you need to follow the book. So if you have a problem tonight and you're going through a difficult time, you better be seeking for the right help. The second thing that I would say to you is this. You better stand firm in him. If you've got a problem, remember that the devil is there trying to pull us away from the Lord The world is there trying to offer advice that is going to stand between us and the Lord. Our heart is desperately wicked, and people are trying to tell us to follow our heart. When we need to be looking to the Lord and standing firm in him. Look what the psalmist says in verse number three. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. Are you standing firm in him? Well, life certainly is full of challenges, and it's almost like walking on ice. You never know what the next step is going to do to you. We come through a not a real, real difficult winter, but we've had more snow and more ice than we've had in the last few years, and and uh I'm to the age that uh I recognize that I'm not as sure footed as I used to be. And so when I would go out, and I'd be very careful where I put my feet, and uh I'm not to the place of a cane yet, but I'm getting there, Ed. I'm getting there. You never know when you're going to fall when you step on ice. Am I right? That's the way life is. You you never know what challenge is going to come your way You never know what obstacle is going to be placed before you. But if we're looking to the right place for the help that we need, and we're standing firm in Him, He's the one that never slumbers and he doesn't sleep and his eye is oh I feel a shout coming on right there his eye is never taken off of us He's there to help us and see us through those difficult times. Have you ever wondered why people fall? Why they stumble? Why they mess up It's always a grievous thing when you see somebody that knows the Lord and just makes a big mess of their life. That hurts the Lord. That certainly disappoints the preacher. And it's discouraging to other Christians as well. And it's fatal Hear me? It's fatal to the unsaved because they see us mess up and it gives them justification not to trust Jesus. People fall because of wrong thinking. Would you say amen to that? They're messed up in their thinking. They're not thinking biblically They're not thinking godly. They're thinking with the the pressures of this world. And a lot of times they come to that personal reasoning that, well, whatever I do. It's not going to hurt me. Or they might come to the clue conclusion that I want to do things my way. Christianity is not a Burger King religion. You can't have it your way. That's one of the biggest problems that we have today. Well, I want to do it my way. We need to do it God's way. Conforming to His will and His way. And probably a big fallacy is this No one else is affected by what I do. You want to know why people fail? Fumble? Mess up? Because they think it's not going to hurt them. Or they think it's not going to affect anybody else There's young people that have been messed up in life because they watch somebody else and they're not in church today. You better be careful. You got problems tonight? The devil wants to use those problems to mess things up for you. Greater is he that is in us than he that is in the world. And you better be looking at the right place for the right person to help you in your time of need, and you better be standing firm in him. I I think I I think people fail not only because They have wrong thinking. They follow wrong advice. Proverbs says, where no counsel is, the people fall. But in the multitude of counselors, there is safety. You got a problem. The first place to go to is the Word of God And if you can't find the help that you need there, go to your preacher and help ask him to help you find what you need from the Word of God, and He'll always give you the right advice that you need. An obvious question would be, how can we keep from falling? I don't want to fail, do you? I don't want to stumble up and mess things up. I feel like I'm on my last lap, Chapster. My last lap. I can almost see the finish line down the road there. I want to cross that finish line. I don't want to stumble and fail and skin my shins and mess up my testimony and disappoint the Lord. And I thought, why is it that people fail? How can we keep from falling in life? Well, I think one of the first things that we can do is remember what Christ has done for us. Remember what Christ has done for you. Can you see Him on the cross? And you see him carrying the weight of our sin? Can can you hear the words echoed from his heavenly Father in heaven? Can you hear him cry out on the cross, my God, my God, why has you forsaken me? It's all because of my sin and your sin. If you want to keep from falling and stumbling and not crossing the finish line, always keep before you what Christ has done for you. I'd also say that You want to keep from falling? Remember the sorrow that was brought into your life when you failed in the past. Every one of us can look back and see things that we stumbled and failed and messed up And it took days and weeks and sometimes even months to clear things up and to have a clear conscience Some failures can be so great that you never get to that point. I think if you want to keep from falling, not only do we need to remember what Christ has done for us But remember the sorrows that when we stubbed our our toes and skinned our shins and made a mess of things, remember the sorrow, the regret that it brought to you Another thing that I would say to you is this keep in mind the blessings that come your way because of obedience, when the temptation was there. No one was ever gonna know. No one would even be aware. R remember Blessing always comes through obedience. And when you obey the Lord, that thrills him, it blesses him, and he in turn blesses us. If you want to keep from falling, keep in mind of what it'll do to somebody else You might look across this church and see someone that used to sit there. They're not here now. They got bent out of shape, they got twisted in their thinking because someone else didn't do right and They threw up their hands and said, Well, if that's the way it's going to be, why should I try to live for the Lord? What you and I do affects others. We better keep a careful eye on our steps in this life. Then keep in mind the Holy Spirit is there to help you. He's there to put a guard up, a reminder up, so that we don't stumble and fail in life. How do we cope with the circumstances that we encounter in life? Number one, search for the right kind of help. Secondly, stand firm in him. And then the third thing that I would say to you is seize and rely on the promises that he's given to you. And this Psalms 121 is loaded with them. The first thing that I see is that He's reminded us that he's a sure helper. He tells us in verse number one: I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills from whence cometh my help. My help comes from the Lord. You have a sure helper. One that you can count on, one that I can count on, one that I can depend upon, the one that will never fail us, the one that will never forsake us, the one that will never throw us under the bus, so to speak. You can count upon him. And the psalmist said, I can lift up my eyes. I know where my help comes from. He's a sure helper to me in my time of need. The second thing I see here is that he's a sleepless watcher. Look what he says in verse number three. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved, for he that keepeth thee will not slumber. You get tired? I can tell some of you are getting tired right now. Your eyelids are kinda blinking And I'm not convinced you have a speck in your eye in your eye that's causing you to they're just getting a little heavy sometimes. That never happens to our God There's nothing that that stands in his way of seeing. He never slumbers He never sleeps. We have a sleepless watcher. He never goes to sleep on us. He's always available. Aren't you thankful for that? You can call on him in the middle of the night. He answers the phone. He's there to listen and offer the help that you need. And then I see in this psalm that we have a sufficient upholder. Look at verse number four. Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. He holds fast in his presence with you and with me. He's constantly watching Carefully guarding. You remember what Peter said? I am kept by the power of God. You can go to sleep tonight You crawl into bed and be confident. Our Lord is watching. Our Lord is not slumbering. He never punches the time clock and is off duty. He's always there. He's a sufficient upholder. But I also see that he's a sheltering protector. Look what he tells us in verse number five. The Lord is thy keeper. The Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. And then I see that he's a strong preserver. He tells us in verse number 7 and 8: The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil. He shall preserve thy soul. The Lord shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from this time forth and even forevermore. Do you see how that's a commentary? An Old Testament commentary on a New Testament truth. We are kept by the power of God until The day of salvation. And he tells us here, I will preserve thee. He shall preserve thy soul. He shall preserve thy coming in and thy going out from this time forth and for. Evermore. Huh. If that doesn't make you want to shout, I don't know what will. We have one that loves us. One that carefully cares about us and is there to preserve us and to keep us throughout the ceaseless ages of eternity. You're going to overcome the obstacles of life. Search for the right help. If you're going to face the challenges of life, stand firm in the Lord. And if you're going to keep going for the Lord, Then you need to seize and rely upon every promise that He's given you in His Word. You'll be able to be the overcomer that God has designed you and God has designed me to be. Not overcome. but overcoming. I hope tonight that'll help you and be a blessing to you. Let's stand with our heads bowed and our eyes closed