All right. Exodus chapter 3. We're going to read the first six verses. We're talking about the call of Moses. I think, what'd you say, Jamie? This is part five, I think. Yeah. Call of Moses, part five. And I think we got a few more parts coming on it. But uh I c I'm somewhat deliberate in parking here for a little bit 'cause I think This is a significant event, not just in the life of Moses, but in the history of Israel and in Scripture for us. And there's so many lessons here, so many principles that I think it's helpful. So I just want to slow down a little bit and just work our way through this. I'm going to read down through verse 6 And verse number one says, Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro his father-in-law, the priest of Midian And he led the flock to the back side of the desert, and came to the mountain of God, even Horop. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush, and he looked. And behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed. And Moses said, I will now turn aside and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt. And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses! And he said, Here am I. And he said, Draw not nigh hither, put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. Now I just mentioned this. That is the first time in the Bible the word holy is used. First place that word shows up. For the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. Moreover, he said, I am the God of thy father, and the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God. The call of Moses, let's pray and ask the Lord to teach us some lessons from this passage. Father, we thank you uh for how you blessed us again. It's been a great couple days, but we m we want to go forward now. And I ask you to help us learn from this call of Moses and uh how you went about that, how Moses responded to it. And all that's involved here, I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And God, I pray you would guide my thinking as I try and teach through this. in such a way that it helps us, that our faith in you would be stronger, that we would be more submissive to your will, more understanding of what you do in our lives. And that we would be a better witness for you. So again, please fill me with your spirit and bless uh this time right now. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Alright, we're looking, first of all, we had the preparation for the call. We looked at that very thoroughly. And then we had the purpose for the call. That's the end of chapter number two, where Israel's crying out to God because of their bondage. And now here's where we kind of parked for a couple weeks on the particulars of the call. And I am to be honest with you, I'm very fascinated. about how God goes about getting Moses' attention and then revealing himself to Moses and then communicating What God wants Moses to do. And it's fairly lengthy here. As we'll look at this, we're just in the beginning stages of this call. And in a little bit, in a couple of weeks, probably Four or five years from now, we'll see there's a little banter back and forth between Moses and God. about this. And so, but that's down the road a little way. So we're looking at the particulars here. And a couple just uh uh quickly just where we're at, we noted first of all that uh God got Moses' attention On the backside of a desert, Moses is taking care of the sheep. Now he went from being a prince in Egypt to a shepherd in the wilderness. The person that shows up to him is the angel of the Lord. And who did we come to uh who did we determine this angel of the Lord is? Is it just some Uh uh just some random angel out of the great hosts of angels, or was it anyone in particular who did we determine We believe it is the Lord Jesus Christ. We have reason to believe that this is what we call a pre-incarnate appearance of Jesus Christ before he was took on flesh in Bethlehem. uh he appears and we see that several times throughout scripture and we talked about that so it's the Lord Jesus Christ himself we believe is actually making this call is interacting with Moses And then a particular way. So God gets his attention and then God announces his presence. He wants it to be very, very clear to Moses who exactly this is that is speaking to him out of this uh um this uh uh burning bush that's not being consumed And so he does that, he gets his attention, he announces his presence, and God makes his call. Now we pointed out that sometimes God will do something to get our attention Something will happen. Maybe a doctor says, I got bad news for you. A person's not even thinking about their spiritual well-being. They're not thinking about their relationship with God And then out of the blue, a doctor's appointment, a doctor says, I got bad news. And all of a sudden, uh we start thinking, whoa, I need to get things right with order. I've seen it so many times, 32 years I'm thinking of several situations in particular as I'm talking to you that are in my mind where somebody had a uh was uh uh was diagnosed with cancer or some terrible thing happened And man, they come, they want to get right with God, they want to make things right. Now, a couple instances I'm thinking of, they came, uh, they got saved maybe, they got things right, their faithful Lord, and then as soon as the threat was removed Then they went back to where they were. That is not the proper response when God gets our attention. And so, but then that didn't happen for Moses here. I was thinking, I was reviewing this I was thinking about in Indianapolis there was a lady, an older lady in the church, very, very faithful, and I didn't know her family at all I had showed up, I was only there four years, but this dear lady was very faithful, an older lady. She passed away during my time there. Pastor did the funeral. Again, I didn't know the family, but her daughter was there, who I come to find out, was away from the Lord for many, many, many, many years And so her mother passed away, this lady in the church, they did the funeral, pastor did the funeral. At the funeral, God got this daughter's attention. And uh she suddenly took serious her relationship with the Lord, and she got assurance of her salvation, and I tell you, after that funeral, that daughter was very, very faithful to the Lord. And so that's what God does sometimes. This burning bush got Moses' attention. As a result of that, his course of his life is altered. And so God does different things to get our attention like that. And we talked about that And then we pointed out, if you notice verse four, it says, And the Lord saw that he turned aside to see God called unto him, if you remember. And I know I'm reviewing here a little more than I intend to But if you remember, we said that word call is uh is a very loud summons. God wasn't whispering this. It wasn't a still small voice that Moses is hearing out of this fire. Not in this situation. Elijah had that. But here it's a very different call of God. It's a very different voice of God. It is a long It is a loud, strong call. Moses, Moses thundered out of that burning bush. And what I got, as I was re reviewing over this again for tonight I got thinking about it. This call for Moses, it was very, very clear. In other words, there was no mistaking this is God calling him. And I think sometimes we need to be if if we're if there's going to be a major change in our life, we feel like maybe God's making this change, maybe God's leading this way, maybe God's doing this My advice is, unless you're absolutely sure it is God leading in this way, I would wait on the Lord. You follow what I'm trying to say? Over the years I've had opportunities I get you know I haven't for a while, but uh ten, twenty, fifteen years ago or so Uh every now and then I get a call from somebody. I was thinking of a church up in Pennsylvania, pretty good-sized church they called and say, we're looking for a pastor, would you consider Come in here, be our pastor. I I think I may have had four or five of those over the years. And uh my when I came here, uh I just I knew it was God's will. There was no doubt God called us here. I was as sure of that As I'm sure that moon shining out in the sky out there and we came in. I mean I knew it was God's will. Before the vote even came, I told Kathy, I said, this is where we're gonna be. We had been in a number of churches candidated And there was no peace there. I knew this is where God wanted us. And so uh w when I when we came, I kinda I didn't make a deal with God, I just kind of settled in my heart that I'm not leaving here unless I'm as sure it is God's will for me to leave as I was sure it was his will to come. You follow what I'm saying I don't want to just go on a win. Every preacher in the world has ups and downs, and sometimes you think, uh, maybe uh you know, maybe I need to move it. No, I'm not doing that unless I'm absolutely positive it's God's will for me to do that And I've seen it numerous times over the years where somebody gets in their head, oh, God wants me to do this, and it's not a clear, distinct call of God where they know it's at and they uproot everything and they do all this and the next thing you know they made a terrible mistake. And so this is no there's no uncertainty in Moses That this is this is God calling. And so if there's some question there, what's the old saying? If in doubt Don't. That's what we say. If in doubt, don't. If there's not a questionnaire. I've said this often. I have never regretted waiting on God. If I'm not sure, then wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. So there was no doubt here. This was a very clear, I put it this way, very clear, unmistakable call. And if it's not that way, then uh I think it's best to wait on the Lord and um and let until I'm absolutely sure what God wants me to do. So, and then we noted that he used Moses' name twice. He says, Moses, Moses. And he called, and um he does that, God does that numerous times throughout Scripture. Jacob, Jacob, he says in Genesis 46, Samuel, Samuel in the call to Samuel. Simon, Simon, he says there in Luke 22. Paul in the Damascus wrote He uses his name twice. And so he wants him to know, Moses, I'm aware of you, and this is urgent. What we're talking about is what I'm about to say to you, Moses, is urgent. So he uses his name twice. Now I'm trying to remember where I ended last week. I think we ended with this thought that God's c God never calls anyone to an easy task God's call, as far as I can find, and I'll say almost always, I want to say always, is never a call to an easy task. I can't think find anywhere in the Bible where there was a clear, distinct call of God and say, oh, I want you to go to the coast of the Mediterranean, and I want you to sit on the beach and drink uh uh pineapple juice and bask in the sun the rest of your life. Uh now And I think we talked about that a little bit. Would you agree with me? Jonah's call to Nineveh was not an easy call. Right. Yes, yeah? No? No, that was not an easy call. You were agreeing with me, yeah. Um You know, Nineveh was horrendous. In fact, it was so difficult. Jonah was a seasoned prophet. He wasn't just some newbie, some young guy out of college. He'd been in the ministry for years. He had been used of God greatly for years. God calls him the Nineveh, and he had a hard time with it, right or wrong Yeah, because Nineveh was a hard place. These people were violent. They were perverse. And he's Yeah, he struggled with it. And God's call very seldom is God's call easy. I thought about Jeremiah. Have you ever read the book of Jeremiah? And God calls Jeremiah and he says, Jeremiah, I'm going to tell you right up front, they're not going to listen to you. I'm putting in my own words. They're not going to pay any attention to your words. In fact, they're going to make faces at you when you're preaching at them. And uh he didn't say they're going to fall asleep while you're preaching, Adam. I've had to deal with that. But um He said they're gonna harden their faces against you, they're not gonna listen to a word you say And if you'll read the book of Jeremiah and pay attention to what Jeremiah is dealing with, it was very, very difficult. He ended in prison. He thought he was going to die on a number of occasions. And in a muddy pit they throw him in. And so God's call, my point is God's call is never easy. In Acts chapter 9, when Paul gets saved And he says to him right up front, when God's telling Ananias to go baptize Paul, and Ananias says, Whoa, I've heard about this guy He's a persecuted Christian. God said, nope, he's my chosen servant. Again, I'm putting my own words here. He's my chosen servant. And he says this: He is called to suffer many things for my name's sake. And so I think we make a mistake sometimes with uh uh with our young people and young men in particular, and we give the idea that, oh, you're God calls you into ministry, it's gonna be uh hoopla, it's gonna be great, it's gonna be wonderful, it's all uh milk and cookies and uh it's everybody's gonna love you and uh they're gonna treat you uh listen uh the call of God is very seldom if ever to an easy task I've seen this with missionaries a little bit. You know, deputation is challenging. There's no doubt about it. So don't misunderstand what I'm going to say here. And um it's tough ha especially you got kids hauling kids all over, good heavens. But the thing is on deputation sometimes you get you know when the missionary shows up they're the hero. Right? We try to treat treat them like heroes here. Man, you get gifts and they do stuff for you, you wait on you hand and foot And it's, you know, that part of it is wonderful. And if we're uh and if a young couple is not careful, you can you can begin to enjoy the attention And the gifts and all the accolades going to the mission field. And I think that's right. Don't misunderstand. I'm uh we're going to keep doing that We encourage them, we help them, but the call to missions is not a call to attention and gifts and all that stuff. What happens sometimes, and I've seen it, all that, you finally get their support and they get on the mission field, and all of a sudden they're not the center of attention. And all of a sudden they're not on the up in front of a lot of people every week and nobody's giving them gifts anymore and they're and they're not being taken on trips, you know, and given suits. Now they're by themselves alone somewhere trying to work and maybe the people don't respond very well and it's hard work and it's long days and it's lonely and it's scary and it's hard. And and and the health issues that go on. And so and then sometimes if they're not careful Boy, that call back home sounds awfully good. You follow what I'm saying? And so the call of God is never to an easy task. I don't believe. And Moses is not going to have an easy task here, what God's calling him to. And so I think that's where we ended last time. So I took up my whole time reviewing. It's what often what I do But notice, I want us to notice Moses' response here. And uh I don't think we we touched on this It says, um, and God called unto him out of the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses, strong, loud call. And Moses, he said, what? Here am I. Here am I. I got looking at this. I noticed two things about Moses' response. Number one, it was a simple response. Here am I, Lord. No questions. Something happened to Moses out in that wilderness. And we're not told any details about his forty years in the Midian desert. But something happened there. When he heard the voice of God, he knew it was the voice of God No questions. He doesn't ask, who is this Lord? Who are you? Who's talking to me? Whoa, what's going on here? And I thought it was interesting. He doesn't run away. How many of y'all would have, if there's a bush burning And it's not being consumed. All of a sudden this booming, earth-shaking voice says your name. How many people would run away? I'd be tempted. Whoa. He does it He just stays there and he knows immediately who this is. He was in tune with God. He recognized the voice of God. He recognized the Word of God. This is God speaking to me. And so he doesn't ask any questions. Just a simple response, here am I, here am I. I thought the other thing I noticed in this simple response is There's no self-exultation. He doesn't start telling God what a great guy he is. Well God, you got the right one this time Do you see what I tried to do before? Lord, I tried serving you before. He doesn't ask, what do you have in mind? What exactly are you up to, Lord? What is this about? Any of you fellows, your wife ever says, Will you do something for me? And your first response is what? What is it? I'm giving a conditional answer. Maybe I'll do it for you. What exactly do you have in mind? And if your wife says, I'm not going to tell you what it is until you commit to do it. Now I got a con uh now I got a conflict here, you know. Uh but none of that on Moses' part Here am I. That statement, just a simple little statement. He doesn't say, what do you have in mind? What are you wanting, Lord? What exactly is it you're approaching me about? No questions. Just here am I. So it's a very simple response, and uh it's a very submissive response That phrase, here am I, every time that statement is used in Scripture by man at the call of God, every single time, it implies availability. Moses, when he when he hears his voice called out twice and he responds to God, he won't even look up He responds to God and he says, Here am I. It's submission. It's I'm available, Lord. Lord, I don't know what you're calling. I don't know what you're up to. I don't know what you got in mind. I'm not questioning it. It's not a condition. Lord, I'm available to you. I tell you, that is what the Christian life is all about. That is where God wants us to live, to be available to Him. I started praying in my personal prayers maybe a year ago. I put it in my little prayer list. There's a part where I just kind of surrender for the day. Lord, I submit myself, you lead me today. And I put this down. I said, first thing is I ask the Lord to help me be sensitive to His will As I go through the day, I want to be sensitive. If God's leading, if God speaks to me, has something for me, I want to be sensitive to that. You know what I'm talking about? I want to be sure. I don't want to miss. Anybody here ever go through something and then af maybe your uh situation and afterward you say, oh I could have I had a chance or I could have given a gospel track out. I could have spoken up for the Lord And you don't think about it till after it's over. Can I get a witness? I do this way too often. I really got convicted about that last night in the preaching And I pray, and I want, Lord, I want to be sensitive. If there's an opportunity there, if you've put me in a situation and given me what we call a divine appointment, I don't want to miss that I want to be available. I want to be sensitive to what you're doing. That's all when Moses says, here am I He's being very he's being available. Lord, I'm available here. And then the other thing I pray um uh is this. I want to be sensitive to your leadership, how you're directing me, but I also want to be submissive. Sometimes I know what God wants me to do, but I don't want to do it Can I get a witness? I mean we hate to admit that, but sometimes it's like uh, you know, be uh situation Lord's Lord puts in your heart, I need to talk to that person about the Lord, or I need to do this, or I need to give something. And Lord, I really don't want to do that. Ah, they won't listen to me. They don't care about Moses gets that way a little later, but right now he's sensitive. He knows this is the Lord. Here are my Lord. He's sensitive to the Word of God. He knows this is God And by saying, here am I, he's saying, I'm submissive. I'm available to you. This is a very different Moses Than what we saw when he was living in Pharaoh's household. There he's being very assertive. He is deciding How we're going to deal with these Egyptians, how we're going to get the Hebrews out of Egypt. I'm going to kill this Egyptian. All the Hebrews are going to rally behind me. I'm convinced this was in Moses' mind. Um uh all the all the Hebrews are gonna rally behind me. There's gonna be an uprising in Egypt, we're gonna overthrow the Egyptian government And I'm going to lead all the Hebrews back to the promised land. I think that's what he had in mind when he killed that Egyptian. Now it's not, Lord, this is how I'm going to do it. Now it's Lord, your way. I'm submitted now he dn doesn't know probably at this point that God's calling him to lead them out. But my point is this This is a different Moses. He's very submissive here. He's not self-confident. He's not self-assertive. Saying, Lord, you do this. You do it your way. In Acts chapter 9, again, in fact, would you go ahead? Let's go ahead and turn there. I want to show you. There's this Ananias. He makes the exact same statement In not exactly the same circumstances, but a very difficult call for Ananias. Again, the call of God is never to an easy task. Acts chapter 9, of course, Saul gets saved, Saul at this point, later Paul. And uh he's on the weight road to Damascus, we know the situation, and God appears to him and confronts him. Um verse five, Saul answers this bright light, and he hears the uh God uh the Lord Jesus say Saul, Saul, why persecute? He says, Who art thou, Lord? I'm Jesus. So then anyway, he gets saved, and you come down to verse 10. Now it's time for Saul to get baptized and be discipled. Look what happens. It says, and there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias. And to him said the Lord in a vision, Ananias! And notice how Ananias responds. And he said, What? Here I am. Here am I. I am here, Lord. Basically the same thing. He's saying, Lord, I'm available. What do you want? Here I am. What do you need? What do you have in mind? Show me what to do. And the Lord shows him He says, verse 11, the Lord said unto him, Arise, go to the street which is called straight and inquire in the house of Judas for one called Saul of Tarsus, for behold he prayeth. And he explains a little bit. He's seen the vision of Ananias. Now come down to verse 13. Ananias balks a little bit at this. Andanias answered, Lord, I've heard many things of this man, how much evil he hath done to thy saints at Jerusalem, and he hath authority from the chief priest to bind all that call upon his name. And so he gets to God, I'm available. I'm available to you. Here I'm Lord, what do you want me to do? I want you to go to Saul and baptize him, he tells him. He says, whoa, wait a minute. Now, to Ananias' credit, God clarifies in Ananias' mind exactly what the situation is. It's not what you think it is. Saul's a new man. He's a completely new creature. And regardless of what you heard, and regardless of what the past was, that's not the case now, once you go pray with them and baptize them. And so the exact same thing is what we have with Moses here. Now, we're not at the point where God's explaining to Moses what all he has in mind. But Moses says, here am I, Lord. He's submissive. He surrenders to the Lord. Isaiah did the same thing in Isaiah chapter 6. Hear my Lord, send me. Hear my Lord. I'm available. I'm available. I'm submissive. I put this in my notes. The best thing to do when God calls. Is to respond in simple faith. Just trust them. Respond with total submission. Total submission. Paul put it this way, not my will, but thy will be done. Or Jesus said that in the Garden of Semine, not my will, but thy will be done. Anybody here ever ma and maybe this happened in the last two, three days with our big meetings. And uh I trust it's going to take place in the hearts and lives of some of our teams Friday and Saturday But the word of God's being preached, and the Spirit of God says, Dennis, Dennis, in my case, and God speaks to my heart, then I can respond one of two ways. I can put up my shield, I can put up my wall, and uh so uh uh or God speaks to my heart about something going on, and he did, in the last couple of days, God speaks to my heart. Or I can say, Lord, I'm going to trust you. And I'm going to let your will be done. I want your will to be done. I submit to you. Anybody know what I'm talking about when God speaks to your heart when they're preaching? Anyone like that? Yeah. Anybody here ever God speak your heart and your initial reaction was uh no no no anybody know what I'm talking about? I've done that, I hate to say it But the best response is, Lord, here am I, here I am, Lord, here am I. And that's what the altar call is all about Lord, here am I. You spoke to my heart. I give it in. So we have God's call. And if you would, come back to Exodus here. Then we have what I'm saying, well for sake of alliteration, maybe, is God's consecration. Verse 3 of chapter 3 says, Moses, Moses, he says, Here am I. Verse 5, or that was verse 4. Verse 5, and he said, Draw not nigh hither Put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. Holy ground. That phrase, holy ground, is only used two times in Scripture. Only twice you're going to find where some ground is referred to as holy ground. Here in Exodus 2 at the call of Moses. And in Acts chapter 7, referencing the same event when Stephen is preaching at the Pharisees, about to be martyred. He's about to be stoned to death. And he goes back through the history of Israel and he references Moses' call and again he refers to this event Where God says the ground that Moses is standing on is holy ground. So what exactly is holy ground? Well the word holy, anybody want to take a shot? What does the word holy mean? Anybody want to pure? That would be part of it, yes. What? Without sin would be holy, absolutely. It comes from the exact same word where we get the word consecrated. Consecration. What does it mean? If something's consecrated, what does it mean? It's set apart for a specific purpose. The furniture in the tabernacle, later would put in the temple, were consecrated. They were sacred. They were holy. They were set apart. You didn't use the candlesticks in the holy uh tabernacle. You didn't use the candlesticks to walk around and go fish night fishing for catfish They were set apart for that very specific purpose. It was sacred, is we get our word sacred from the word holy. Consecrated, unlike any other ground. It's set apart. So my question as I'm looking at this holy ground, what was it that made this ground holy? You're you're getting ahead of me. We'll come back to that in just a moment. So I got to ask myself, what is it that made this ground holy? Is it possible for ground, I mean this dirt, there's rocks there, probably sand? There's probably some ants and little bugs crawling around in it, worms, weeds and stuff there, no doubt, some little brush in the desert. Come with me, if you would, to Genesis chapter 3. We find a little bit about ground. In Genesis chapter 3, the actual condition of ground. Genesis 3, and look with me if you would at verse number 17 And unto Adam, this is after the fall, Eve was seduced by Satan to disobey God. Adam goes along with her. And God is addressing this. In verse 17, he says, And unto Adam he, God, said, Behold. Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it. Look at this next statement. What's he say? Cursed is the what? Ground for thy sake. Romans references this. This whole earth is under the curse of God. Ephesians references this, I believe. The whole earth is under the curse. The ground we walk on is under the curse of sin, of God. And so here we have a case where this ground is called holy ground. Is there something unique about this dirt that this bush is growing in that Moses is standing on? I d Dale was correct when he said, what was it that made this ground holy? Was there something unique about this ground? Was there something different about the ground? No, that's ground there at the bush where Moe's standing was in its in its substance was no different than any other ground around. It was the presence of God on that ground that made it holy That made it sacred. Come with me, if you would, to Isaiah. Keep your place here. Come with me to Isaiah. And chapter number six. You have something ver similar, somewhat similar, Isaiah chapter six. And Isaiah says in the year that King Uzziah died, verse 1, Isaiah 6, this is a great chapter. And this is Isaiah's call and something not exactly the same, but somewhat similar. In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. And above it stood the seraphims. Each one had six wings, with twain he covered his face, and with twain he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly. And one cried unto another and said, What? Holy, holy, holy is the Lord uh is the Lord of hosts, the whole earth is full of his glory. And the posts of the door moved at the voice of him. that cried, and the house was filled with smoke. Look how look how Isaiah responded to the presence of God. Then said I, Woe is me, for I am undone, and I am a man of unclean lips And I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts, the holiness of God, the presence of God. And what is manifest in the presence of God is the holiness of God. And Isaiah responds voluntarily, he falls on his face, he can't look. He says, and here's something, this is a little aside. But he says, I am a man of unclean lips. Now let me ask you a question. What would cause someone's lips to be unclean? Why would his lips be unclean? Out of the abundance of the mouth speaker. You know what he was saying? He said, I'm a man of unclean lips. You know why his lips were unclean? Because his heart was unclean. People say bad things because their heart's bad. People say dirty things because their heart's dirty. People say blasphemous things because they have a blasphemous heart. And the point I'm trying to make is this the presence of God, the holiness of God, which is very difficult for us to grasp what that pure holiness of God is. But the very first the impact it has is to reveal our own sinfulness. And that brings us back to Isaiah here, this holy ground, this holy ground. Moses was having an encounter with a perfectly holy God. I mean, and that word perfect in my mind comes up short. I want to use the word infinitely holy God. absolutely holy, which is difficult for us to grasp. And notice what God says. He said, Draw not nigh hither. And then he says, put off thy shoes from off thy feet. For the place whereon thou standest is holy ground, is holy ground. Now he tells them to take off his shoes, to remove his shoes, put off thy shoes from off thy feet. Now, why in the world Would his shoes have anything to do with this ground being holy? What does his shoes have anything to do? Come back next week. And we'll find out why he needs to put his shoes off above of all things. His shoes. But my point, what I want to leave us with tonight, and I was trying to be a little abbreviated, I reviewed more than I should have probably, but because we've had Several nights in a row. We've had a lot going on. So I just want to get this point across, is what dealt with what God dealt with my heart about. I want to be available When God wants to use me, God wants to do something, once needs me to do something, I want to be available and I want to be submissive I want to recognize, I want to be sensitive and recognize God's leading me, instructing me. And by the way, if he tells us in Scripture, we can be confident, that's God telling us, right? But the issue is I need to be available and submissive. Say yes, Lord, yes, Lord. And so as we have our daily devotions, as we're faithful to church, to teach and preaching the word of God, God's going to speak to our hearts And he's going to say, alright, here I need this, we need that, we need to do this, we need to change this. I got I I have a will for your life. I have something I want to do And then we say, Hear my Lord. I recognize it. I'm available. I submit to it. Amen? Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless as we study this event in the life of Moses And I pray for myself and for all of us that when you speak to us and you show us from your word what needs to be done, what way things should be. I pray you'd help us to recognize that as coming from you, not just the preacher or whatever. Lord, help us to make ourselves available and then submit. Here I am, Lord. Here I am. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder, maybe God's speaking to your heart, and you say, Preacher, I know there's something in my life. I know that's God's will. I know what He wants me to do Whatever it may be, something we need to remove or something we need to add, something we need to start doing, something we need to stop doing. Whatever it may be, but you say, preacher, I know God's been dealing with my heart. And I just want to be available, Lord. I want to be submissive. Is there anybody like that? I know there's some things that God needs in my life. God's in my life. God bless you. Number of hands around. And God does that. Father, I pray you bless now our invitation and help us, I pray in Jesus' name, Amen