So I'm under great pressure. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 18. If you've been saved any length of time, you're probably somewhat familiar with this verse. This is one of the Early in my Christian life, the two fellows that helped disciple me, Arden Musselman and Terry Wilcox, they had me memorize this verse. They explained it a little bit to me early in my Christian life And that's what I want to talk about, verse 18. And be not drunk with wine, wherein is an excess. Now look at this last phrase, but be filled with the Spirit. And he goes on, speaking yourselves in psalms, hymns, spiritual songs, singing, and making melody in your heart to the Lord, giving thanks always. For all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. That one phrase at the end of verse 15, but be filled with the Spirit. I want to speak this morning on the filling of the Holy Spirit of God. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, we ask now you'd bless our time in your word. And I pray it would be a profitable time for us spiritually. That we could get a hold of this instruction you've given us and this truth that's presented throughout Scripture, I pray it will become a reality in every one of our Christian lives. And Lord, I pray in this time right now, this moment, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew for this message, and I ask with all my heart that your Holy Spirit would speak your word through my body, through me. To all of our hearts and minds, and that we can obey this instruction and experience the presence The power of the Holy Spirit in our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I don't know if the name Walter Wilson, Dr. Walter Wilson, means anything to you. He was born in 1861 into a Methodist preacher's home. He was sensitive to the things of the Lord. I can put it that way. He was sensitive to the things of the Lord even from a child. When the kids would play, they would play church. Uh when the children when he was young and the other children in the family and friends and neighbors, they would play church. Walter Wilson was always the preacher when they played church When he was 16 years old, he began holding evangelistic meetings in the neighborhoods where he grew up, in Indiana. So he had a he was a he was very young, he developed a heart for God. He went to medical school and he became a medical doctor, a very successful medical doctor, but God continued to use him. They say that Dr. Walter Wilson was a powerful personal soul winner. His people would come into his office and he would care for folks and go about his business. He was a continual witness for the Lord Jesus Christ, and they say that he won many, many, many people to the Lord. just through his personal witness. So he was a very effective soul winner. After a while, churches began asking Dr. Walter Wilson if he would come and preach special meetings for them Which he did, and he became a very powerful evangelistic preacher throughout the Midwest, and it spread throughout the country and ultimately around the world. Dr. Walter Wilson started a church in Kansas City. It grew and became a large, powerful witness there in the city. He started a Bible college. He was early on in the radio ministry. He was a pioneer in the radio ministry and had a daily broadcast there in Kansas City. Preaching the gospel on the radio. Now that was that was cutting edge back in that day. That was thinking outside the box a little bit. Preaching on the radio. He authored 22 books. A powerful, powerful man of God. If you're watching the pages of the Sword of the Lord, occasionally they'll have a sermon in there by Dr. Walter Wilson. Dr. Walter Wilson. He was preaching in France back in the early 1900s. He died in 1969 Back in the early mid-1900s, he was in France preaching, and uh a godly man in one of the services there approached Dr. Walter Wilson after the service. And he asked them this question. He said, Dr. Wilson, now get this. What does the Holy Spirit mean to you personally? Dr. Wilson thought for a moment and he says, well, he's the third person of the Godhead. And a Frenchman said to him again, but what does he mean to you personally He said, well, he's the part of the Trinity. He's God the Spirit. And he said, you haven't answered my question My question is, what does the Holy Spirit mean to you personally? And Dr. Walter Wilson, this powerful preacher, preached all around the country and now around the world, author of books, founder of a church. Finally, he got a hold of what this fellow was saying. It dawned on him. Dr. Wilson said he hung his head and he said, The Holy Spirit of God means nothing to me. I have no personal relationship with the Holy Spirit. I have been living my life without Him. Wow, what an admission from somebody at that level. Dr. Wilson later said this was a turning point in my life. He said, this was a turning point in my ministry. And he said, from that point on, I began to pursue and develop a personal relationship with the Holy Spirit of God. He said, from that point on, I learned, with God's help, to learn to depend upon the Holy Spirit to empower my witness and to enable me to live the Christian life As God intends for me to live. He said, I developed a personal relationship and a personal dependence upon the Holy Spirit of God. Let me ask you a question that Dr. Wilson was asked. What does the Holy Spirit mean to you? Do you ever think about him? Are you aware of the Holy Spirit's presence in your life? Do you depend upon him to enable you To do and be what God intends for you to do and to be. The Holy Spirit of God. Dr. Walter Wilson said, when I learned to depend on him, when I learned this truth of being filled with the Spirit of God My witness became multiplied more powerful. My preaching was much more effective, and we saw a distinctive change in God's use of our ministry. The Holy Spirit of God. I think a lot of us Christians are a lot like Dr. Wilson was. We have little or no awareness Of the Holy Spirit's presence in our lives. We have little or no awareness of the Holy Spirit's ministry in our lives as Christians, His enablement. His empowerment that is available to every child of God, but yet we're so, we have such little awareness of that. A few quick facts about the Holy Spirit. Number one, the Holy Spirit is God. He has all the attributes of God, and if you study your Bible very, very carefully, We'll find that the Holy Spirit is co-equal with God the Father and God the Son, the great three-in-one. He is all the attributes, as I said, of God. We can find the omniscience of the Holy Spirit. We find the omnipresence of the Holy Spirit. He is eternal, no beginning, no ending. He is all-knowing. He is all-wise. He is every characteristic, every attribute of God the Father and God the Son. He is God. The Holy Spirit is also a person. He is not just some impersonal force like electricity. The world in Hollywood talks about and folks joke about, but they say, may the force be with you. The Holy Spirit is not just an impersonal force, He is a personality. And again, if you study the New Testament particularly very carefully, and it's all through the Old Testament also, but if you study very carefully, you find that the Holy Spirit of God has an intellect He teaches us. He leads us. He has an intellect. He has an awareness. He has intelligence. Personality. The Holy Spirit has emotion. It is possible for you and I, we're going to touch on this here in a few moments, but it is possible for you and I to grieve the Holy Spirit of God, to make him say it You and I can speak to each other, one another, and we can conduct ourselves, and we can have an attitude that actually grieves the Holy Spirit of God. So the Holy Spirit has all the attributes, all the characteristics of personality, is intelligence. He has emotion. He has the term we use, he has volition. By that we mean this. He has a will. There are things that he desires. That he wills to be true in your life and my life. These are all characteristics of personality. The Holy Spirit is God Co-equal with God the Father, God the Son. Now let me be quick to add, there's only one God. What we're talking about is that great mystery of the Trinity. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, co-equal, yet distinct personalities. That Holy Spirit that indwells every believer is God Almighty. That Holy Spirit that indwells every believer is a person. With a will and emotions and an intellect. Let me third quick fact about the Holy Spirit. And there's many others we could touch on. We could do uh years series on the Holy Spirit. But let me say this. The Holy Spirit indwells every believer at the moment of salvation. How many folks here you're saved and you know it. Say amen How many people here can remember back, if you don't remember the exact moment, but you remember generally the time, there was a time where you trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. How many people would testify to that? Sure That moment you and I trusted Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, that very second, that very moment That we called on the Lord and trust in the Savior. We are born anew into the family of God. We transition from lost to saved. And that very moment The Holy Spirit of God indwells these bodies of clay. Holy Spirit moves in. Listen, let me just throw this out here. No child of God, no saved person ever has to ask God to give them the Holy Spirit. The moment you got saved, you got the Holy Spirit. He moved in. Moved into our bodies. Somebody said this: every believer, every child of God, every believer has a divine tenant living within their body. That's the Holy Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit of God. Whenever you, I like this quote, whenever you see a believer, you see the temple, you see a temple of the Holy Spirit. So the Holy Spirit is God. The Holy Spirit is a person in every sense of the word. And the Holy Spirit indwells every believer at the moment of salvation. Now we come to our text here in Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 18. He references they be not drunk with wine burden's excess, and then he makes, he gives us instruction. He says, and be uh and uh let me get back here just a second. He says, be not drunk in wine where in success, but be filled with the Spirit. Be filled with the Spirit. I believe this filling of the Holy Spirit. Now I believe this personally, with all my heart. I believe this is true. This filling of the Holy Spirit is one of the most important aspects of the Christian life. Christian life, I want to remind you the Christian life is a supernatural life. Being a Christian is not something you and I can work up. It is something God does for us and enables. Are you with me? Everybody with me? I've said this before and I like this thought. The world, this world we live in, this world can can produce billionaires. The world we live in can can produce uh great uh great uh uh um uh American idols This world can produce superstar actors and superstar athletes. But I'll tell you one thing this world can never produce, and that is a genuine Christian. Only God can save a soul. Only God can make a Christian. The Christian life is a supernatural life It's not something I work up. It's not something I just grit my teeth and develop in my life. It's an act of God in my life. When I trust Christ, I'm born into the family of God, the Spirit of God indwells me, and that Holy Spirit is there to enable me. To live for God as I should and be the witness He calls me to be. I believe it's perhaps the most important aspect Of the Christian life. Christian life does not something I work up. I believe with all my heart that this matter of the filling of the Holy Spirit is perhaps one of the most neglected aspects of the Christian life. Now I could never try and guess or give a percentage in any way. I wouldn't know But my guess is probably the majority of Christians give little thought throughout their daily lives. As to the presence of the Holy Spirit in their lives. I would venture to say the vast majority of God's children Give little attention, little awareness of everywhere I go and everything I do, I have within my very being the presence of the Holy Spirit of God I'd venture to say very few God's children live on dependence, a reliance. Upon that Holy Spirit to enable us to be what we ought to be. There's little understanding about the Holy Spirit. In fact, there's a lot of misinformation about there about the Holy Spirit. Satan has been very effective in distorting as to who the Spirit is and what his role is in life. Nowadays, we live in a day where the most bizarre things, the most bizarre behavior, is attributed to the Holy Spirit of God. And I tell you, that's a shame. That's a shame. Perhaps one of the most neglected aspects of the Christian life, little understanding, little awareness Can I say this? Little teaching, little biblical teaching, a little biblical preaching on the person of the Holy Spirit. Over and over, all through the book of Acts, we find God's people filled with the Spirit. In Acts chapter 2 and verse 4, they were filled with the Holy Spirit. In Acts chapter 4 and verse 8, The church was filled with the Holy Spirit. In Acts chapter 9, in Acts chapter 4 and verse 31, when they had prayed, the place was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit. In Acts chapter 9 and verse 17, they were filled with the Holy Spirit. In Acts chapter 13 and verse 4. They were filled with the Holy Spirit, verse 9. And Acts chapter 13 and verse 52, they were filled with the Holy Spirit. The filling of the Holy Spirit, the enabling, the empowerment of the Holy Spirit in the life of a believer was common all through the early church. In fact, it was expected and depended upon and desired. To be filled and empowered by the Holy Spirit of God. Somewhere along the line, we've lost that desire. Somewhere along the line, we've lost that awareness. And that necessity of the Spirit of God enabling us to live and be what God intends for us to be, the filling of the Holy Spirit, is vital to victorious Christian living. I'm suggesting to you this morning that you and I cannot live a victorious Christian life apart from the power of the Holy Spirit. It's vital for victorious Christian living. The filling of the Holy Spirit is vital for an effective Christian service, an effective witness. In Acts chapter 1 and verse 8, the Lord told his disciples, and ye shall receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And ye shall be what? Witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and unto the uttermost parts of the earth Jesus was telling his disciples that the presence and power of the Holy Spirit was vital if they were going to have any kind of influence in their world at all, whether it was local missions or foreign missions. They needed the power of the Holy Spirit of God. It's vital if I'm going to have a victorious Christian life. It's vital if I'm going to have an effective witness. I believe the filling of the Holy Spirit is vital if I'm going to mature in my Christian growth. What is a mature Christian? Well, it's somebody been saved a long time. That is not necessarily a mature Christian. I could introduce you to some Christians been saved a long time, and I would not describe them as mature Christians. Mature Christian, in my understanding, is simply this, somebody that is conformed to the image of Christ. You see Christ in them, the mind of Christ, the characteristics of Christ, the human attributes of Christ, all of that. I see Christ in you, I see Christ in you. That is a mature Christian. Remember, early in the book of Acts, Peter and John were there, and the Pharisees saw them, and the Bible says this: they took note of them that they had been with Jesus. There was something about them that made the Pharisees think about Jesus Christ In fact, the very word Christian was initiated, was introduced as a derogatory term to mock the believers of Christ, and the word Christian means little Jesus is, little Christ. And the world and the religious world and the unbelieving world would mock those early Christians and say, oh, they're just little Christ, they're little Jesuses, they're Christians And those early believers, rather than being offended, rather than taking issue with them being called Christians, they embraced it. And they took that as a tremendous compliment. They see Christ in me. I suggest to you that is a mature Christian, and that can only happen with the presence and power and filling of the Holy Spirit. As he brings these changes around, our mind is transformed. And so the filling of the Holy Spirit is vitally important in Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church That our Sunday school teachers and our bus workers and our trustees and our deacons and our nursery workers and everybody that's a part of the Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, it is vital That we understand and we depend upon the Holy Spirit of God. The Holy Spirit. I remember the first time that I was consciously aware Of being filled with the Spirit of God. Now, I'm convinced there were many, many times before that, where the Holy Spirit had filled me and used me in various ways. But the first time I was consciously aware of it, I was preaching a Bible time. teen rally in Grand Junction, Colorado. And I had just started, I was young in the ministry and scared to death. And it was my uh responsibility to preach that Monday night, and there was a great crowd of teens, just about probably the number of folks here, maybe a little less, uh teenagers there in that great crowd and the church there in Grand Junction, Colorado. We're out in kind of a barn setting, if I remember correctly, and I got up to preach and I was I was terrified. I said, God, I need you. God, I can't do this. I got up and opened my Bible. The message was hell. I got up there and I preached my heart out. And I'm telling you, nobody spoke in tongues. There was none of that. That had nothing to do with none of that. But I'm telling you the presence of God was there in an unusual way. And as I was preaching, and I don't want mean to sound this spooky or some weird thing, but as I was preaching, it was like I wasn't even preaching. It was The words were just coming and there was there was power. And I gave the invitation and the kids flooded. And there were scores saved that night. And afterwards a youth pastor came up and he says, I've never heard anything like this. I never heard anything like this. And I said, Me either. And the only thing I could say was, it was God. It was God. That night, I became aware of the filling of the Holy Spirit, the enablement, the empowerment of the Holy Spirit. Now what is true for a preacher? God says can and should be true for every ch Christian. To have that feeling, that empowerment, and that enablement. Not just for getting up in front of kids preaching on hell, but for living the Christian life, for having that personal witness to our neighbors and our friends and our loved ones and in our community Teaching a Sunday school class, running a bus route, singing in a choir, in the presence and power of the Holy Spirit of God, filling us and controlling us and using us. Filling of the Holy Spirit. In the book of Acts, it wasn't just the preachers, it was all the folks. It was everybody that was part of that New Testament church Now here's my thoughts real quickly. I've got a couple minutes. Number one, I want to clarify what the filling of the Holy Spirit actually is. I want to clarify what the fulfilling of the Holy Spirit is. Look here in Ephesians 5. And let's look at some wording here, as I like to do. I like to do word studies. It says, but be filled with the Spirit. I looked up that word, filled. It has this idea. The general meaning of it is what you think. You have a glass of water, you fill it up. But in the context, with the definition of the word, in the context it's given and how it's used various places throughout scripture It has this idea to be taken over by, to be fully controlled Be filled with the Holy Spirit. Be overtaken by the Holy Spirit. Be controlled by the Spirit of God. In Luke chapter number five and verse twenty-six, and we forsake a time, we won't turn there, but they made this statement, the Bible makes this statement that Jesus had performed a miracle and all the people that saw it, the Bible says they were filled with fear. Now, what do you think it means when it says they were filled with fear? Fear had what? Fear had taken over them. Fear controlled their minds. Fear controlled their attitudes. Fear controlled their actions and behavior. Would you agree with me? Sometimes if we get scared enough. It affects our thinking. It affects our behavior. And the Bible says in Luke that they were filled with fear. When they saw something they didn't understand, they could not explain, and they were overtaken by fear. That's the exact same word. Where he says, be filled with the Holy Spirit. Let the Holy Spirit of God take over, control our attitudes, our actions, and our behavior He says that it's interesting, he contrasts it here, and be not drunk with wine, whereas in excess, but be filled with the whole with the Spirit. He's contrasting those two. He's saying, in a sense, as wine will take over, being drunk with wine, will take over our thinking processes and our behavior and our actions, a lot of times our attitude, it affects us. It has a control over us. He says, Don't let that liquor have that control over you. Instead be filled or controlled or empowered or or uh uh overtaken by the Holy Spirit of God. Before I was saved, I lived the life I am absolutely ashamed of We were singing a little bit there, uh, It Is Well with My Soul. And uh it says there, that third verse says, Um, Oh, my sin, uh not in uh this glorious thought, that my sin not in part. was nailed to his cross, and I bear it no more. I tell you, as we sang, my heart was That Jesus Christ has taken all of my sin and He bore that on the cross and He suffered the judgment for me so I could be forgiven, so I can be clean and pure before a holy God. Before I was saved, before that took place, I lived a life I was shaved of. There was a fellow, and we got in, you know, the story, we just got in stuff. And there was a fella that we name we called him Quirk. He's a friend of sorts. And Quirk was just a quiet guy. I mean in the shadows, introvert in every sense of the word. But I tell you, he started pouring that liquor down his gullet. That liquor took over him. And he became a different person. And he was loud and he was talking. And man, he'd be in your face. And he'd do things that he would never do if he wasn't controlled by the drink. You follow what I'm saying? And Jesus is saying, don't let that happen to you instead. Be filled with the Spirit. Be controlled and powered by the Holy Spirit. By the way, the Holy Spirit of God does not affect us the same way liquor does There's some people that are just, excuse me, they're ignorant. I'm drunk in the spirit, and they act like a person controlled by liquor. The Holy Spirit of God and liquor do not affect people the same way, even remotely. But that's the concept. Be empowered, be controlled, be possessed by that Holy Spirit of God. A Christian filled with the Holy Spirit thinks differently. Their mind and their actions and their attitudes are affected and controlled by the Holy Spirit of God. That's what it means. Second of all, I'd like this to consider the continual filling of the Holy Spirit. Look with me here at verse 18, but be filled with the Holy Spirit Now, if you study that carefully, you get the idea of it's a continuous action. Be being filled over and over and over and over, be filled with the Holy Spirit of God. There is one baptism of the Holy Spirit that takes place at the moment of salvation. The Holy Spirit baptizes me into the uh into the body of Christ, and that's a whole nother study. There is one indwelling of the Holy Spirit. That hope happens the moment I'm saved. The Holy Spirit of God moves in and he stays with me. And by the way, he doesn't leave. I'm telling you, I guarantee you, I guarantee I double dog guarantee you, whatever that means. There are folks, there are going to be folks at altars this morning in churches, saved people asking God to give them something they already have. God, give me the Holy Spirit. If you're saved, you have the Holy Spirit. There's one baptism, there's one indwelling But there are many fillings of the Holy Spirit. It happens on a daily basis, it should anyway, on an ongoing basis, over and over and over again. The Holy Spirit taking control and controlling. If you would come back very quickly with me. Is everybody doing okay? Everybody good? All right. Galatians chapter 5. I believe this is so vitally important. Galatians 5. And uh look with me, if you would, verse 16. If you're in Ephesians, just go backwards of one book, and you get to Galatians. Look with me if we would. Look with me if you would at verse 16. This I say then. He's talking about Christian living here and our interaction with others. It's the context. This I say then, walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. I think what he's saying here is very similar. to what Paul is talking about in Ephesians, be filled with the Holy Spirit. To walk in the Spirit means to just continually uh uh one after another is have the Holy Spirit fill me. Have the Holy Spirit fill me. Have the Holy Spirit. Just like walking, you take a step, you take a step, you tak Take a step, a new day comes along, I need the filling of the Holy Spirit I go throughout the day and things happen. I need the filling of the Holy Spirit. It's a continual on again, on again, on again. uh uh experience, uh a truth. Uh many fillings, but a continual filling. We're instructed to be continually filled with the Holy Spirit. How many people believe The preacher ought to be filled with the Spirit Sunday morning when he's preaching. How many people believe that? Amen. I'm the first one to raise my hand How many people believe the church folk are to be filled with the Holy Spirit Monday morning at 8 o'clock at work Uh yeah. Just as much as the preacher is to be Sunday morning at eleven o'clock. You with me? It's a continual thing, Tuesday afternoon. Hey, how about this one? Saturday night at 9 o'clock Filled with the Holy Spirit of God. Do you agree with me? I believe our country would be in a completely different condition if God's people were filled with the Holy Spirit of God on a continual basis. Brother. The continual filling of the Holy Spirit. Thirdly, let me give you this real quickly. The conditions for being filled with the Holy Spirit. What do I have to do? What has to happen? What has to be in place for the Holy Spirit of God to control me, empower me like this? Well, number one, you need to be saved. I'm here to tell you: if you're here this morning or you're under the sound of my voice and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, you do not have the Holy Spirit of God. Unhappen. You're without God and without hoping that you can be religious. You can sing Christian hymns. You can uh uh you can give out gospel tracts But until you trust Jesus Christ as Savior, you do not have the Holy Spirit of God. If anybody's ever going to be filled with the Holy Spirit, they need to first be saved by Jesus Christ. The moment we're saved, the Holy Spirit of God indwells us. Now I have the Holy Spirit. May 7, 1979, 10:30 at night, boom, Spirit of God moved in. I put this down. There needs to be a desire, a genuine desire to be filled with the Holy Spirit. In speaking about the Holy Spirit's presence and power, Jesus said in John 7:37, if any man thirsts, He's saying you've got to want it. Hey, if you don't care about the Holy Spirit, he's not going to imperil you. You don't care, ah, I'm fine just the way things are. All right, fine. But I'm telling you, you get a Christian, a young Christian, a middle-aged Older Christian, you get somebody that says, you know, I want that power. I want victory in my Christian life. I want to be that witness. I want God to use me. Whether it's a mechanic or a secretary or a businessman or a preacher, I want God to use me. And get that hunger and that desire. God says then you're on the road being filled with the Holy Spirit. Back in um the Gulf War, what was that, ninety one? We went in anyway. Was anybody alive back then? Uh Andy, were you over there? They said if you'll remember, I think just happened so quick, but if you remember we were first going across that desert and and our our troops were uh our our army was uh military was overrunning these positions of the Iraqis And do you remember seeing on the news how they would come up out of those sand ditches and holes and they'd come up surrendering? And I remember I saw one news clip, they come up surrendering, and they fell on their faces before our troops, begging for water. Begging. I think, I think when you and I get to the point, we say, God, I want your will in my life. I want you to use me. I want you to empower me more than I want anything this world has to offer. I want it And then we're on the road to being filled with the Holy Spirit. I say again: if a Christian doesn't care about it, they're not going to get it. There has to be desire. I put this down: number three, there must be submission. It's not me getting, oh, I want to have more of the Holy Ghost. You're never going to get more of the Holy Ghost. You get all the Holy Ghost you're ever going to get It's not me getting more of the Holy Spirit, it's the Holy Spirit getting more of what? Me Lord, I surrender all this over. Lord, I'll give you this area of my life, and Lord, I give you this area of my life, and Lord, I'll submit this area of my life. But These over here, these are mine. And I ain't giving these up. I tell you, in that type of attitude, we're not going to have the filling and power of the Holy Spirit. Must be Lord, here it is. All to Jesus I surrender. All to him I freely give. If I'm going to be filled with the Holy Spirit, die to self. I tell you that great prayer in the Garden of Gethsemane by our Lord Jesus Christ, not my will, but thy will be done. That is the beginning of being filled with the Holy Spirit. Then I put down a sincere request. Luke 11, 13, he says, ask. of the Father. Ask of the Father. James 4, 2 says, ye have not, because ye ask not. He said, preacher, I want the filling of the Holy Spirit. Why don't you ask God for it? Why don't you hit an old altar, establish a family altar, get alone with God, maybe slip out into the woods of a Sunday afternoon, or maybe early of a weekday morning? And get alone with God and say, God, I want this filling of the Holy Spirit that you talk about in your word. God, I'm asking you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. How many people ever heard your pastor before he preached say, Lord, please, I'm desperate. Fill me with your Holy Spirit. Ever asked that? Yeah, that's what all of us should do. Hop in that truck and fire that thing up. Alright, Lord, fill me with your spirit today. Empower me. I'm asking you. Enable me to serve you. Sit down at that desk, fire that computer up. Lord, fill me with your Holy Spirit. You ladies, stay at home, get up and get about today's business, Lord, fill me with your Holy Spirit. I'm asking you The filling of the Holy Spirit must be salvation. There must be desire, submission, request, and then there must be faith. Just trust God to do it. Saying, well, I'm waiting for this feeling. Lord, fill me with your Holy Spirit. All right, where's the feeling? It's not feeling, it's faith. Meet the conditions, submit and confess sin. If I have sin in my heart, I'm going to grieve and quench the Spirit of God. I submit all that to the Lord. And then I say, Lord, I'm asking you to fill me. And then I go up and do my thing for God. And I trust Him that He'll enable me and fill me and work through me. It's possible to grieve the Holy Spirit. It's possible to quench the indwelling Holy Spirit by sin and unbelief and rebellion. I've got to submit all that and trust God and His forgiveness. And then last of all, I give you this: the consequences of being filled with the Holy Spirit. The consequences. There are many. I came up a list of 18. How many people are glad I'm not giving all 18 this morning? Let me give you three and I'll end. There's many. Here's three. Number one, a heartfelt love for the Lord Jesus Christ. The Holy Spirit exalts Jesus. Jesus said, the Spirit has come to testify of me. The whole ministry of the Holy Spirit is to testify to Christ, point to Christ. And when the Holy Spirit of God fills us, he points our minds to Christ. He directs our attention, our focus, our affection on the Lord Jesus Christ. The Holy Spirit teaches of Christ. I got thinking about this. I shared this with my wife. The Holy Spirit loves Jesus Christ. Do you ever think about that? Let me ask you a question. Does God the Father love Jesus Christ? Yes, absolutely. In fact, Jesus referenced that numerous times in the Gospels: that the Father loved him and has sent him into the world. God the Father loves Jesus dearly. I want to suggest to you, God the Holy Spirit loves Jesus dearly. And when I am filled and the Holy Spirit is controlling me, the love of God is shed abroad in my heart for others, but also for the Lord Jesus Christ. And I think a characteristic, a fruit, a consequence of being filled with the Holy Spirit is I start falling in love with Jesus. You know what I learned about old Dennis Leatherman, the old flesh? My flesh, my flesh does not love Jesus. But that new man, that spirit, that person that the Holy Spirit produces in my life, that new man, oh, I love Jesus Christ. I love them. And that is a fruit of being filled with the Holy Spirit. When a person is filled with the Holy Spirit, they're going to be in love with Jesus. They're going to talk about Jesus. They're going to praise Jesus. They're going to exalt Jesus. In fact, if you come back to chapter 5 here of Ephesians, did you notice the very next verse? But be filled with the Spirit, speaking to yourself In psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord Jesus. Lord, giving thanks always. The Spirit of God puts a heartfelt love for Jesus Christ in our hearts. Second of all, the consequence of being filled, there's an intense hunger for the Word of God Psalm 119, 24 says, Thy testimonies are my delight and my counselors. I tell you, you get a person, you get a Christian filled with the Holy Spirit, and this book becomes awfully precious to them. The Holy Spirit is the author of the Word of God. And as the author fills and empowers me, I fall in love with the Word of God. becomes the most precious thing. I like what Job said. The words of thy mouth. I've esteemed the words of my mouth more than my necessary food. He says, if I have an option of either eating food or spending time in the Word of God, I'm sticking with the Word of God. That's the Holy Spirit puts that in our hearts. And then last of all, there's a burning passion for souls. A burning passion for souls. But persons filled with the Holy Spirit, they want to win souls to Christ. You mark it down. Acts 1. 8, but ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses. Not you should be, you shall be. It's going to happen I love Acts 4. 31. It says, and uh they and when they had prayed, the church was praying together as a congregation, they were praying. for God's boldness. They were praying God would give them boldness. And it says, and when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together, and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, Holy Spirit, and they spake the word of God with boldness. And the filling of the Holy Spirit embolden them to preach the gospel to those around. The Holy Spirit of God, the filling of the Holy Spirit. Let me ask you a question. What does the Holy Spirit mean to you personally? Anything Are you aware on a daily basis as you go through your life, do you even think about the presence of the Holy Spirit in your life? Do you depend upon him? Are you yielded to God? His words the Spirit can empower us There was a critic of D. L. Moody. Anybody remember recognize the name D. L. Moody? You familiar with that? Great evangelist of a hundred years ago. One of the most powerful evangelists ever come out of America. Millions sayed, preached around the world. One day they were having uh some religious leaders were having a meeting and they were debating on who to bring in to preach that meeting and one of the fellows said, We ought to get D. L. Moody in here and preach this big citywide meeting. And one of the others was very critical of D. L. Moody, disliked him, and started criticizing him, and he made this statement. Oh, what do you think? that uh D. L. Moody has a has a corner. Uh let me let me say it the way he said it. He says, uh, do you think D. L. Moody has a monopoly on the Holy Ghost? Another humble fellow stood up and said, No, EL Moody doesn't have a monopoly on the Holy Ghost. The Holy Ghost has a monopoly on Moody. We don't have any more of the Holy Spirit than anybody else. But we come to a point in our Christian life where it's no longer I that liveth, but Christ. It's the Holy Spirit of God filling me, empowering me, having me. And then God begins to use us. God gives victory. God brings about these changes Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us as believers to develop a personal relationship with your Holy Spirit. Pray you'd help us to live our lives dependent and aware of your presence in our lives and dependent upon your filling. I pray that desire and that hunger Would be true in each of our lives. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many folks this morning say, Preacher, I'm saved? I know I am There's no doubt about it. I've been born again. I have Bible basis for that. Any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher, I'm saved. I know I am. All right, God bless you. How many this morning would say, preacher, I'm saved? I understand that the Holy Spirit indwells me. But you'd say I have to be honest, just like Walter Wilson. I really don't think a whole lot about him. Really don't pay a whole lot of attention. And by God's grace, I need to become more dependent and more aware. And be filled with the Spirit. Is there anything like that, preacher? I really don't give him the attention, the thought that I really should. God bless you. Hands all around. It's probably true of most of us. I wonder how many would say I want that. I don't want I'm tired of living an empty, defeated Christian life. I want something That God wants me to have. I want that life, that abundant life, that victorious life, that effective witnessing life that only the Holy Spirit can give me. Is there any like that? The uplifted hand. God bless you. Hands all around Why don't we just initiate, start this with the first very first step? Why don't we come to an old altar and just ask God? God, fill me with your spirit. Do what you need to in my life to make that possible God, I want it. I want it. If you're here this morning, you've never trusted Christ as Savior. I cannot impress upon you how important it is you get that settled. Please do not leave here. Without knowing for sure that Jesus Christ has saved you and given you eternal life. Is there any say, preacher, pray for me? I'm not sure I'm saved. I gotta get that settled. Any at all? Any at all, preacher? I've got to get that settled. Father in heaven, bless now our invitation. Help us, Lord, to respond to what you spoke to our hearts about in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.