Chapter 3, I want us to look at verse number 7 this evening, and I'm going to take a praise out of verse 7 for our title Peter, of course, is writing the churches. They've been persecuted. He's writing the believers. It's not one particular church. If you go back, remember we pointed out. He doesn't name a church like Paul writes to the church of at Corinth or the church at Ephesus. It's not the case in Peter, either one of his epistles. He's writing at large, a letter large, and it's shared among churches and among believers. And of course he's addressing these false prophets that we've been looking at. And uh he brings up this subject here in verse number 7. He says, But the heavens and the earth, which are now By the same word are kept in store, reserved unto fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men The heaven and earth, which are now, which we're living in now, we'll talk about that, by the same word are kept in store, reserved unto fire against the day of judgment. And I want us to talk a little bit tonight about the day of judgment. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, we come to you. We're grateful, Lord, this first Sunday of the year. It's your blessing to be in your house with your people. I thoroughly enjoy being with our church folk and our people. And God, you've blessed us. And now as we look forward to this coming year, Father, we don't know what it holds. Lord, maybe this would be the year of your return. You come back. And Lord, we would love nothing more than that. I pray until then that you would help us walk with you, help us live for you. I pray we'd be strong in our faith and effective in our witness. And please bless now this message. I yield my mind and will and heart to you. And ask, Lord, that you would please guide my thinking and the words I say in the message. Guide what I say. And then, Lord, I present my body anew to you in this hour that you would fill me. I ask, Lord, with your Holy Spirit, and please speak through me and challenge us and help us and stir us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you would look back at chapter 1 with me, and verse number 16, 2 Peter, just a page back there, he introduces the subject of the second coming of Jesus Christ. Look at verse 16. He says, For we have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. but were eyewitnesses of his majesty. Now I'm wondering if he doesn't have in mind here in this verse early on in the letter These folks who were scoffing at the idea that Jesus would come back again. Did you notice? He says these aren't cunningly devised fables. We saw the Lord glorified is what he's referring to there when he and John were on the Mount of Transfiguration. He said, We saw the glory of God when he was transfigured, and what we're telling you is not a fable, it's not a story, it's not something we made up. And so he introduces the idea of the second coming of Jesus Christ, reassuring them that this is indeed a fact. The Lord's coming back again. Then in chapter 2, and we spent a good bit of time on this. But he gives three examples of the judgment of God. He goes back into the Old Testament and he pulls out three folks that experienced or three circumstances where the judgment of God was uh uh displayed. If you would look at verse number four of chapter two. He says, For the God spared not the angels that sinned But cast them down to hell and delivered them in chains of darkness to be reserved unto judgment. Angels, fallen angels, are going to be judged He says that very clearly. And then in verse number five, he mentions the old world and spared not the old world, but saved Noah. uh the eighth person of j uh preacher of righteousness bringing in the flood upon the world with the ungodly he judged the ungodly before uh the flood by sending the flood And so Peter's bringing out one, he says in chapter one, Jesus is coming back again, and that's not a story, that's the truth. We saw with our own eyes what he's capable of. Chapter 2, he says, God judged the angels Some of them at least are cast into hell, reserved there until the day of judgment. Then he mentions the world before the flood, how they were judged. Then if you would, look at verse number six He mentions turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes. And he elaborates on that and he talks about Lot a little bit there. So chapter 2, he brings up the subject of the judgment of God. And now in chapter number 3, he's elaborating on that The Lord's coming back. There were some people in the church scoffing at the idea that Jesus Christ is coming back again. They were ridiculing that, mocking that. Saying that's ridiculous. And he says, listen, it's not ridiculous. And he uh goes back and he goes back into history. He does it again here in chapter three. He looks back into history To prove and establish the fact that what God says He's going to do, He actually is going to do. Now let me say this here. It is important to understand history Alright, I know there's people who say, oh, I can't stand history. I tell you, I like what Winston Churchill said. He said, those who do not learn from history are doomed to repeat it And we see that same thing over and over and over and over again. I think it is vitally important for you and I to understand history. In our text here, we have ungodly men. That, remember we said last week they're stupid on purpose. They failed to look back and see what God had done in years gone by They were ignorant of what God had done in years gone by, and because they were ignorant of the past, the history that God had of what God had already done, because they were ignorant of that, they scoffed at the idea uh he would ever come and judge the earth. And the basis of their rejection of the second coming was their ignorance of the history of what God had done. History is important. The first twelve, the first seventeen books of the Old Testament are historical books. You say, I don't like to read history. Well, uh you're gonna not like reading your Bible then, because the whole of a third of the Old Testament is history Looking back, what God did and how God interacted with people and what people did that they should have done and things they did that they should not have done. And what the consequences were. I don't know about you. I'd like to learn the consequences of something by seeing how it affected somebody else rather than me personally Right? I if I want to learn about the consequences of putting your hand on a hot stove, I'd rather watch somebody else do it than learn it by first hand. Amen. And I'm not wishing anybody would put their hand on a stove. Well, maybe one or two No, I'm kidding. Seventeen books of the Old Testament. First seventeen books of the Old Testament are historical books The first five books of the New Testament are historical books. You know, the Gospels are the history of Jesus Christ, particularly his last three and a half years. They're historical books. Giving an account of what Jesus did and where he went, when, and how he interacted with people, the miracles he taught and the sermons he preached and and uh uh the deeds he done his crucifixion. The gospel is a historical event Died for our sins, was buried, rose again. So it's important for us to understand history. These scoffers were ignorant. Ignorant of what God had done and on purpose. I don't want to learn that. I don't want like the I don't I don't want to study Uh and um there used to be a song, I don't know why I thought of this, there was a song back when I was a punk, uh terrible song, but it said the the big main part of the song was we don't need no education We used to walk around, duh, I don't need no education. That's what these guys were. They didn't want to learn from history. They didn't want to look back and see what God had done. And as a result of that, they ridiculed what God said he was going to do. Because they didn't know what he was capable of doing. God wants us to know what he's done in the past. God wants us to know how he's dealt with his people in the past, in positive ways and negative ways. And he wants us to see that and learn from that. Paul said in Corinthians that these Old Testament accounts, these Old Testament historical books were written for our examples. That we can be exhorted by that and helped and strengthened and learned from it. I'm reading through Genesis now and I'm seeing how God answered prayers for Abraham. In my morning devotions, I often go through the attributes of God, and one of the attributes of God is omnipotence, all-powerful. God Almighty, nothing God cannot do. And as I'm praying, I'm thinking about God parting the Red Sea. I'm thinking about God in the Old Testament with Moses and his rod and it turning in the stake. And I think, God, you still have that same power What you did, you still have that same power. And I'm telling you, if God can part the Red Sea, God can help you and I deal with our issues in life. And that historical account, understanding what he did in the past, helps us have faith and have confidence for what he'll do in the future. Now I think it helps us ask big prayers. Pray big prayers. Ask God to do great things. He might not give us everything we ask for, but I'm telling you, I think he can give us a whole lot more than we anticipate he can. And I think he can do for us far greater things than we think. I think our expectations of God are too small sometimes. And we read history. And so Peter goes back into the Old Testament, he goes back to historical events and says, Look, God did this. God's fully capable of doing what he says he's going to do. God's able to intervene and alter the course of history. He's done it in the past. And he references the flood. Anyone here think the flood maybe altered the course of history a little bit? The most catastrophic worldwide event in the history of the world. And God intervened. And I'm telling you, God not only can, he's going to intervene in world's history again. And we understand what he did in the past. We can look forward and say, yes, he can do what he said he's going to do. I have two thoughts here from verse 7 in 2 Peter chapter 3. The first one is, I want us to notice the security of our present world, the security of our present world. Look at verse 7, the first part. He said, but the heavens and the earth which are now, right now. Look what he says about them. By the same word, the word that created this world, by the word of God, that same word The heavens and the earth, which now are the same word of God that created it, are kept in store, reserved. Then he goes on unto fire against the day of judgment. But what he's saying here is the world that we now live in is kept in store. I got looking up that phrase, kept in store like I always do, and it has this idea to keep secure. It's used various times, translated various ways in our Bible. uh the same word, but it's used the idea of finding a treasure and then getting that treasure and putting it up in a secure place It's you you're uh at a uh you're at a an estate sale or you're at a yard sale or you're at um uh what else? uh an auction or a thrift store and you come across do you ever see they'll have sometimes a box just buy this box it's full of junk five dollars get this box anybody ever See that anybody? Some people. And so yeah, it's just junk. My father in law bought one one time at a at a uh an auction or an estate sale or something. There's a box Big box. Five bucks. Uh might have been twenty. Twenty bucks. He goes bought it. Everybody's like, Oh brother, why in the world you waste your money? He got rooting through there. He found if I think I'm correct on this, he found a ring worth ten thousand dollars. He insured it. I I I saw the ring. And um uh what do you think he did with that? I just throw it on the counter there. We'll get No, he didn't do that. He put that thing up secure in a safe deposit box and keep that thing secure. Um That's what this, that's the idea behind this word. The world that now is, by the same word, the word that God created this world with, that same word, has secured This world that we live in has a kept in store, like a treasure. God's keeping it. And then he uses the word reserved there. Reserved Until the fire, the day of fire of the judgment of God. The day of judgment. But the word reserve means hold in place, held together. Colossians tells us that by Jesus Christ, all things consist This world is held together. This world is held in place by the word and the power of Jesus Christ Himself. It's keeping this place secure. Paul or Peter here, as we mentioned before He addresses three stages of history. Everybody still with me? Everybody alright hanging in there? How many people are worrying about the weather storm coming in? Alright, two people. David is, he's gone to uh the weather channel down in South Carolina. He references three stages of world history. Verse 6, the pre-flood. We looked at that. What the world was before the flood. And then the post-flood world, verse 7, he's talking about here, the world that, uh, the heaven and earth, which are now, you and I living in it That's the world after the flood, all the way to the prophetic future in verse 13, when God burns up this world in the heavens and creates a new heaven, a new earth. And so this world that we're in now. He says, is kept in store. It's being kept from destruction. Anybody here ever hear of the doomsday clock? Anybody ever some of the older folks. 1947. I think Albert Einstein was in on this and the fella that uh helped develop the atomic bomb in 19 uh whatever that was, 45, I think um uh Operheimer or something. It's about four three or four of these brilliant people after the bombs were dropped in the devastation of World War II 1947 they developed what they called the doomsday clock. And it was very significant. How many people remember ref well news references to this during the Cold War And and Russia had their nuclear bombs and America had their nuclear bombs. I wonder how many folks when you were little used to hide uh do uh nu uh bomb uh uh t uh what do they call it, tests. Um drills. Uh in the schools. You'd have to get down under the uh under your chairs. Anybody remember doing that? Always wondered if a Adam bomb drops on us, what's that little table gonna do And uh, but nevertheless, and you could buy bomb shelters, remember that? And they building bomb shelters. And the doomsday clock was a clock that uh it wasn't a literal clock, but it would tell us Where we're at on the time leading up to the destruction of the world as we know it. Total extinction of mankind by nuclear warfare. And I know there's at least a period of time, probably still is, where we had enough, I was told one article I read, there was enough nuclear and atomic weapons to blow up the earth seven times And this doomsday clock was uh the last I checked, it was like 90 seconds from the elimination of the world. In other words, we're right on the brink. of extinction and the end of the world as we know it. And then we hear about, anybody ever hear about climate change? I mean the lake the oceans are going to rise and everybody's going to drown, or it's all going to dry up and we're going to or wait a few years then it's going to be so cold you we're all going to freeze to death. Then wait a few years it's going to be so hot we're going to get bliss You know? And oh uh by ten years from now, there'll be no people left on the planet. Anybody hear stuff like that? So you have the doomsday clock telling us we're on the brink of extinction. We have the global climate activists telling us we're on the brink of c of climatic catastrophe and will extinct. And now the new one is uh meteors are flying by and we're gonna get hit by a meteor and the whole world's gonna explode and all of that How many folks are glad you came to church here these just encouraging thoughts for a new year? This is wonderful. I'm here to tell you, God has assured us that this world is not going to be blown up and it's not going to we're not going to go extinct. He is keeping it together. And this time now, this time frame. And uh I'm not saying we uh I'm you know, I mean I don't I don't want to see any nuclear bombs being shot back and forth and I don't want the oceans to dry up and the lakes to dry up. Where would I go fishing? And um, you know, and uh I we don't want that stuff to happen, but I'm here to tell you tonight, we don't have to stay up all night worrying about the world blowing up. Or a meteor hitting us. Or the the the uh the the a the what's that ozone layer uh cooking us like chickens in a stove on a Sunday afternoon. God assures us our world is secure until the final judgment. Look what he says here. The heavens and the earth, which are now, that we're living in right now by the same word that's referring to the word of God that created the world are kept in store and reserved So we have the assurance, the security of the present world. In Genesis chapter 9, verse 11, and he references the flood here. Genesis 9. 11, God promised us there will never be a universal flood. Never going to be another universal flood. Local floods, yes, but not one that covers the whole world Not like he did that time. He does not promise there's not going to be the end of the world. He does not promise that there's not a day coming when God will step in. And deal with this whole world. And actually, we're going to find out, burn it up with fire. First time it was flooded with water. The next time, burned with fire. Now listen, this is not cunningly devised fables This is as sure of happening as the events in the past that already happened. These things are as sure to happen in the future. Peter's emphasizing this. Right now, the world's secure, but there is a day coming. God's going to intervene. The day of judgment and fire. So my second thought is this, and I just have the two: the certainty of coming judgment, the security of our world right now. We're not going to get hit and we're not going to be wiped out by a meteor. We're not going to uh be exploded, the whole world blown to pieces by nuclear bombs. We're not going to have that. It's held together by the word of God. Everything's going to go on. But There's a day coming. Notice what he says. Reserved are kept in store, reserved, look at this, unto fire against the day of judgment. He said, I'm going to keep it. I'm going to hold this thing together. But there's coming a day when it's done. There's coming a day when it's over. There's coming a day where I'm stepping in and there's going to be judgment. The certainty of coming judgment. How many people here believe the Bible tonight? Amen? We believe the Bible strongly. I'm convinced this is the Word of God. You cannot, listen to me, you cannot believe this book and not believe that there's a coming day of judgment. The judgment of God is sure. And this old world can mock God, and this old world can reject him. And this old world can live in perversion and sin, disregard the Word of God, mock the Word of God, all they want And I'm here to tell you tonight, as a preacher of the Word of God, there is a day coming when judgment will take place. And we fool ourselves. Mankind fools himself to think that there is not a God and that he does not care and that he will not intervene. Peter says, there's a day coming. And he elaborates on it now as we'll look in future messages. The old world was destroyed by a flood. People mocked. They scorned, scoffed. Flood. Yeah, right. And it came. And eight people survived by the grace of God. It's a future day coming where God's going to destroy this world with fire. People mock and scoff, say, you're right, sure, oh brother. I'm telling you, just as sure as the flood happened years ago, that coming, destruction by fire is coming. Notice he says, reserved unto fire against the day of judgment and perition of ungodly men. That day of judgment is the final judgment of mankind. It's talking about the judgment of the unsaved. Now, as believers, we face the judgment seat of Christ, not for our sins Not whether we go to heaven or hell, but judged for how we live our life as a believer, that's as sure as anything taught in the Bible But what he's talking about here is the judgment, the end of this world, when the unsaved stand before God and judge. Notice he says the day of judgment and perdition Of ungodly men, that word perition means to perish. Perish in destruction That word perition is the same word that's used in Matthew chapter 7 and verse 13, where Jesus said, narrow is the way, straight is the gate, narrow is the way. And he says, Broad is the way that leadeth unto what? Destruction, same word, comes from the same word as that word perdition. Tell you the way to hell The way to the great white throne, judgment of God, that final day of judgment, I tell you it's an easy road. It's a broad road. You say, Preacher How does somebody go to hell? How does somebody end up at the great white throne judgment? I tell you how you end up there. Just do whatever you want to do. Just don't change let it don't let God save you. Don't let God change anything. You just go right on. It's a broad way. It's easy. Go with the crowd. That's the same word that's used here, perdition of ungodly, the perdition. It means to perish or uh uh perish in destruction. In Romans 9. 22 says the ungodly are fitted for destruction. Same word. And Philippians chapter 3 and verse 19, referencing the ungodly, unsaved, they are, their end is destruction, perdition. The wrath and judgment of God to perish in the lake of fire. The Bible's crystal clear. The unsaved face a certain destruction. Certain destruction. Now, any Christian, any preacher, any Christian that finds any kind of delight in that is demented. God does not enjoy the death of the wicked. God wants people to be saved. Amen or not. God wants folks to come to Christ to have their sins forgiven to avoid this coming day of judgment, to avoid this day of perition and destruction. God doesn't delight in it, but God is a holy God. And man has sinned against God, and his holiness demands the judgment on our sin. Thank God for Jesus Christ. Thank God for somebody who loved me enough, cared enough to tell me how to be saved. A little Sunday school teacher, Thelma Felton when I was little, my daddy through my years. Thank God That you've heard the gospel, because there is a day of judgment coming. The Bible's crystal clear. The unsaved face certain destruction. If you would, I'll end with this. Come with me to Revelation chapter number 20. This is the day that he's referring to. Revelation chapter 20, verse 11 through 15 is the most vivid description. of the day of judgment in all the Bible. Notice what it says, verse 11, Revelation chapter 20. And I saw a great white throne. And him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away. And there was found no place for them. Nobody could hide. Nobody in heaven and earth they could not hide. And I saw the dead, unsaved, dead, small and great, stand before God. And the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. The sea gave up the dead which were in it. Death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them And they were judged every man according to their works. And death and hell were cast in the lake of fire. This is the second death. Look at this. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. The day of judgment. That's what Peter's talking about. That day's coming. That day's coming. You say, preacher, how do I get my name in the book of life? It's very simple. It's a simple concept, but it's not always easy for folks. If I come to the Lord and recognize and acknowledge the fact that I'm a sinner, If I sincerely believe that he died for my sins, was buried, rose again for me personally, took responsibility for my sins, was judged. And I'll put my faith and say, Lord, I'll trust you. I'm depending on you to save me and forgive me. And Christ will take over. The Bible says He'll forgive us. And our name is in the book of life. Isn't that wonderful? It's a day of judgment coming. And by the way, I believe our churches ought to get back to preaching the fact that judgment is coming. We stop preaching that, and this thing place starts going downhill. Awfully quick. Judgment. Jesus Christ is the final judge. And he's either our Savior now, or he'll be our judge then, depending on whether we trusted him or not. If you would, look at verse number eight of chapter 21, Revelation. Says the fearful and unbelieving The abominable, the murderers, whoremongers, sorcerers, and idolaters, this next phrase, and all liars Shall have their part in a lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. When I was youth pastor in Indianapolis at the Thomson Road Baptist Church, Pastor Dr. Tony Sloots was the pastor. And uh he's a good friend. He's retired now. But as one of my first, I would only been there a month or so, and he said, Brother Dennis, I'd like for you to preach on Sunday night. I said, okay. It was a pretty large church. They ran, I don't know, at the time, Sunday night, maybe two, three hundred people on Sunday night, round something around there, if I remember correctly. And I preached on hell. I preached on judgment of God. I'm just a young preacher boy, and I'm telling you, I preached my heart out. And I'm telling you, what I'm preaching tonight, what I preach then, I believe is true with all my heart. And I referenced that verse I just read, Revelation 21:8. Abominable and murderers and whoremongers and adulterers, idolaters, and all liars. Shall have their part in a lake which burneth with fire and brimstone forever. We gave the invitation, there was a pretty good response, people came. There was two little twins, and I've referenced them occasionally over the years. They rode in our Sunday school bus. And both them, I mean this is I was just there a month maybe, both of them out the aisle, zing, and they're up at the altar and they're crying. And one of our ladies took them out and there was a side door at the altar. They went out and over into some counseling rooms. And um we finished the invitation and God blessed and worked and finished up the service and um dismissed and people are standing around talking like they'll do and the counselor came in with these two girls they came over and she said tell brother Dennis what you did And uh I said, what happened, girls? Are you okay? And uh Bobby and Amy, they came up and they said, Brother Dennis, we got saved tonight. And I'm so I said, I'm so glad to hear you got saved. And they said, you said that liars, all liars are going to hell. And we lie, and we lied, and we lie, and we lie, and we don't want to go to hell. And we came tonight and got saved. Isn't that something? God used that little verse, that little statement, to convict them of their sin. And they came to Christ. I tell you, this world needs to know there's judgment coming. There is a place called hell. There is an accountability to God. And the only way to prepare for that is to come to Christ. Amen? I wonder how many of us here tonight were saved, you know, it say amen. How many people are glad about that? Sometimes I study messages like this and I just say, thank you, Lord. For saving my soul. But it can't stop there. We have a mission, church. That God has given to us, and that is to take the message of salvation to everybody we possibly can. And if we're not doing that, we don't have any right to exist. If all we do is get together and sing and talk and laugh and the preacher yells at us for a while, then we go on our way. If that's all we do, we have no right to exist as a church. We can just be a social club. But God's given us a mission to reach as many people as we possibly can with the message of Jesus Christ. And I think our church, as I know, do, I take that very seriously. I believe our church does. And how many people would say, preacher, I could be a little better witness than what I am? I could on my hand, both my hands are raised. Maybe we need to come and ask God tonight. Lord, stir my heart, break my heart for folks that need Christ. Give me boldness. That's what they prayed for in Acts. God, give me boldness. To speak the word of God as I ought to. I believe God will use us if we get serious about warning people of others. If you're here And you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven. I plead with you, get that settled tonight. We can show you from the Bible how to have that settled. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to help us, Lord, to heed what Peter's teaching here. And already presents it very forcefully, very clearly, and I pray that we would see that. And the Holy Spirit of God get a hold of us. I pray you'd use us as a church and us as individuals to be a good witness this week and into the coming year Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, as I already asked, how many would say, preacher, I need to work on this matter of being a witness. I want to be a better witness, Lord. Any like that? Sure, sure. I wonder how many of us that were saved, but you say, Preacher, I got some things in my life that aren't right. It's probably hindering my witness and There's things that are not right there. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will give me the grace to be the Christian He intends for me to be. To be that one. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Sure. It's a constant issue we deal with. Maybe there's some here tonight say, Preacher, I don't know for sure my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. Say, I don't want to go to hell. God doesn't want anybody to go to hell. We don't want anybody to go to hell You'd say, preacher, pray with me, that God will help me get that settled. I can have assurance. Sins forgiven on my way to heaven. Is there any like that at all? Preacher, pray for me. Just slip your hand up. Any at all? Any at all? If you're online You're listening, please contact us. We can't save you, but we can show you from the Bible how to be saved. Father, bless now our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.