Luke chapter number ten. And I'd like for us to read together uh Verse number 20. And then I'm going to read just the first part of verse number 21. So if you join me in reading verse number 20. Ready? Altogether, notwithstanding in this rejoice not, that the spirits are subject unto you But rather rejoice because your names are written in heaven. Now listen to the first part of verse 21. In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit Jesus rejoiced in spirit. I want to speak this morning on the joy of Jesus. The joy of Jesus. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts this morning. Father in heaven. I thank you again for the tremendous privilege to be in the house of God and to be a child of God, part of the body of Christ. Lord, what a tremendous privilege that this world knows little of. So I pray now, as we've gathered together in your name, Lord, we have our Bibles. We're looking to you to speak to our hearts. Lord, some of us need encouragement this morning. Some of us need some direction in our lives from heaven. Some of us need wisdom, all of us really. Lord, some of us need to be convicted, need to be challenged, rebuked, and revived. And so, Lord, only you can do that, and that's why I'm praying now, Father, and asking that you would do that with your word through me I yield my will to you. I present my body again this hour. Pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you would be the preacher and you would speak and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I don't know how familiar you are with the book of Luke, the Gospel of Luke, third Gospel in the New Testament. I just wanted to give a little bit of background about Luke himself and about this book that we're looking at. Nobody questions, nobody seriously questions whether uh Luke, uh the physician, was actually the penman of this book or not. Now I always say this. You know what I'm going to say. Luke was not the author of this book. God is the author of the Word of God. Luke was the penman. God used Luke to record this. He used his personality, his intellect to record this sound. Peter says that The Spirit of God moved upon the uh the biblical pen to write down what God wanted. So uh nobody doubts the question whether uh Luke was the penman of this, the man that God used. His name does not appear in the Gospel of Luke at all. You won't find Luke's name there. There is a companion book of the Bible that was also penned by Luke. Anyone want to take a shot? Anybody know what the uh the companion book of the Bible would be? The book of Acts. Luke's name is mentioned in Acts, and Luke is also the penman of the book of Acts. Luke and Acts are kind of like volume 1 and volume 2. of one writing. They just continue one into the other very smoothly. And so if you notice, come with me, Wood. I want to show you just a couple things real quick, just a little bit about the book here. But if you would uh come to Acts chapter number one. Oh I'm sorry, Luke chapter one. If you turn there real quick with me, just back to the beginning of Luke. And he opens the Gospel of Luke with this statement: For as much as many have taken in hand to set forth an order a declaration of those things that are most surely believed among us. Even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the Word. Now look at this. This is Luke writing, uh under the inspiration of God. It seemed good to me also. He says, A lot of other people have written things. about what the Lord did. He says, That seemed good to me also, having had a having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order Most excellent Theophilus. So he's writing this book, is directed, the immediate recipient is this fellow named Theophilus. That thou mightest know, verse 4, that thou mightest know the certainty of those things wherein thou hast been instructed. Now, if you would, go to Acts chapter 1, real quick. I just want to show you something here. Acts chapter one and verse number one It's the introduction, Luke's introduction, so the book of Acts. And it says, O Theophilus. Here's the same fella. Now that former treatise referencing there is the Gospel of Luke. uh Otheophus, of all that Jesus began both to do and teach until the day which he was taken up. After that he through the Holy Ghost had given a commandment, that's the Great Commission. And he goes down through there. And so my point I'm trying to make is Luke, as the penman of the Gospel of Luke, is also the penman of the book of Acts, and uh the two fit together beautifully. It's volume one, volume two. Now I got curious about this fellow Theophilus. Who in the world is this guy? Refers to him as the most excellent theophilist. As far as we can tell Theophilus was a um uh probably a Roman official, and when he refers to him as most excellent, he probably held a position of authority. He's refer uh Luke is referring to in respectful terms. He's some position of authority. He's a believer of the Lord Jesus Christ And he is a highly respected man, highly respected. His name Theophilus means to be loved of God, or it could mean one who loves God. Now that's an interesting name. How many people would like to be known as someone who loves God? That would be a good testimony. He loves God. Or to be loved of God would be a good testimony. And so the Gospel of Luke and the book of Acts are written by Luke, penned by Luke, to this fellow Theophilus. What do we know about Luke? Well, we understand that he was an educated, some suggest very highly educated medical doctor. He was not a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ during Jesus' earthly ministries, the three and a half years before uh while the Lord served, before he was crucified. and resurrected, ascended, Luke was not saved. He was saved early on in the history of the church. He is, Luke is a product of the churches. This is what I want you to get in this part Luke is a product of the church's obedience to the Great Commission. Think about that The church obeyed God's instructions, Jesus' instructions going to all the world to preach the gospel. Luke gets saved, this medical doctor, highly educated, and by the way, don't anyone ever try and convince you that educated people don't believe in God? Some of the smartest people in the world, most educated people in the world, are strong believers. And so Luke was uh they obeyed Christ's commission, they went into all the world, preached the gospel, they went into their communities, shared the gospel. Luke gets saved. And he grows. He becomes a very effective disciple. He becomes an associate of the Apostle Paul. In fact, in the book of Acts, we find Luke traveling with Paul on a number of his missionary journeys. And so Luke was probably saved in Antioch, which was a key hub of that new early church sending missionaries out. It's probably where he was saved. He was very detailed. Here's something I want to challenge you. When you're reading through your Bible, When you uh begin a new year and you read through your Bible that year, um whenever the Christians read through their Bibles That in the year, one year, you can read through it. You get my little hint? Every day, when you're reading your Bible, every day, and you come to the book of Luke. And also the book of Acts, pay close attention to how detailed Luke is in his record of events. He will give details that the other gospel penmen don't do. You get in the book of Acts and he goes some cases he gives details that um You and I might not pay an attention. For instance, when Paul at the uh towards the end of Acts, when Paul is in this terrible storm, he's being taken to Rome as a prisoner. And Luke records how deep the water was as they were drifting towards shore. I mean, he's very specific, very detailed. You can see, you can pick up a little bit of the mind of this man, Luke. By paying attention to uh the words he uses and the detail he goes into. Uh uh he he's a neat guy. I I look forward to someday uh being able to uh meet Luke Uh he seems to have a very special interest in individuals. He'll kind of zero in on individuals and talk about them a little bit and give uh some insights, observations that some of the other writers don't do. How many people here would be glad if your doctor is concerned for you as an individual Yeah, I think Luke was a good doctor. I think he was compassionate, he cared about his patients, and he had a tremendous commitment. In fact, such a commitment to Christ that God used him To record for you and I two of the inspired books of the Bible. What an amazing man. What an amazing man. Now, what is the theme of the book of Acts? If you want to make your way back to Luke 10 there What's the theme of the book of Acts? And actually it carries over into the book of, or the book of Luke, I should say, carries over into the book of Acts. Uh what's the point? What's his thesis? What's he getting at? What what's he trying to say? I think there's threefold theme or purpose to Luke's the two books that Luke penned. One is, and I believe this is primary, I believe the book of Luke and the book of Acts is somewhat of a discipleship manual. Because he's writing to this individual, Theophilus, and he's writing to him of all the things that Jesus both began to do and to teach. And my impression is that Luke, again, under the inspiration of God, is giving this man Theopolis information to help him grow in his understanding of who Jesus is. In his faith in Jesus Christ, and to help him understand what Jesus expected from him as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. I don't know what you call that, I call that discipleship Teaching and training. I believe the book of Luke, the book of Acts, are discipleship manuals for Christians. We give uh how many folks here have been working on our little ABC personal Bible studies? We've been doing a bunch of folks have Daddy is just about done. She's only got one or two, and she gets a million dollars when she finishes it. It's going to be amazing. And uh Ed said he would provide that. And um But that's kind of the idea, this discipleship lessons is kind of what uh Luke is doing. So one of the themes or the purposes of the book of Luke is to help us grow as disciples. How many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. If that's true, then God wants us to be a disciple, a follower. Someone who is taught of Jesus Christ with the intention of living out what we're taught. That's what a disciple is And there's another theme, I guess you could say, for the book of Acts, and that would be to uh give a history. A history of Jesus Christ's ministry, the three and a half years before his crucifixion, burial, resurrection, and his eventual ascension. And to give a uh a detail, a somewhat detailed account of who ge what Jesus did, his deeds. And then you pick up an acts and to give a tremendous account of that early church. And how they operated and some mistakes they made. And how they carried out the Great Commission. I tell you, every church ought to study the book of Acts. That is our pattern. That is our model. That is what we go by. And listen, I'm not too much concerned about our church being like somebody else's church. I'm concerned that our church follows the church in the book of Acts. And so Peter or um Luke gives this Very, very obviously accurate account of the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ and the early the history of the early church. And then one other theme real quick here on the book of Luke. I believe it's evangelistic in nature. He's wanting other people to be saved. His motive, of course, God moving on his heart, but his motive is to see people come to the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. Christ. And really, any ministry of any church, biblical ministry, its starting point is bringing people to Jesus Christ. That ought to be Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, our number one, number one purpose, or to get the gospel to every single lost person in Garrett County in surrounding areas, into our nation, into our uh this continent, and into the whole world. Getting the gospel out, getting the gospel out. That's the message of the book of Luke and the Book of Acts, uh to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. I was um uh following a little bit and communicating a little bit with one of our Missionaries I'm might mention them here in a little bit, but Brother Josh Florence over in Papua New Guinea. And I tell you, just uh I I appreciate Brother Florence. He's been over there, I don't know what, five, six years now, something like that, doing a phenomenal work. They'll walk 10, 15 hours, get to some little village And he'll just set up in the middle of that village, start preaching in their language the gospel of Jesus Christ and winning people. I'm telling you, that's what the ministry is all about. And so Luke is concerned about uh uh evangelistic, getting people saved, getting the gospel to the unsaved In chapter 10 now, if you make your way back here, what is the uh I thought, well, what's the background of these verses that we're looking at this morning? Well, in the first 12 verses of the book, the Lord is sending out 70 of his disciples. Now these, I don't believe, are the immediate twelve. These are other disciples. You know, Jesus at various points through his earthly ministry had thousands of disciples. We think of there were twelve disciples. Jesus, well, there's a whole lot more than twelve There was 12, but there's a whole lot more. And so he chooses 70 of these people who are committed to follow them, dedicated their lives to them, and he's sending them out on a two by two And he gives them very clear instructions. They're supposed to go out and preach Jesus, tell people about him. And you go down through there, we don't have time this morning, but you go down through there and he gives them very clear instructions what they should do and what they shouldn't do and how their needs are going to be met. He just tells them what all they need to know to do that. And then verse 13 and 15, building up to what the text we have here is, is these disciples come back, and they mention some things that took place. And the Lord gives a very sobering warning to a couple churches there, verse 13, 14, and 15. Or not churches, cities, I should say And he says, woe to you. He said, These disciples, I sent these disciples out, and they came and preached Christ, and you rejected it And he says, you're going to be worse off. You had the knowledge of the truth. You're going to be worse off, some of these Old Testament cities that God judged severely. And boy, you know, I'm tempted to stop there and preach about that, but uh he gives these serious, serious warnings. Let me just uh give this as we go by. Uh if somebody knows the truth and rejects it. They're held to a higher standard of accountability than those that never heard it. And that tells me that folks uh uh that heard the gospel in the United States and in churches heard the gospel over and over and over and over again, had invitation after invitation after invitation, had opportunity after opportunity to be saved and say no and reject it, God says, well, you're in worse shape than those who never heard it. Those that never heard it. And so he gives a very, very sober warning here to these churches. And then we get to verse 17, 18, 19, and 20, which we looked here. And we find he references this word joy. I notice the terms joy and rejoicing are referenced uh four times in just these few short verses. Joy. Look at look there in verse number 17. And the seventy returned again with Joy. Verse 20. Notwithstanding in this, rejoice not that your spirit's a subject, but rather rejoice. Verse 21. In that hour Jesus rejoiced, rejoiced, rejoiced I got looking up that word rejoiced. I don't know if you ever I preach, so words are significant to me. I pay attention. I got a little thing on my phone. Every day I get a word of the day from a dictionary. Sends me a word of the day. I don't remember what today's was, so it's meaningless. But um I think the word was forget was today's word. But words are important. Words mean things. And so this word rejoice, did you ever stop and think about what does the word rejoice mean? Jesus rejoiced in spirit. What does that mean? What did he do? I looked up the word rejoice, and it means this. And it's probably, if you thought about it, this is pretty much what it means It means to be exceedingly joyful. I mean, this isn't the correct way, but maybe we can put it this way. Really, really, really happy. He's exceedingly joyful. Now I don't know how you picture Jesus. I don't know how you imagine him to appear and uh come across other than what we read him, but in your mind How do you picture Jesus? Here it says that he was exceedingly joyful in his spirit. And that caught my attention. We've been studying for the last six weeks, I guess it is now, six or seven weeks, we've been studying what the Bible teaches about joy. I don't know if you got anything out of it, but it made me happy. Studying joy. I've enjoyed studying joy. We found out, if you remember, I know I'm being a little repetitious here, but it's deliberate. We learned our first message from James chapter 1, that we can be joyful even in the midst of trials. That the people of God, the children of God, you and I as believers in Jesus Christ, in fact, not only can we be joyful in the midst of trials, James tells us, we're expected To be joyful in the midst of trial. Count it all joy, James says, when you fall into diverse temptations, trials, difficulties, adversities. Knowing this, that the trying your faith worketh patience counteth all joy, I wonder how often do we obey that instruction of our God? I'm in adversity. Boy, things are tough. This is a trial. This is a temptation and in the sense of a difficulty. Wonder how many of us say nope? I'm not going to let this ruin it. I'm going to count this joy. I'm going to rejoice in the Lord always. I'm going to do it. It's a decision we make. It's an attitude we choose to adopt in the midst of trial. Is it easy? No, it's not easy. The easy thing to do, the easy thing to do when someone's mistreating me is get bitter. Right? That's the easy part. Just let it affect me. It doesn't take any character or strength or spiritual maturity to let difficulties get me down. That just happens. If God says, listen, you're a child of God, you count it joy. Get up out of that, get up out of that pit. So that's challenging to us. And then we noted that joy is a fruit of the Holy Spirit. It's not something I have to work up myself because I can't. The fruit of the Spirit, Galatians chapter 5 tells us, is joy, love, joy, peace, and the list of a number of others. So it's something the Holy Spirit does in me. So I make a decision, And regardless of what my circumstances are, I'm going to count it joy. I'm going to yield myself to the Lord, and the Holy Spirit produces that joy within me. And then we found out, if you remember, we looked at the life of David briefly in Psalm 51, and we noted that joy can be lost. David committed a horrific sin. And he prayed in Psalm 51, verse 12, I think it is: Lord, restore unto me the what? Joy of thy salvation. Oh, there was a day he was happy in the Lord. There was a day he could rejoice, but that sin stole it away. And he said, Lord, I confess my sin. I forsake it. I repent. I yield myself to you. Please give me that joy back. So joy can be taken away. We can lose it, but it can be restored again. Don't ever say, oh, I used to be happy in the Lord. I used to have joy. But never again, I'll never have joy. Don't you say that? God is, as long as God's alive, you and I can have everything He's promised us. So joy can be lost, and so on. And then we found out we talked about the fullness of joy in the presence of the Lord. And the closer I get to God, the more I live in God's presence, the fuller that joy is, the deeper and stronger it becomes in my life. And uh, of course, the ultimate joy in the presence of the Lord will be in heaven. When we live in the presence of God. Did you ever stop trying to anticipate what the joy of heaven? will be like. You ever stop and think about that? Uh some of us uh are getting closer to that day all the time, you know Uh the older I get, the sweeter heaven sounds all the time. You know, I was young and the Lord, back 20 years old, 21, 22, was like, yeah, heaven someday will be great. But I was worried about now. Now it's like Yeah, I think I hear the trumpet. I read uh one lady said uh some uh I forget some actress, she said, uh, at my age joy is just being able to breathe. And so um but uh the joy in the presence of the Lord, uh the fullness of joy. And then last week I'm taking long room on this than I intended to, but last week uh I think it was We looked at the strength of joy. The joy of the Lord is my strength. And how when how when we're close to the Lord and we have God's joy and God's that fullness and that peace and that purpose, that fulfillment that comes with walking with God, the joy, how that makes us strong. Stand against temptation. Be a good witness. It strengthens our witness. And now we want to end with the joy of the Lord Jesus Christ. I don't know about you. I've got to be honest. I never I guess I did, but I never really thought a whole lot about Jesus being joyful. In fact, the Bible says in Isaiah, prophesying of Jesus Christ, says that he was a man of sorrows. And acquainted with grief. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God. You know what brought Jesus' sorrow and his grief upon him? Was him taking our sins upon himself. It was a sorrow and a grief. But Jesus himself is a person, and Jesus is a person. He's God. He's man. He's a personal being. The Bible says Jesus is a man, is a God of joy Of joy. And that's what I want us to look at this morning. Jesus here in this passage is joyful. He's instructing his disciples concerning what they should rejoice in and not rejoice in. And the impression I get in studying this is Jesus wants his disciples to have joy. Jesus wants you and I. To experience this joy of the Lord, which is our strength. In fact, we already mentioned this, but he tells us over and over that we are to rejoice. Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, rejoice. If you would turn with me to the book, uh the Gospel of John, keep your place here in Luke, but come back to John and notice a couple statements I'd like for Jesus makes. John chapter 15 He's coming towards the end of his earthly ministry. He's not far off from the cross. And he makes some statements. John chapter 15, if you would look with me at verse number 11. I have this passage underlined in my Bible. John chapter 15, verse 11. Look what Jesus said. Jesus is speaking here. If you have a red letter edition, it should be in red. It says this, these things have I spoken unto you. His disciples he's talking to. If you look back. These things have I spoken unto you. Look at this. That what? Whose joy? Who's my there? Jesus. That my joy might remain in you. Do you get what he's saying? Think about this. The joy that Jesus experiences, the joy that Jesus possesses, he says, I want that to be in your life. Man, Jesus is perfectly holy. How many people understand that? Perfectly holy. Good and pure, without sin. The Bible says that he has joy, and that perfect holiness, I believe, produces a perfectly fulfilling joy. He says, I want you to have it. I want it to be in you and to remain in you. Look what he says. That my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be what? Full Full means complete. No room for more. Jesus is saying this. I believe this is what he's saying. I believe he's saying to you and I, I want you to have the same level of joy that I have. Now, I can't have that perfect joy with the holiness of Jesus Christ, because I'm not as holy in my living as Jesus is. My standing I am, and my experience I'm not. And so I don't know until we get to heaven whether we're going to have that same degree of joy that Jesus does. But he says, I want my joy to be in you. Let me be a little personal. How many folks say preacher? I'd sure like to have that. Man. Especially in the world we live in today. We can have that. If you would turn over to John chapter 16, look at verse 24. Now he's referencing prayer here, praying in his name. He's given some instructions. He's discipling the disciples, and he's showing them how to pray. The end of verse 23 says, Whatsoever you shall ask the Father in my name, he will give it you. Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name, verse 24. Now look at this. Ask And ye shall receive why? That your what? Joy may be full. One of the reasons God wants us to pray, and He wants to answer our prayer, one reason, so that we can experience this joy. Come over with me, if you would, to chapter 17. Here Jesus is praying. You hear talk about the Lord's Prayer. Chapter 17 of John is really the Lord's Prayer, where the Lord's praying. And verse number 13, listen to what he says to God. This is Jesus, God the Son, praying to God the Father. He says, and now I now come I to thee, and these things I speak in the world. That they, my disciples, he references that earlier, that they, look at this, might have my joy, the joy of Jesus, my joy Fulfilled in themselves. Do you get that? Jesus is praying to God the Father that you and I can have fulfilled in our hearts and souls and minds the joy that Jesus has. Wow. That's an amazing thing. What an amazing way to live. What a life to have the joy of Jesus Christ fulfilled in my experience. Wow, I don't know. I gotta be honest. I think I I think there's a lot of Christians aren't there yet. A lot of Christians aren't there yet. The joy of the Lord Jesus Christ, 57 times some form of the word joy is used throughout the New Testament. Joy, rejoicing. Joy, rejoice. Some form of that word joy. 57 times. God wants his people to have joy. Now, that's not all there is to the Christian life. Don't misunderstand what I'm saying. There's a whole lot other to it. But one very important factor in the mind of God. Is that you and I experience what we've been studying the last six, seven weeks, and that is this joy of the Lord. I thought this was interesting as I was studying this. I was never aware of this until this past week. But in the Hebrew language, according to the Jewish Encyclopedia, in the Hebrew language, There are in the Hebrew uh there are more words in the Heb Old Testament Hebrew language, the Old Testament Hebrew language There are more words for joy and rejoicing than any other language known to man. The Old Testament Hebrew has more words referencing that mean joy or rejoicing than any other language there is. I don't know about you, but that tells me something. And you study the Old Testament worship of God and the Old Testament service of God, and it was always, without exception. Accompanied by great joy and rejoicing. In fact, David, under the leadership of God, direction of God, organized great choirs that would sing and rejoice. As they would offer up sacrifices. One time they go off to battle, I don't have the reference. They would go off to battle, and God instructed the priests to go before the soldiers. Now I'm a pastor, I'm not a priest, we're all priests in the New Testament economy, but if I was uh one of those priests and we're going to war and you want the priest between the enemy and the soldier, uh I'd be nervous What are we supposed to do? Uh sing and praise God and rejoice in front of the soldiers. And they're shooting at you guys, and I'm in the middle. Yeah And you know what? God gave a great victory. God gave a great victory. What I'm trying to say is this: joy is incredibly important in the Christian life. Let me take another step. Joy is absolutely necessary in the Christian life. In fact, I almost preached a sermon on this, and I may someday Is it sin for a Christian not to be joyful? Good question, huh? I know Philippians says, rejoice in the Lord always. Again I say, rejoice. I know James says, count it all joy. They sound like instructions to me. Well, can we say it this way? That sounds like commands to me. You say, well, the promise, preacher, is my situation, my circumstance. There's where the problem lies. And I've said this, made this statement several times in the Message, and I believe it's the root of our problem. We look for joy in the wrong places. I like I've used it many times. I like that classic event, John R. Rice, tremendous evangelist. I just such a profound impact on my father and me. And after he was preaching one time, he was down front, he was older, and people come down, he'd sign their Bible, they'd greet him and stuff, and uh one of his preacher friends came and done a right and said, Hey brother so-and-so, how are things going And the guy says, Well, under the circumstances, not too bad. Donna Rice said, Well, what are you doing under there? So the joy of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me ask you a question. I'm preaching it myself, so don't get mad at me. I'm preaching it myself as much as anybody. Let me ask this question. Are you tired of being miserable? Aren't you tired of it? Being joyless? We can get in the Bible. We can get close to God. We can deal with the sins that we all struggle with them. If any man says he has no sin, he's a liar. We have to deal with that, but we can have victory. And we can, and God expects us To have the joy not that this world produces, but what the Holy Spirit of God bears in my life as I yield myself to him and I trust him and walk with him. The happiest days of my Christian life have been when I was close to God. Happiest days of my life as a Christian, when I was walking close to the Lord. And the most miserable days of my Christian life have been when I was far from the Lord. I believe there's a lot of people here who give witness to what I just said. The joy of the Lord, the joy of the Lord. Our Savior is holy, and he is sinless. And he is exceedingly joyful. Exceedingly joyful. Somebody suggested that an indicator of genuine revival, when real revival comes, one of the indicators Is there's a atmosphere of joy. There's an atmosphere of joy. I believe that's true. I believe that's true. Let's look at a couple thoughts here, real quickly, about the joy of the Lord Jesus Christ. Number one, I put this down. Jesus' joy was an internal joy. Was an internal joy. Look with me if you would there at verse number 21. In that hour, Jesus rejoiced where? In spirit. Luke chapter 10 is where we're at, verse 21. In that hour, Jesus rejoiced in spirit from within his heart and soul. I find it interesting, and I went through here, and I can't find anywhere where it says that Jesus rejoiced in his popularity. Oh, there's thousands, tens of thousands of people following Jesus. Oh, that's what his joy was based on. He just everybody loved them and Oh, they all wanted to be with them and hear them and be a part of it. You know the problem with that is? In John chapter 6, they all left them. They went away. In fact, to the point where Jesus said to Peter and disciples, you guys leaving also? I'm telling you, if we are looking to popularity, or if we are depending on how people treat us a certain way before we're joyful, we ain't never gonna be joyful. In fact, if you will notice carefully, the people that are most popular out in the world that have the most followers on social media or whatever You look at their lives, many, if not most of them, drunk, drugs, adultery, sin. You know what that tells me? They're unhappy. Now here's the tragedy. It's when you have Christians who aren't any more joyful than those wicked, ungodly people out there. Why is that? Do we not have something they don't have? Jesus rejoiced in spirit, not in the popularity, not in that. I think it's interesting. Nowhere in the Bible does it say that Jesus rejoiced in his wealth. Now, nobody's richer than God. He owns a cattle on a thousand hills. How many people ever heard that? I'm going to tell you, he owns the hills. He owns the gold in the hills. He says, it wasn't his wealth. In fact, while he was here on earth, he told uh folks, say, I'll follow you. And he says, Hey, the Son of Man hath nowhere to lie his head. Boxes have holes Uh the uh birds have nests, but the son of man has nowhere to lay his head Oh, if I just made a little more money, if I had another digit on my income, oh if I had a bigger house, more of this, some more of that, better that you wouldn't be any happier with the big house than you are with the little house. Um did I mention my truck doesn't run? This is really cons this has stolen my joy, this pickup truck. And uh man I've been looking at pickup trucks. They are expensive And I'm thinking, I'll never be happy again. But you know the fact of the matter is those preparingness Fact of the matter is, if I got a big fancy truck, I'd be no happier than that old beater. Because joy isn't in possession Joy, genuine, literal, actual, lasting, fulfilling joy isn't in possessions. It's not in popularity. Jesus rejoiced in spirit, the Bible says. It doesn't say he rejoiced in his well-physical well-being. I think Jesus was a healthy man. I think Jesus was a very masculine, strong, healthy man. He walked everywhere. He's a carpenter. Grew up I I don't think he was I don't think he was what these pictures and shows have him some anemic little weak long haired hippie. uh type thing. Uh that wasn't Jesus. I can tell you that right now. But, you know, you pay attention in the Gospels, some of his greatest sermons were preached when he was weak. When he was weary. The greatest soul-winning encounter in John chapter 4 with the woman at the well, Jesus was hungered. Some of his great sermons and miracles, when he fed the 5,000, he pulled himself aside to rest for a while because they were weary, and the crowd showed up. Some of the greatest, Jesus' greatest works, humanly speaking, miracles were when he was tired and wore out, weary, hungry. Listen, uh, and I listen, uh please don't misunderstand. I'm not trying to minimize physical pain and difficulty, but what I am saying is this, I believe God is able to give us joy even when this old body is failing us. Even when this whole body is failing. I've had some dear, precious saints of God, elderly, sick, and just as happy in Jesus as you can get. My grandfather, Sam Leatherman, when he was dying of bone cancer, very painful. And uh my dad was with my dad told me he said we were in the hospital and he said He said they called him Pop. He said Pop was so much pain. And Dad said something, Pop, we're praying for you. We're sorry you hurt so bad. Listen to what he said He said, a lot of men far greater than I have suffered more than I'm suffering. I'm okay. What that is, that's the presence of God The peace of God, even in the midst of pain and suffering, of others worse than I have suffered, I'm okay. So Jesus rejoiced in spirit, not in popularity, not in his wealth and possessions, not in his physical well-being, all that, and and all, you know, that I'm not suggesting, I'm not trying to minimize that But I am saying joy can exceed that. Jesus' joy was based upon things that cannot change. Look what he says here. In that hour, Jesus rejoiced in spirit and said, I thank thee, O Father. Boy, that struck my heart. God as our Father. I don't know with my dad being gone now. If it affects me more, maybe I'm a little more sensitive in this area. But the thought that God Almighty is my Father And all that that entails, the compassion that he has for his children, the concern and the care That he should. How many fathers here, you tried your best to take care of your kids? Our hands raised. Sure we do. You don't think God does the same? You don't think God takes care of us? All that comes with the fact that God is my father. You say, oh, preacher, this is wrong, and that's not right, and I don't have this, and I wish I had that. No Wait a minute. If you know Jesus Christ as Savior, you God Almighty is your Father. He rejoiced in things that do not change. God was his father. Notice what he told the disciples in verse 20. Don't rejoice in the spirits being subject to you. They saw some amazing things. They got out there and man, the evil devils and evil spirits were subject to them and and they come back and you wouldn't believe it what we saw. And Jesus says, Oh, don't base your joy on the results of your ministry. Now you that's fine and praise the Lord for it. But don't base your joy on that. You know why? Because you might not always have those results. But you rejoice in the fact that your name is written in heaven. That'll never change. That'll never change. And worse comes to worse. I was talking about John R. Rice. One day he had preached against liquor or something, some guy got mad at him. Uh and afterward he's walking to his motel, some city somewhere, and the guy in a dark night, the guy stepped out of the dark alleyway right in front of John R. Rice And he pulled a pistol out, stuck it in John R. Ice's belly, and said, I'm gonna blow your brains out Stuck it in his belly, gonna brow his brains out. He goes, That guy wasn't very smart. And um so you know what John Arce said to him? He said, You can't scare me with heaven Heaven's our home. Worst comes the worst. Here we go to heaven. Rejoicing in things that do not change. Ministry, success. Oh, the disciples were so happy. The spirits were subject. People got saved. You know, sometimes The results of our ministry change. Bobby Robertson down at Gospel A Baptist Church one time said this. That was a great church. They ran two, three thousand. He said this, I've seen gospel light go up, I've seen gospel light go down. He said, we just have to stay focused on Christ and press forward. And I think that's what the Lord's saying. He says, don't put your joy on whether there's big numbers or low numbers. Don't put your joy whether there's uh you know you baptized 500 or you baptize you didn't baptize uh last week You know, don't base it on the results of your ministry. You base it on your standing with God, your joy. Sometimes it goes up and sometimes it goes down. I had a preacher out in Illinois tell me back early in my after I was here for a little while. And um he says uh he said, Don't get excited when your whole church loves you. Next week they'll all hate you He says, one week you'll be the hero, the next week you'll be the goat. And I said, My church will never be that way to me. And um they haven't at all. Everybody's loved me all these years wonderfully Rejoice in God is our Father. Our names are in heaven. I like this one. Look at the last part of verse 21. He says, I thank thee, O Father, Jesus speaking, Lord of heaven and earth. Look at this. That thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent and revealed them unto bathes. He's talking about his disciples. He called them bathes, not wise and prudent. Uh Lord, I'm glad you're using uh not wise, prudent people, but these babies right here, these little guys. And uh even so, Father, for it seems good in thy sight. I'll tell you one thing we can rejoice in. God uses ordinary people. How many folks here, be honest, how many folks here you view yourself just an ordinary person? It's the way I look at myself. I look in the mirror, just an ordinary guy. Pretty good looking, but ordinary guy I'm glad God uses ordinary people. Abraham Lincoln said, God must love ordinary people because he made a sure made a lot of them. Listen, you don't have to be the most educated person in the world. You don't have to be the most gifted person in the world. You can just be a babe, quote unquote. If you'll trust God, do what he says, God will use you. I don't use God use me. The privilege mentioned led a couple boys of the Lord back to my office a week or so ago. And afterward I walked out. Man God used me to help those guys trust Christ. God did, it wasn't me. Isn't that an amazing thing? We can rejoice in that. God just uses ordinary people. So Jesus rejoiced in spirit. It was internal. Let me quickly, Jesus' joy was inevitable joy. It was internal joy and it was inevitable joy. What I mean by that, Jesus was fully yielded to God the Father. Jesus was fully submitted to God the Father. And as strange as it may seem to some people, when we submit to God, the inevitable consequence of that will be joy. Jesus said, not my will, but thy will be done. The Bible said, Jesus says, I do always those things that please my Father. I tell you we're joy in the Christian life, real, lasting, deep Seated joy is found. Not in rebellion against God, not in saying, no, God, my way. That's not where joy is found. Joy is found, Lord, not my will, your will be done I'm not going to lean on my own understanding. I'm going to all my ways acknowledge you. I'm going to trust you with all my heart. And that inevitably the joy of the Lord follows that. The joy of the Lord follows that. What does, let me ask you this. What does God want you to do? What is it that God's doing, speaking in your heart, directing you from his word? Trust them, submit, let them have it. Doesn't mean everything will be easy, doesn't mean your heart's not going to be broke, doesn't mean it's not going to cost you something, but it does mean this, inevitably, submission to God's will, his word, and his will Produces joy in the heart and soul. I can't explain it, I can't cause it, but it is a biblical cause and effect So it was inevitable that Jesus would have joy because he was fully yielded to Christ. In Acts chapter 5, again I wish we had more time. In Acts chapter 5. Verse 41 and 42, read it sometimes. The disciples were submitted to Christ. They're carrying out the Great Commission, just like Jesus told them to. And man, they got beat up for it, and they were whipped and scourged. Brutal, violent, bloody. And the Bible says they rejoiced in that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for Jesus Christ. You know what your average American Christian would do if somebody got us and beat us up because of our faith in Christ? We call COA. I'm suing the pants off of you, buddy, for doing it. But they rejoiced because the inevitable result of submission, faith in God, and submission to his will, the inevitable result is joy. It's joy. It's hard to explain. But that that's the way it is. Uh I thought about the Florence as I mentioned over in Papua New Guinea. I mean they left the luxuries America. They have pictures. They were yesterday they were up in some village preaching. And just the living conditions. They got what four, five, six, thirteen kids? I don't know. They got a whole slew of them. I don't I don't know what it is with missionaries. They all got a good so many kids. And they're just happy as I'm telling you, they are as happy as can be. You can't you can't talk to them and read their reports and see what they're doing and not see the joy of the Lord all over them. I don't have fancy nothing. Living in a third world country. Submission The will of God, according to the word of God, inevitably brings joy in the heart and soul. I remember when God called me to preach. I argued with God, God, I can't be a pastor. There is no way I would bust around. I want to teach first graders. They're the only ones that understand me. And uh and uh boy God convicted me from August to October of 1985. God convicted me, God convicted me. And finally I said, all right, already I said, all right, Lord, whatever you want me to do, I'll do it. I'll tell you, this past 27 years at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church has been the absolute joy of my life Joy of the Lord in submitting to him and surrendering and letting him have his way. I remember when the day I got baptized, I was terrified. There's 600 seat auditors. 600 people in the auditorium. I'm seated more than that. 600 folks averaged. And I'm up here in front of this big crowd. I'm saved like a month or so. You know, it's just a mess And uh God saved me. It's changing my life. I got up there and uh and uh the preacher said, All right, I want you to tell everybody your testimony. I said, I gotta talk. So I'm in the water. Uh I was lost and God saved me. Yay, yay, man. And uh I mean I was terrified. They took my glasses off so I couldn't see beyond my arm, so I didn't know anybody was there or not But I tell you, I come up out of that water. I was so glad. The joy of the Lord in submitting to him Just trusting him, doing what he says. And people here could stand and give testimonies, same thing all around. Like uh Tom Wallace said one time he baptized a guy, he was so happy he came up out of the water and said, Hot dog! Jesus' joy was inevitable joy, and then last of all, Jesus' joy was influential joy. Turn with me, I want to end with this. Come over to Mark. Chapter 14. This is just the most amazing thing. And I have a message I preach on this text sometimes. And verse 26, Mark chapter 14, look with me at verse 26. This is the night that Jesus goes up to the Garden of Gethsemane, just introduced the Lord's Supper. He's going to be betrayed by Judas. Soldiers are going to take him, beat him, pull his beard from his face. He's going to go before Pilate and Herod. They're going to falsely accuse him. He's going to be scourged. He's going to be so bloody when they're done scourging him. Few people ever live through that. Then he's going to be nailed naked to a cross till he dies. It's all about to happen. He knows this. He knows exactly what he's going into. And look at verse 26. And when they had what? Sung a hymn. They went out to the Mount of Olives. That's where everything goes down. I got thinking If there was ever a time for Jesus to be sullen, to be somber, sad, gloomy And alive, that would be the time. Not only is about to experience every disciple forsake him alone. But he's singing. Jesus is singing. And you know what is interesting? Look at the verse there again. And notice it says, and when what? They. He wasn't the only one. Who else would have been there singing with him? Disciples, all except Judas. He's he's going off to betray 'em. So he's got eleven of his disciples there. This is the way I picture it. They come out of there. Jesus knows what he's about to go through. He's going to sweat great drops of blood, plead with God not not to go through this, not have to drink this cup. He's going up there and Jesus starts singing. We don't know what song it was. Bible scholars suggest Psalm 118, this is the day that the Lord hath made. We will rejoice. And be glad in it. Maybe that's what he was singing. But here's the thing. When those disciples, they had no idea what was about to happen, but when they heard Jesus singing, They started singing. You know why? Because joy influences other people. And when they saw Jesus had joy and he was singing, they start singing. And you know what happens? When you and I get right with God, and we submit to Him and we walk with Him in sincerity and faith, and the joy of the Lord gets all over us. It affects people around us. It influences the home. It influences our children. It influences our church. You know what makes a church a joyful church? Joyful Christians in the church. It's not our hymn books. That bring the joy of the Lord here. It's not our screens and our fantastic graphics that whoever puts them together does a phenomenal job It's it's me. But um that's not where our joy is Joy comes a cho a church that has joy is made up of individual believers that have the joy of the Lord And it influences others. I gotta end. Um missionary was in China years ago, many, many years ago, and there was a Chinese man that was arrogant Hateful, hated God, hated Christianity, hated these Christians that were coming to his country with this Jesus They said he was one of the most arrogant, bigoted, hateful people they ever met, missionary said. He refused to come to their services when they were out in the streets preaching. He would leave, he refused to listen. One night the missionaries were in their home. They were having their family devotions. They read, they were singing, they were kind of laughing and just carrying on. There was a knock at the door. Here it was this hateful Chinese man. Oh, what's up? He says, can I speak to you a bit? He says, yes. He said, missionary I didn't care about your Jesus. I didn't care about your message or your Christianity. But your family has something I don't have. Your family has joy. And I hear it in your children, in your home. He began to weep. And he says, if that's what you're Jesus. Brings to your heart and life. I want that, Jesus. I want that Jesus. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to die to self. Help us, Lord, to give you all we are and have. Let you have all of us. We pray you'd fill us with your Holy Spirit Now we can have this joy of the Lord and have an impact in this world. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Honey would say, preachers, there's areas in my Christian life that desperately need attention. There's areas in my Christian life, maybe through neglect or whatever, and they're not what they ought to be. And I need to get them right. I need to get where this joy that the Bible speaks about is true in my life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? There's areas. Maybe your personal walk with God, maybe an attitude, some sin. It's been covered and defended and justified, and maybe this morning finally say, No more, no more. I want to be right with God. I want to be thoroughly yielded to the Lord. Whatever it takes. For my sake, my family, my community's sake. There's some here this morning say, preacher, I have somebody I'm trying to win to Christ. I'm burdened for them to be saved. You'd say, preacher, pray for me that God will enable me to have such a disposition that they would listen to what I say They would listen to the gospel. Anybody like that, do you understand what I'm trying to say? That the presence of God would be evident and it would have an impact. God bless you There's someone here this morning said, preacher, I'm not saved. I don't know what this joy is about. I'm not saved. I need to trust Christ. I got to get this settled. You would say, preacher, pray for me. Any like that? Anybody here in the auditorium online? God's dealing with your heart. I say just trust them. Just trust them. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed, James