Chapter fourteen. Genesis chapter fourteen. My wife mentioned um that uh this morning when I read the names of the kings that uh uh read them in Portuguese. And so uh that's possibly true. Um but um You know, I'm not sure. I was having trouble reading them because my eyes sometimes don't work real good. Um but uh You know, when I read names in the Bible, I just try and read through them as fast as I can, as confidently as I can. And if I mess up, normally nobody says anything to me, uh, because many times they're they're pretty tough anyway. Um But I would uh I would like for us uh if you can tonight, I'd like for you to stand with me. Um I will not reread um the first twelve verses tonight. We read that this morning. Um but I would like to read starting in verse number thirteen He says, And there came one that had escaped and told Abram the Hebrew, for he dwelt in the plain of Mamre, the Amorite, brother of Eshkel. Brother of Anor, and these were confederate with Abram. And when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, he armed as strange servants, born in his own house three hundred and eighteen and pursued them unto Dan. And he divided himself against them, and he and his servants by night, and they smote them and pursued them And uh Hobath, which is on the left hand of Damascus. And he brought back all the goods, and also brought again his brother Lot and his goods, and the women also, and the people. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, tonight we thank you for your love and your mercy to us. We thank you for your grace. And I pray, Father, that you bless in the message tonight. I pray that you fill me with your spirit and your power. If you'd help me tonight to glorify you and to magnify you, Lord, I pray that you'd fill me with your Spirit tonight, serve your people tonight, this matter of missions, and I pray that you'd help me tonight To present your word, to glorify you and magnify you, Lord. We thank you that you're a great God. I thank you, Lord, as we share these families tonight and what you've done in Brazil. It is your power. And your salvation, your precious blood. And I thank you for this church, Lord, that has a part in those lives and those families that have been transformed tonight. And I thank you for what you've done and what you're going to do. And I ask you, bless the service tonight, that you challenge us, change us. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. You may be seated tonight. Now I know you're thinking, you're thinking, how many messages does he have in Genesis 14? I got a couple. Um but I don't have time to preach all of them tonight. Um but it is a challenge. I mentioned that we have uh our men's meeting And our men's meaning is eighteen enough, and uh sometimes I'll sit down with Joshua, and we sat down in Genesis fourteen, and me and him sat down, and we found uh ten man principles here in Genesis chapter fourteen. And this is one of those what I would consider a man principle tonight. It's a missions principle as well This morning we talked about the call of missions that discomforts us. Abraham was there and he was going about his day, going about his routine, and he heard a message that Lot and his family have been taken. And so when Abraham got that message, he had a choice to make. Now he could have said, you know, Lot. You know, that turkey has been down there. He wanted to live down there. Let him suffer. You know? Let him live in the consequences of what he did. And you know, as independent Baptists, sometimes we have a tendency to get that way. We lose our compassion for people. And we're like, well, just let them suffer in the mistakes that they've made. And sometimes people need to, you know, we can't save them from everything. We just want to be careful we don't lose our compassion. Tonight the message is this: the connection of missions. The connection of missions. Because if Abraham, if Abraham had heard the message that Gomorrah was taken, and he didn't know anybody in Gomorrah, there's a good chance Then he wouldn't have done anything. But when he heard that Lot and Lot's wife and his children had been taken captive. We know that Abraham was compelled to do something And in missions today, we hear about the need, we hear about the billions of people that are lost today, we hear about the lost in our own community. And the question comes to us as this: how is it possible that we can hear the need, hear the condition, hear of people on their way to hell And as safe people, how is it that we can do nothing? How is that tonight? Because we become disconnected tonight. Pastor mentioned this morning that his desire for faith promised for everybody to give what God wants them to give. But I would say this. I believe tonight that it's God's will that every born-again child of God do something to save the lost. Everybody. Not just some people, but all the people. And I don't know, maybe tonight everybody here participates in faith promise. And that's wonderful For everybody that does. But the question tonight is this how can we do nothing? You know, think of how the story would have been different If the messenger had come to Abraham and said, Your nephew Lot has been taken captive by the four kings of the north, and they're leading the way captive, and Abraham had said, Well, that's his problem. It'd have been a whole different story, wouldn't it? It'd have been a sad story. And can I say tonight it's a sad story when the message comes to us That there's a lost and dying world. And we sit here and we can watch that happen. And we can do nothing. It seems incredible tonight that the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ that it's possible that we can be saved Born again, blessed of God, God's work in our life. We know the power of salvation, we know the power that changes life, and yet we can hear the need for missions and do nothing That's an incredible thing tonight, folks. Isn't that incredible? That's incredible tonight. So, what was it that provoked Abraham To do something. The connection for Abraham was a personal connection. It was his family. Lot was his family. And Lot was going to go not just to save Lot and his family. He was going to go and he was going to save everybody. When Abraham heard the news, Abraham called everybody together. He said, Listen, folks, we've been training for this. They were his train servants, and there is the preparation of missions. Amen? That's a whole nother message. We won't even preach that tonight. But there's a preparation of missions where we prepare ourselves to do the work of God. Now, my son and daughter tonight, they're being prepared to serve God. Neither one of them are called. Joshua's not called to be a preacher. And if God calls him, that's wonderful, but God doesn't call him. My idea is this that every young person grows up in the church, every man and woman grows up in the church should be able to get up and teach a Bible lesson in Sunday school. Every person who grows up in the church should be able to win somebody Christ. And some of you out here today, you've never witnessed for Christ, and you even think tonight I could never do that. Let me tell you, friend, that's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. The truth is that you can win somebody to Christ. You can tell them about Christ. You said, I'm afraid, I understand that. A lot of us are afraid, but you can win this for Christ. Amen. Abraham had been preparing for this as 318 trained servants in his house. But for Abraham, the connection was personal. Now he was a wealthy man. He could have told his three hundred and eighteen trained servants and his his uh servant Eleazar And he could have sent them out and said, now you guys go out and save Lot and his family. But he didn't do that. He went out personally to risk his life. And you know that's what our Savior did. He's the creator of the world. He could have created, if you will, another plan of salvation, but he didn't do that. For our Savior, He made it personal when it came to saving us. Go, if you will, to Hebrews. Chapter 2. Because of time we won't go through a lot of these tonight. But for Abraham, the connection was personal. Hebrews chapter 2 Verse nine But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels, for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor, that he, by the grace of God, should taste death. What does he say? For every man. Not for a certain group of people, but for every man. And I just simply believe that means for every man. Amen. For it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, and bringing many sons unto glory. To make the captain of their salvation perfect through suffering, both he that sanctifieth and they who are sanctified are all of one, for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren. saying I will declare thy name unto my brethren in the midst of the church, I will sing praise unto thee, and again I will put my trust in him, and again behold I and the children Which God hath given me, for as much then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same, that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death That is the devil, and deliver them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. Jesus could have found another way. But he didn't. He came down here personally to die for you and to die for me. And Abraham could have sent his servants out But he said no. He said, I must go, I must be personally involved. There's a personal connection. In this battle. Missions should be personal for us tonight. There should be a personal connection. And I tell you tonight, if you've got family members who are lost, it's personal. It's personal. You've prayed for them, you've wept for them, you've fasted for them. And you say, not doing any good, lady came up to us and she's probably here tonight. She uh her uh grandma, was it your grandma? Yeah, she lost. A couple days before passed on. Trust to Christ. George Mueller had a list of friends. I think it was three of them. He prayed for them for I don't know. You know the story better than I do. Maybe 50 years. One got saved shortly before he died. One got saved right as he died. And one got saved a little bit after he died. I'm just saying tonight that we need to be personally connected to missions like our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Go, if you will, to Hebrews chapter number 10. Hebrews chapter number ten tonight. Hebrews chapter ten, verse number four, for it is not possible that the blood of bulls and goats should take away sin. Wherefore when he cometh into the world he saith, Sacrifice and offering thou wilt not But a body thou hast prepared me, and burnt offerings and sacrifice for sin, thou hast had no pleasure. Then said I, Lo, I come in the volume of the book it is written of me To do thy will, O God. Above when he said, sacrifice and offering, and burnt offerings and offerings for sin, thou wouldst not, neither hast pleasure therein, which are offered by the law. Then said he, Lo, I come to do thy will, O God. He taketh away the first that he may establish the second, by the which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. And every priest stand up daily ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices could never take away sins. But this man, after he'd offered one sacrifice for sin forever Set down on the right hand of God, from henceforth expecting till his enemies be made his footstool, for by one offering he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified. For Jesus Christ The connection to missions was personal. He came personally. God manifests in the flesh to die on the cross for you And for me. For Abraham, it was a personal connection. He had to go to save his brother Abraham. What about the 318 trained servants? They weren't related to Lot. What was their connection to the battle? Their connection with the battle was Abraham. Abraham said, Hey, get up, we're going to fight. Now they were trained, they were prepared for the battle. But when the master said, let's get up and go, they said, yes, sir. They said, yes, sir, let's go. And tonight the connection for missions ought to be for us a personal one. But it ought to be a connection to missions because that's what our master has commanded So if you would uh Mark sixteen fifteen. And again, I don't have time tonight to go through all the scriptures. You know the scriptures tonight. Mark sixteen, fifteen, and said unto them, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel To every creature. That's a command tonight. The master has said, let us rise up and take the gospel into all the world. Abraham said, Let us rise up. We're going to go out tonight and we're going to fight the four kings of the north and we're going to say Vlad it was a command from the master. That's what's important to him. And that ought to be what's important to us tonight And honestly, folks, tonight, do we need anything more than that? Than the Master to say, Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. And maybe after you were saved, that command meant a lot to you. And you began to witness But as the years have gone on, you look around, and maybe other people aren't telling people about Christ, and you look around and you begin to get involved in the things of your life and the things that are important to you And maybe the command of the master doesn't seem important anymore, but it is. It is tonight. As a missionary, I may seem a bit fanatical. And maybe I am. But that's okay. I told my kids when they come back to America, I said, you guys are gonna be weird. Because you're missionary kids. But also because you're my kids. Because I'm a little bit weird. Just a little bit. A little bit strange. But I'm going to tell you tonight, ought we not all be a little bit Weird compared to this world? Now you can do the same thing. You can go hunting and you can go to a sporting event. You can do these things at the world. But friends, that's not why we live. That's not why we're here. When we get to heaven, all that's going to matter is what we did for Christ. Because of Abraham and those 318 trained servants And by the way, those aren't the only people going to fight. Abraham was Confederate with three other men. They were not his servants. And it begs the question: why did Anor go with Abraham? Why did these other men, they weren't a servant, they didn't have to go, he wasn't paying them? Because they had made an agreement with Abraham. They said, listen, every battle you fight is our battle, and every battle we fight is your battle. They made an agreement that they were going to go to the battle. And there ought to be tonight a confederacy, tonight of soul winners tonight We don't just have one church that supports us, we have a confederacy tonight. And I don't just say that for because I'm from the South We are being recorded, right? I've got to be careful. But missions tonight is a confederacy of churches working together to get the gospel around the world. We have 60, 80 churches that support us to help us get the gospel out around the world. There were men who were confederate with Abraham. They go out into the battle and they went out. When Abraham said, Let's go, they said, Yes, sir. His 318 trained servants and the Confederates that were with him, they said, Yes, sir. And they went out at night. to fight and they divided their troops at night, which is a dangerous thing tactically to fight at night Because you can kill each other if anybody's into tactician. That that is a dangerous thing tonight. But they were trained servants. They were trained to go out at night. And they went out at night. And notice what the Bible says. Go back to Genesis chapter 14. In verse sixteen. Can you brought back? All the goods, and brought again his brother Lot and his goods, and the women also, and the people. They brought back everything. All the people and all the goods. Now I have a theory tonight. I don't know if it's true, and I don't know if there's one way to confirm it. But we know that Lot had at least four daughters. Alright, right? Now right? Four daughters. I believe at this moment they were all with him. I believe, and I can't verify with this in the Bible, but I believe that God was bringing Lot out of Sodom to give him another chance. To give him a second chance, to leave Sodom, to leave all that. I believe his daughters were with him there, and they still could have been saved. And Abraham went, and by saving them, he gave them a second chance. In fact, you could say by saving them, he condemned them. Because if he hadn't saved them, they would have been led away as captives. And maybe they wouldn't have been destroyed in the fire's two daughters that were destroyed there. You could say that tonight, but Abraham was trying to save them. God was giving, I believe, giving them a second chance, because when they came out, Lot got to see Abraham. Worship God. Honor God. And that would be tonight the spoils of missions. You got to see tonight the spoils of missions. Time to time, I'll ask Joshua and Rebecca. And say, Brother Gilson's family, him and his wife, and his four girls, what would you trade that family for? Would you trade a nice house for it? You trade a nice big boat? You trade a new car for that? I wouldn't For the Accardo and Mahosanna and their two kids, what would you trade them for? What would you sit here tonight and say, well I'd trade them for a nice big house or trade them for a big TV? I wouldn't trade anything for these families tonight because they mean more to me than anything this world has to offer Go if you would to Philippians chapter two Philippians chapter two Verse twenty and twenty one, he says, For I have no man. Like-minded, who will naturally care for your state. Notice what he says. For all seek their own, and not the things which are Jesus Christ. What are you seeking tonight? What are you living for? I'd like to end in Luke chapter 10, if you would go over there with me. Luke chapter ten, verse twenty. Nine Luke chapter ten, verse twenty nine. Be he willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, and who is my neighbor And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment and wounded him and departed, leaving him half dead. And by chance there came down a certain priest that way, and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. The question tonight is: how is it that that priest could pass by and see a man half dead and do nothing? How is that even possible? That he could do nothing. He would say that that man Has no heart, has no compassion, didn't even check on him, didn't offer him water, didn't even go get help, didn't didn't even tell anybody Passed by on the other side. Verse number thirty two, and likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him and passed by. On the other side. Breast and the Levite passed by and did nothing. That's a terrible story tonight. Isn't that a terrible story? That's terrible. I mean if the story ended there That'd be horrible. I can imagine them getting the city telling the story, you know, with their friends. Be like, you'll never guess what happened to me today. What's that? I was walking along the road and I saw a man And I don't know if he was alive or dead, but I mean somebody had beat him up and robbed him and left him there in his horrible shape. And his friends were like, What'd you do? I didn't do anything. Like, well I would have done the same thing. You know, you can't ever know you're out there, and just his friends comfort him. But what a sorry state, isn't it? But then the good Samaritan, he says, and a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was, and when he saw him, he had compassion. on him and went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an end, and took care of him. That's a great story. That's a great story. And I want to ask you tonight, church. I want to end with this story. And I want you to answer me tonight, not out loud. Why did the Samaritans stop? Let me ask you another question. Was it possible for the Samaritan to keep going? I don't think that's possible. I think there was something within him that compelled him To stop. I don't think he saw the man and prayed about it. I don't think he looked at the man and waived the pros and cons I think when he saw the man, there was something inside of him, something that said, I've got to stop, and I've got to help him that the priest didn't have, the Levite didn't have, but there's something within him that says, I have to stop and help him. I believe when Abraham heard that Lot had been taken, I don't think for a minute that he weighed the pros and cons or thought about what he had to do. I think for Abraham He knew what he had to do. And I would say tonight is this. If we tonight And here are the call of missions about a lost and dying world. And do nothing. And do nothing. I don't know what God wants you to do. But I know God wants you to do something. Amen? Maybe God's calling you to the ministry. Maybe God wants you to surrender tonight and say, I'll go where you want me to go. I'll do what you want me to do. Maybe He's calling you tonight to preach and He wants you to surrender and you've been fighting it. Tonight, let me tell you that don't fight it. Say, Lord, I'll go where you want me to go, I'll do what you want me to do. But I don't believe tonight that we can hear the call of missions, be honest with ourselves, and do nothing. If we do nothing tonight, there will people that'll die and go to hell because we did nothing. I believe that tonight. Those families, you say, well, somebody else would have won them to Christ. I don't believe that tonight. I don't believe that tonight. I believe that God wants to use us to do something for missions. I don't know what that is tonight, but I know that if we'll say, Lord, hear am I, send me. A reasonable service, present our bodies a living sacrifice, say, God, here am I, use me. I believe God. We use this. Let's pray tonight. Heavenly Father, Lord, I pray, Lord, you'd work in every heart and life tonight. Lord, I pray, Father, Lord, if we're here tonight and we're disconnected, Remissions tonight, the need. Lord, you'd work in our hearts. If we're here living tonight ourselves, Lord, you'd help us to repent Come back to you. Lord, there is nothing more important in this world. Nothing more important than your work, your glory. And Lord, I pray tonight that you work in our hearts. If we're disconnected tonight, the work of missions tonight, I pray that you break our hearts. You bring us back tonight. You want to use every one of us tonight. There's some here tonight that they never won a soul to Christ, Lord. Help them come tonight and just plead with you, Lord. Say, Lord, give me the courage and strength to tell somebody about you. There's some here tonight that have lost family members. And Lord, maybe they've become discouraged. Help them tonight. You stir their hearts tonight. Lord, to pray and to fast and to seek your face. Lord, if there's some here tonight that aren't involved In faith promise and giving to missions. Lord, help them tonight. Say, Lord, hear my send me, use me tonight. All I have belongs to you. Lord, I pray that you'd work tonight in a mighty way. We ask these things in Jesus' name.