Chapter 4, verse 11, if you would notice here the Bible says, if any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. If any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth. Now look at this last statement. That God in all things May be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be praise and dominion forever and ever. Amen. I take my title from that last phrase, that God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ. And this is my title: The Ultimate End of Man. Or if you want to reword it, the ultimate purpose for our lives is that God in all things may be glorified through the Lord Jesus Christ. Now we're just going to get started in this verse. I want to spend a little time in it. And so let's pray together and we'll get started. Father in heaven. Lord, our hearts are full. What a week and what a good day today. I just thank you that you, in your grace, and in your love and in your mercy, that you uh would choose to use us. To bring other people to the Lord Jesus Christ, that you would use us, and that we would have the opportunity to invest in young people and their lives and their futures. And God, we are humbled by that I am. That could even have any part at all in this grand, eternal plan of yours. So I ask you'd help us to respond to the instructions we're given here in this verse. Respond in faith. In trust, Lord, submission, and in love to you for all you've done for us. Please fill me with your spirit again now. And this for this message, I pray. Speak through me, I ask, Lord. I just yield myself to you. In Jesus' name I ask this. Amen. The context for this verse, and I think this is a very significant verse. But the context for it, I think, helps us a little bit. It's a two-fold context, really. If you would come back up to verse 7, and we touched on this, we spent a good bit of time on this But he says that the first part of verse 7 he says, the end of all things is at hand. And if we remember we pointed out, then when he uses that phrase, the end of all things, he's referencing, I believe, the return of the Lord Jesus Christ, but just in a general sense. He's not getting into the specifics of the time frame and the stages that the Lord comes back and all that's about. He's just saying to make it a general statement. Hey, listen, we're in the end times. We're in the last days. It's at hand Fact of the matter is, from the ascension of Christ 2,000 years ago, until the rapture of the church, that whole time frame is referred to in the Bible as the end times. And so when we say we're in the end times, we're we're literally correct. We are in the end times. We're in that dispensation that is called considered the end times. I believe This is my conviction, and I have biblical basis for it. I believe that we have every right and we have an obligation really to anticipate the rapture of the church, maybe today Every day we ought to be watching and looking, anticipating that the Lord may rapture the church today. And we've talked about that in other messages So the context here is he's writing to them, let if any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. If any man minister, let him minister according to the ability God has given. That God in all things through the Lord Jesus Christ, God may be glorified in all things through the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the context in the last days, the end of all things, right at hand. But there's a A second part to this context. And that is, this is the persecution of believers. We must never forget When we're studying this, that he is writing to believers that are under intense persecution. Fact of the matter is, the history of the church has been that of intense persecution. Right from the get-go, Acts chapter 2. You read the book of Acts, right when the church kicked off, when the Holy Spirit fell there at Pentecost. And man, they took that it has been in persecution from day one. In the history of the church. Now there's been a few exceptions, and in God's grace and God's purposes You and I have had the opportunity to live in a time and a location where that persecution has not been that intense. Right? We really haven't faced. You study what some of the church is going through and what parts of the world are going through. We haven't faced persecution really in any biblical sense of the word. But that's not the norm for the New Testament church. That's an exception. You and I are living in exceptional times in church history. The, I put it this way, persecution has been the way of life for God's disciples for most of church history. So when Peter is writing to these believers who are paying a heavy, heavy price for being followers of Christ, um You and I need to understand that, you know, we're a bit of an exception to that, but that has been the norm for the New Testament church. So, in light of this fact that this is addressed in the last days, a time of persecution, he gives us three things that we need to give attention to. Now I'll tell you what the three are. We're only going to look at one, the first one tonight. But notice in verse 11, the first part he says, if any man speak. . And then he gives instructions concerning that. . So I think we need to, in the last days, and when in times of persecution particularly, we need to give careful attention to our speech. The second thing I notice says, If any man speak, let him speak as oracles, God. Then he says, If any man minister And then he gives instructions there. And we're going to look at this next time, but what he's saying is in times of persecution, in the last days, we ought to give attention to our service. So our speech, our service, our ministry. And then last of all, I notice here, and we'll look at this again, Lord will, next week. But he says that God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ and be praised aminion forever and ever. Amen. And I put it this way: we ought to give attention to our stimulus. What I mean by that is our motives. Why are we doing what we're doing? Why are we going after this? Why are we trying to win souls? Why are we investing money? And so that's later on. But I want us to notice, first of all, giving attention to our speech. He says, if any man speak, let him speak. Now, listen, look at this term he uses here. Let him speak as the oracles of God. Now, the question comes up: what is the oracles of God? If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. The word oracles there simply means to utter something. It means what he's talking about here, the oracles of God are the words of God, God's utterances I think what he's telling us is this, is that if we speak, he's writing to believers, if and when we speak We need to speak. Now I'll have to explain what I mean by this. We need to speak the way God speaks If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. And that's where I get this from that little word as. If any man speak, let him speak as, that word as there, in like manner, in the same fashion. With the same characteristics. In other words, the same way that God speaks The characteristics of how God speaks, and the characteristics of God speaking, that ought to be the characteristics of our speaking. If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. Now, he's not just addressing, the speaking here isn't just addressing the fellow that stands behind the pulpit and preaches. Now it would include that, but it's not limited to that. I think he's when I'm studying this, I come to the conclusion he's telling Christians, all Christian, young, uh uh uh little, middle, big, tall. uh short, uh skinny, um not skinny. Uh all Christians. If any man speak Speak the way God speaks. The characteristics of how God communicates ought to characterize how we communicate. Now that brings up another question. How do we talk the way God talks? How do we speak as the oracles of God? I put it this way, I think this is a significant statement. The integrity of our speech. Now get this. The integrity of our words. The integrity of our speech ought to parallel the integrity of God's words and God's speech. The integrity of the words we use and how we use them ought to parallel or have the same characteristics. as the integrity of God speak. Now, would you agree with me? Our God is a God of integrity. Now that's not a very popular word. It's not used much. It simply means he's true. He's trustworthy. What he says is so. And I think Peter is telling these believers that are under persecution, he says, listen, the end times are at hand. And when we speak Our speech ought to parallel, ought to be as the integrity as God speaks. Follow that integrity Now we're going to fall short of that, yes or no? You say, preacher, how can we speak with the same integrity God speaks? I'm not God And by the way, you and I are not God. I've met some people I think they thought they were, but we're not. You and I have a sinful nature, so obviously we're going to fall short of speaking with the integrity that God speaks. But nevertheless, Peter is saying here, listen, if any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God, in the same way, with the same characteristics, with the same integrity that God speaks. You and I ought to speak. When we're under persecution, when people are mistreating us, when we're being unjustly criticized and condemned When we are anticipating the return of Christ and we see our world falling apart as the day of Christ's return approaches. One thing ought to be true about God's people and myself and all of us. One thing ought to be true about Mount Lake, all the members of the body of Christ at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church One thing ought to be true of us, our speech ought to be with integrity. Now the question comes up, how does God speak? What is this integrity you're talking about? What are the characteristics of God speaking? Well, I found there's several places we could go, really, but I found in Proverbs chapter 8. If you would come back here, I came across this in my devotions. It's been quite a while ago. And I noticed he gives us some Instructions here on how God speaks, characteristics of God's words, God's utterances, God's oracles, to use Peter's term. Proverbs chapter 8, and I'm going to begin reading in verse number 6. Now what do you have here if you if we take the time, go to verse 1, we'd see That he's doing a personification of wisdom. In other words, he's giving wisdom human characteristics. He's speaking of God communicating his wisdom And look at verse number 6, Proverbs 8 and verse 6. Look what he says. Here. He's trying to get attention. Listen up here. For I will speak of what? Excellent things. And the opening of my lips shall be right things. For my mouth shall speak truth, and wickedness is an abomination to my lips. All the words of my mouth are in righteousness. There is nothing forward or perverse in them. They're all plain to him that understandeth, and right to them that find knowledge. This is the characteristics of God speaking. When God speaks, these are the characteristics of his words. Now I look at this and I see three characteristics of the oracles, of the words, the communication of God. And Peter tells us that when we speak, We're to follow that pattern. We're to follow that example. Now the first thing I notice here is first of all our speech should be positive Our speech should be positive. Look with me again at verse 6. Let's break this down. He says, For I will speak of excellent things. I love the word excellent. It has the idea of being honorable, of having a little bit of dignity and respect. Behind. I will speak of excellent things. Can I say this? I believe you and I as a child of God as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, our speech should be excellent. It should be honorable. I'm not talking about highfalutin You can get some guy down in southern Mississippi and has that long draw and you know use southern and all that, and he can be a little more honorable in his speech than some professor in a in a an English professor in an advanced degree in a college somewhere, he can may use this all this highfalutin language and be as disrespectful and nasty as can be. And I think what he's saying here is, God, when God speaks, God speaks of excellent things. God is honorable in his speech. Do you ever get around someone? Do you ever get around someone and their mouth, the words that come out of their mouth are embarrassing? Shameful. He's saying God doesn't speak that way. God speaks of excellent things, honorable things. Then look what he says. He says, Here, for I will speak of excellent things, and the opening of my lips shall be right things. If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. How does God utter? How does God speak? Well, he speaks of honorable things. God's word is honorable. And then right things. Right things means straight, good, wholesome. Now I'm just going to try and be as practical as I can in this. Let me say this. You and I as a child of God, we ought to be very, very careful that our language is not crude. And sometimes I hear Christians talk, and I just shudder. Now, it's not necessarily curse words It's not necessarily profane words, but it's crude. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Now I don't want to give any examples of this. Because I don't want to Disobey the Bible. But I think you and I, and maybe some folks coming out of maybe a rougher background, God say, we ought to be very, very careful about the words we use. And whether they're just not very honorable words. And and if they're cr what's the opposite of crude? Wholesome words, yeah. And just think about the words we use. And you know, we could go off here on uh do you know what a euphemism is? A euphemism is a word that's not as bad as the bad word, but it's just a crude word in place of a bad word. Anybody follow what I'm saying? I'll give you one example. I know people say it innocently, and so just be patient with me. But the word gosh is a euphemism for God's name. And so we have to be very, very careful about these things. And we could just go down the list and sometimes Christians will use terms that are just just crude. And I'm not trying to condemn anybody, I'm not trying to judge anybody, but I am trying to do this. Let's raise our level of speaking up. that we can speak as the oracles of God the way God does. God doesn't use crude language Now God records accurately sometimes what people say in his word, or sometimes the people recruit, and he quotes it accurately. The God's words are right words. God's words are wholesome words. God's words are excellent words. I think Peter is challenging those who he's writing to, hey, let's lift our level of speech up and have excellent speech and have wholesome words. Not uh right things are th or words, right words are wholesome words, not crude, not dirty. Uh not focusing on the negative That word wholesome has the idea of focusing on that which is good and that which is healthy. And that which is uplifting, and that which is encourages and exhorts and builds up and uh and helps another I tell you what, it doesn't help anybody. Now we need to preach against the negative. Don't misunderstand. And we need to address the negative sometimes But it doesn't help anybody if all we do is point out what is wrong with everything. That is not wholesome words. That is not being positive in my speech. You study the Bible and you'll find some people that God addresses that He tells the truth about them But a lot of times he'll draw some good thing out about that person. Nevertheless, there was some good found in him. You'll find that. And if all we see is what, if all we can focus on is that which comes short of perfection. Man, we're not helping anybody. We're going to be miserable our whole lives. Well, it wasn't that It's like the lady I heard about, she just complained. Nothing was ever good enough. Nothing was ever met her standard of acceptability. And finally she got to heaven. One of the folks in heaven said to her, he says, Well, how do you like heaven? She said, Well, it ain't like home. Some fe some people can find something wrong with everything. And he says, listen Speak as if you're going to speak, then speak as the oracles of God. The way God does. And I find here in Proverbs that God speaks very positively. Second one, second observation, verse 7 He says, For my mouth shall speak truth, and wickedness is an abomination to my lips. All the words of my mouth are in righteousness. There is nothing forward or perverse in them. Number one, our words ought to be positive. Number two, when we speak, we ought to speak, our words should be pure. Pure. Look there. He says, For my mouth shall speak what? Verse 7. Say it with me. My mouth shall speak what? Truth. I believe, I believe with all my heart, that lying lying Is one of the most ungodly things a person can do. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. He says, I am the truth. I'm convinced lying is one of the most ungodly things that I could do in my life. Now there's a lot of ungodly stuff we can do. And lying is one of them. Is one of them John chapter 8, verse 44 tells us this: the devil is a liar. Get this, and the father of lies. When I tell a lie, listen to me. When I tell a lie, who am I emulating? The devil! If I speak something that is not true, deliberately say something that I know is not true and I speak it. I'm not speaking as the oracles of God. I'm speaking as the oracles of Satan himself. Right or wrong? We live in a dishonest world. We live in a world that lies. We have an enemy, a devil, that is a liar And when we lie, as God's people, we lie. We're speaking more like the devil than we are like Christ. I'm glad God doesn't lie. Aren't you? Can you imagine if we found out that God was a liar, we'd be in a mess. But God is truth. You say, well, those kids they need to quit lying. I tell you what, there's some grown-ups that need to quit lying too. He's writing to adults. And so our words ought to be positive. Our words ought to be pure. Truth. Truth. That which is true. That which is reliable. Let me ask you a question. Did Jesus ever lie? No. Did the devil ever lie? Yeah, he's the father of them. I might be I could be the county's greatest Sunday school teacher. But if I'm a liar I get no respect. I'm acting more like the devil than I am like Jesus. I may be the greatest preacher in the county. I may be the greatest preacher in the conference or whatever. But if I don't tell the truth when I speak, I'm more of a representative of Satan than I am of God. And I know I'm being strong on this because we live in a world that is lying, and dishonesty has been part of the church from Acts chapter 5. When Ananias and Sapphira lied to Peter, and he said, you've lied, you didn't just lie to me, you lied to the Holy Scott, you've lied to God And God took their life. And God set a precedent to show us how serious He takes honesty and how serious He takes lying. I may be the best preacher, I may be the best singer, I may be the best Sunday school teacher, I may have the biggest bus route, I may have the biggest church this side of the Mississippi But if I'm a liar, if I don't tell the truth, I have no respect, and I do not have the presence and power of God, regardless of how flamboyant I may be. Revelation 21. 8 says that lying is characteristic of those who go to hell Ephesians chapter 4, verse chapter 6, verse 14 tells us that we're in a spiritual warfare, and we need to put the armor of God on, and we need to have our loins girded about with truth. Lying. So look here, he says, our our words must be positive. Our words must be pure. That means truth. Then he goes down, he lists a few others there. The words of my mouth, verse 7, shall be truth. Wickedness is an abomination of my lips. That which is morally wrong, that which is sinful. We talk about sinful stuff Then he goes down, he says, all the words in my mouth are unrighteous, nothing froward. That word froward means twisted. crooked, distorted. Again, it kind of comes back to the truth where you make a statement, it's not exactly a lie, but it's twisting it to mislead. Our words ought to be positive. They ought to be pure, not twisting things. It's like the woman called her husband and said, uh Sweetheart, she says there's something wrong with the car. He goes, what's wrong? He says there's water in the carburetor. He said, that's impossible. You don't even know anything about a car. That's impossible. How is there water in the carburetor? Where's the car at? It's in Deep Creek Lake. Water in the carburetor. And so he says as and when we speak, we only speak as the oracles of God. God doesn't twist the truth. He doesn't make it sound like one thing. In reality, it's something else. You know, sometimes we think we're sometimes we think we're getting away with, I'm not lying. But we're distorting it, we're being forward with it, and we're making it sound like something it really isn't God doesn't talk that way. My last point here is when we speak, Peter's writing to these believers, he said, Listen, it's the last days. Listen, if we're ever going to speak right, we need to do it now. You guys are under intense persecution. If there's ever a time when you're going to speak like God speaks, it's now He says your speech needs to be positive. It needs to be pure. And then the last one, just quickly, he says, they are, look at verse 9, they are all plain to him that understandeth, and right to them that find knowledge. The word plain simply means this, just straight, right, with integrity. In other words, he says, just say it the way it is. Just tell the truth. Just be very plain. I found the farther you get from the truth, the more convoluted your story becomes. Mom walks in, the little kid's got cookie crumbs all around his lips. Says, uh, did you eat the cookies? No How'd you get cookie crumbs on your lips? Uh the cat ate them and kissed me. Um really Where's the cat? Uh outside. How'd it get outside if it was right here? Uh it jumped through the wind. See what I'm saying? You gotta it gets more convoluted as it goes God says, listen, just tell it. Do you eat the cookies? Yeah. You say, I'll get in trouble. I'll tell you this: it's better to pay the price of truth than to suffer the consequences of a lie. What we try to do is manipulate the results of the truth. Let's just tell the truth and let the truth determine the results. Take your Bible, I'll end with this. If you would come to Matthew chapter number 12. Every time you preach on the tongue or words, it gets a little tight. Look what Jesus said in Matthew chapter 12. Peter's writing to these believers, and he's shooting straight with them. By the way, aren't you glad God shoots straight? with us. How many people here would want to go to a doctor and you get in there and the doctor does the test and everything and he finds something seriously wrong But he doesn't want to hurt your feelings and he doesn't want to offend you. So he says, he lies and says, oh, everything's fine. I don't know about you. I want my doctor to tell me the truth. I don't know if I should say this. I went to the doctor and he says, uh, it's time for that colonoscopy. He says, Do you want one? I said, what do you mean, do I want one? Do I need it? Well, yeah, you really should. I said, okay then. That was dumb. But anyway But I want them to tell me if I need some procedure or not. That's the point I'm trying. Everybody okay with? Alright, just erase that last part off the tape. But what I'm trying to say is, I want God to shoot straight with me. I want God to be honest with me. I want my doctor to be honest with me. Hey, I want my preacher to be honest. If I'm not talking right, I want the preacher to preach the Bible and tell me what I how I need to be talking, how I'm living. And by the way, God wants all his people to shoot straight. To say, just to be not unkind, or not to be rude. By the way, telling the truth doesn't mean you always have to tell everybody all the truth. You know? You know, somebody comes in and never mind. Look with me at chapter 12. I need to land this. Verse number 34. Now, this is Jesus speaking, and what he's telling us that our words are important to God. Our speech is important. O generation of vipers, how can ye being evil speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. Do you got the connection between the heart and the mouth? Can I say this? If a person is dishonest with their mouth, what does that tell me about their heart? If somebody's words, their mouth is dirty, what does that tell me about their heart? For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. For a good man out of the good treasure of the heart bringeth forth good things. And an evil man out of the evil treasure bringeth forth evil things. But I say unto you, look at this, that every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give an account thereof in the day of judgment. For with thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned. Would you agree with me? That sounds to me like God takes what we say pretty seriously. That sounds to me like God takes how we talk pretty seriously. I think we need to just stop and think, you know, man, we're in the last days, we're in a wicked, dishonest, lying, nasty Dirty world, self-centered world. I'm a child of God. I'm a disciple of Jesus Christ. I'm an alien on this planet. I'm a outsider. I'm a stranger here on earth We start talking as the oracles of the world? We start talking as the oracles of the devil? As a child of God, God says, no. Any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. The words we use, help us to think about Him. Lord, help our hearts to be honest and pure and good and healthy and uplifting, encouraging to others, helpful to others. And I pray, Lord, as we go into this new week, that our words, we would just stop and think that your Holy Spirit would fill us and able us. To speak as the oracles of God. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I really need God to help me pay more attention to how I talk? The words I use in just the way, anybody at all like this, come on, let's just be honest. We all got the same heart, we all got a tongue, and it's James says it's impossible to tame. We need God to help us If we're sincere, God will help us. God will help us. If there's someone here, say, preacher, I've never been saved. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Maybe tonight God's touched your heart and you say, I need to get that settled. No more. I want to get it settled. You'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I I need to get my eternal destiny settled. I need to know I'm going to heaven, not to hell. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray that God will help me get that settled. Any at all? Any at all? Father, bless now. Lord, it's been a pretty straightforward message, but I pray you'd help us. In Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James