Chapter number one, Colossians chapter one, and um I was introduced to the bus ministry as just a young boy. Actually, um I haven't said a lot about this over the years, but my father was saved in 1970. I was a 10-year-old boy, sometime in that year, I don't know the exact time of the year But he got saved shortly after that. He started going to a Baptist church. He worked with a fellow. And uh he got baptized into the church there. And uh like uh Jed and Lacey, that made me think of my dad when uh he uh got saved, he got in the good Bible preaching church, and um He wanted to serve God. There was something in his heart. He wanted to do something for God. And they had a great bus ministry at the time. I want to say they ran twelve or more buses, I believe, at that time. This is 1970, 71 in that i in that area. And so he became a bus driver. He was a truck driver. And he said, Well, I can use that skill for the Lord. And he did. And he became a bus driver. You didn't need CDLs and all of that back then. And um And so he started driving driving a bus and he would get us kids up in the morning and he'd have us go uh ride the bus with him. We had to leave early. Church was a 30-minute drive away The bus routes were long. They went all over. And so we uh as a young 10, 11-year-old boy, I ran a Sunday school bus. Now I didn't get saved in the bus ministry, but I'll tell you what did happen The word of God, the seed of the gospel, was planted in my heart and mind. Every week we heard that gospel. We heard the gospel. And I got away, of course, and got saved years later. I was reintroduced to the bus ministry, just me personally, my involvement in the buses. Years later, 1981, I went to Chattanooga, Tennessee, enrolled in Tennessee Temple College And uh the great church there, Highland Park Baptist Church, they ran, get this, they ran 42 buses every Sunday morning, and then about half of those they ran again Sunday afternoon for an afternoon Sunday school. And I came across a fellow, Randy Miller, and we've been dear friends all these many years. And he invited me, he said, Do you have a ministry yet? And I said, No, I just got here, just enrolled in school. He says, uh How about working with me on my afternoon, Sunday afternoon bus route? I said, sure. And I tell you, I fell in love with the bus ministry, and we've it's been a big part of my life all these years. And when we came here in 1993, one of the things heavy on my heart is that we would start a bus ministry. And uh it wasn't long after we were here we were able to get a bus. The church had had one years before and it died off We got that thing up and running here almost 30 years later, buses running and picking up people. Isn't that a blessing? And so we praise the Lord for it. Colossians chapter number one Verse 28, and I know what time it is, so I just want to give you a couple quick thoughts here. I tell you that song by Brother Mark stirred my heart. That was good. Verse 28 of Colossians chapter one I believe kind of captures what our ministries are all about. That's what I want to talk about. Why do we do what we do around here? Why do we spend tens of thousands probably a hundred thousand more dollars on buses over the years. You know, why do people get up early Sunday morning? They don't get back one, two o'clock Sunday afternoon Dave comes in, it's cold, washes the buses, Tom out there uh in the cold barn working. Why do we do this? Why do we have a radio station? Why do we invest time and effort into that Build new buildings. Why are we doing all of this? What are we trying to accomplish? Look at verse 28 of Colossians chapter 1. The Bible says, whom we preach, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom. Now here's the reason: that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. Jesus Christ is coming back again. One of these days, every single, every man, it uses that term there, every man, and that means every person, man, woman, child It's going to have to stand before the Creator, this universe, and we're going to give an account. We're saved. We'll be at the judgment seat of Christ for how we've invested our life in Uh to in appreciation of the Lord saving us. If we're unsaved, great white throne judgment. And uh what a horrific judgment that is. And end up in the lake of fire. Our purpose for running these buses, our purpose of on out Thursday nights. Our purpose to make them blankets, give them to little uh new mothers and little babies. Our purpose for making scriptures and shipping them out all around the world, our purpose for having Bible time and wild game dinners and track month, the underlying purpose of all that is to help people be prepared to meet God That's what it all comes down to. Folks can be prepared, know that their sins are forgiven. And that when that day comes, that day of judgment comes, we know that we're accepted of God. And that's what the purpose of all this is. So let's pray. And I'll share a few thoughts with you. Father, I pray that you would just refocus in our hearts and minds. And I know we repeat it so often, Lord, but we just don't want to lose track. Of why we do what we do. And so please challenge us again. Bless these bus workers and all the riders. Lord, all the kids. We don't leave anybody out. And everybody, just meet with us and stir us and help us. Lord, I yield myself to you. Present my body, and I pray you take me, fill me with your spirit. And challenge us and help us today. In Jesus' name. Amen. I thought when that thing was, that program and Mark's song was over, we could have given invitation right then and there. You know, just come give ourselves uh to the Lord, let him use us. But um years ago there was a couple kids uh rode the bus here and They lived, I think, downtown. They rode one of the buses. We only had one or two buses at the time. They were coming and their daddy came with them. It was a single-parent home, dad and a to uh I think it was two children and he came with 'em occasionally. And then we didn't see 'em. They moved away. We found out where they lived. And um I sent a couple ladies out on visitation on a Thursday night, sent a couple ladies out, and they asked them if they'd go visit and just see you know how what things are going on, if maybe we could get them back, riding the bus, get them out there. Ladies went out there. And they found the place and the fellow was home. He invited them in. They're sitting there talking a little bit and they said, Well, we've just uh been missing you at church and uh we just want to invite you to come on back out. We'd like to see you back out at church again And he said, he said, I ain't never going back out to that church. And they said, okay, what why is that? What's that He goes, every time I go out there, all I ever hear is, you gotta get saved, you gotta get saved, you gotta get saved. That's all I ever hear out there. And they said, Well, the reason for that is you gotta get saved. Now that's not all we preach, but that's all he heard. You gotta get saved, you gotta get saved. Some time ago I was visiting door to door down across 135 down by the train tracks in the back here. And uh going door to door through there, a fellow came to the door, I introduced myself. I'm Pastor Leatherman from the Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. He said, I'd like to invite you to come on out to our church. And he said, he he instantly stopped and he says I know you, he says, I know about your church. You're that church that preaches the Bible and tries to get everybody saved and baptized. I said, yeah, that's pretty much it. You've kind of got the gist of it there. And uh these guys, there's a little bit more involved than just getting people saved. But these guys kind of caught the purpose of our church, and that's to teach and preach this old book. We run these buses, we have the radio broadcasts, we have Sunday school and children's church. All of that is for the purpose that people know what God has to say. That people know what this whole book teaches. I believe everybody ought to know about the gospel of Jesus Christ I think everybody ought to know that God created us, and we're not just amoebas and advanced animals, but we are beings created directly into the image of God. And every child, man, woman, ought to know that we are not evolved. We have been created by God. And our purpose is to make God's word known to our community as thoroughly as we possibly can, and then indirectly out into all the world. So these guys kind of caught the gist of what we are all about. We're all about the Word of God, teaching and preaching the Word of God. I'm glad I can I can say absolute truth. Every Sunday school class we teach the Bible in every single Sunday school class. In children's church, Pastor Matt and Brother Dave and whoever happens to be down there preaching, they preach the Bible. It's not our opinions, it's not man's writings. We're preaching the Word of God. And that's what we're all about, to teach and preach the Word of God. And uh and to win people to Christ. We don't just give the information out, but we want to live our lives in such a way We want to influence people in such a way that they're stirred to not just know the facts about Christ, but to trust him as their personal Savior So we give invitations, we urge people to make a decision, to turn to Christ from their sin, accept what He has done for them on the cross. rising again and then believing and trusting in him as their personal Savior so they can have eternal life. And so it's more than just giving information out, it's seeking to persuade men, to persuade women To persuade children. Now we want to do it appropriately. We don't want to be sloppy about it. We're not just uh we don't want to be uh incomplete in our presentation of the gospel message, but we do want to be earnest about it. And with all our hearts seeking to bring people to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, that's what it's all about. Teaching and preaching the Bible, winning people to Christ. And then once they trust Christ, Then instructing them how to live for the Lord. I've been studying this book a long time, as many of you have. And I've come to the conclusion the most important thing for a new believer is to follow the Lord in believers' baptism. Taking that step of faith, yes, I've trusted Jesus as my Savior I'm not ashamed. I was buried with him and raised again through faith in what he did for me. And so we teach folks that once you're saved, you ought to be baptized. And you ought to live for God. How to be a disciple, how to respond, how to pray. That's all part of the ministries of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, and really any New Testament-based church. That is going to be the purpose of it. In Acts chapter 5 and verse 42 it says, And daily in the temple and in every house they cease not to teach and preach Jesus Christ. And that's how the New Testament Church began, and that's how the New Testament Church ought to operate in 2022 and 2023. To cease not to teach and preach Jesus Christ. Our message and our purpose has nothing to do with Pastor Dennis Leatherman. It has nothing to do with the deacons of our church. It has nothing to do with Pastor Matt. It has nothing to do with any of us. It's all about Jesus. Pointing people to Jesus Christ. And that's the function of our buses and all the ministries here Colossians, notice in verse 23, chapter 1 here at Colossians. Look with me if you would at verse 23 He said, if you continue in the faith, now he's challenging the church there. Paul was writing under the inspiration of God to this church here in Colossae was the name of the town. And uh he's challenging them to stay faithful to the Lord, to to keep living for them, stick to the book. Uh don't let wrong influences come in. So he says this. He says, if you continue in the faith, grounded and settled, And be not moved away from the hope of the gospel which ye have heard, and which was preached unto every creature which is under heaven. Now look what he says, whereof I, Paul, am made a minister Now that word minister simply means to be a servant. I'm just a servant, a minister. Who now rejoice, verse 24, look at this, who now rejoice in my sufferings for you. Now that's a strange statement. How many people would say, I rejoice in sufferings? We try to avoid them. We dislike it. Paul says, oh no, no. I rejoice in my sufferings for you And fill up that which is behind the afflictions of Christ in my flesh for his body's sake, which is the church, whereof I am made a minister. I think, just to summarize, just to simplify what Paul's saying there, I think he was saying, it is a great privilege for me to give my life to the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is a great privilege for me, even if it involves suffering, to give myself so that others, so that you and others can come to know Jesus Christ in a personal way As your own Savior and find eternal life and find salvation from sin and hell and a new life with purpose and meaning and the joy of the Lord in your life. He says, it's a privilege for me to do that. It wasn't a burden. He was operating. He says other places that I'm a great debtor, but he wasn't operating out of duty or obligation. In fact, he says there, man, I'm willing to suffer. In other words, what investing my life in the gospel and the well-being of others that they can know the Lord It's worth, even if it involves suffering, it's worth it. It's worth it. You know, some things are worth getting up early for Bunch of you guys have been getting up early the last two weeks. Get out there and shoot a deer, right? You get up earlier than you normally do. Why? Because you th it's worth it. You say, oh yeah, it's worth it. Get up at two in the morning, whatever. And um I don't go out in the morning. I go in the afternoons till I get cold and I go home. But um But some things are worth the inconvenience of. Some things are worth getting up early for. Some things are worth being worn out for. And I'm telling you, it is worth suffering It is worth it to give myself to the Lord Jesus Christ, to give ourselves to the Lord, and see God use us to change other people's lives. To hear a child say, I rode the bus and I got saved, and know that that child's soul's sins have been forgiven and they've been given eternal life, and no matter what happens In this old messed up world, they have eternal life, and someday they'll be accepted by God into his very presence. I tell you, that's worth getting up early on a Sunday morning for That's worth coming in of a Thursday and put blankets together so that maybe a young mother, uh uh young family will hear the gospel of Christ and see the love of Christ and maybe come to trust him as their Savior. Amen or not? It's worth investing money. Say, preacher, I could do some other things with that money. That's fine. That's between you and God. But I'm here to tell you We get to heaven, we will never regret sacrificial giving to the gospel of Jesus Christ. I don't believe one person stand before the judgment seat of Christ and say, boy, I wish I'd have spent more money on my car Well, I wish I'd have bought a bigger four-wheeler. But I tell you what, I believe there'll be people there who say, thank God. God helped me to invest in souls and into the kingdom of God. Paul said it was a privilege to give of himself. It was a joy. I rejoice in my sufferings for you. I um uh mentioned and I I know we're talking about the buses today, so I'm I'm not neglecting other areas. There's uh tremendous ministries here But thinking of the buses, those those dear folks come in, I'll be here and I'll close up and the buses are out and I'll get over at the house 1. 30 sometimes, 2 o'clock, that bus will be coming in. Just getting back from the route And I'm here to tell you, and I've done that myself for years, I'm here to tell you, it's worth it if we see little boys and girls and bus riders learn of the Lord Jesus Christ. to give up our Sundays and to give up our time and effort. Paul considered it a great privilege to serve God. And then in verse 28, He says this is our purpose, that we may present every man perfect in Christ. Now, don't let that word perfect throw you there. It simply means mature. Every man, everything that God wants him to be. I am thrilled when people get saved at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I'm thrilled with that. But I'll tell you what also thrills my heart is when those people that get saved, then they go on and live for God And they become, to use the Bible term here, perfect in Christ. Now it doesn't mean sinless. You understand that, right? That means sinless. None of us are going to be sinless until we get our new bodies in heaven. But that word perfect means mature. It means grown up. It means complete. In other words, they're living the life as a disciple of Christ as God intends for us to live. And I tell you, that's a thrilling thing. And Paul said, I want to see you people saved, and I want to see you living for God and mature and grown up, filled with the Spirit. And everything that God intends for you to be. And that's the purpose of our ministries here. That's the purpose. Now, I got a couple minutes. Let me give you my real quick outline. Number one, the message of this ministry. How does this happen? How do we do that? Look at verse 28, the first word. He says, whom we preach. I notice he doesn't say what we preach. He says, whom we preach. Who would that home be? Jesus Christ. We preach Jesus Christ. Our message is our message from Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church in our Sunday School Children's Church buses from this pulpit out the radio through our literature ministries. Our message is not some teachings of a religion. Our message is not some church doctrines. Our message is not a list of do's and don'ts. It's not self-improvement or social justice. Our message is a person. It is Jesus Christ the Lord. The Son of God. That's our message. We're pointing people to Jesus Christ. Biblical Christianity is a personal relationship with a living Savior If I ask you this morning, do you know for sure your sins are forgiven? You go to heaven, and you say to me, Yes, I know I'm going to heaven because I'm a church membership, you are not a biblical Christian Salvation is not in church membership. Eternal life is not received through baptism or through joining a church Salvation, biblical Christianity is a personal relationship with a living Savior. May 7, 1979. You've heard me tell it a thousand times. I've knelt by my bed, 10:30 at night, a drug-addicted mess. And under the conviction of the Holy Spirit, after reading scriptures, I cried out and I called on a living Savior, not on a church doctrine. It was Jesus that I trusted in as my Savior. I wasn't putting my faith and trust in some creed. My faith and trust wasn't in some minister. It was in a living Savior, Jesus Christ. I was speaking that night to Jesus Christ Himself. And he heard me, and He saved my soul. There's not a church in the world can do for you and me what Jesus Christ does for us. There's not a person, a human being, can do for you and me what Jesus Christ does for us. Let us never forget Christianity is a supernatural personal relationship with a living Savior. And that's our message. Say, preacher, don't we preach doctrine? Yes, absolutely. If we're going to understand more about who this living Savior is, we've got to have some church doctrine. That's where you say amen, right there. But doctrine is important. These churches abandoning doctrine. Well, we're not going to preach doctrine. You're messing up. I'm telling you right now, you're messing up bad. We need church doctrine, but that doctrine points us to a living Savior. Jesus Christ. You follow me And so our message, whom we preach, we preach Jesus Christ. We preach Jesus Christ and Him crucified. In 2 Timothy 1. 12, Paul said this. He says, I know whom I have believed. And am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. Paul's faith was not in some doctrinal statement. Paul's faith was in the person of Jesus Christ. I know whom I have believed. He is able to keep that. Again, doctrine's important. Don't misunderstand. We're going to preach what that Bible teaches till the till As long as we got common sense, amen. We're going to preach it. But it's the person of Christ is our message. And so our message is Jesus Christ. Our message is Jesus Christ. Paul said, we preach Christ crucified He said in 2 Corinthians 4 5, he said, We preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord. So that's our message. Number two, our methods. How do we get this message of Christ out? Notice what he says: whom we preach, warning every man and teaching every man. Preach, warn, teach. That's the three methods. To preach means to publicly and confidently proclaim the message of Christ. Preaching Christ is a high priority. Preaching in the New Testament was a high priority. I want to remind you: John the Baptist preached. Jesus Christ preached. The Apostle Peter, he preached on the day of Pentecost. Paul preached in the churches and the towns and cities he went to. The entire church in the book of Acts They preached. They went everywhere preaching the gospel. That is the uh the mark of a New Testament church, is the preaching of Jesus Christ. Now the again, I'm not uh I don't have time to worry about what other churches are doing or not doing. Well I got my hands full with Mountain Lake. I tell you, some of this crowd here, I got my hands full, I'll tell you right now. But I think it would be a serious mistake if we would do away with the preaching in our church. I think that would be a mistake. To do away with the preaching. I love the music. I thank God for Brother Mark's leadership with the choir and the specials and the music here. It's just tremendous. And I thank God for all of it But I tell you, music does not replace the preaching of the Word of God. It is by the foolishness of preaching. That souls are saved. These bus workers get out there and they get in the homes. You know what they do? They preach the gospel. They don't stand up and hoot and holler and spit like I do. But they say very confidently, this is who Jesus Christ is. Excuse me, this is who Jesus Christ is. On the buses. Uh uh Evan, you guys preach on the buses? Do you have lessons and stuff sometimes? And they'll preach to the kids on the buses. I tell ya, we get these kids for like two hours, two and a half hours Sunday morning. We preach the devil at them the whole time. But we have a good time. But Paul said, preach whom we preach. Jesus was a preacher. John the Baptist, the final command of our Lord before he send it up, go into all the world and preach the gospel Paul's final instructions just before he died to his young preacher boy, his little uh mentor that he was working with, he said, Preach the word, be instant, preach. Popular or not, we ought to preach Christ. If we have big crowds, preach Christ. If we have little crowds, preach Christ. At home here in our community, we ought to preach Christ to every single person we can in our community. And on the foreign field, we ought to preach Christ to every single person we can We had in Sunday school a letter report from Brother James Scott over in Japan. You know what he's doing over in Japan? He's preaching Christ. He's preaching Christ. He learned that language. Bless his heart. I have a hard time with English, let alone Japanese He's preaching, preaching, preaching. Whom we preach. And then he says, teach. Or then he says, warn, whom we preach, warning every man. What does it mean to warn? It means to give notice of coming danger. You know, part of our message in preaching Christ is to warn people. We ought to warn people of the destructiveness of sin. Well uh every every Bible preaching pulpit, every Bible preaching pulpit ought to preach against sin. Say, preacher, that's not popular in our day and age. Maybe that's part of the problem of our day and age. If the Bible says it's wrong, we ought to preach it's wrong. The Bible calls it sin. We ought to warn people about the destructiveness of sin. What kind of doctor, who in the world would trust a doctor that if you're sick, he doesn't tell you you're sick? Well, I just don't want to be negative. You knucklehead, if I'm sick, I need to know about it so I can make it right. Amen or not. And nobody's going to get right with God until they first realize they're wrong with God. The preaching against sin. We ought to warn people. I'll tell you sin will destroy your life. I appreciate Pastor Matt. He takes a strong stand. I thank God for that with these young people. And he loves them and he is warning them what sin will do to their lives. We have enough adults here, enough older folks here. Stand up and testify, man, I wish I wouldn't have done some things I did years ago. I'm still paying the price for it. Can I get a witness? We warned people. He said, preaching and warning every man. We ought to warn people about sin. I tell you, if you've got sin in your life here this morning, I plead with you, confess that, forsake it, repent, get right with God. That's our message. Teaching, our method is preach and warn. We ought to warn the destiny of the unsaved We ought to warn unsaved people that there's judgment coming. We ought to warn unsaved people if they die in their sins, they're lost forever. I know hell isn't a popular message. I know judgment isn't a popular message in modern-day Christianity, but I'm telling you, it is still the truth of the Word of God. The tragedy is so many neglected and aren't warned, and they go out into eternity, and they find out after it's too late there is judgment. We ought to warn the unsaved of their destiny. And we ought to warn of the danger of neglect. The danger of neglect. We ought not to neglect our walk with the Lord. I'm telling you, I say this so much, and I mean it with all my heart. Every Christian ought to spend some time every day in the Bible. Just let God speak your heart. Let God instruct your mind. Let God direct your life. How much better it is to let the Lord lead my life. And for me to stumble through and try and figure things out. Prayer, church attendance, don't neglect these things. God has given these to us. To help us live the life we're designed to live. To help us have the blessing and the peace and the presence of God and the power of God that He intends for us to have. We cannot neglect our spiritual life. We ought to warn people of that. We ought to warn folks. So he says preaching and warning, and then he says teaching. To teach simply means to impart instruction. We ought to teach people the truth about God, what the Bible says about God. Here's the thing. Most people, God's a total stranger. Most folks they don't even know what God and who he is or what he's like or what he wants or how he operates. Tell you, we got all that information right there in the Bible. We ought to teach folks that. We ought to teach these little children. As I said, we ought to teach them who God is. We ought to teach them what their purpose is. And all of us, we need to teach that. Impart knowledge. I tell you what, uh Bible knowledge never hurt anybody. In fact, I've found that a society that gets more the more ignorant a society is of the teachings of the Word of God the more messed up that society becomes. They made a terrible mistake when they took the Bible out of our schools. They made a terrible mistake when preachers quit preaching and teaching the Bible Families make a terrible mistake when you stop having devotions and reading and teaching your children the Bible. The farther we, more ignorant we get of the Word of God, the more messed up our society and our homes and our lives are. He says, teach, preach, warn, teach. And then last of all, I am with this, the magnitude of our ministry. Look what he says here. Whom we preach, warning, look at this. every man, and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present what Every man. Three times. Every man. Every man. Every man. I get the impression here, God wants every man to know about the Lord Jesus Christ. I get the impression here, God wants everybody to know Christ. No one excluded. God wants rich people to know about the Lord Jesus Christ. God wants poor people to know about the Lord Jesus Christ. God wants big people to know about the Lord Jesus Christ. He wants small people to know to know about Jesus Christ. He wants the tall, dark, and handsome to know the Lord. And he wants the um I was going to say short, fat, and ugly, but I'm not going to say that. He wants the other side of that to know the Lord. You know, God's love for you is not dependent upon your appearance. Thank God for that. Amen. Thank God for that. And by the way, some of you young folks, quit making the quit believing the world's lie that your value is dependent upon your appearance. Your physical makeup. What a lie of the devil. I'm glad God commended his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. I'm glad God loved and was willing to save an ugly teenage boy, or I'd be lost. Uh rich, poor, big, small, in between, uh red and yellow, black and white Every man, every man, every man. That means that means even West Virginia folks. How about that? Our God is a gracious God. I'm glad He saves every man. What if He only picked a few? What if you and I'd be left out of that few he picked? Wouldn't that be awful? God's not that way. Thank God. Every man, every man, every man. Uh that means, folks, that means God wants Americans to be saved. That means God wants Africans to be saved and Asians and Russians and Ukrainians. You say, preacher, they're fighting each other. Yeah, if they got saved, that'd stop. Huh? South America. Here's something interesting. Let me just throw this out. FBN, I was down at Brother Eborne's funeral back in February, whenever it was. They said that there's a station, an ice station in Antarctica. There's only like 60 people on the whole continent of Antarctica. They're in this in this ice station. And one of them got on the internet down there and got listening to FBN, Fundamental Broadcasting Network, on their computer in the ice station in Antarctica. Now they didn't get any response back, but their computer pinged, it picked it up that they had been on at least 15 minutes in that ice station in Antarctica. Hey, God wants people in Antarctica, in uh, how do you say it? Antarctica to be saved. God wants Eskimos. Every man. You will not look in the eyes of a person that God does not love. You'll never happen. You'll never see a person, you'll never observe a person who Jesus did not die for. You'll never meet a person who cannot be saved if they would be willing to trust Christ. God wants every man. He's not willing that any should perish. If you're here, you're under the sound of my voice, or you're here this morning And you do not have assurance in your heart that Jesus Christ is your personal Savior, I'm here to tell you right now, with all my heart and the authority of this book, God wants to save your soul. Wants to give you a new life, new purpose, new meaning. Amen. When I first came here years ago, 1993, We started just went out and started knocking on doors. I remember I can take you the first homes the first week. I got here on Thursday, September 16th, I think it was. The 19th, I preached my first sermons, the services as pastor. Monday, actually Saturday, I did a little bit. Monday, I was out knocking on doors. I can tell you right where I was at, the street I went to. I just knocked on doors and said, I just want to introduce myself. I'm the new pastor over here at the Baptist church and like to invite you out. I'd found some literature in here and kind of wrote on by hand, wrote our church name on it and was giving it out. And people started getting saved. I don't know if anybody remembers the Eddington family. First family led to Christ, one of the first. Here's another lady lived out on 560, led her to the Lord. And then the Eastman family. And then others. And all these folks were getting saved. They didn't have their driver's license at that time. And God began changing our life. So we were picking them up in our cars, and I just drove a little uh uh a little sun dance Then and so man I'd packed that thing out making two, three trips, then I got some others, Marvin and different others, said, Well you go pick up hell and I think you got in. I said, Well you go pick up these folks, they got saved, they don't have And they're picking them up. And I want it so bad to have a bus ministry. I want it to, but I wanted the church to be behind it. I want them to do it just because I said. I was praying, Lord, I'd really like to get this bus going. Help me know when. And finally, we were making four or five trips every service, bringing people in. Finally, one of the fellows said to me, Preacher, what if we would get a bus? I said, that's brilliant. So we got a bus all these years trying to reach every man, teaching them, preaching, and warning and teaching. And then all the other ministries. Why do we do what we do? We want people to know the Lord. Want people to find forgiveness and eternal life in Christ. God uses the local church to do that. Whether it's buses or radio or literature, your personal witness, that's why we do what we do. Father, I ask you to continue to use our church. God keep us and stir us and help us to never forget what our purpose is, what we're all about. And we ask you to help us. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I want to someone say, Preacher, I need to get right with the Lord. There's areas in my life that are not right. And I want my life to be right. I want my heart and mind to be pure. And I want my life to be what God wants it to be. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. There's some areas in my life that really need adjustment. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, pray with me. God bless you. Hands around. Maybe there's some say, preacher, I'd sure like to be served the Lord more diligently, more faithfully, more consistently. I'd like to be a part of what God's purpose for this church is. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will direct me and use me in his service. Anything like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you. Hands all around. I wonder if there's some say, Preacher, I'm not saved. I don't know for sure my sins are forgiven. And you'd say, pray with me. I need to get that settled. I'm here to tell you, don't play with that Don't play with your soul. Get that settled. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. I need to trust the Lord as my Savior. I know I do And you'd say, Pray for me, help me. Father, I ask now, you bless our imitation in Jesus' name. Amen.