Peter chapter number five, verse number ten is what we're looking at. Like I said, we've uh really just parked here for a little bit. I'll try and Maybe wrap this up here from this verse and it won't be probably too many more messages and we'll finish up uh 1 Peter uh the book of first Peter. I'm thinking, I'm praying ahead, playing ahead a little bit. I think what I might do is we finish up 1 Peter. Might just just keep running right into 2 Peter and just pick up and keep on going through there is what I have in mind So um let's look at verse 10. The Bible says, but the God of all grace, don't you love that name for God, that title for God, the God of all grace. The God of all grace, who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus. Now look at this statement Peter's making. He's writing to these persecuted believers scattered all around He's sending this letter out to them, trying to encourage them. And look what he says. He says, after that ye have suffered a while Make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. As I look at that and study that, that looks to me like he's giving four results of suffering. Or, the way I've been wording it, for benefits of suffering, how it helps us, what suffering, going through a hardship, difficulty, a heartache, a disappointment, what that does for us, how that can help us. If we respond properly to it. You've heard this. This is a little cliche, but it's true. Heartaches and affliction can make you bitter, or it can make you better Right? We can get bitter about it, we can get mad, just be hateful. Or we can trust God. And like Robin said, just have faith in God. Trust Him. Wait on Him And uh let him use that difficulty to help us. So let's pray together and look at this verse here, finish this up. Father in heaven, we come to this passage once again, and I'm just so uh all these years, Lord, I'm still amazed. And how deep your word is. And just one verse, so much truth there that we can learn from. And I pray as we dip again into this well of 1 Peter 5. 10 That you would refresh our souls, that you would teach us. And Lord, I pray for myself and as pastor for our church that we would not be bitter, that we would not be a bitter people. But that we could be better, we could be strong in our faith, we could be a shining testimony to the goodness and grace of God even when things don't go our way. Even when we're tried and tested. And so fill me with your Spirit. Holy Spirit, provoke our hearts, teach us, and stir us. that uh we c we can grow even in the difficult times. So have your way, Lord, I pray tonight in Jesus' name. Amen. If you remember, we already pointed out there when he says in the middle of the verse there, he says, after that ye have suffered, And uh I circled the word after there. To me, that implies that, number one, suffering is inevitable. We already talked about that at night. But um you can't get through life without going through heartaches You can't get through life without shedding tears and uh having difficulties, having affliction, having trials. Uh it seems like sometimes some people have more than others, doesn't it? Uh y that old song, Nobody Knows the Troubles I've Seen. You know, and we we sing that and we think about that, but Uh we all do. We all go through it. So then number one, we said that trouble, that suffering is inevitable. Then notice what he says. He says, after that Ye have suffered a while. He injects that little statement in there. You know what he's telling us with that little statement, a while? He's telling us that suffering is temporal It's not forever. It doesn't last forever. Sooner or later we come out of it. Some people say, preacher, I've suffered my whole life through. I'm glad there's a new day coming when suffering will be behind us And by the way, that heaven, that day going to heaven, whether it's through the grave or through rapture, that is just as real as the day we live through today. And suffering is temporal. Now, 99% of the storms we go through here in life, they seem like they last forever, but sooner or later the sun comes back out I remember the first winter we moved here. I came in 93. Now back in the previous century, 1900s, right? Sounds like a long time ago. But back then, seems like there was bigger storms, snowstorms, than there is now. Winters were rough. Seems like since that Hurricane Sandy went through, we don't have the big storms we used to have And uh we got here that first winter and it snowed the first week of November. I mean eight, nine inches, covered the ground. And I thought, wow, that's that's something. And uh we never saw the grass until April of the next year. And that's the truth. And I'll tell you, I got thinking around the end of February, March, in March, we still got a foot of snow on the ground. I didn't I didn't the grass, I haven't seen grass in six months And I I I've got thinking in my head, something happened to the Earth's uh axis and it's winter forever I mean it's going to be this way forever. And you know, sooner or later that snow melted and we saw the grass again. And that's what Peter said. It's not forever. After a while. Might be a long time sometimes, but eventually we come out of that thing. And there's hope. There's light at the end of the tunnel. is what he's saying. And then we notice here he says, after that you have suffered a while. And then he set makes it he gives these four benefits. of suffering. Four benefits of suffering. Suffering is beneficial. He says, strengthen uh after you suffered a while, make you perfect. Stablish, strengthen, settle you. Four benefits of suffering. Let me give these to you real quick. We won't spend a long time on each. But the first one he says, he says, suffering, first of all, will perfect the believer. Do you see that there after you suffered a while? Make you perfect. The word perfect means this. Now, it doesn't mean sinless. Alright? He's not saying, oh, if you suffer all this, you'll come out of it. You're perfect. You don't ever sin, you're just perfect. It's not what he's saying at all, not even remotely. If somebody tells you they are sinlessly perfect, ask their spouse. I said that just recently. But uh that's not what he's saying. The word perfect means this: to be complete. Make you complete. If there's some areas in your life missing, it helps make you complete. It means this. I like this aspect of the definition. To restore or put back in place. Another, here's a real interesting, I love word studies, and I like to see how they're used in other places of Scripture. It helps you grasp what God's saying. And that word perfect is sometimes used in our Bible to mean to mend. Um I don't know if they do it anymore, but used to be if you got a hole in your sock, you would mend that sock. Right? Do people still do that? I think you just throw them away, no. You guys do? Uh mend your shop. I just wear them with a hole and my toe sticks through. It's just whatever. Anybody remember the custard stand downtown? That where the old Laundromat used to be there, where Walgreens is now. We went down there one Sunday night, Kathy and I, after church, summertime. We're sitting there And uh they had a little wall there, a retaining wall. We got our ice cream, we're sitting there and just um uh you know, being together. And um This guy walks over, total stranger. He walks over and he says to Kathy, he said, um, he says, you're a Christian, aren't you? I don't know why he didn't say it to me, but uh And she goes, Yeah. And he goes, I could tell. He said, You dress holy. She had a skirt on, everything. He said, You dress holy, I could tell you were a Christian. And we took that as a great compliment. Well thank you He walked away and I said to her, I said, He thinks you dress holy, he should see my socks. And so That word, make you perfect, it has the idea of mending us. In other words, if something's out of whack in my life, Something isn't what it ought to be. Something's torn or broken in my life. God can use suffering to help repair that. Keep your place here, if you would, and I find this fascinating, but go to Matthew chapter number seven, if you would. Or I'm sorry, Matthew chapter four. And verse number twenty-one, Matthew chapter four, and verse twenty-one Jesus is calling these disciples and he comes across a couple guys who said, follow me, I'll make you fishers of men. Of course, these fellows are out there fishing. And verse 19 of Matthew chapter 4 it says, And he saith unto them, Follow me, I'll make you fishers of men. And they straightway left their nets and follow him. So he moves on down the along the shore here of the of the sea And uh going on from thence, he saw other two brethren. James, the son of Zebedee, and John, his brother in a ship with Zebedee their father. Look what they're doing. What are they doing? Mending their nets. That word mending there is the exact same word as the word Peter uses when he says, will perfect you. God, if we let God, if we let him, if we'll trust him and submit to him and follow his instructions And we go through a heartache and we go through adversity and we go through a trial and we suffer for whatever the cause may be, whatever, what we suffer for something God says if we'll trust him, he can use that to mend us. How many people here say, preacher, I could use a little mending in my life? Sure. We all need that. And part of our repair, part of our being made complete, part of our being what God intends for us to be, part of that needs to go through a difficult time. A trying time, a suffering to mend us. I think suffering helps us clarify or correct our priorities. You know somebody, a doctor comes in, doctor comes in and says, we found a fatal disease You have so long to live. And I've dealt with a lot of people like that. We all know people. You have so long to live. Would you agree with me? That tends to clarify my priorities. Little bit. Suddenly the things that were so important before don't seem quite as important as they were before. You follow me what I'm saying? And so God can use a heartache, a difficulty, all of a sudden, oh man, I need to get my priorities back on. I need my priorities mended. I work with people all the time, and so often I see folks, and what they consider to be so important in life, and I'm thinking from a biblical perspective, that's really not that important. There are things far more important. Would you agree with me? Salvation of a man's soul is far more important than the size of his bank account. Brother, you get somebody to go through a difficulty and they're facing maybe they're facing death and suddenly they start thinking we were at we were talking uh yesterday or uh fingerprints I think it was, we were talking about a fellow years ago, came to our wild game dinner. He didn't want nothing to do with church. He didn't want nothing to do with God. I went out and visited him. He was not interested in anything I had to say. He was not interested in anything the Bible or God had to say. He just wasn't interested in any of that. He was hoping to win a gun About a month or so later, I got a phone call to this guy. He said, Preacher Leatherman, he said, I said, yeah. He said, this so-and-so. I said, hey. He said, I need to talk to you. Said, okay. Went out to his place, sat down, he says, they found something on my lungs. They give me two, three months to live. He says, I need you to help me get ready. I need you to help me be prepared to meet God. Would you agree with me? His priorities changed. His values change, and God sent that by. I talk often about old uh uh Jim McRoby, cirrhosis of the liver. Ruptures, they make a mistake, they rupture his liver, cancer gets in his body, can't do anything, and the old boy gets saved. He made this statement to me, said Preacher, if this is what it took to bring me to Christ, it's worth it His priority chase. After you suffer, while I'll make you perfect. Sometimes you and I as Christians, our priorities can get out of whack and our values get out of whack. And our perspective, we start seeing things under the sun, looking on a horizontal way, and we forget to see things from God's perspective. And brother, God turns our world upside down, suddenly we start seeing things the way they really are And so there are benefits to suffering. Nobody likes it. Nobody wants to have affliction. Nobody wants to go through that. But sometimes that's what God uses to mend us. To perfect us, to get us back into the position and condition where we need to be. Um Sometimes our faith in God needs to be mended. Robin gave testimony. I was questioning God. Oh, why why even pray? Boy God puts us through it sometimes, some stress and whatnot, and then we see what God does, and our faith in God gets back where it ought to be Follow what I'm saying? Uh there's a lady when I was youth pastor in Indianapolis, there was um a lady, an older lady, attended the church real faithful. She was She was just there, just in her place, real faithful, regul all every service about. For the life of me, I cannot remember her name. She had a daughter, she always wanted us to pray for her daughter. It was away from God, away from God, away from God. Pray for her daughter. And uh I never met her daughter until she passed away. We had the funeral there at the church, and a daughter was sitting down with the family. And the preacher just gave a funeral message, nothing spectacular, just gave the truth, the gospel, gave a challenge to folks. If you're saved, trust the Lord. If you're not saved, trust the Lord. If you're saved, give your life to Christ And that daughter was broken. And I mean, I remember out at the graveside, she was just weeping And we talked to her later on, and she goes, I'm weeping, I miss my mother, but I'm weeping because I've been so far from God. And God got my attention. I need to get back in fellowship with the Lord. And after that, she was in church, faithful. And going on, growing. You know what God did? God used a broken heart to mend her, to perfect her, bring her back where she needs to be. So one of the benefits of suffering is to perfect the believer. Then notice what he says. Come back here. He says there uh he says After that you have suffered a while, make you perfect, stablish you. So suffering, a benefit of suffering, perfects the believer, it establishes the believer. Now what in the world does that word stablish mean? It means this, to stabilize. It means to fix firmly in place. I like this definition, to make constant. In other words, no wavering back and forth, in and out, on and off, hot and cold. To put firmly in the right direction. You know, heartache and suffering and disappointment and affliction has helped a lot of people change the direction that their life was going in. They're going one way, God turns them upside down, inside out. They get uh God uses that to establish them, they get going firmly in the right direction, no wavering, no on and off again, but just get established. Suffering. God permits suffering into our life sometimes to establish us, get us grounded. Did you ever meet somebody that's flighty? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Oh, they're just flighty. Blondes. I'm joking. My wife, uh, or folks from my wife is a blonde and she's from West Virginia. I'm telling you, I had fun. And um and so all these blonde jokes and her and her sister would years ago would send blonde jokes back because her sister's blonde also. So they'd send these blonde jokes back and forth, and they would send these uh West Virginia jokes back and forth. But the thing is, they didn't know they were jokes, they thought they were testimonies. They were sending them uh to each other And uh that has nothing to do with the message, I just thought of that. But uh uh sometimes uh sometimes Christians can get flighty Spiritually. I'm just here, and then we're over there, and playing with this, and playing with that, and driven about with every wind of doctrine. And all this best-selling book from this quote-unquote Krishna, oh. And then all this guy, this new contemporary band, oh. And just run around, run around, run around. You know what? I found folks that have suffered and been through difficulties and heartaches, they tend to be grounded. It tends to settle that down, establish us so we're not just blown around, blown around, blown around. But it gets us, helps us be firm in our walk with God, our commitment to God. Um several winters ago, or the driveway of the church comes right out down here, and right across the road is my house, and almost directly in line with the driveway is my mailbox And one of the men that helps plow the parking lot sometimes keeps backing into my mailbox and knocking it over. Now I won't say who it is. He lives across the road there. But um And man I kept backing into that thing and knocking it over. So finally, and one time it was bad, it was busted over. I tried I thought about calling the state and telling them that the snowplow did it so they'd repair it for me, but that wouldn't have been honest, and so I didn't do it So I called Derek up. I said, Derek, can you help me fix this mailbox? He says, sure. So we dug that thing out. And I don't know, we dumped a whole bunch of bags of cement down in there. I mean that thing is like the rock of Gibraltar over there. I'm waiting for somebody to back into it. It'll tear the truck up, I guarantee it Uh a couple years ago in winter our our dye wire for their tower back here got pulled up inadvertently. Somebody was blowing our our our parking lot out and they ac it was accidental and they pulled that thing up and the whole story with that. I called Brother Mark I said, Mark, can you help fix this thing? I'm telling you. He pour how much cement you pour down in there? I don't know, it's it was four by four thing. Four yards of cement, whatever it is, it was a bunch. We got an I-beam stuck down inside there, this huge I-beam, ten inch I-beam And that thing is anchored down. I'm telling you the space shuttle couldn't pull that thing out of there. And that's the idea behind that word stablish. God can use difficulty and suffering in our life to just get us grounded and say, no more of this flipping around, no more on again, off again, no more of this flightiness. I'm taking my spiritual well-being seriously. And I'm getting settled on the things of God. I'm getting established on what I know is true. and my pleat my feet are being cemented into that and I shall not be moved. I can't think of one instance where somebody being very wealthy and luxurious and a life of ease has caused them to be established in their faith. But I'll tell you some of the strongest faith I've ever seen in people have been in the lives of people who have been through it, if you know what I mean. Have been hurt, have struggled, have had opposition and adversity, and it just strengthened them, it established them in the faith. Tell you, Book of Acts, those people were unmovable. You couldn't shut them up from the gospel, you couldn't move them from Christ. And you study Acts, and they paid a price. They were hounded like dogs. And God used that to establish them. I don't want suffering. I don't want opposition. I don't want persecution. I do tell you what I do want. I want to be established. I don't want to be wit- I don't want to wishy-washy uh flighty uh spiritual walk with God. I want to be established. And sometimes it takes suffering. Sometimes it takes suffering. Number one, it perfects the believer. Number two, it establishes the believer. Um get some, make some, I put this down, tough as steel. God knows we need some Christians are tough as steel. Number three, I'll put this down. It strengthens the believer. Look what he said. After you've suffered a while, make you perfect, establish strength in you. That word strengthen means just what you think it would mean, it means to be filled with strength. He's talking about spiritual strength, not physical strength. I tell you, I'll be honest with you, I'd rather be strong spiritually and weak physically than to be strong physically and weak spiritually. Strengthen you, strengthen you. Trials do more to strengthen our faith than comfort and ease. I have um I'm a little bit of a just I'm a little bit of a pyromaniac, a little bit. I like to build fires and burn stuff down and you know, stuff like that. And um I have a fire pit in my back on the deck in the back of our house. A little fire not a fireplace, but a fire Wait, huh? It's not really a pit, a ring, you know, one of those things. And you put fire in it. And um So I got one of those on the back deck and I like to build fire. And to me it ain't a fire, but it's a little flame like that. A fire is And so I'd pile the wood in there, and um we won't talk about the fire that fell out, but I learned something in playing with fire. I learned that if you just have a little flame, just a little flame, and a strong wing comes by, what happens to that little flame? Blows it out. If it's just a little tiny flame. When it's a little tiny flame, you just blow very gently on it. Not a strong wind, not not a lot of suffering. Not a lot of opposition and push, just a little bit, and it makes it grow. But you know I found out when that fire is up and burning, there's a good strong flame there And that wind comes out from the back of the house and comes across that deck. And that wind, you know what that does? That strong wind does to a good strong fire? It inflames it. Man, whoo! Man, that thing starts blowing. I found you can uh get that little fire, you gotta just blow on it gently to get it going. You got a good one going, you get the leaf blower out. And you know what you know what adversity and suffering does? It makes our faith stronger. Now we just have a little weak faith. Brother, if we're not careful, that sorrow, that difficulty can just blow the faith out. But our faith is in Christ. Our faith is strong, and that those winds of sorrow, those winds of adversity blow against us. If we'll trust God, if we'll follow his instructions, He can make that faith stronger and stronger and stronger. I tell you, there's so many names going through in my mind right now of folks, older folks I've known throughout the years of my ministry. That were absolutely powerhouses of faith. And every one of them, without exception, Have had tremendous heartache, tremendous difficulties, tremendous opposition, and God used that to strengthen their faith. Follow what I'm saying? So number one, perfects us. Number two, establishes us. Number three, strengths us. Let me give you end with this one. It settles the believer. Look what he says. Oh, by the way, back in 2 Corinthians 12, 7, Paul said, he said, I had an affliction, a thorn in the flesh. I sought the Lord three times to take that from me, and God wouldn't do it. And God said, My grace is sufficient for thee. He said, Paul, I'm going to let you suffer. I'm going to let you, I'm going to allow you to keep suffering. I'm going to allow you to deal with this. Because when you are weak, Then I'm strong in your life. And sometimes it's not our strength that enables us to go through suffering. We realize how weak we are, and then we see how strong God is. And He's His strength is what sees us through. That's where I made the statement a little bit ago. I'd rather be weak physically and strong spiritually than strong physically and weak spiritually. And then last of all, it settles the believers. See what he says there? He says, after a while make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. The word settle simply means to lay a foundation. I learned so much with this building of this building over here. And the very first thing we did, first thing you do, you build a building, you do what? You dig it up and you what? You lay a foundation. You put something that that building can rest on, something unmovable, that building settles on, rests on. And suffering can establish a foundation, a spiritual foundation in our life. Temporal things lose their significance. When we go through difficult uh difficult things. When everything's going well and everything's wonderful, oh uh most important what's the most important thing in your life? Oh, I gotta get that 52-inch television That's what I need in my life. Brother, you let the winds of adversity come. You let your you let get your world turned upside down. Suddenly that 52-inch television ends so important. Now I need some more substance in my life to build my life on, right or wrong? A television makes a terrible foundation for a life Material things and stuff. We were down in Dominican and uh We met Christians down there. We met some Christians down there that have a spiritual foundation that some American Christians really need. And didn't live in fancy houses. They just live in in little sheds down there. But man, they are grounded in the Word of God, in a relationship with God. And all this temporal stuff doesn't mean a whole lot to them. Back. And that's true around the world. And I'm not saying nobody in America is that way, but I say us Americans, we have so much stuff we lose sight of what the foundation needs to be. We got so much stuff we can't even park our cars in the garage. In fact, we need to hot we need to buy storage areas to keep all our stuff. And yet divorce and fighting and depression and suicide is skyrocketing, and we have so much stuff. You know why? We've got the wrong foundations in our life. Sometimes God has to turn our world upside down to get back and get that foundation where it ought to be. Come with me if you would. I'm going to end with this. Matthew chapter 7. Matthew chapter 7 is the third chapter in the Sermon on the Mound, the final chapter in the Sermon on the Mound, chapter 5, 6, and 7. And at the end of chapter 7, the Lord gives his, basically his invitation to his sermon on the mound, beginning in verse number 24. Now he's just preached this sermon on the mountain, the Beatitudes, blessed are the poor in spirit. He says, you're the salt of the earth. And he goes through this whole tremendous sermon. And he winds it down in verse number 24, and he makes this statement, therefore, because of all that I've just preached to you, Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, he's saying, don't just walk out of this service. You heard it, and that's it. Go out and put it into place, put it into practice. Do it them, I will liken him unto a wise man which build his house upon a what? A rock. The obedience to the word of God, in spite of whatever's happening to me, is a rock. Look what he says. And the rains descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house. Would you agree with me? Suffering, difficulty, storms of life. Man, beat on that house and look what happened. And it fell not. Because it was founded upon a rock, had a foundation. Look there at the next. And everyone that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not shall be likened unto a foolish man which built his house upon the what? Sand. That's the temporal things of life, movable stuff that doesn't last. Whole life is built on that. The rain descended, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat upon the house. Trials, difficulties came. And it fell. And great was the fall thereof. It came to pass when Jesus ended these sayings that people were astonished. You know what he's saying? He's saying, listen, storms are inevitable. And those storms will reveal to me what my life is built on, whether it's a solid foundation or it's just stuff And the danger to American Christians, where we have it so well, we are so wealthy, is that we build our life on temporal stuff that will not stand. And we need to push all that stuff aside, and we need to get our life built, not on that next gadget we want, or the newest phone, or the latest get uh gizmo. But we need to build our life on a solid walk with God. And trials will show us where we're at with that. Charles Spurgeon, a great preacher, years gone by, he said this: listen to this quote: The good that I have received from my sorrows and pains and griefs is altogether incalculable. The good that he's received from trials and pains and griefs, sorrows. Affliction is the best bit of furniture in my house It is the best book in a minister's library. Affliction. He says, I've learned more for it, and it's done more good to me than anything else I have. I'm going to remind you. Number one, God is good. Say, oh, you don't know my situation. You're right, I don't, but I know this. God's good. Number two, God will not forsake his people. Whatever we go through, God will not forsake you. God will not forsake Paul. God will not forsake Betty. God will not forsake Ed or Ms. Hall. God will not forsake us. In our trials. Number three, God's word will never fail us. This word is true. When everything's going well, when everything's going wrong, this word is true. We can count on it. Number four, God is absolutely trustworthy. We can trust Him. Number five, God's power is necessary. We need God's strength. And number six, I put this down: God is a loving Heavenly Father. He's our Father. Two things have gripped my heart and mind this year in my personal devotions. I have a little prayer thing I go through, and the very first category of my prayer routine Is worshiping God, recognizing who and what God is. And I repeat it back to him. And the very first two statements on there, and this has just struck me this year, number one, he is my creator. I am his. He's my authority. He created me. He calls the shots. He's my creator. And number two on that list, he's my heavenly father. And I can't think of two greater understandings of who and what God is. Number one, he's my creator, and number two, he's my heavenly father. And he loves me. I'm his child. God will see me through. If I'll just trust him. Amen. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. We don't like sorrow. We're not asking for it. We don't want it. But Lord, when it comes, pray you'd help us to trust you. Or when it comes, help us to draw near to you and benefit. And let it make us perfect, established, strengthened, and settled. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many folks would say, Preacher, I want God to use the trials in my life to make me a better Christian? Any like that? Sure. Who in the world wouldn't want that? And maybe we need to just come and say, God, I give myself to you in the midst of this. Maybe you're going through it. If you're not going through it now, maybe you're just coming out of it. Maybe you're fixing to go into it. I don't know. But we need the Lord. Paul said, when I'm weak, he's strong. Let's just, as we finish out this Lord's day, go in a new new work week. Let's just give ourselves, maybe an old altar, say, here I am, Lord. I want you to do what you need to do in my life. Do what you need to do in my life. Taking Lord's Supper here in a moment. Maybe, Lord, here I am. I want my heart and mind clean. I just want to give it all. I want to acknowledge. I just want it to be right. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together.