Mine doesn't have anything in it, so I had to pull the one out of my shirt pocket. Maybe yours is like mine. It has a bunch of air in it. Okay, pull out some kind of bill. Here I got a dollar bill. Okay I want to see all this bills. I want to see people actually doing. How many got bill? Okay, I see some back there. Good. Somebody's participating in this. Some sort of bill. Okay And Cadessa number one here, we have with us a Mountain Dew. An ordinary Mountain Dew. It's got flavor, it's got sugar, it's just like any other Mountain Dew. Kids love it. They want to be wired. Right here it is. A Mountain Dew. On the other hand, by the way, this is all illustration. I will make that very clear before we get it too far with this. We have my laptop. Very good quality laptop. I use this to type my sermons, I use this to email people, I use this to check out the team trips and all that. I use this, this is a big part of my life. I use this for work I use it for fun. So we have a high quality laptop. Now, in your hand should be some sort of bill. Okay? Now, if I was to put these up for sale And you only had one choice. Now remember this is illustration here. How many would buy the Mountain Dew? A few people would actually buy the Mountain Dew with that belt. How many would buy this laptop? A number of you that's what I was expecting, yes. Now a question. Why in the world would you buy the laptop over the mountain dew? I mean it's a good Mountain Dew. Just an ordinary Mountain Dew. I mean Probably tastes good. In fact, it would taste good. I wish I could have it right now, but it ain't mine, so I'll just leave it there. But you're willing to pay more, or you're just willing to get this one for the same price. Why Because you want to get the value out of that bill that you have in your hands right there. You want to get the best you can out of it. What am I getting at? Dr. Lee Robinson once said nothing will take place on the plain preaching and Teaching of the Word of God. Nothing is so needed in this hour as a return to the Bible. Nothing is more needed than a return to the Bible. You know, the Bible's been referred to in life as maybe a roadmap to heaven, a roadmap for life. I've heard others referred to as a crown jewel. I refer, some people in the message referred to it as a great tool. And can I say tonight or refer to tonight as the greatest bill in your wallet? The Bible. Now what am I getting at? You know, we go through the Bible, we can see all different types of points with it, but just like this illustration, you have it there. But are you getting the best you can out of it? Or are you just getting, you know, what satisfies you, what you can get by with, the Mountain Dew, but not getting what you could. The more valuable thing. And that's what I want to look at tonight. I want you to be able to get the greatest value out of the Word of God. We need the Bible in our lives. Psalm 119 in your Bibles, if you have it, turn there into Psalm 119. And no, Brother Ed, I am not going to cover all of those verses. We'd be here all night. But thank the Lord we can cover just a little bit and it shares the truth with our lives. But Psalm 119 displays over a hundred reasons why in the world we should get the best we can out of the Bible. Why in the world is this Bible meaningful to us? I thought interesting and I can't believe I couldn't believe how well God works things out. Like this morning's message went along with Pastor's series on faith, how we need to have faith for salvation. And tonight's message, going along with the King James Bible series, how we need the Word of God in our lives and get the best value you can out of it. Psalm 119, we'll get into it in just a minute, but I want to show three biblical principles to show you how to get the best out of the greatest bill in your wallet, the Bible. Let's go ahead and open with prayer. Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you so much for this day given to us, and Lord, I thank you for your blessings to us each and every day. And Father Lord, as I share this message that you've laid upon my heart, Lord, I ask, Lord, that you just give me the strength and the ability to be able to do it. Father, it's not me, I pray, but it's you speaking through me. I pray it's not me preaching with your word, but your word using me to share its message. Lord, I pray that you help everyone here, that you touch all of our hearts. Touch my heart, I pray. And Lord, I pray that this truth would be revealed to us about your word today. In Christ's name. Amen. The Bible here. Three basic principles that can help us with our life about the Bible. Number one, the first principle I have, I got three. God blesses those who live by the principles in the Bible. God blesses those who live by the principles in the Bible. If you have your Bible there, Psalm 119, look at verse 1. Blessed are the undefiled in the way who walk in the law of the Lord. Blessed are they that keep his testimonies and that seek him. with a whole heart. This man that has the word of God, this man with the Bible, who has the principles of the Bible, he's blessed. You know, I see three words here that the author here points out that shows us this man is blessed. Why this man is blessed from the Bible He blesses those, God blesses those who walk in the Bible. We read that in verse 1. Bless are the undefiled in the way who walk in the Bible. the law of the Lord. By the way, when we read this passage, you'll see the Bible described it in a number of ways. It's His law. It's what we find that sets the standards. It's his precepts, it's his statues, and you'll see all these different ways. But they are pointing to what God's word is for you. We see here, first of all, that he walks in the law of the word. Now, if you don't get anything out of this message, I think you'll get some great scholarship out of this part right here. You know what that word walk means? It means the walk. Pretty smart, isn't it? But this man, that is his lifestyle. The word of God and the principles from it, he walked his daily life living by those principles He has a decision he's going to make. He bases it on the Word of God. He has a choice to make. He bases it on the Word of God. And the Word of God is his lifestyle. You know, we could use a world that uses the Word of God for its lifestyle. Some people that were willing just to take a stand and say, you know what, the Bible says this, and that's how I'm going to do it. The Bible suggests this, I'm going to do it this way. The Bible commands this, I'm going to do it this way. God says this, and this is how I'm going to do it. But many Tay are not like that. You know, they'll pick and choose. If you see some people with their Bibles, this is the way their Bible is. Well let me find it here. Let's see. You know what? I believe in going to church. That part of the Bible. But here where you know prayer every day, come on, really? We don't need that necessarily. Oh, relationships with our no. That ain't how the standard goes. You know what? I like that. I don't like that one either. You know what? We'll keep this one. And by the time you get down to their Bible, all that's left is the verse we find in the book of Judges that says there was no kings in Israel in those days. And every man did that which was right in their own eyes. That's our society today. It's not what God says, it's what man says. Walk in the law of the Lord, pfft, who cares about that? Let's do it our way. Let's do it my way. Hey young people, be careful of that mentality of yeah, you're your own boss, do what you want By the way, you adults, don't be afraid to hurt their self-esteem, so to say. Share with them what the Word of God has to say. Thus saith the Lord. That's how it is. This man walked in the way of the Lord, and guess what? It didn't hurt him. He was blessed. Not only was he blessed because he walked in the way of the Lord, but he was blessed because he keeps the way of the Lord. When we read verse 2, it says, Blessed are they that keep his testimonies. I like that word, testimonies. What do testimonies do? Somebody tell me. Give a testimony. I'll give you a hand. It starts out. It testifies. You know what God's Word does? It testifies that this is true. We stand and we sit there and we try to look through the Bible and see how we can prove that it's right when you don't have to. It proves itself. It testifies of what God says and how it is true. God's word. And it says He keeps it. You ever hear the verse, keep thy heart with all diligence, for all out of it are the issues of life? The same keep is used there. It has the idea of putting a guard up So this man not only walks in the word of God, but this man also keeps it. Now it's not saying that he doesn't share it with others No, we'll get to that later on. But what it is saying is, you know what? It's not departing from his lifestyle. You know, Joshua was told to do that. Keep this Book in his life. You know, we look at Psalmist in Psalm chapter number one. He kept the book. You know, we need to get the idea, we need to keep the book. What do I mean by that? We go through life when we make a decision for God at the altar. By the way, I believe in going to the altar making decisions. I believe people should know that we are willing to take a stamp of our God We get into mentality like, oh, I'll just make a decision there, my seat. And you know what? That's fine. I understand that. God does bless that. But you know, people need to know that we stand for what God says is true. You look at Joshua and the idea of he was telling the Israelites, you know, choose you this day whom you will serve. He had them make a public decision They need to choose who they were going to serve with their lifetime and let everybody else know. And you need to take a stand for God and let everybody else know. Not to brag on yourself, but let you know, hey, this is the right way to go, and that's the way I'm going But this man, he kept God's law. He kept it as a part of his lifestyle. So he's going through his life. He makes a decision for the Lord. Five weeks later, that decision is challenged. You know, am I going to change it? Am I going to alter it? You know, that's not what I really meant. What God's Word really that's not what this man does. He says, God's word was true then, it's true today still, and I'm not moving That needs to be our mentality. Many times we'll go to the altar and we'll get down on our hands and knees and say, Oh Lord God, I need to make this decision right. I need to choose what to do. And you do what's right and you get all emotional about it and then they go down the next week and they change their mind about it. It shouldn't be that way. We should do what is right all the time. Oh, we're sinners, we're going to mess up. Yes, we will. We don't have to have that mentality about it. I'm a diehard NASCAR fan, and I'm not afraid to show it Most of those drivers were going to mess up sometimes, but you know what? They don't have that mentality, oh I'm going to mess up today. They have one idea in mind, that's first place. If they mess up, okay, they mess up, they get up and they keep on going You know the Bible tells us the just man falls seven times and rises up again. Yeah, we may mess up, but that isn't our mentality. Our mentality should be we're going to do what's right. We're going to do what God tells us to do. He walks, he keeps. I also see that God blesses him. Oh, by the way, this is where the gloves come off. I like this. He blesses those who seek it. Verse number two again. Blessed are they that keep his testimonies and that seek him with the whole heart. You know this man, you looked at him. And he was living by God's principles. You look at this man, sin was not a part of his lifestyle. But you know what? That wasn't good enough for him. He wanted more And when he was reading the Word of God, yes he was doing what was right, but you know what? He didn't stop there. He wasn't God's word daily. He was searching it out and trying to learn something from it. Hey, I got a question for you. When's the last time you learned something from the Word of God? Really? When's the last time do you learn something from the Word of God? When's the last time the page actually literally jumped out and it spoke to you? You know, the word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even the dividing center of soul and spirit. This word can change your life. And by the way, you're obeying it. Good. You're keeping those standards. Praise God. I'm for that. But how about stepping it up a notch? How about getting in the Word and trying to find something from God for you today? See what He wants for you today. You know what? This man, he was blessed for that. God blessed him. You want the blessing of God? Number one, God blesses those who live by the principles of God's Word. Now number two. Not only does God bless those who live by the principles of God's Word, but God wants you to live by the principles of God's word of his word. It's interesting, I find throughout scripture, that normally you get the command and then you have the blessing. But I found it interesting God told the blessing first. But he reminds these people, hey, I want you to be blessed. by this word. Yes, I'm going to bless you, but this is something I want for you. Why does God want you to be blessed by this book? I'll tell you why. In this passage we see that the principles and the word keep you from sin. Look with me, if you would, at verse number three. They also do no iniquity. They walk in his ways. Now listen. I don't think here it's teaching us that, you know, this man's a perfect man. He never sinned once in his lifetime. But if you were to look at the characteristics of this man, his lifestyle was not that iniquity. Why? Because he lived by the principles of God's word. You know, we look around life and say, you know what, God, I need you to help me. I need you to show me your will. And yet, God has given it to you right in front of your face, right here in your lap The word of God. God, I need help with the sin. Well, here's the answer. You want to stay away from sin? Thy word have I hidden my heart that I might not sin against thee. We find later in the chapter. Sin will keep you from this book or this book will keep you from sin. If you will just get into it. I'm just sick of seeing the devil coming around, holding up this to young people and to adults alike and say, you know what, you want this with your life. You know, it ain't that bad. You want this. Give your life for this when God has something so much more in store In this book. But yet we go by day by day. We pass it by. Oh, I'll catch on that tomorrow. You know, I'll get to it later on this week. You know, I'll just I know the Bible, I'll just quote to myself. And the Lord's got some message for you right there. And you're just overlooking it. The Word of God will keep you from sin. Living by these principles will keep you from sin. Not only that, but these principles in the Word are commanded to be obeyed. Look at the next verse. Thou hast commanded us to keep thy precepts diligently. It's almost as if God says, Hey, I want to bless you, but don't you forget. Even if you're not going to do this for a blessing, it's obeyed by you because I told you to do it. You know, we get the idea of like, oh, if I want to be blessed, I better do this. No. God says, you know what, you do it I've told you to do it. By the way, it says past. This is past tense. God has already told you to do it. You don't have to look for some sign. It's there. I see the love of God here. You know when I look at a parent telling the child not to play in the road, I don't see the hatred of a parent. I see a parent that loves a child wants what's best for them. You know what God says? You know, if you're in this book, you won't be in sin. You know, if you're in this book, it'll protect you. So I'm ordering you to get in it. So that way you can have what's best for your life. We see that it is commanded to be obeyed. But it doesn't stop there. Not only will it keep you from sin and it's command to be obeyed, but the principles and the word must be desired. Look at verse number five. Oh, that my ways were directed to keep thy statutes Can you sense the Psalmist compassion and passion for this one of his? Lord, if you would just some way keep me in your word, just some way you keep me living by those principles If there was some way that you can just accept me as a robot and just do it. Have the idea of tracks. You know, this person's on a track and he's not getting off. He's not going to waver. That's what he wants of God Oh, if we could just have some people that would want to do the will of God. You know what? Most people have to have their arms swissed. Most people, you know what? Oh I'm going to do the will of God today. I'm going to get up and read my Bible. I don't know why I'm doing I'm just going to say so that way when they ask me the if I read my Bible this week I can say I did. And they're missing the point completely Yes, you can obey it. Yes, you can keep it will keep you from sin. But if you have no desire for it, you're missing out. God wants it for you to be a desire. You know what when you look at the psalmist in Psalm chapter number one, he was in the word day and night. He loved the scriptures. You look at Moses, you look at each and every individual down through the line of the Old Testament And you look at them and how much love they had for their God and what their God had to say for them. When God spoke, they wanted to listen. Now not everybody was like that sad, but you look at some of the main characters. They perked their ears up. Think of Abraham. God called him to go to a strange land. Abraham listened, opened his ears for God. Where's your opening ears? Where's the desire to do what God's Word says? Hey, I'll tell you where it is. It's not there. Many people say, you know what, I'm going to go live my life my way. I'm going to live by the Bible, but by the principles I choose. And there's no desire for the principles of God's word whatsoever. But they do that which is right in their own eyes. Oh, if we could just be like the psalmist here. Get a desire to serve God. Get a desire what's for best Not a desire for the weak. Not a desire for what's okay. Not a desire for what will settle what we'll do, but a desire for what is best for my life. Found in the Word of God. We looked at two principles so far. We looked at God blesses those who live by the principles in the Bible. We looked at the God wants you. To live by the principles of the Bible. And then lastly, I want to look at God wants you to be changed by the principles of the Bible. You got many people here today that want to say, oh, okay, I'll listen to God's word. Okay, I'll listen. I'll do what you want me to do, God. But if it involves any change whatsoever, count me out. That's not what God wants. God wants His Word to change your life. We see that God wants you to be changed to have boldness. Look with me if you would, in verse number six. Then shall I not be ashamed when I have respect unto all thy commandments. You know what's sad? When you get somebody that doesn't want to go to soul winning because of the fear? When you get somebody that's ashamed to stand up for what God says at the workplace when others are talking down about them. The Bible says here that he is not ashamed. Do you know why? Because he has respect unto God's word. When you have respect unto God's word, you respect Matthew chapter number. 28 and the Great Commission, how we are to go into all the world. And maybe you are afraid to share the gospel with that person, but you know what? You take a stand, you do it anyway. Because you're not ashamed for what God has to say. And when you're at that workplace, you know what God says is right, and you believe it, and you're not ashamed of it. And by the way, look at the condition clause there. Then shall I not be ashamed when I have respect unto all thy commandments. Number one here I see that word respect. When you respect something, it does not look like this. When you respect something, you keep intact. You lift it up, you honor it. You know, I think thankful for people who respect their country and respect for those who gave their lives for our country. But we're in danger of people who need to have respect for this book. People who have high values of this book. High values for what it says and what is inside of it. Respect it. And not only respect it, but respect unto all. All. All God's Word says, go to church, I'm going to be in church. Hey, God's Word tells me I should be a praying Christian. I'm going to be a praying Christian. Hey, God's Word tells me I should avoid fornication. I should stay pure. I'm going to do it. God's Word says, you know what? I need to be faithful to soul winning. I'm going to do it. Hey, God's Word says I need to be a tithing Christian. I'm going to do it. Because I'm not ashamed of what God has to say. God said it, I believe it. That settles it. Well you know what? We get ashamed because we don't believe it. And we try to mix our little truths in there Who are we to write God's word? God said that settles it. Respect unto all, and by the way, it says thy commandments, not yours, his. Do what he says. And then the condition clause, I shall not be ashamed. You know what? You want to get some backbone and be able to stand for the word of God, get in the book and believe it and live it. You want to have the backbone be able to go out sewing, get in the book, read it, believe it. You want to stand up for a guy at the workplace, get it, believe it, and you live it. Getting stumbled over my own words. But if you would just take the Bible, apply it to your lives, you could see the change. Many people used to say, you know what, I remember James. And by the way, this is not me bragging here. But I remember James, you used to be such a shy kid. And I used to say, I don't know how it became unshot, but I know one thing, God's word is true. And I want people to know that. I want people to look inside God's word and say, you know what, that could be part of my life. I want the drunkard that's on the tree to look at God's word and say, you know what, I could be changed. I want the drug addic to see God's word and say, I can be changed. Hey, I want the person that's got these little sins in their life to look at it and say, I could be changed. We need some people that are not ashamed of the Word of God, that were into the Word of God, they lived the principles in their lives. God wants you to be changed by the Word, because He wants you to have boldness. I like this one. God wants you to be in God's word because he wants you to have a desire to praise him. Look at verse number seven. Says in verse number seven, I will praise thee with uprightness of heart when I shall have learned thy righteous judgments. I see here another condition, clause. When I shall have learned thy righteous judgments. You know why I think that many people don't praise God in a lot? You want to know why I think many people don't see what God has done for them in their lives? It's because they're not in this book. Because they don't see his goodness. Because when you get in this book, you see God's love. When you get in this book, you see God's mercy. When you get in God's book, you see how good he's been to people. When you get in God's book, you see his long suffering. When you get in God's book, you see his love through Christ on the cross. When you get in the book, you look at and you study it out. You have no reason to look at it and say, you know what? Thank you, God. for what you've done for me. Hey, how's your praise life? Is it kinda low? Get in the book Read it. You look at it, you'll see the blessings of God. You'll see the promises of God there for you. You just get at it and see it for yourselves. I see there that God wants you to praise him. Hey, lastly, under the ethics one, not only does he want to change you so you can have boldness, not only does he want to want to change you to have a desire to praise, but I see that he wants to change you to have a committed relationship with him. Look at me at verse number eight. Verse 8 reads, I will keep thy statutes. Oh, forsake me not utterly Oh, forsake me not utterly. Now I know this, or as I read this, I believe the psalmist with my whole heart understood that God's promise that he will be with him. You know that God will not forsake him But yeah, you know what I believe here? Imagine me if you would, you were to go out and mow grass. I don't mind mowing grass. But imagine me if you and a friend was going to go mow grass You get there and your friend doesn't show and you did all the work. You got it done, but there was no commitment on your friend's part. You know what? You don't want that conference. You want somebody that's going to commit and get out there and help you. I believe that's what the psalmist here is trying to display. Hey God, I'm going to be in your word. Hey God, I'm going to do what it says. Lord, I want you to be a part of it. Lord, don't forsake me. You know, keep your word. Do what you say you're going to do. Hey, by the way, when we look at that, we can count on God and say, you know what, He is going to do what He says he's going to do. But you know what he wants? He wants you to be committed. He wants you to take a stand. He wants you to read it. He wants you to get some principles in your life that are based on this book. And take them and apply them and use them in your daily life. I looked here at three principles, three principles that show us why in the world we should be in God's Word. And by the way, I didn't go over the whole book of Psalm 199 Take time for yourself. You read down through there, you'll see over and over, reason after reason, why God says you should be in the book. How you can get the best you can out of the greatest bell in your wallet. By the way, how valuable is it to you? How valuable is it? We have seen three basic principles that show us we can use the Bible to help us in our lives. How valuable is this book? What do these principles mean? Well I'll tell you, many in the past have seen the value of this book. Some even sacrificing their lives for the truth. I think of the twelve apostles. Well, eleven, I count Judas. Out of those eleven that were left, all but one were murdered for the principles in this Bible. Hey, they saw the value of it. By the way, the one that lived, he suffered too. He went through great trial and great agony, John, because he believed the principles of this book. He saw the value of this book. I think of William Tyndale. William Tyndale was a man that all he wanted was to see the scriptures in other people's hands. Hey, by the way, thank God that you can hold a Bible in your hands today. But William Tendall looked and saw, and he wanted somebody else to have the scriptures in their hands. Why? Because he saw the Prince's wolves or this book. There's something valuable there. There's something worthy there that they can have. And because of that desire, not because he was a wicked man, not because he was a robber, not because he was a murderer, but because of that desire to have those scriptures in other people's hands and attempting to do that, Tyndall was burned at the stake Gave his life. Just because he saw the value of this book. I think Spurgeon stated it right truly when he said this. He said we could scarcely calculate how much we owe to those holy men of God who under the Spirit's guidance planted this vineyard from which we are continually gathering such rich clusters. Thank you how much we are indebted under God to those who were the means of preserving this record and handing it down to us, often at the cost of their own lives. Every page of this Bible, as it were, bespattered with the blood of the martyrs, yet we have not had to pay that price for it. We draw the life-giving waters out of the wells that we did not dig, and eat the fruit of the sacred trees that we did not plant. Hold that Bible in your hands. Look at it. What's the value of it to you? I'll tell you what that value should be. It should be the greatest bill in your wallet. It should be your crown jewel. It should be your life's roadmap. It should be your greatest tool that you ever use. This is the great tool. This is the greatest bow you could ever have. Today determine that you will get the best you can of it. Hey Is this what you want from God? You know what? Just throw the Bible aside. If this is what you want, you know what? Don't set principles from the Word of God. If this is all you want, go ahead and just trash it. Believe what you want to believe. Do what's right in your own eyes. But hey, if you want something more valuable, I'm sure you can think of stuff that's more valuable than this. But if you want something more valuable, God says, you know what? I can give it. But here's the way to get to it. I challenge you, live by the principles of the Word of God. Get the best you can out of this valuable book. Every head bowed and every eye closed. Really never thought much of how to give an invitation for this. But something just this simple. Maybe here tell you, so you know what, Brother James? I haven't been faithful in my Bible reading. You know, I've overlooked it. Thought it didn't matter. But maybe here tonight you say, you know what? I haven't been getting the best that I can out of my Bible. But you know what today I want to change that I want to get the best I can out of God's word. I want to start being like the psalmist and searching it out for myself. I want to live by its principles. If that's you here this evening, you see, Brother James, pray for me. I want to make the decision. I want to make a commitment to God. I'm going to start living by the principles of this book. If that's you, would you raise your hand so I can pray for you? I see those hands. Yes. Anybody else? Say you know what? I want to live by those principles. Yes, I see those hands. Anyone else? Come on, you're not ashamed of it. You want to live by these principles here. You want what's best out of the Bible You don't want just the little things. Anyone else? Yes, I see that hand. Any others? Yes, I see that one. Maybe one else. Maybe you're here today, you know what? You're not getting the best you can out of it because you never trusted Jesus Christ Christ as your Lord and Savior. You know, if you want to be a new creature, you've got to have Christ's forgiveness of your sins. If you say, you know what, I do not know what you're talking about. I have not yet ever had that my sins forgiven by Christ. But I'd like to. That's you here this evening. I don't want to embarrass you. I just want to pray for you. Anybody at all that says, you know what, Brother James, I do not know I have my sins forgiven. Anybody here like that at all? Anyone at all Hey, one more challenge. Maybe you're here today and you say, you know what? I've been writing the Word of God my way. You know, if there are some principles in the Bible that I've been overlooking, I've been putting stuff in there that I've thought what should go there. But you say, you know what, I want to make a commitment to God that I'm going to change those principles back to what God says to do if that's you and you say you know I've had some things in my life that changes from what God says, but I'm gonna do what God says. If that's you and you want me to pray for you. Is there anybody like that? Uh for the hand yes Anybody else? So you know what I've changed some of the principles. You know what? I'm gonna ch forget that I'm gonna change it back. Anybody else? Father, as we close in prayer, Lord, I thank you so much for the Bible. Lord, I thank you so much that And Lord, I pray that we would live by the principles. I pray that we would make the choice today, that we would read our Bibles daily, and that we would get in the Word, and that we would live by those principles. Lord, you spoke to me and Lord that's what I want. Lord I pray that you help me make that. And Lord I pray for the people here that you help them make that right decision as well. Lord we ask and for you to do a work in our hearts To turn to the Word of God. And we'll give you the praise for it all in Christ's name. Heads bowed, eyes closed, let's stand to our feet. We're not going to have a long invitation, but if God's spoken to you and says, you know what? You need to change this You need to start doing this with my word. If that's you and you need to make that decision, why don't you come down and let God know? Hey, by the way, why don't you come down and let other people know That hey, I'm gonna make this stand. I'm gonna read the Bible. I'm not ashamed of it. I'm gonna let other people know, hey, this can change your life And I want it to be a part of it my life and hopefully it'll be a part of yours. T Thank you, Heavenly Father, for all that you've done for us, Lord. I thank you so much for the Word of God. And Lord, how you can use it to change our lives. Father, I pray, Lord, that you bless the remainder of our service service, Lord, that you would get the honor and glory through it all. Bless these decisions that were made, Father. I pray, Lord, that you help us to stay committed to it. We have the praise for all in Christ's name, amen. You may be seated as the ushers come to take up the offering. I do want to again mention the fact that do keeping prayer of the mission team as they are w tra over there as they're working. Pray that the Lord will do a great work. God will work on people's hearts. Pray that these pamphlets get into the right hands. Also keep in mind that the teenagers going to the all-night event. Pray For that as well. Number of other requests. I think of this lady in nursing hall uh um think of her name real quick. Hilda, she asked prayer requests for her brother as he had a stroke. And there's a number of requests of sure Well the Fitzwart continue to pray for that family that the Lord would work in hearts there as well and a number of others as well. Let's look to the Lord Prayer and uh Tom, you want to pray? Father, thank you for brother James stepping in, Lord, for the powerful message he presented.