Chapter four. Is my mic on yet? Come over here and I'll get a little tall. How you drills doing? Can you hear me now? Testing. There we go. How many glad you're saved? How many are back in church? How many wish the pandemic would last longer? Man, I'm done gerbiling. How about you? It is fantastic. I know there's a couple of mass in here today or more that's praise and God but I was preaching uh two months ago and I went down to Lower South Carolina and uh news don't get there very often nor, you know, public sentiment. So I I went to this church and And I had uh three or four missionaries with us and and we noticed on every idol, every pew, there's a thing to scorch your hands, you know. And And I'd never seen that before and had mask on everything, but looked around, you know, and uh there was people on top of people on top of people. And uh I mean it was an auditorium this size and we probably had about three fifty in there. People standing in the back, you know. And preacher gets up and says, We're glad to have you here. This is our first day back, missions conference, brother Long's gonna preach Now we want everybody to stand up and get ready to shake hands. And the missionaries that were with me turned around with, ah What do we do, preacher? I said, that's what the hand sanitizer is for, all right And you know, just wipe it on your mouth, whatever. But uh so I've got my shots. Anybody got their shots in here, you know, and You know, and uh if you don't have your shots, that's okay. If you do have your shots, that's okay. But good night I've been vaccinated over and over again But I tell you what, I'm glad you're in church today. Because I've been in churches preaching the last twelve months. That's just me and the preacher and some camera. Good night and I did a missions conference for Sterling Walsh. It was me in my office with the bookcase right there My I I'm I'm glad those days are over, aren't you? But we're here today to have a business meeting. Amen. Missions conference is about a five-day business meeting. If you didn't know that, we're after the business of God. Amen. Now we're going to talk to you for a few moments here. And I want to show you a couple things, all right? And I want you to catch this with me. Philippians chapter 4. I want you to see this here with me. Paul is writing to that one of his uh sacred churches there. Uh boy, he helped get that thing on the ground. The Bible tells me that as he got started uh in in uh look at verse uh thirteen, uh he says, I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. Isn't that great And everybody think that's some teenage verse, all right? Let's keep it in context. What is he talking about? Now notwithstanding Ye have well done or done well. You've well done that ye did communicate with my affliction. That didn't mean he talked at a sore or he talked at a cut. His affliction was he was having a hard time financially in his ministry, or he needed help in his mission outreach. Now watch the next verse. Now ye Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel When I departed from Macedonia, you know, we had we preached Wednesday night on purpose, your Macedonian call. That was done for a reason. If you've been here every service These sermons pretty much all tied together. Watch this now. No church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only. Now what that's not communications. That's not, you know, like the old days with a CB or the new days with a cell phone. The communicating here is giving support and receiving it. For even in Thessalonica ye is sent once and again unto my necessity. Not because I desire a gift, this is great right here, underline it, but I desire Fruit that may abound to your account. That's the church's account, amen. That's the individual's account Now I want you to catch that with me. Now you got that done. Slide a little bit to your left to 2 Corinthians chapter 8 Now here we are talking about the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia. Man, it says in verse 2, great trial of affliction and the abundance of their joy, their deep poverty, abound unto the riches of their liberality, and to their power, and yea, I bear a record, I bear a record, yea, and beyond their power They were what? Willing of themselves, praying us with much entreaty that we would receive the gift. Now that's not a uh a a phone or that's not a Bible, that's not a car. That all those things are pretty good. But it's the gift of grace giving. I want you to catch this with me. Verse 5 says this, but they, that church, first gave They gave more than we hoped, but they first gave themselves to the Lord and to us by the will of God Now, if you're unsaved in here today and you give the faith promised gift, you're not giving it to the Lord. You're giving it because I told you to. You need to be saved to be part of this. You can give without being saved, but I'm telling you, it's through the church. Amen I want you to catch this. It's all laid out for us. And the Bible says they first gave themselves to the Lord, then they gave it to us by the will of God. Drop down to chapter 9, verse 6 But this I say, Paul writing, he which soweth sparingly, that's giving, shall reap also sparingly. He which soweth bountifully shall also uh uh uh will reap also bountifully. Every man Every lady, according as he purposes in his heart, so let him give. Hey, I will not beg. God's in charge of you. He'll put it in your heart what to give You know, one time I my wife and I and I'll come back to it, we was out, soul winning, we'd been married thirty days, and I was getting ready to celebrate my thirtieth day anniversary with my new bride, right? And in this pocket I had a hundred dollar bill and this doc I had a ten dollar bill. Alright? The hundred dollar bill was to pay our electric bill and our phone bill and our water bill back in nineteen seventy five, okay? Today they won't even pay your phone bill. So, but we've been married for a month, you know, we're happy, as Larry going sixty miles an hour, newlyweds, you know, on a bus route. And uh there was a lady named Maddie Newsom on Salem Street, and she was a bus stop and we stopped there and I was going to take my wife out to eat at the Brown Derby That's what the ten dollars was for on this side. Hundred dollars on this side was for the uh for all the bills. Ten dollars on this side was for going out. How many ever ate the brown derby here? You have the older, don't you never ate the taste like Eating at a truck stop with last week's food. But anyway, but that's all I could afford, all right. And so I had the ten dollars here, I had the ten a hundred dollars here, and my wife beside me I knock on the door and Maddie opens it up. Oh, preacher Dan, good to see ya. The kids will come tomorrow. Hey, that's great, Maddie. We will see ya. She said, Can I talk to you for a minute? Uh yeah, that's cool. Yes, yeah. She said, We're broke. We don't have any money. Would you pray with me that God will help us get enough something to do, something somehow, you know, to to get some money to get by tonight? The kids will be on the bus in the morning Would you pray that God will meet our needs? Good night, you know, ten doll here, hundred dollars here. I start praying for Maddie. I have no intention giving her that ten dollar bill, let alone the hundred dollar bill, you know, and I I'm just praying away there. Amen. And in the middle of my prayer, my wife hit me. The Spirit of God's working, amen. So I said and prayed, Amen. Ten dollar, hundred dollar. I reached and pulled the hundred dollar out and I gave it to Matty. Grab that right there I saw it was a hundred dollar bill the same time Maddie did. Hold on. And I tried to pull that thing back. He still won't let it go. And some of you think that's what we're talking about in here today. I'm telling you, as a man purposeth in his heart, so let him give. By the way, I gave her that hundred dollar bill. My wife and I went home and cried all night long. My dad sent uh I got a check two days later in my mail in our mailbox that dad my dad sent me a three hundred dollar check for a wedding present. Man, I should give Maddie all of it, hey man. I want you to listen very carefully this morning. I'm going to preach a message to you called the drama of the gospel. And in this drama, there are five sets of characters. You're going to play one of the four. You can't play one part, but all of you. We'll have an opportunity to pay a part in the four parts. The first actor we're going to talk about today is called the helpless. Would you say that for me? The All right. That's pretty good, preacher. Usually I get warmed up a little bit. We'll be we'll get done by one o'clock. Is that okay? All right. Number two, we have the helpers. Would you say that with me Say it a little louder like you really want to do it. Ah helpers, that's good. Who said that? That was you, man. You ought to be a preacher Here, we don't want to play this part, but uh the hender-errs. Say that with me? Are we in West Virginia? No. West Virginians would say hender-err-rurs But since we're more pollies from Maryland, we're hinderers. Helpless? Helpers? I just sunk into you, didn't it? Hinderers And over here is the healer. Now we cannot play his part. That's the Lord Jesus Christ. And the last one over here, now you will not lose your salvation on this. I want you to say this after me. Happy Try it with a smile. Happy! Good night. Like some of you had persimmonons or d dill pickles for breakfast Happy. So we we got the helpless, the helpers, the hinderers, the healer, and then the happy. Turn in your Bibles to Mark with me, please, Mark chapter two The title of today's message is The Drama of the Gospel. I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart. This week's been great, preacher. Uh uh capped it off yesterday with some uh venison brought worst. I who is the person that made that? Are they you made that? Well I You provided it. You didn't make it uh Okay. Man, how many ate that stuff yesterday? Good night. It's like eating blueberry pop tarts forever. It was great. And uh and uh I'm hitting I want more, preacher, before I go home. But anyway, uh I want to thank you for the kindness and and the the fellowship and all that. And every one of these missionaries wanna do the same And I want to thank you for keeping missions at the forefront in your church. I've had churches closed since the pandemic started. I've had mum a lot of churches just kind of dwell numbers dwindled down to nothing. But I'm telling you what, you got the same crowd or maybe more than I was here last time. Amen. I just want to say God's at work. Amen? So let's take advantage of that. And I want you to understand that every ministry has a starting place somewhere Now the drama of the gospel, let's take a look at chapter 2. It's one of the first, if not the first, time recorded of Jesus having a little missions program going on. And again he Christ entered to Capernaum. After some days it was noise that he Christ was in the house. And straightway many were gathered together, insomuch that there was no room to receive them, no not so much as about the door And he preached, that's Christ, the Word unto them. Isn't that amazing? The Word is preaching the Word. What a what a what an atmosphere. Now they're in a small spalast uh Palestinian home They're there in the Capernaum area. The roof's about eight foot high at the most, maybe seven. Between the top of the roof, the outside, and the inside ceiling is eighteen to twelve inches of fat sticks going this way, that way, packed mud condensed into a brick type mortar, and that roof was very heavy. On the inside of that house there was no stairs up to the upside uh inside of the roof On the outside, because of security, they had no stairs going up to the outside of the house. They would use ladders. And on the upside of that house, if you've ever been in the Palestinian area or you've ever been to the Bible Museum, they have pictures of all this and they have a actual replicas of this. There's a veranda that goes around the top of the houses about that high And on the inside you can lay in there and sleep in the morning where you put your chickens up there and you go so no one steals them and put your grain and things up there. But there's no way up from the inside and there's no way up from the outside. It is kind of a secure pot spot. Sometimes they put their dogs up there for to guard or they put people up there to guard. And I want you to understand the setting that's taking place here. As Jesus is preaching the word, it says in verse 3, and they come to him bringing one sick of the palsy which was born of four. And when they could not come nigh unto him, Christ, for they had the four uncovered the roof where he where Christ was, and when they had broken it up, notice they didn't just unhook it or take a tarp off, they broke the roof up They let down the let the bed wherein the sick of palsy lay. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the sick of palsey, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee. But there were certain of the scribes sitting there, reasoning in their hearts And they why doth this man thus speak blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God only? And immediately when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he said unto them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts? Or whether it's easier to say to the sick of palsy, thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say, Arise and take up thy bed and walk. But that ye may know That the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sins, he saith to the sick of palsy, I say unto thee, arise and take up thy bed and go thy way into thy house. And immediately he arose, took up the bed, went forth before them all, insomuch that they were all amazed, and all glorified God, saying We never saw it on this fashion. That tells me, the end of verse 12, that this is one of the first times there was an actual, can I say, uh uh caring ministry to church or a missions ministry to a church, an early bus ride without wheels. But I want you to understand these four young men had a mate that could not get himself to church. And God worked on their hearts to bring him to the church, not to get him healed, but to get him saved. Amen? Now catch this here. Can you see the character of actors? Do you see the helpless person in this situation? Put your hand up if you see him. How many see the helpers? How many see the hinder err errors? How many see the healer? How many see the happy? All amazed. Now we can go home, right? No, we're just getting started. Are you excited for this? All right, then you will be. All right, here's where we go. I want you to catch this with me. Which one of these characters are you? I want you to see this with me. You know, I asked you to do this today The word Lord, L-O-R-D. Listen to God's word. Now listen carefully. Obey what it says. Respond what God puts in your heart. There's the D, to do. To do. You won't be in there worrying about if you're going to give God too much, because you can't ever do that. And you can't give God too little unless you decide to do that. But it's as a man purposeth in his heart So let him give. Amen. And then it says at the end of it as a hashtag, and my God shall supply all your need. according to his riches and glory by who? Christ Jesus. And Paul writes again for us knuckleheads that really don't get it in Philippians. He said, and it shall be added to your account. I cannot explain it. I cannot put it in English. I cannot put it in pidgin or Motu. I the language I speak. I can't put it in Japanese uh or a capeti in Italian, I'm just telling you, but God always, always, always, always, always, always gives the increase How can you say that? I've been there, wore that t-shirt. Amen? Now let's go over to part number one. the helpless. The most helpless person I've ever seen in my life with a you know I can read the scripture here. It said this little boy in in the book of Mark there he could not walk. He probably could talk He had this palsy and I was preaching in Penicetti's church some years ago and as I got ready to preach for the between the services a boy came in in a wheelchair. And uh uh they're from Philadelphia. And uh they sit in a wheelchair, it's it's motorized. His mom brings him in and Dominic L. Bobin said, baptized him last week I said, in the chair? Oh no, we got another chair without electricity in it. Didn't want to shock the kid or us, amen. And you've got to know Pen and Chair. Amen's crazy. And so he uh he said, I said, oh my goodness I I I need to go talk to him So I went to talk to the the mother and said, I'm going to preach an illustration about a boy with palsy. I'll take it off the sermon. I just don't want to embarrass you. Oh she she said that's fine. And the little boy on the computer screen he had, while I was talking, he could hear me. And he typed, hey, that's Cool Beans. Let's do it. It's amazing. So he he could not walk, but man, he could type. And I began to remember the most, the most, the most, can I say crippled person? The most person that can never get themselves to Christ that I run into is in 1984, 1985. Steve Robertson was with me We was doing the bus route in Michigan City, Indiana. He was preaching for our youth and teenagers at that time and and uh and uh I got a phone call at the house Said, Pastor Dan, can you stop by the hospital? One of my bus mothers. She said my niece had to give birth to a child last night that and she'd been taking cocaine during her pregnancy and there's a real problem And I don't know if the child's gonna live. Can you go there and witness to them? I said I'll be up there at three. So we got to the hospital, St. Anthony Hospital, Michigan City, Indiana Now Brother Steve's about six four, six five, you know, I'm five five and tall sneakers, but he uh like Mutt and Jeff, you know, we walked in that room and the bus mother greeted me and said, Brother Dan, make sure you do not just do not show shock when you see the child. So I Steve and I walked over and we said hi to the mom and dad and we walked over and we looked inside that little incubator, that plastic container. And uh pipes are going into it, supplying air for the child. And that little girl of Priscilla is laying there looking at us. No left ear. No left eye, no left arm, part of a left leg. That's all that was there. And I've never seen anything like that. That is the most helpless individual that was breathing that I've ever seen. And when I looked at her, I realized, and it wasn't her fault. You're here today without the Lord Jesus Christ in your heart, and you understand what I'm about to say. It's not your fault that you're a sinner. You're born that way. But that goes back to Adam and Eve. Amen. Wherefore, as by one man sin entered to the world and death by sin, therefore death passed upon all men, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. But I love this verse, Romans 5. 8, that God commendeth or giveth his love toward us in the world we are yet sinners. Christ died for us. But I want you to understand, but God giveth, He committeth, He gives it to us. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be what? Now that little girl could not get saved. She could not even talk. She could hardly breathe. And two hours later she stopped breathing and died. buried her thir uh uh uh three days later it was uh seven below zero coldest phenol I ever had. I want to tell you but that little girl went to heaven when she died. Amen David tells us that. But if you're in my hearing this morning and you're here without the Lord Jesus Christ, you're in the same helpless estate. You're in the same helpless position as this little boy was when his friends brought him to the church service. They couldn't get him in the back of the door. So they went outside and said, Well, let's just take him home. It must be God's will that he doesn't hear the gospel today. Are you kidding me? Watch these four boys. They're the first missionaries. I don't know who led them. I don't know how they come to it. But I'll tell you what They saw a helpless friend, they saw a helpless mate, they saw a helpless child, I can see one in New York City for the salt trucks, I can or the salt cups, whatever their name is. I can see the ones in down where they're going to Suriname. I can see the ones in Honduras. I can see the ones in New Guinea. And if we don't give them the gospel, I want to be very clear about this. They're not going to get it. God may not put that burden on you, but He puts it on the missionaries. He puts it on the church to give to those missionaries to get there for one reason, and that is to get to help us to the Lord Jesus Christ. Do you see this? These boys brought that boy to the door, but they couldn't get him in. Now how many I I I know the you've met my wife before. She has blonde haired, blue eyes, and she is beautiful. When I we go out for a date they think she's my daughter. She's that good. I'm not this I think she's pretty, you know, and uh I married up Now not some of much as you guys married up, some of you guys look at me, but you really married up. But I'm just saying. And she's very quiet though. And uh we went to New Guinea and we'd been there thirty days and we could not do our laundry. Now we were not helpless, but we were our clothes was talking to us. It was bad. So I searched around and found a laundromat about the size of the front of the church here and And uh we had four or five maybe big bags of dirty clothes. Our boys were with us and uh the boys were back at the uh place where we're staying doing their homeschooling. So and I had an old hickory butcher knife, guys, right that right in that back pocket How many's ever had an old hickory? Twelve, eight, and you're about ten inch one, you know. So you never hold just one guy's heard of an old hickory. Good night. We'd pick our teeth and skin our coups with those things and and took 'em with you everywhere. Amen. And so I was going to protect my wife from getting robbed because the whole area is full of thieves and rascals and forty thousand people up that valley and I'm the only American, okay? And I mean my wife she they call her Tabata In that language, that means white lord. She is white. I'm telling you like the ceiling. New Guinea's never saw anything like that with blonde hair. Her eyes are good and eyes Blue in his shirt, I mean, and just like ice blue and and they can look at her and they want to touch her eyes, you know, back up and you can't do that. She's in there doing her laundry and I'm standing there going to defend her Easy fellas, I know I can't defend anybody. Don't tell my wife this. And the door opened The little girl walked in, her name was Noy Noi, N-O-I-N-O-I. She looked at me and I'm the first American I think she's ever seen. And I'd learned their language in 30 days. Are you kidding me? I c I couldn't even order a hot dog. But here's what I knew Adab a pneumonia! Now Americans when they translate in a new country, for some reason we shout. When you go abroad, this was, hi I'm from America, you know whatever country you're in So I go, I uh uh m Adabanamona that means good morning. She looked at me, Adabanamona. Cool. Mila Badahariya, that means I'm doing good, how are you doing? Mila Badaheria Moyat. That's all I knew. I said, I am a dumb American. I don't know any more of your language. She looked up at me and says, Well I speak perfect English. Let's go to that. Now noise noise, he's full grown today. When she gives her testimony, she tells it the other way that I couldn't even say those things. But I started to talk to her. Her mom came in. had their clothes and it was a meeting that God put together. That mom's dad was the head man of a village called Baruni, 5,000 people on a little island With a road going out to it. They put out there in World War II. Her dad grandfather was the head man. I asked them to come to our church service the next that Sunday and they said we'd come, but you gotta ask my boo-boo. That's the grandpa So we went to see the boo-boo and he he come down the steps and I shook his hand, he shook mine, he could not say a word of English and they translated. He he spoke one of those seven hundred Bush languages And uh we got done, he said, uh, can I and take your granddaughter and daughter to my church service? He said, You sure can. And I looked to my left and there was twelve pews like this, with no padding, and a pulpit And I said, Are you a religious man? He said, Nope. Took that off the Catholic Church last year. They tried to start a church here and I ran them out because I'm the mayor. We kept the stuff. Do you want this? We'll sell it to you. Whatever you want. I go, good night. What am I getting myself into But he said you can pick them up tomorrow, the girls, and I did. Long story short Within a year we had three vans picking up three van loads, twenty, twenty-five at a time, like a bus route here coming out of that village. And now that village was helpless. No work was in there. They ran the Catholic Church out, but God had called the missionary there. And I tell you what, we worked in a helpless situation Many trusted Christ as their personal Savior. Now today, if you're here without Christ, you're in that helpless estate. We are going to give you the opportunity to come out of that and come over here to where the helpers are. Amen. Go back to our text. Look what these four boys are doing. The Bible says this, and my second thought, I want you to catch this today, that the second group in our characters of this, and if you're in that helpless group, I want you to become a helper. It makes this statement in chapter Chapter two that and verse uh verse four when they could not come nigh unto him Christ for the press, that's the crowd. They uncovered the roof where he was And when they had gone broken it up, they let down the bed wherein the sick of palsy lay. And Jesus saw their faith. When Jesus saw their faith, He said unto the sick of Paul's son, thy sins be forgiven thee. I want to tell you why Jesus Christ uh uh uh uh led that little boy uh the cr to to salvation. I want you to see it there. I got an underlining circle in verse five because he saw their faith. We call it faith promise giving. And we're going to go. We can be praying and we can be giving and it says on your sign Or we can be going. You know, here we get all these people in a helpless position. And over here we get them saved. And when in that salvation, I see another picture here. This is where the missionary comes in, the helpers And the Lord Jesus Christ saved that young man because he saw those four guys' faith. Yet there was a crowd in front of him. They weren't all right with him. They may have been saved. They're listening to the gospel, the word, preaching the word, the good news. That's what's going on here But these four boys that may have maybe been down by this ocean, or down by the sea of Capernaum, and may have been down on the streets, but somewhere before he had led them to salvation And they wanted to help their maid who could not walk, who could not control his muscles, to get him to Jesus, to get him saved. Here's what the helpers did. We're gonna bring it into the 21st century. Do you have a lows here? Or home deep? You got a lows? So let's go just bring it up to lows. So how am I going to take a roof apart in Palestine? What do we need? Anyone know what we need? I think we need a ladder, right? How are we going to get up on the roof? We need a D-Walt or a double-walt tape measure, maybe a power saw. Uh I want to get a generator because I'm not I don't want to do anything by hand. Just turn the electricity on and let's chop that baby up, right? And they had to make a hole in that roof They had buckets to carry it all. They may have got some duct tape if we could take it to the 21st century. So they tied that boy with those sheets in that bed so he wouldn't fall out coming down through that roof. The Bible says they lowered him down. I think it was speak first, looking at Jesus. I know he's laying flat because he couldn't move. He's crippled. You got the picture here? And those four boys were taking them down. Now let's look at these helpless for a minute. They had a faith, they had a heart, they had a mind, they gave themselves first to God and to us by the will of God. I want you to see this. They just didn't sit, they got participating. I mean somebody had to break that pay to break that roof up, somebody had to get that dirt moved out of the way, somebody had to get away to get up on that roof, and when they broke that roof up, the the church service continued So can you imagine if our roof would open up right now, a little power saw comes through, mee you ladies be guys be running for cover, right? Everybody just sitting there. They'd never seen anything like this on this fashion before. Something good gonna happen here. Here come that bed. When that bed hit the floor, I'm gonna ask y'all a question. How did it get there? How did that bed get there? Well, there's four guys on top. Who moved their heart to take that roof apart? To get him to Jesus. When you do the missions for the the mariners and for the Langs and the Salt Cups, when you give when you give the give to their missions and other missionaries, and I'm one of your missionaries, okay in Papua New Guinea, Australia, the US. You you I'm here because of you. You've invested. You've got some of those ropes. You you may abductate me, whatever. You got me where I needed to go. And maybe I might be on that roof. I might be holding one of those corners. But it all starts way back here. You pay to get me there. I can see those four boys lowering that boy down at the bed. I can see that boy looking straight ahead. I can see Jesus look at him. Jesus look at all us. He looks up there and he said, Because of those, their faith, your sins are forgiven. You know, for four years my wife would go with me to that village to visit. People are coming like crazy. The church has grown out about four hundred people and and uh I mean they're they're coming out of that village and man we she's having b uh little puppet shows there and and uh Saturday morning she'd have like this many people sitting in the backyard of this uh of uh mayor's house, but the mayor would never come to church Never. And every Saturday my wife would give him a Bible lesson on a fourth grade level, fill in the blanks. This went on for 48 months. And he would take it, Noi Noi would translate it, they'd go through the Bible, and the next Saturday, blanks were filled in, my wife would give him new ones. She never she never really ever spoke to him one time In forty-eight months, this feeding him the papers. You know, she was helping to get him to Jesus, though Then we have the hinderers. So I hope today that you know Christ. If you don't, you're not helpless. You can't buy it, you can't earn it. But you can trust Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, for God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, and then we become the helpers. But there's hinderers in our story. I hope we cannot ever be a hinderer. Look at chapter 2, verse 5, verse 6. But there were certain of the scribes sitting there and reasoning in their hearts. Well, how's this going to work? Yay, bringing these people to church or cutting a hole in the ceiling, you know, and that kid that can't move, who would invest in something like that? Now watch this Why doth this man thus speak blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God only? Now I call these scribes a periodic table of stupid religious people. I didn't say saved, did I? But they did get one thing right and they didn't know it. They were dealing with God. Look what it says here. Why does this man, this is not blasphemies, it's the gospel And immediately when Jesus perceived in his spirit, he knew exactly that they reasoned within themselves. Why reason ye these things in your hearts? Folks, when you have faith promise giving, when you have a missionary program, Don't hinder that thing. Get on board with it. Amen? Because God will give the increase. None of us want to be in the I I'm uncomfortable even talking about it because either I am a hinderer. Or I am a helper. Can I be a slight helper? Or can I just be a slight hinderer? No, it's either or. I mean, understand that. It's either or. Okay? I want you to catch this. It's either or And God Almighty wants us to help. Or He hadn't would not lay it out for us. Now watch this very carefully. These hinderers, when they had this, Jesus called them out, not one of them said a word. I mean they didn't not not one of them spoke up. Look at verse nine Well, it's easier to say to the sick of palsy, thy sins be forgiven to thee, or say, Rise and take up thy bed and walk. See, Jesus is out in front of this. And that's when I come to his part. He's the healer. A cat's his healer. Now I'll be done just a couple of uh moments here. Jesus takes the the scenario over He says, son, look what he says here. I say unto thee in verse 11, arise and take up thy bed and go thy way to thy house. I'm telling them when he picked that bed up, when he popped those ropes off, or he pulled that blanket off. They'd known this boy. They saw him stand up And he picked up the bed. It wasn't one of those folding chairs that we had yesterday that I could not get up out of. Never sit downhill in a folding chair. when you're old as I am. Get the thing uphill, you know, so you can fall out of it instead of fall back into it deeper. And and and and they lowered him down in that bed. And he's sitting there. And Jesus said, Son, thy sins are forgiven thee. Now just pick up your head and go on home. Now let's stop and freeze that frame for just a moment. Everybody goes, he just said, What? They see that boy, look at that. But I won't take you on top of the roof. The missionaries that got him there The people that invested. Can you see the high fives going across there or the fist bumps? I don't care if they had mask on or not. I mean they were enjoying the moment. Alright. I want you to catch this. And that boy got up and he walked outside Oh, he's heading towards the house. I guarantee those guys didn't sit on top of the roof and start to start writing a theological dissertation on what just happened. No, God had touched their hearts. They were amazed at this. You know, the healer that we have, Jesus says in John chapter 6, for the bread of God is he which cometh down from heaven, but my father giveth you the true bread from heaven. Verse 34 says, Then they said unto him, Lord, evermore give us this bread. And Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life. And I want you to understand he that cometh to me shall never uh hunger, and he that believeth on me shall never thirst. Hey, isn't aren't you glad you got Jesus Christ in your heart I want to tell you the mariners got people in Suriname that are not saved they're going to run into in the next 12 months. Same for the lanes, alright The same for the other missionaries that are here. I want you to catch this stop. In him was life, and life was the light of men. Jesus Christ saved that young man's soul. He put that bed up and he went outside. Aren't you glad that we all have a healer like this? Now you can't play that part, but we come to verse 12. Everybody that saw this, it said they were amazed. Translated, they were happy They were in shock. This is fantastic. This is unbelievable. It is so amazing. It means they were happy. Now here's why they were happy. They had never seen it on this fashion before. Now what does that mean? They'd never seen four young men that knew Christ as their personal Savior bring a man to church. They never saw the angst in those four individuals to get that boy to Jesus. Yes, they uh just c travel across town Yes, they broke up the roof. These missionaries are going to travel out of their country, come expatriates in another country, and they're going to lose all their status that they have here, go down to the bottom of the food chain to go there, live with a Hogs, dogs, frogs and snakes and bugs and itches that you don't even know that exist yet. In New Guinea we got things called noceums. Has anybody ever seen a noceum? That's why they got the name Noceum. But there's these little things like jiggers. You all know what jiggers are, right? I was picking blueberries two years ago down in Tennessee and I got into jiggers. They got into me Good night. I was gonna itch to death. Alright, there are no CMs in New Guinea. You can't see 'em, but they're like invisible lice. They get in your ears, your nose, your toes and everything and you itch for about the only way to kill them is, you know, Vaseline your body and sit there like almost froze for about ten minutes and that suffocates them and they you wash it off, you'll see all these things dead at your feet. They're going to go into stuff like this, amen. How many understand what I'm saying? God put that in their heart to do And God put this in these four young men's heart because God had saved them. Christ had saved them. And now they're lowered to bed at the expectation that Christ is going to save them. Save him and he did. Bonus! Gets to walk now. I can see that little boy going out there, getting them legs working first time. Goodness is so cool. Man, word, preaching the word, I got saved and I got legs. Let's go. About three steps outside. Dawned on these missionaries on top of the roof. Hey, that's our mate. They didn't take the ladder down, they jumped off that roof. They tackled him like a middle linebacker in college football. I mean I can see a little body bouncing around and they're all having fun with him and rejoicing in the road. How many think them guys rejoice a little bit or they just sit there? No They were very happy. Why? They were amazed. You know, as you close your Bible today, as I finish this message. I hope that none of us leave this auditorium today in the helpless position. I hope God touches our heart to be helpers. The harvest truly is plentious, but the what's what what's what's weak? Labor's are few. And the ones we do have to go, God wants us to help them get there. And then none of us want to be the hinderer None of us can take the place of God, but we love what He's healed in our hearts and the young man's not only physical, but his heart spiritually. We get to the end of this thing. You will stand back and be amazed that you've done the right thing. Aren't you happy? Doesn't make you happy whether it's it's not about intelligence, but just do the right thing. Amen. This man And Baruni, the head man, called for the missionary. He'd gotten liver cancer. Noe noe now was probably 13, 14, and she said, Ah, pasta, my booboo, he's dying. He wants you to come with your wife to come and uh and be a uh he wants to talk about going to heaven. Oh man, I've been praying. Same Bible preacher I had back then. So God has been fixed up a couple of times and I got my wife with me and I got sister uh Yang and an another lady called Ray and they come with me and 'cause they could talk his language and I drive in there, had a truck like you had, brother, in the double cab, you know, and got air conditioning in there and man hauling people to church and man I'm the big missionary. I pull up at his house, you know, and and he's got like ten steps up to his we go into his room and I got ready to go and And no, no, he said, no, Pastor, you say back. Say what? I'm a missionary. I'm a preacher. No, he don't want you. He wants Miss Sandy and he wants or he wants Talbot. Wait, wait. Oh I mean he wants the two translators. I'm the missionary. I know Pastor Dan, but he doesn't want to see you, wants to see your wife My wife standing there, honey, okay. She took my Bible. This one went up the steps, you know. The translators went with her. They went inside. My wife starts talking. Got a little high voice, you know, and she's doing the Romans road, and he gets saved. Takes about twenty minutes. And he hear him a man. This is a full-grown man, about fifty-five years old. He's a big he's a he's a big kahuna in that village. And he's crying up there like, you know, Somebody facing a root canal, you just oh God. And my wife starts crying. The translators start crying. I'm pacing back and forth, preaching about half manifests, why doesn't God use, you know, I'm the one, boo I'm the one, I'm the one. My wife came down, hand me the Bible. God is so good. I let him to Christ. Get in the car, get in the car, get in the car And Ray, she had a chip on her shoulder. One of the toughest ladies I ever met. Hey, your wife does it right, preacher, like why he didn't ask for you. Man, Ray And they knew I was nervous and upset. I said, ladies, sit right there in that air-conditioned car. I'm going to go praise the Lord with him. I went up the steps and I got up there and knocked on the door and No, no, he let me in and I said, Translate for him. Yeah, hey, uh the uh I want to ask you a question. And he he said, Yes. Oh yeah, yeah, I got saved. Are you really? Yeah, really, that's so good. Okay. Can I ask you one more question? Yeah, yeah, yeah Uh why why didn't you want me to lead you to Christ? I'll never forget it. You're not the one. That took me to him for the last four years. You're not the one that's been taking me to him for the last four years. I'll tell you folks, you'll never go to Suriname. You may not make it to New York City or Honduras, but we need to be like those four men. Taking that cripple, taking that country, taking them to Jesus. Like my wife. Did no anoise grandfather just t just giving him the never would speak to him, just slide papers. I thought it was a waste of time. But he said Brother Dan, missionary Dan, she's the one that took me to Jesus. Folks, that's what missions is about. That's the drama of one of the first missionary stories ever written in Scripture. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I don't know your hearts. God does. I don't know if you're saved or not. I'm going to hand the invitation to the pastor in just a moment I don't know if you're involved in faith-promise giving or not, but you do, and I pray today that you'll take this opportunity This time that the word is preaching the word, this this moment in Capernaum, this moment in Oakland, Maryland, this date, this time, this situation that you'll become. Part of the ministry of this church, bringing the helpless to Jesus, being the helper, not the hinderer, letting the healer, God Almighty, touch your heart And Paul tells us time and time and time again that it's not for Paul's sake or the missionary's sake, but it's for you It's going to be added to your account. He's going to supply all your needs. And with the end of that, end of that drama. That last part you'll have a happy heart that passes a peace that passes all understanding. Pastor? Our heads are bowed. Somebody would give testimony this morning. You say, I know for sure that I've trusted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. I know, I have assurance that my sins are forgiven and that I have eternal life. How many would testify to that, preacher? I know I've been saved. I know I've trusted Christ. Would you slip your hand up all around? I know I've trusted Christ Savior. God bless you. Hands all around. Maybe there's some this morning say, preacher, I I can't honestly say I I have that settled. I can't honestly say I know for sure That I've trusted Christ, that my sins are forgiven. And you say, I'm concerned about that. And I want to know. I want to know that heaven is my home, not hell. You say, Preacher, pray for me. Is there any like that? Slip a hand up. Say, preacher, pray for me. I want that settled. God bless you. How about any others? Preacher, uh I I I I w I need that settled in my heart. How about it? Any others? How many would say, Preacher, I'm saved? God saved me. There's no doubt about it. And you say, He's touched my heart. And I want God to use me to bring others to Christ. To see other people get saved. Is there any like that, preacher? That's my heart. God stirred my heart. I want to see other people get saved. God bless you. Hands all around. Hands all around. Now we can do that here, as Brother DeLone just said. We can reach others, bring them into church, get them under the preaching of God's word, give gospel tracts. But we can do more than that. We can support these missionaries that are going around the world and pray for them and support them financially. And maybe Maybe there's some here this morning saying, you know, I think God might be calling me to go. I think God's stirring my heart To go somewhere in this world and take the gospel to them. Whatever the case is, we're going to give the invitation. I'm going to ask this to come find a place on old altar this morning and say, Lord, I want you to use me. Here I am. Lead me and direct me Your perfect will in this matter of bringing others to Christ and getting the gospel around the world. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jane's gonna