With me if you will as we go to Hebrews chapter four and verse number fourteen. We'll read the last three verses of the chapter for the message tonight. Where the Bible says, seeing then we have a great high priest that is passed into the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast to our profession For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin Let us therefore, because of these wonderful things about Christ, let us therefore, let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. I want to preach tonight on this subject the difficult thing about God's help. You stay with me tonight. The difficult thing about God's help Heavenly Father, thank you for the Word of God and thank you, Lord, just for the fellowship of God's people. Lord, when I do go to stores and uh places uh uh in the world. I I just I don't feel comfortable. But Lord, I can come to a place like this that I've never been before And to be with the people of God that have within them the same spirit of God and to feel at home. And I enjoy it, and I thank you for it, and I thank you for the fellowship of God's people. I pray now that you bless the preaching of your word, a hunger for your power, as I preach tonight. Help us, I pray, with your word. In Jesus' name, amen. You may be seated. I think it is quite amazing that you and I, as a child of God, can go to God in prayer and get help in the time of need. In fact, no one in the Scripture, or since the writing of the Scripture, has accomplished anything outside of prayer and faith in God. The habit when you study the prayer life of every accomplished leader in the Bible, you find that they were people of prayer and faith. For you see, without faith, it is impossible to please the Lord. And so we find it is a wonderful thing that we can go to God in prayer. I want to give you five statements from these verses tonight to help us understand them, and I give you the message, the difficult thing about God's help. First of all, I want to point out God is touched with the feeling of our infirmities. You know it would be enough if the Bible says that He was touched with our infirmity That he is touched with our weakness, that he is touched with our burden, that he's touched with our hurt. But it says more than that. It says we have a high priest that's touched with the feeling of our infirmity. Uh we have six grandchildren and I worked to get that in the message tonight and I can show you their pictures at the church if if you'd like to see 'em. Uh but we have grandchildren and uh they'll fall down and skim their knee or something. And then when we hear them cry, we're touched first of all by the feeling of their infirmity even before we find out what the infirmity is. Isn't that an interesting thing? And I have a God that loves me. He i uh uh uh I have his attention just with my cry just with going to him in need. He's touched not just with my infirmity, he's touched with the feeling of my infirmity. I want you to notice, second of all, it is our responsibility to go to God in prayer. Even though God knows our needs, he instructs us to come to Him in prayer by faith. Notice he says in verse number sixteen Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. When you have need, when you carry a burden, when you attempt a work for God, we must go to God in prayer. You recall the story when the disciples were in the boat and they were in a storm, and the Bible says that they were toiling and rowing, and the Bible says that Jesus was in the hinder part of the ship and he was asleep. And the Bible says this, that the water began to come into the boat. And then they finally woke up Jesus and they asked a very dumb question They said to Jesus, Carus not that we perish. Now that's a dumb question. In fact, I'd like to ask the disciples a question. Why did you near drown before you woke him up? Why did you wait so long? Why did you wait till the boat was full of water and you were full of fear? before you called on him. I want to say tonight, it's our responsibility to go to God in prayer. I find it interesting the stories that are similar The Bible tells us in another case that the disciples were in the boat and they were rowing and they were in the toiling and rowing. And the Bible says that Jesus was walking on the water And it says, and he would have passed by them. But may I say Jesus wasn't out there just to get his steps in. He was out there to help them, but he was not going to unless they called on him. He wants us to come to him in prayer. Perhaps the prayer I word the most on a Sunday morning when I get to the church early is I say, Lord, I don't want you to pass by today I don't want you to walk by our church. I want you to come in and I refer to that story. It is our responsibility to go to God in prayer. I want to say number three, he tells us that we are to come boldly. Now what does that mean? We're to come to Christ boldly It means to come courageously and with confidence. I like those two words. We're to go to God. in prayer courageously and with confidence. Hebrews 11, 6 says he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him. Some years ago I was in my office on a Saturday afternoon or Saturday evening and I was uh studying and my oldest son Uh we have five children, three boys and two dramas, and or two girls, and uh uh but my oldest son was just a little boy And uh he stuck his head in the in the doorway of the office and and uh he just stood there a minute and I looked up. I said, Yes, sir, what do you need? He said, Can I get fifty cents Now there's a snack machine down in the school. I knew what he wanted. And I said, Son, I said, I'm really busy right now. I'm getting ready for church tomorrow. And so he went away. It wasn't five minutes. He stuck his head back in that door again and said Hey Dad. I said, Joel, what is it? He said, Could it get fifty cents? I said, Joel, I told you I'm busy. I said, just let me study and I'll be finished in a little while. He came back the third time. He put his head back in. I'll never forget what he said. He put his head back in. I said, Joel, are you back? He stepped inside the door and he said, Dad If I can't get fifty cents from you, who can I get it from? And if I can't get what I need from him Who can I get it from? He tells us to come boldly to the throne of grace. What is your burden tonight? What is your need tonight? What is God's will for your life? And God's will has led you beyond your ability, has led you beyond your strength Has led you beyond your talent and you call on him and say, Lord, oh Hallonesiah, the Bible says, Come boldly to the throne of grace. First of all I said God is touched even with the feeling of our infirmities. Second of all I said it is our responsibility to go to God in prayer. I said, number three, we're to come boldly to the throne of grace. It's interesting what happens when we come to the throne of grace. Number four, the Bible says that we may obtain mercy. We come to the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy. He later says grace, but first of all he says mercy. I find that interesting in my study of the words mercy and grace. I have defined them for me simply. Mercy is God not giving me what I deserve. Mercy is God not giving me what I deserve. Some years ago a young man came to my office and said to my secretary, I'd like to see the pastor. And he came in and I said, Can I help you? And he introduced himself and then he said, I am a student, I am a religion student uh at the local university. Now what that means was he was really confused. That's what that meant. He had studied all the religions of the world. And he said to me in just his opening comments, he said, I'll just tell you, I don't think God is fair. And I said to him, Well, I'll agree with you there He said, No, I don't think you understood what I said. He said, I don't think that God is fair I said, I heard you. And I and I said, I agree with you there. He said, what do you mean you agree that made him mad that I agreed with him? He said, what do you mean that you agree with me? I said, well here's how it is I said, you and I are sinners, and we deserve a devil's hell because we've sinned against God. But God gave his son to die on the cross who knew no sin, who had no sin, and he died in your place, and he died in my place And I'm going to heaven not because of who I am or what I've done. I'm going to heaven because God gave his only begotten Son that I could have eternal life. That doesn't sound too fair to me, but I'm thankful for the mercy of God. He didn't give me what I deserve. You know when I go to God in prayer, sometimes we go a tad complaining Sometimes we go a tad in pity in prayer. And when I spend time in the presence, in the holiness, in the righteousness of God I come to the realization, a friend, it could be a whole lot worse than where I am today. And I'm mighty blessed to be where I am. And I find mercy when I go to the throne of grace And then number five, the Bible says, I find grace to help in time of need. Now that's a wonderful thing It's a wonderful thing to know the promises here. Find grace to help in time of need. But there's a difficulty. In God's help. You see, sometimes when we call on God in prayer, we call on God as if we're dialing 911. And we wait two, three, four minutes and we want to hear the sirens uh we want to hear the uh sirens blaring and the lights flashing and the tires screeching And God just come rolling in and take away all of our problems and take away all of our burdens and just fix everything so we can go back to enjoying life That's not how God works. That's not how God works in any passage of Scripture. When you go to God, you find grace to help in time of need. And God is the one that decides what kind of help. and how he will help me. He sort of reminds me of going to the emergency room. You ever go to the emergency room and you think you're 30 minutes shy of death And the lady hands you 47 papers and said, Here, fill these out. And you think, I ain't gonna live long enough to fill them out if you don't help me. I mean, I've got a kidney stone, I've got something, I'm gonna die. But they've seen that before. You ever seen the doctor working in triage and they understand when something really is an emergency? Can I tell you something there's a God in heaven? He knows what my need is, and he knows how to help me, and he knows how to give the grace I need and the grace to help me in the time of need Take your Bibles and go with me to 2 Corinthians chapter 12. Let me show you an illustration of what I'm saying. 2 Corinthians chapter 12, a very familiar passage of scripture, the Bible says, beginning in verse number seven, unless I should be exalted above measure, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh. And this is uh the the th th this is a very interesting a very interesting story, lest I should be exalted above measure Through the abundance of the revelations that was given to me, given to me, God gave it to me, a thorn in the flesh The messenger of Satan to buffet me lest I should be exalted above measure. Now, I like this because Paul prayed just like I prayed. Paul prayed just like we pray. Here's what he said, for this thing I besought the Lord thrice that it might depart from me. Paul never thought he needed the thorn. He never thought he needed this problem, and so he prayed, just like I pray, Lord, would you take this burden away? Would you solve this problem for me? And he went thrice or three times, I do not believe, that was three mentions to God before going to bed. I don't believe it was three mealtime prayers. I believe perhaps it was three Three seasons of prayer that God said, Lord, please, that Paul said, Lord, please take this burden away. But he didn't do that. Notice what the Bible says. This is how God helps. And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Then Paul says, most gladly, therefore, will I rather glory in my infirmity. Why? that the power of Christ may rest upon me. What happened to Paul? He did not get his prayer answered the way he recommended God answer it. But God gave him a grace to bear, to carry that burden. And Paul used that grace not just for that day. He used it for the rest of his life. He used that strength And as we look back over the trials of life and times that we said, Oh God, take away this burden. Oh God, take away this difficulty. God didn't take it away, but He gave us grace and He gave us strength and we've been referring to that grace. We've been using that strength since the day that God gave it to us. And the difficult thing about us Getting help from God is the fact that we have to trust that He gives us what we need, but He gives us grace day by day. Let me show you another story. Take your Bibles and go to 1 Kings chapter 17. 1 Kings chapter 17. Now I know many Christians tonight They're angry at God because they dialed 91 morning, God didn't come running in in an ambulance in a in a fire truck. And they're mad at God because God didn't just fix the problem But that's not the way God works. God knows what I need. God knows how to give me grace and strength day by day. in this story in 1 Kings chapter 17. I'll not read all of it. In just a moment I'll read verse number twelve. But we find here Elijah, he's been by the brook cherith, and the ravens have been feeding him I can't imagine what they was bringing him. What what I've seen ravens eat didn't look too appetizing to me. And uh and he's been drinking water from the brook and all of a sudden Or not all of a sudden, but day by day uh finally the brook dries up. And God tells Elijah, I want you to go down to Zarephath, there is a widow woman that will sustain the I imagine now now being being a preacher You tell me that the widows are cooking Sunday, I'm excited. I imagine that Elijah's thinking Boy, I'm glad I'm tired of these ravens in this brook. I want some fried chicken and and I want some uh uh mashed potatoes and gravy. I mean if the widow woman's gonna cook, praise God, I'm I'm gonna be just fine You know the story. He gets down there and he tells her what God said. Look at verse number 7. And she said, As the Lord thy God liveth, I have not a cake. She said, I don't have enough meal to make a pwn of cornbread. You all know what I'm talking about when I say a pond of cornbread, don't you? I was way up north the other day and I said that and asked me after church what a pone of cornbread was. It's a cake, it's a whole pond of cornbread anyway It makes soup beans extra good. But anyway, I think it says, as the Lord thy God liveth, I have not a cake. She said, I don't have enough meal to make a whole cake but an handful of meal in a barrel, and a little oil in a cruise. And behold I'm gathering two sticks. Look at here. She said, I'm out here getting a couple of sticks that I may go in and dress it for me and my son. that we may eat it and die. This is it. We're la we're down to our last handful of meal. Now you know the story. She obeyed the Lord She followed the instruction of the of the prophet and she made him a meal. He ate of that handful of meal. You know the story. Uh she planned her funeral the next day, and the next day she went in and she looked in the barrel, and lo and behold, there's another handful of meal in that barrel. So she ate that and she put her funeral off for another day Then the next morning she went in and there was another handful of meal and a little bit of oil in the cruise and she put her funeral off for another day And that went on day after day until uh the famine and until the drought had ended. You know what we would like for God to do? We'd like for God to just fill up the barrel. And when God doesn't fill up the barrel, sometimes we get mad at God and say, God, what's wrong? But God needs me Wants me, I need to keep trusting in God day by day. I k need to keep my faith in Him And I'm telling you, dear friend, we need to understand this matter of faith and trusting God. God didn't give us everything we need if He did for the next six months. While we backslide on God, we come to the place that we would think we don't need God, because that's how the pride of our flesh is, and it happened again and again To the best of men and the best of people. Oh, but we need to trust in Him. Go to God in prayer in the time of need, and He'll give us grace to help for another day That's the way it is in life. That's the way it is in ministry. There's so many folks I pray for day after day. One of the men asked me here tonight We had two infants that we'd been praying for, both of them critically ill. And one uh got better and just just just started improving day by day, going home from the hospital in the next couple of days The other passed away last Monday. At the funeral on Saturday for a baby thirty days old. It was a difficult thing. But you know the grace of God is just I I marvel at it I marvel at it. Here's a young couple, 23 years of age. He is his his grandparents are from Mexico He is going back to Oaxaca, Mexico as a missionary. He said, I want to I want to reach uh uh my family for Christ with the gospel. There's no Bible preaching church in that area. And he said, perhaps preacher, God has used this to help us to be a blessing to others. And oh what a blessing it was to see his grace. Now my prayer was, Lord, heal the child, but God knows what he's doing. The difficult thing about God's health is let God help us the way he wants to help us and he helps us day by day and he gives us grace day by day. He doesn't fill the barrel up. He doesn't take away the problem. He doesn't solve everything at once. When I was a boy, my dad started Bible Baptist Church in 1972. Now my grandfather was born in southeast Kentucky in 1901. He was a coal miner uh for forty two years there in the mountains of southeast Kentucky. My dad left for a few years. Uh he went to Dayton. A lot of our family went to Dayton. Some made it to Detroit. Some ran out of gas in Dayton. They all got jobs there and so forth And a faithful soul-winning preacher got my dad back in church. He'd been saved at a little missionary Baptist church, and so he went back home and started the church in nineteen seventy-two I remember as a boy now I'm not complaining, but life was simple. And we was w you know the depression was over, but nobody told us. I mean we didn't waste anything. I'm telling you the truth. I mean we we we saved our scraps and fed them to the hogs and then we ate the hogs when they got big enough My grandmother would go with my grandfather when it was time to get feed because she wanted to pick out the sacks. That the feed came in because that's what she made her dresses out of. Feed sack dresses. I mean I mean that that life was simple. I thought everybody lived like that. One fellow down there said he was supportive. If somebody had broken his house, he'd have helped them look. Pretty poor right there. But I gr I grew up in those days and and and life was simple. I remember dad started the church and after church on a Sunday night we lived in a little single wine trailer and uh after church on a Sunday night Uh, there was two or three young men, probably teenagers, eighteen, nineteen years old. I remember, preacher, they counted the offering. And and and and they just said uh uh they just said uh uh preacher there's not any left to give any salary this week. I remember they left quietly. I remember my mama crying and going to the back bedroom. I was sitting on a couch in the living room and I saw my dad get on his knees And he prayed out loud, and he was crying. He said, God, I've got a wife to take care of, and I I've got a family to feed. I pray that you'd meet our needs. And he poured his heart out. I cried because he was crying. I'll never forget it. The next day my dad went to the post office. No, we didn't they didn't deliver the mail to our house. Everybody H their address, everybody's address in that part of the country was uh General Delivery, Chavez, Kentucky, four one seven two seven. You all went in and I think the way it worked, you traded a little gossip for your mail or something. That's that sort of seemed that ain't worked to me. And my dad, he got an envelope, and he opened that envelope and there was two $100 bills My dad was so excited. He was so excited. I remember when the front door of that that single wide trailer came open and dad came running in the house looking for my mom, holding that envelope over his head And my mom and dad they danced around the kitchen table and they praised God. I didn't have anybody to dance with. I just stood there and watched them and we all had a good time. And my dad said, I'll tell you what, let's do. We'll go up to the little country store And we'll buy groceries and uh then later we'll go up to town and we'll buy and we'll buy a lot of groceries. And I remember how they just praise God. My dad would tell the story like this. He would say, I prayed for it on Sunday night. God put it in the mail the Friday before. You know I watch God do that, and I've seen him do that now for forty some odd years. I've watched God provide and He's a wonderful God. The psalmist said, I've yet to see his seed begging bread And when we go boldly to the throne of grace, we find mercy and we find grace to help in time of need. And you may be here tonight And you may pray a prayer as the Apostle Paul did and say, Lord, please take the burden away. And God may not have taken the burden away, and you've prayed seasons of prayer Oh, but God is giving you grace. How many times have you heard someone say, I just can't make it? Ten years later they're still making it. We can make it by the grace of God. We've got a mighty good God. He He's given us more than we deserve. That's how I understand His mercy. I'm going to heaven by the grace of God and the mercy of God. His son died on the cross for my sin. And oh dear friend How God provides as we do his work, as we step out by faith. I was I I told Brother Smith on the way over here, a gentleman uh saw our program uh on television on saturday night, uh actually it was during uh twenty twenty, and started watching and he called me the other day. He said, Brother Fugit He said, uh, I've uh got a little piece of property I'd like to show you. I stopped by there today. He said, What do you think about these ten acres? I said, Oh, it'd be a beautiful place for a church right here. We need a church in Moorhead, Kentucky. Well he said, that's what my wife wants to do. If that's what you want to do, God provides. Oh, listen to me. I prayed ten years ago. I've been praying. I've got a list of towns I've been praying for that we need churches. We've started 60 some odd churches, all but the need of the nation, the need of the hour is to have a Bible preaching, soul-winning church on every corner, every town and every city. And I thank God that He's still providing. And God does give us grace to help in time of need. Don't be mad at God tonight if you don't hear the sirens. You don't see the flashing lights. And God seems to be like one of those workers at the emergency room moving sort of slow And I tell you something, God does care about you. And God works when we don't see him work. Wonder how many prayers the prodigal son prayed for his son. I wonder how the father prayed for the prodigal son. I wonder how many prayers he prayed. I wonder how many days it was, the Bible says, that day he came to himself and he said, I will arise. I wonder how many days it was before his daddy found out And God had been working in the heart of that boy. I want to say tonight, don't stop praying. Keep on praying. The Bible principles through, all the way through. He teaches us in Matthew 6, 11. Give us this day our daily bread. The Bible tells us in Ezekiel twenty-three, uh uh I'm sorry, Exodus twenty-three, when the children of Israel went into the land of Canaan. It was exactly as God had told him it was, but he said, you don't get it all at once. You get it by little and little. I will drive them out from before thee until thou be increased and inherit the land. Our culture affects us a lot. It it affects us. We want things quick. We want things fast. I I remember when the Christmas catalog came out from uh Sears and Roe Book, don't you? The Christmas catalog And boy, I'd start six months ahead of time. Then I'd change my mind forty seven times. But we've come to the place today we're impatient. We can order it in Amazon and put it on our porch in forty eight hours. Gonna tell you something, God's economy hadn't changed. The way God works hadn't changed. My grandfather, he didn't get paid in the mines. He got script, and he would trade the script at the commissary store. That's the economy of that day Now we've come to the place, now they're introducing palm readers. In the in the whole food stores, palm readers. No, don't get nervous about that. Hey, things not falling apart. They're falling in place. Jesus is coming soon. The economy's changed, but God's economy hadn't changed. Come boldly to the throne of grace and obtain mercy and find grace to help. in time of need. That's how churches are built day by day, week by week. Thirty years faithful watching God supply. Stand with me if you will. Thank you so much for your attention Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I wonder if there are those here tonight you have perhaps a heavy burden. Or perhaps tonight you have a broken heart or you have a need And you've gone to God in prayer, and you're going to God in prayer. I want to say tonight, don't give up on God and don't be frustrated at God. The Bible says if we come boldly to the throne of grace, we'll obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. The altars are open, I'll pray, and he'll play the invitation song. The altars are open, perhaps there's something you've given up on You need to come back tonight and say, God, I come back to you in prayer with this burden, with this need. Heavenly Father, help us tonight to be a committed Christian. As we learn from Philippians chapter 1 with joy and excitement and commitment, help us to magnify you with our lives. Help us, Lord, if there's a decision that ought to be made. Lord, that we'd make that decision in that matter. And then, Lord, I pray that you'd help us to accept your help as you give it And Lord, patiently wait as the mercy and the grace of God is extended in our life. Bless our invitation in Jesus' name.