Wow, that was something. Yeah, it was it was very interesting and we would uh uh protect uh the president when he came to the State Department, all the different ambassadors and And the guests of the State Department, we protected Princess Diana, actually, when she came to the United States. That's another story. I won't go there today, but uh maybe if you want to ask me about that, I'll tell you That was kind of interesting as well. But Ezra, the book of Ezra, and I want you to see something I think that's very unique here, because this is something where I believe although it happened in this time, it really has an application to where we are tonight as a country, as a people. And in Ezra chapter 9 and verse 8 it says this, and now, for a little space grace. Hath been showed from the Lord our God to leave us a remnant to escape And to give us a nail in his holy place that our God may lighten our eyes and give us a little reviving In our bondage. I believe that God has given us a space of grace. I believe it's been given us for a reason. God says in Galatians chapter 5 and verse 13, for brethren, ye have been called unto liberty. Isn't that wonderful that God has given us a liberating life through and by the Lord Jesus Christ? And not only has he liberated us, He's given us, you might say, the keys to the kingdom because we know the gospel and we can see other people get saved. Amen? through the efforts of simply handing out tracks. You state with the Harding. Who hands out tracks? Those that carry tracks. Hand out tracks. Amen. So if you don't have any tracks on you in your purse, get some before you walk out. Because what that is right there, that is an invitation to the marriage supper of the Lamb Amen. See, what are you talking about? Look, us guys know something. When it comes to a marriage ceremony, the marriage ceremony is for the woman. Amen? The reception is for the guys. Okay? When I go to a wedding, I'll say, Man, let's get these two folks hooked up, and I you know, I'm saying put a double lip lock on that girl and let's go to the reception. Amen? Because that's what our guys we appreciate. And look, when we get to reception, I don't want those little dainty candies and some some type of little foo-foo drink. I want some food to eat. Amen? And that's a good wedding. And that's the wedding supper of the lamb reflected here on earth And I don't know about you, but I'm looking forward to that. Amen. Now, can you imagine if someone asked me, how long do you think we're going to be eating at the marriage supper of the Lamb? I don't know. We're going to be an eternity. Amen? And everything that we eat is going to be calorie free You get that? Amen? And it's gonna be wonderful. We're gonna have heightened senses of smell and and and taste, and it's not even entered into our imagination What God has set up for us. I don't know about you, but when I know that there's a wedding coming and there's people that are related, boy, I I want to go ahead and hand out those those uh little invitations and say, hey, don't miss it The wedding will be wonderful and the reception even better. Amen. So what this is, this is an invitation to the marriage supper of the Lamb. Wow. Make sure you're handing these things out. You know why? Because, brethren, we've been called unto liberty Only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh. But by love serve one another. And how can we serve one another any better than by spreading the gospel? Amen? Now, it says this, it says in James chapter 1 and verse 25, for whosoever looketh into the perfect law of liberty. And continueth therein, he being unforgetful here, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed And that's exactly who we are. We are a blessed people because we live in a nation that was born out of sacrifice and service. It was an amazing beginning and birth of a nation, and I want to talk about that tonight. Because God talks about the other nation that is so close to his heart that we have emulated, that we have fashioned in a certain way this country after a being as we called ourselves the second Israel. In Deuteronomy chapter 4, verses 8 and 9, where he said, In what nation is there so great that has statutes and judgments so righteous as all this law? He said Look at this is a great nation. You know why? Because their constitution was the 613 commandments by God. You think about that The Bible was their constitution. Now we don't have the Bible as our Constitution, but we do have a Constitution based upon the Bible. Amen. And it is amazing. How amazing? We're the longest ongoing constitutional republic in the history of the world. That means this last July the 4th, we just set another record. World record. All of the nations have changed. Every single government has been altered in some way, except for the United States of America, because this document The most miraculous governmental document is based upon the most miraculous document that we have that's already settled in eternity. You think about this tonight, there's only two things that are going to make it out of this world intact. Only two things. Everything else is going to be burned up. My wife, she is a dutiful recycler. She recycles. How many of you ladies recycle? Look at all the wonderful ladies that recycle. Amen? And and my wife says, put that in the recycle bin, not in the trash. Okay. You know, and she has a different color bag for the recycle than for the trash, you know, and she gets upset if I don't put something that's recycled in the recycle bin. And I say, honey, you do know, right? Everything's gonna burn up. You get this, right? Now I'm not irresponsible to our environment. I I don't throw trash out. I want to keep our our country and our beautiful land clean and I want to be responsible to the environment. But I also draw a little bit of a balance as well, realizing that this whole world is going to burn. There's going to be a whole new world that God's going to create. Amen. But two things are going to get out of this world intact. We hold one of them in our hand tonight. The Holy Word of God that's forever settled in heaven, and we possess the other one within us, and that is our eternal soul That's a wonderful. These are two things that we need to concentrate on. Amen. These are two things that should be the most valuable to us. Not all the other niceties of life. This should have preeminence in our life This should predominate who we are, you see, and help us to grow as a Christian. We need to be hungry for God's Word. We need to be in God's Word. We need to be prime time Christians. spending more time in God's Word than in front of the boob tube. Okay? Say what are you talking about? I'm talking about the television. The Snellovision. Okay? And look, too many times we're not in the Bible anywhere near as much as we are in front of the television. Have you ever seen anyone watching television? It's a very intelligent look. Because the television's doing your thinking for you. And by the way, we need to be thinking people. Amen? Because we're at a point in our history that it can go one of two ways. I want to see our nation come to a great revival, and by the way, we have a chance for it to happen And if we don't, we need to heed the warning of God, who says He increaseth the nations and destroyeth them. He enlargeth the nations and straighteneth them again. Let's have a word of prayer. Heavenly Father As we think about the miracle of revival, the miracle of the new birth, the miracle of the birth of this country, how very synonymous each and every one of them are. And we understand that the reason why we have our nation is because of you. We understand the reason why we have this country is because and for the gospel. Lord, tonight we bow before you, and we are simply sinners saved by grace. But oh God, we ask that you would enter into this service in a most miraculous way this evening Oh Father, that we could sense the presence and the power of your Holy Spirit. That unction, Lord, would just fall upon us this evening. creating and maintaining a hedge protection around us. Lord, that we might continually look for these next few minutes upon the eternal. And oh God, that it might so affect us, so stir us, we'll never be the same again. Father, we ask tonight, Lord, as you've given us this chance in life, Father, help us to respond to it as we should. Give us the ability to respond, the responsibility, dear God, to who and what you are and for the gospel of your precious Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, as we unite our minds and hearts Lord, I step back and we pray that you would step forward. And as I surrender myself to you, dear God, articulate these lips, clarify this mind. Enlarge and enlighten our understanding as only you can through the revelation of your Holy Spirit. Lord, be amongst us tonight, and we'll be very careful to give you all the praise and glory for what you're about to do For we ask it in the precious name of our Savior, of your Son, Lord, and by the power and the merit and the authority that is in the name of Jesus Christ we ask it. Amen. So we see something in the Bible, and that is having an understanding on where we should stand. Too many times Christians don't know where they should stand, what kind of stand they should take. And I've heard this all through my life that America was born out of the Revolutionary War and that's nothing but stuff and nonsense. That's hogwash. America was not born out of the Revolutionary War. America was not born out of revolution. America, as we've just seen in the movie a new few minutes ago, America was born out of revival The revival of God's people here in this country. A stirring that started actually in Europe with the 1300s of Wycliffe Copying the Bible into the common man's tongue. And then the 1400s, when a man by the name of Johannes Gutenberg printed the Bible and started to pass it out throughout the entire European community. And people started getting saved and training their children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord and the prayers. that shaped America and the sacrifices that define America and the foundations that sustain America. These were the timeless truths They were all born out of revival in the hearts and minds of our forefathers that came here with an unstoppable, unexhaustible strategy That has been the fuel and fire that dawned, yes, the thing in Europe that dawned was the Great Awakening. But the destination was here in America. The embarkation of the separatists. You come to the next Capitol Connection. We'll go on an after-hours tour. It's fun. We are wandering around the Capitol at 10 o'clock at night We sing under the rotunda. We have church in the capital. Someone says, oh, we shouldn't do that, separation of church and state. No, no, no. They had church in the Capitol for decades where presidents attended church services. We hold church there. And I'm telling you, no one's ever done what we have been allowed to do these last six years. The first year I went in and I asked the lady that basically helped us with the tour. I said, I want to lead an after-hours tour. She said, how many people do you want to go uh to to go with you? I said, 125. She swallowed real hard. She said, Oh, that's never been done, Brother Hardy. I said, Well, as the Sergeant of Arms, maybe who led us. She came back the next day and she said, I can't believe it. He's going to let you lead 125 people under the Capitol And of course we have to have a congressman that comes with us. The second year I I said I want to leave two hundred and seventy-five people under the Capitol two nights She said, well, that's never been done, Brother Harding. I said, well, ask the sergeant of arms. Maybe he'll let us. She came back. She said, I can't believe it. This is unprecedented. He's going to let you lead 275 people under the Capitol after hours. The third year I came in, she said, how many people do you want to lead into the Capitol this year? I said, 335. She said, okay. This last March we led over 400 people under the Capitol. Went right to where they sit in the House of Representatives. And pray for those people after the congressman got through with his testimony. I want you to come. Be a part of history. And the reason why we get to do that is because this is a nation, you see, that was born out of the Bible, and it was a nation for the people, by the people. of the people, you see. When they found that highest point on Capitol Hill, they came to George Washington and they said, Sir, we have found the place that we're going to build your house. He said, well, what do you mean? Well we found the highest point on Capitol Hill, and it just screams for an edifice. It screams for a building. He said, if it's the highest point. In Capitol Hill, that's not where my house is going to be built. That's where you will build the people's house. And the very first year we had kids running down the halls and And they were having fun and and uh brother Creed was saying, hey, hey, get those kids back here. You know, we're in the capital of the United States. And the congressman said, Oh, let them go. This is the people's house. I thought that's an amazing thing. That's something that we realize. Hey, I get to go to the Library of Congress. I get to read the documents themselves, the original source documents, where Washington wrote in his own hand. And put in the saddlebags. I get to go and handle those things. You say, how do you get to do that? Well, because the documents belong to us A lot of times people say, where do you get your history from? I get it from the men who lived it. The men and women who lived it. You know a lot of times We don't know who we are. And the reason why we are simply kind of floating along and allowing all these wonderful things to dissipate to be ripped from us is because we don't realize how miraculous we are as a people. Not because we're better than anyone else, but because our forefathers did something that was simply amazing. They Based this country on timeless truths, on the Bible. And my oh my All you gotta do is sign up for a reader's card and you can go and you can do the same thing that I do. We're about five minutes from the Library of Congress. I have held the Aiken Bible, which is the first Bible printed in the United States, and the very first editions were printed in two volumes. So it wasn't the Bible in its entirety. There was only five of them in existence. It's more precious. than the Gutenberg Bible and I held it in my hands and looked at it and was taking photographs with my iPhone. It wasn't flash, but the whole time there was a curator standing there, but still I've got to hell handle something so precious to us. And so what we have to understand is we are unique as a people. And when you look At the Capitol and the Rotunda, you'll see the embarkation of the separatists. And they're all bowing before the Bible praying It's an amazing thing. On that one side, and I think I've mentioned this before in years past, but boy, it merits repetition. Out of the four paintings on the age of exploration and discovery, there are two prayer meetings and a baptism. Say what are you talking about? Well it's the embarkation of the Christians as standing and kneeling before the Bible, which is prominently displayed in the in the painting. The second one is Columbus discovering America and they're praying for and thanking God for a safe journey. And the third one is the baptism of Pocahontas. That's pretty interesting, isn't it? That's who we are. And so when we see our country And the gospel that caused our forefathers to risk all, the opportunity to simply worship God, they gave their lives. Can you imagine Them simply wanting to come together like we're coming together tonight in freedom, not being arrested. You say, well why'd they do that? Because their pastor of this little church and when you realized that the hundred and six separatists that got onto that boat was a church. And they were being led by the assistant pastor. Why? Because the pastor got his head cut off For worshiping, and not part of the state-run church. Because when you left the church of England, you were causing basically your congregation to commit treason because the head of the church was the king. And so the associate pastor, in this case, it would be this gentleman right here, said, I'd kind of like my head where it is. And so we need to go to the free world. And they rest all to go there. Now now get this. The reason why they went was so they could could do what we're doing here tonight. You imagine that? That's why they went. And by the way, half of them died that first winter. But they still stayed. The second winter, they didn't learn about the rigors of the new world, and again, the amount that was left, half of them died. But they came to worship They came just for the freedom to worship. That's what we get to do tonight because someone else paid the price before us. That should not make us grateful. Shouldn't that make us understand, boy, it's really good to get the church and to be able to do something and freedom that someone else paid with? With that last good measure, and then has basically protected it down through the years. It was the gospel that caused our forefathers. to go on to that ship. It was the gospel and they wanted to form a nation that would be the epicenter for the gospel of Jesus Christ. The story of these United States of America is miraculous because it's a story of revival. It's the story of God visiting our nation and multiplied. Thousands of people were getting saved. Some meetings broke convention. We don't do it that way. It's kind of interesting to me that men like Whitfield, who were preaching, basically they were being criticized by the brethren Huh. Isn't that interesting? They'd come into town and they would preach a revival message, and because a lot of people were getting saved, it caused some envy from some other quote-unquote religious leaders. So some of the biggest opposition that they had was from others. You know, the Bible does talk about the fact that only by pride cometh contention. That's why we need to lay aside the pride of life. Because that's the original sin. So yeah, that's not the original sin. Was you know disobedience. Well it was disobedience out of pride. You shall be like the gods if you eat this. By the way, it wasn't an apple. We don't know what it was. Okay? Could have been a pear. Could have been a complot. But we know it was pride, you see. But isn't that interesting that our Forefathers were being criticized by other men that should have been joining in and saying, Praise God, seeing all these people. But what it was was a manifestation of God's love and power through the gospel that so changed our colonial population, it was the very thing that gave them The wherewithal to stand up against a tyrannical nation and to simply do something that no one thought they were going to do. That's why the story of these United States is most miraculous and astonishing in the chapters of all of our countries. Our founding fathers were educated, cultured. Wealthy, settled in character and reputation. These were the men in the threat of their own lives that were standing, and the reason why is because they listened to men in pulpits that were preaching under the threat of life. Because they weren't part of the state-run church. I mean, I don't know how many people would be called to preach these days if they understood that the thing that you're about to do is going to cost you your life That would make a calling upon preachers a little more serious than it is today. Amen. And look when we see in history There were many times where men were called to preach that they went and they trained, and their professor said, What you're about to learn will most likely end your life. And not one student left. And many of them were burned at the state for the simple Privilege of spreading the gospel. And when a human being burns, they don't roast like an animal. Their flesh melts off their bones like candles, like candle wax. And as those dear people would continue to preach, even as they're being burned to death, is an amazing thing for our God. And for his glory. These men here in this country, they also were consumed with the fire of God. Our nation is reality because the Almighty God empowered the men of God to preach the word of God in the Spirit of God about the Son of God to the people that became the people of God and allowed our nation to become what it is today. Massive revivals broke out. People were wandering into churches saying, I don't know why I'm here. Well we know why. There was a prayer meeting in New York that lasted for years. And many times the Holy Spirit of God was so powerful upon even the ports of New York City. As boats would come in, men would start to get under conviction simply by floating in to the port of New York City. And a call would go in to the town. We need a preacher to come out. There are men that need to be tended to. And the preacher would take whatever mode of transportation available to them out to that boat, and there would be the men wringing their hands, weeping, on their knees, not knowing what to do. And the pastor would come on board and say, I know exactly what you need. You need the gospel, and he'd see the whole ship's crew saved. Time and time again. Would you like to see that in America? Would you like to see people wander into this church and say, I don't know why I'm here, but I need to be here tonight? And you would be able to say, I know exactly what you need. I know exactly why you're here. See, that can happen. I'm not talking about fairy tales. I'm talking about things that have happened before in our country. And I believe that God has given us a space of grace. Look, November the 8th was a miracle, but that was just a political miracle. I want to see a spiritual miracle occur. Well, we see our nation so stirred, we see our nation so rocked to its very core that something that cannot be explained happens. Christian life and character of the living epistles of God's people were the very things and the eternal truth that allowed this nation to be founded. James Madison said to the General Assembly of the state of Virginia in 1778, quote We have staked the whole future of American civilization not upon the power of government, far from it. We've staked the future of all our political institutions upon our capacity to sustain ourselves according to the Ten Commandments of God. Say what the Ten Commandments of God? Yeah, that is a mirror that we look into. Amen? The Ten Commandments is a mirror. Now I'm very thankful that most of you looked in the mirror before you came here tonight. Amen? I'm thankful for that. But the Ten Commandments, we don't get to heaven by obeying the Ten Commandments. We get to heaven by looking at ourselves in the Ten Commandments and seeing our need for a Savior. Amen. But I'm glad we have the Ten Commandments, and that's exactly what James Madison was saying. We are staking the whole future of this country of our ability as people to look into the Ten Commandments and realize we have a need. Amen. And I wake up in the morning, my wife said, You have a bad case of bed hair. Okay? Now, I I I don't think that there's a lot of people that do it anymore. But you remember when the young people were combing their hair like baby Huey? How many remember that? And they're combing to a point. Okay? I know how that happened. Because I sleep on one side and then I sleep on the other side. And when I wake up, that's what I got going on. And so I tell my wife, I say, Hey, look I'm right in fashion. This was, you know, several several years ago. She said, comb your hair. But see that's where the Ten Commandments are. We look into the Ten Ten Commandments and we realize I'm in need. Well I fall short. And I'm in need of a savior. I'm in need of the gospel. And that is what our nation was based upon. Our nation was founded upon the gospel of Jesus Christ. There is no other reason why these people would have come here and died in order to just simply worship God openly? There's no other reason why, but a spiritual, a supernatural reason, and we are formed as a nation for the propagation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And also to stand up for the nation of Israel, which I'm glad we're doing again today. That's the uniqueness of our country. That's what we must understand. How unique we are Our government cannot make people righteous. Our job is not to try and change society through the government, but to see people changed by the gospel of Jesus Christ. So we can affect our government. Our current culture wants nothing to do with duty. All they want is rights. But that kind of attitude leads to servitude, and we have to get them to understand for every right there's a duty to perform Every right, we have a hope of understanding who and what we are, the pastors of yesteryear. They knew that. They led their congregations into battle, and the hope of America today is very similar. And that weapon, as I said this morning, is truth. Truth of the gospel. Do you know what happened when we had this last Capitol connection? I think you probably picked up on this for the Letterman. But even when we weren't in the Congressional Auditorium, we were over in the Library of Congress And there wasn't any placard on the wall of the fact that our theme was the miracle of revival, but just about every senator and congressman that came in, you know what they said? The only hope for our country is revival That's what senators and congressmen were telling the pastors and their people that were there. The only hope for America is revival. See, I told your pastor, and I mentioned it to you also, I remember these altars being full. before the election, where where God had given me a message that if we wanted him to divinely intervene for our country ahead as he had so many times before then he needed us to prayerfully intercede to him. You remember that? How many remember that? And you came forward and even though maybe some people didn't really believe as much as they they they wanted to. They still came forward and they asked God to do something. Lord, help my unbelief because I want to see a miracle on November the 8th. And by the way, we saw one. Do you understand that every person at this altar had a part in the fact that we're still free as our country? I'd like to see that happen. For a national revival. But what we need to do is three things. I've looked into history. There's three things that we need to do. And every time that's been done by people, God shows up in a mighty movement that we have termed revivals in our country. Our country began in the sixteen hundreds with the Great Awakening. It continue to the 1800s with the second great awakening and it's been 200 years and we are due. And must we go back to those mighty men of old? Are we not those here today who will bow and ask God to give us a burden in our hearts for our country for revival, for national revival? Some say it would be too late I don't believe it. I believe that God's a game changer. I believe when he shows up, it doesn't make any difference how far behind we are. Or what the opposition is doing. He is a God of miracles. Oh, that's impossible, Brother Hardy. Isn't it wonderful that we serve the God of the impossible And for him, impossible is just a little degree of difficulty that is blown away by our God. A lot of times people say, well, we can't get saved because America is in apostasy. We've departed from the truth. So had Israel. But many times. The cries went out for Israel. In apostasy, Lord, O Lord, remainest forever. Thy throne is from generation to generation. Wherefore dost thou forget us forever? And forsake us so long, so we will not go back from thee. Quicken us, and we will call upon thy name. Turn us again, O Lord God of hosts. Cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved. We need to ask God to turn our nation to Him Turn us back to him. I want to ask you a question tonight. And this is rhetorical, so please don't raise your hands. But we get what we ask for. We get the prayers answered that we ask for. And I want to ask this question again, rhetorical. Don't raise your hand. But I wonder how many people in here tonight are praying for national revival. Huh? See, that's the first thing we need to do. We need to yearn for it. We need to give God an oath that we're going to start praying for national revival. And we need to realize that the three steps that there is, the first step is simply prayer and asking God Lord, please, Father, help us to understand when we go to you and we're in prayer, we're actually living in eternity for those moments of time. We're stepping into eternity as we bring our petitions before you. For thus saith the high and lofty one that inhabiteth eternity. Whose name is holy. I dwell in the high and holy place with him also that is of a contrite and humble spirit. Lord, I'm nothing. I'm nothing, but you're everything. And you still listen to me. And you answer me. Amen. The even the smallest things. I can remember one time you say, Brother Brother Hardy, God's so concerned. He's so concerned. We were on the skyline drive once, my my wife and I. And you know what my wife said? I've been in Maryland and I've never seen a bear in Maryland. I said, well first of all we'll go to Deep Creek Lake and you know we'll go to Brother Leatherman's house and because they're right out back there in his yard. But uh no uh no uh we were starting on the Skyline Drive on the Maryland side And uh so I I said, and she didn't know it. I said, Lord, my wife wants to see a bear. Lord, would you let my wife see a bear Five ten minutes later. We're driving through Skyline Drive. And guess what walks right in front of us? Pauses, looks like And then I told my wife, she was she was the You know, she know how like how ladies do, you know, oh and you know as he's going up and we're stopping he's going up and every once in a while he pauses and Waves again at my wife, you know, and continues on. But I said, honey, uh, you're not going to believe this, but just five, ten minutes ago I prayed that God would bring a bear. See, that's silly. Yeah. It's a very small thing. But if God's concerned about those little things in life, how much more does he listen to us about the major things in life? Amen. See, God, He's just waiting for us to listen. Here's the problem: the point of contact with God and us. It's something that he relishes. So you know what? If we in fact don't go to him the way that we should, as often as we should, as intensely as we should, then sometimes he creates things in our life that will draw us to him. You understand what I'm saying? Sometimes those things may not be good, not that he's a mean God, but he so desires our fellowship. Sometimes he allows things to happen, so we'll be drawn on him. I would much rather go into him my own volition. Amen. Because God relishes his time with us, and we should relish our time with him Amen. I want to ask you something here. Because you say, well, what does this have to do with revival? Everything. Everything. It's going to God. And it's actually having an interchange with God. I'll guarantee you, I talk to my wife every day. You know what I tell my wife? I love you. I tell her over and over again. If I'm not home, every time I call my wife, I end it with love you. And she knows I'm not just saying that. Okay? And again, I want to ask you, when was the last time you went to God and you just got into the throne room and you just hugged on him for a while? Huh? Just hugged on him for a while. So God just wants you to know I love you Thank you for saving my soul. I should be in hell. But I'm not there. And I'll never be there. Because you sent your son and Lord, I just want to tell you, I so appreciate the fact that I'm safe. And I want you to know I love you. And I want you in my thoughts. And I want to be in constant communication with you as well. Say, what does that have to do? Oh my. The reason why some people live a Christian life of mediocracy is because they don't have that channel open to God. Think about the people not even in the Bible. Think about Peter, who was just an ignorant fisherman. Think about Paul, who was sitting at the seat of Chamaliel, a brilliant theologian and both men were used powerfully by God because it doesn't make any difference about your education. All that makes a difference is that you go to God. And you are in communion with God. And if we want revival in our country, which is the only hope for our nation, then we need to be people that not just love God, but fall in love with God. So important. We have this type of relationship with the Lord, you see. He dwells in the high and holy place, with him also that's of a contrite and humble spirit to revive the spirit of the humble. I'm not anything, Lord, I'm not anything, but oh God, I just want to tell you I love you. Oh okay. You just spend some time with me now. And when we go to God and pray for men, then we have great power when we go to men and plead for God. That's revival, you see. And I believe that God would bring us revival if we just turn to Him If simply we just turn to him as Christians, getting thoroughly right with ourselves and him, and then right with our families. You know yourself if you're right with God. You know yourself if you're right with your family. with your wife. You know very well if you're right with your church members. Look, we have young people that are counting on us. We have young people that are counting on us. This little guy here. How old is he? Seven years old. What's his name? He's counting on us. Seven. And that means you're seven too. How did I figure that out? Huh? That's really something. Now that's God's perfect numbers. Does that mean you're perfect? No. No. Who's the older brother? Right there, he's the older brother. Okay, by a few minutes, maybe. Okay. Same. He was the first one that probably stand out maybe, okay? But but these little guys are counting on us. You know what they're counting on us? That make ourselves so right with God that God hears us when we say, Lord, we want, we yearn, we turn towards you for a national revival. I've apologized to people when they've been at fault. And I've apologized to them You know why? Because I don't want anything keeping myself from God in any way. I don't want any kind of riff going on. Amen? So I've gone to people and I've not been a f but I've simply why? Well because Abraham went to Lot. And said, our herdsmen shouldn't be fighting with one another. It should have been locked there and went to Abraham, right? But the more mature person goes to and look, you say, well, you don't understand what they did. Well, we're supposed to be Christ-like. And the Lord was nailed to the cross. And what did he say? Father, forgive them. For they know not what they do. Wow. I don't think has anyone been nailed to a cross recently in in here? Anyone got any nail scars? See it doesn't make any difference who did what to you because If you hold bitterness, it's a root sin, and that could be the very thing that's keeping you from having power with God. And may I say this? You need power with God. Your family needs power with God. Your church family needs power with God. Your state needs power with God. Our nation needs you to have power with God. So forget about that pride and let go of that bitterness Why? Because I want to see Evan grow up in freedom. Evan, I believe he's going to do something for the Lord. These other young people in here, the abilities of you young people, wow, could God use you in Such a miraculous way. It would baffle your thought process even right now. What God could do with you if you just simply put yourself in His hand But it's going to be our prayers that get them to move towards God. And so these young people, they're counting upon us. Oh, well, I just can't forgive them. Yes, you can. And they don't even have to say they're sorry to you for you to forgive them. You can just say, I'm I'm not gonna hold on to it anymore. You know why? Because holding on to bitterness is like holding on to a hot coal. It oh I'm gonna teach them, I'm I'm gonna not I'm not gonna forgive them. I'm I'm gonna harbor some of you that's gonna hurt you more than anyone else. It's gonna hurt you, it's gonna hurt your family, it's gonna hurt your church family, it's gonna hurt this state, it's gonna hurt this nation. That's why we need to be humble and contrite. I'm nothing, Lord. Look what I did to you. My sin nailed you to the cross. Oh God, please forgive me for not forgiving others. We need to get a hold of this, folks, because our country and the young people are waiting for this. Our future doesn't belong to the heathen Our future is in our hands. God says of my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked way. One of those things is bitterness. Then while I hear from heaven, forgive their sin, heal their land. Sin has to be dealt with before revival comes And when, and look, this is this is one wonderful. When you confess your sin before God, He's faithful and just to forgive your sin and to cleanse you from all unrighteousness. It feels good to keep short accounts with God. Oh Lord, you know I've been harboring bitterness for a while, and dear God, I'm just coming, I'm going to confess as sin. And it's such a cleansing sensation that you get in your body, in your heart, and your soul when you release those things and give it back to God. I guess Lord if you could uh forgive the people that nailed you to the cross, I can forgive people of any anything. That they've done to me. Anything. Our nation, our future belongs to us So we need to get to the point where we really turn to God and take an oath and say, Lord, uh uh look, I I've just promised you by thy grace I'm going to start praying for a national revival. And I'm going to start praying some biblical prayers. That's why we have a pamphlet for everyone, teenager, on down here tonight. So you can start praying biblical prayers for revival. Look, folks, I remember. At this altar where we were looking at the demise of our country, tonight we have to understand we're still looking at that demise. And now it's been given us the space of grace to do something exactly what God has wanted us to do all along. Do you understand he's waiting? He's willing to give us. He wants to give us a national revival. Do you realize that? He wants to. He's waiting for us to get to the place that we need to, and we need to give an oath. Well, I just don't believe that that could see that's the first thing we need to believe. When we turn to God, we need to believe it is possible. Brother Arney, look, look. Do you really believe we could have national revival? Yes, I believe it Do you understand what our founding fathers did when they signed the Declaration of Independence? There was no hope by man's standards, but they stood there against unbelievable odds and they simply believed. They believed. They took an oath. They pledged to each other. Their lives, their fortunes, their sake, and honor, knowing that God was going to fight for them, calling upon God to fight for them. We need a belief. Well, I I I I don't I I can't get to the point where I can really believe that we have national revival. That's okay. You ask God to help your unbelief. Like the Father did for his son's deliverance. Help my unbelief. Isn't it wonderful? Lord, I just don't have the desire to read your Bible the way I should. God says, I'll give you a greater desire to read it. Wow! What a wonderful God we have. Lord, I look, He did not many mighty works there because of their unbelief. I'm gonna b I believe it. I believe we can have a national revival. I believe and by the way, by by the way, most people didn't even think that President Trump and Pence had a t had a chance You understand that, right? Even the conservatives, they were completely unprepared. Okay? But God showed up. Amen? You remember, right? That that no November the eighth. You remember? You remember the news news media? Oh well he's not gonna win all the swing states, but even if he wins all the swing states, he's not gonna become the president. He won all the swing states? Remember that? Do you remember the people that were ready to celebrate Hillary's victory in that glasshouse? All the fireworks are going to go off. And then Joey didn't show up. I think Donald Trump realized he won when he could buy all the fireworks for a penny on the dollar. So I guess I got it, okay? But it even took them, the campaign strategists, completely At surprise that they won. They hadn't planned the inauguration. They hadn't picked the cabinet. They started scrambling. It it wasn't anyone but God that sure showed up. We were invited down to the w the to the Wash to the W hotel and and it was all open and we were not even a block from the White House. In fact, uh the White House, you could see the White House, and I could almost see the curtains move every time another state fell to Trump and Pence, I could almost see the curtains move, you know. So someone's saying something over there. I don't think it's very good. Okay? That's what I tweeted out. You say you you tweet? Yes I do. I'm a big tweeter. Okay? I I tweet out. Say why you do that? You know why I do that? Because I want to influence people for the right. And for the first time in history, a president is dealing right directly with the people. In his tweets. Now I wish he didn't tweet some of the things he does. I get that, okay? And the way he does it, I'm saying, oh I wish he hadn't said it that way. You know, you understand what I'm talking about. But for the first time, he's actually directly communicating with the people. And that's why the liberal news media are setting their hair on fire. You know? You say, well, President Trump, he got elected, and and because of that It has created all this. No, it didn't create anything, it just revealed it. It revealed what was already there. See, the devil thought he had us. The devil thought he had this country. God's people showed up. Some of them right here at this altar and wept and pleaded. Said, oh God. Give us a miracle. Divinely intervene for our country. That's nothing compared to what God could do. On a nationalist, wouldn't you like to see not thousands, not hundreds of thousands, but millions of people coming to know the Lord Jesus Christ? Well, Harley, you really believe? I believe it. And do you know the whole world was wondering how Donald Trump got in? And everyone, even in the pundits and prognosticators, were wondering. But it wasn't what happened, it was who that happened. God showed up and did something miraculous. I want to see him show up on a different, completely separate level now. Give us revival. It starts with us believing. Yes, Lord. I believe you can do this. Oh, you believe? Yes, I believe. Really? Well, based upon your belief then, I'm going to answer you. We need to so yearn, not just turn, but yearn for it. That's being willing to sacrifice. You see, what are you talking about? Doing something we've never done before, praying in a way we've never prayed before. I mean we need to start praying in such a way that we've never prayed before. We need to pray for this president, this vice president, like we've never prayed for any president before. A hedge of protection. We need to pray for our country like we've never prayed for our country before. And we're going to be going into some very detailed areas tomorrow night and Tuesday night about the culture war. But this is something that is so critical to even beginning to launch out, you see. Again, I say unto you, that if two of you shall agree on earth As touching anything that they shall ask, it shall be done for them of my Father which is in heaven. The great Welsh revivals that shook a nation. They played Great God of Wonders. For three hours and sang just the chorus as continually people by the hundreds were walking down the aisle and getting saved. You know how it started? Two teenage girls Start saying we're going to sacrifice the time, the effort, and ourselves to pray together For this to happen. See, that's the sacrifice. We need to bind together with one another. Like your pastor just finished saying, be here for a permitting, and let's bind together, and let's start praying for a national revival. But let's begin in our own hearts. Lord, revive me first. Then Lord, use me to revive Those people that are around me, my scope of influence. And then Lord help me to be a part of that component to revive the church family. And their God, then let us move out and help to revive this city and this state and then Lord. But it starts with us, you see. God can do it. It's not us, it's God using us. But we to put ourselves in His hand, you see. I believe it. I want to see it. And we can see it if we just sacrifice. You understand how many times people sacrificed in war for us to be able to sit here tonight I mean my uncle got shot down and was badly burned. He actually got out of the plane safely, but he went back in and saved some of his Some of his crew members, I think I've told you this story before, badly burned over the top part of his body, was immersed in saline solutions when they didn't know anything about bad burns to actually treat them and would Literally look forward to his body passing out. And he rolled up his sleeves one time and showed me the scars. Saying to me, his little nephew at the time, I did this for you, I sacrificed for you. And by the way, some of the scars you can't see. Some of our modern warriors. You can't see them. But they're there all the same. And they suffered for you and I. It wasn't just for civil liberty. Again, our country was given to us for spiritual liberty, for the gospel to go forward. That's why God's given it to us. We need to sacrifice if they sacrifice their life, if they sacrifice limbs, can we not sacrifice more time? Look, if we realized the hour of urgency, it would give us a greater fervency in prayer. We need to pray for God with fervency. Why? For these little ones here. This little guy here, what's your name? Jacob, you look like a big bruiser. How old are you? Going to be ten in September. See, I love that. Amen. I'm going to be sixty-five in October. I'm not looking forward to that as much as you are looking forward to ten, okay? Alright? But hey, you're gonna be a decade old, double digits, congratulations. Amen. Yeah, but he's uh he's got some weight to him. He's he's gonna be uh uh uh probably be a football player or something. Who knows that, right? All right, but but hey, you know, this little guy, he needs us to do what we're talking about tonight This little girl. What's your name? What's it? Jocelyn. How old is Jocelyn? Eight. Jocelyn's counting on us. This little this little blonde girl. How are you doing? She's counting on us. What's your name, young young lady? How old are you? Yeah. See these faces of these little ones, I take with me Red hair looking at me. Amen. Strawberry blonde hair. Beautiful. I take these little faces. And it gives me a greater burden to pray for my country. It gives me a greater burden to keep my heart right with God. It gives me a greater burden to believe, to yearn for it, to turn to God daily to pray for a national revival. Why? Because they're counting on us. They may not even know. They probably don't understand the urgency of the hour, these little ones. But we need to. And it's serious. But my, we have a space of grace And we better use it. I would hate to stand before the beam seat of Christ and say, Lord, well you gave us a chance, but we didn't take it. Gave us a chance. Didn't take it. We need to sacrifice. We need to be willing to bind ourselves together in prayer. Follow your pastor's leadership Be here. Get at this altar and pray for national revival. Last and I'm done. We need to turn to God We need to yearn for it by saying, Lord, I I promise you, by thy grace I will be praying for national revival from here on in, at least every day. At least, sometimes, Lord, more than one time a day, simply saying, Lord, I believe that you can do it. Father, please do it But third, we need to burn for it. That's a resolve. To put ourselves on the disposal of God. To continue with a scriptural authoritative preaching, as your pastor does. And we need to comfort the afflicted and afflict the comfortable. Get people out of their comfort zone. We need to understand that ready, right now, our country is ready for revival. And that God can give us a revival if we simply do these three things. Abakah chapter 2 and verse 3, listen to it. It says this. But at the end, it shall speak and not lie. Though it tarry, wait for it, because I will surely come. It will not tarry. Do we have national revival? It begins in our hearts and could be at this altar, it could begin right here tonight at your church through your prayers to our God So I'm going to ask you, without any piano playing, are you going to take this face of grace that God's given us? And use it to bring about a third great national revival By simply saying, Lord, I'll do my duty. You are the one that gives the results. The duty is mine. The results all belong to you. But Lord, I'm going to do what I know I need to do. I'm going to, first of all, get my heart right. I'm going to turn to you. Lord, I'm going to believe. I'm going to yearn for it, believing that it's possible. And Lord, then I'm going to burn for it. I'm I'm going to be willing to sacrifice some extra time in prayer. If that's you, I just want you to stand up right now and come to this old-fashioned altar and let's do business with God Let's just do business with God tonight. You change the course of a nation at these altars. You can change the course of eternity. In seeing souls saved is what I mean. Seeing souls ushered into eternity. Say I don't normally go to an altar. It might be a good time to come. This is where God meets his people at the altar. Say, well, I can't bow. That's okay. Just come and just come and stand and pray. But let's do something different tonight for God. Let's do something different tonight. And let's start pleading and saying, oh God, I want to. Do everything I possibly can so you will bring the results. Oh oh Lord, I'm I'm definitely gonna do my part. I'm I'm going to burn with the sacrifice, and I'm going to yearn, Lord, and through and by what you've done, I'm going to give you that oath to pray for revival, and I'm going to have a resolve, Lord. In my heart and life to continue until you show up. Because I want to see you do the miraculous. We've seen it for civil liberty. Oh God, we want to see it for spiritual liberty. Millions upon millions of people being saved. Don't listen to the daysayers. Our God is a God of miracles. He is still the God of the impossible You promise and Lord every day, every day by thy grace. I am going to pray. Biblical prayers for national revival I'm gonna ask your pastor to come and pray with you and close out the service this evening.