Psalm sixty-nine, just going To look at verse number 13 while you're finding your place there again. I'm curious how many native Garrett County folks do we have? You were born in Garrett County. Raise your hand. How many folks? Look at that. That's probably about almost half the crowd. Um, so there you're in the minority a little bit, so I can say this safely. Uh this is things you will never hear a fellow from Garrett County say. Things you'll never hear a Garrett County boy say. Here's one. When I retire, I'm moving north. You'll never hear a guy from Garrett County say that. that way. I'm going to the dentist. You'll never hear a Garrett County fellow say, I'll take Shakespeare for 1,000, Alex. Um you'll never hear Garrett County boys say duct tape won't fix that. Um you'll never hear Garrett County boys say we don't keep any firearms in this house Or you'll hear him say, no kids, in the back of the pickup, it's just not safe. You'll never hear him say that. You'll never hear Garrett County fellas say wrestling is fake. Never hear him say, we're vegetarians. Um you know vegetarian is the Indian word for bad hunter. You'll never hear a Garrett County fellow say, Do you think my gut's too big? Um You'll never hear him say, I'll have grapefruit and grapes instead of biscuits and gravy. You'll never hear him say, no, honey, we don't need another dog. You'll never hear him say too many deer heads detract from the decor. Anyway, there's a whole list. If you want the rest, see me afterward. I'll give them to you for a quarter. Psalm 69, verse 13. The Bible says, But as for me, my prayer is unto thee, O Lord, in an acceptable time. O God, in the multitude of thy mercy, hear me in the truth of thy salvation. He's asking God to hear him on the basis of the reality of his salvation. I've entitled the message just the simple title, The Truth of Salvation. And so let's pray and we ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, thank you for the Word of God. I thank you for the church service thus far. The music and fellowship has been And I ask now that you would take your word and help us to give our full attention here. I ask, Lord, that um You'd open our hearts and minds to what your word and will is for each of our lives as individuals. I yield myself to you, Lord, as the preacher. I present my body anew. I ask again as always that you would just speak through me, Father, and you be the preacher, you be the teacher, apply the word of God, and have your way in our lives. And uh we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. I told my wife the other day, I think this summer God has dealt with my heart about the matter of prayer uh in uh ways that uh very little has uh he has over the years. And I'm finding the longer I live, the more I'm learning the importance of prayer in my life as a Christian. and the the priority that prayer has to have and the power there is in genuine prayer in the life of a Christian Now, don't misunderstand me. I am not even remotely suggesting that I've arrived in this matter of prayer. I am feel like after 30-some years with knowing the Lord, I'm just now beginning to understand to a small degree the power and the importance of prayer in living the Christian life. Throughout Scripture, prayer is a huge priority. In the lives of great men and great women in Scripture, prayer was the central part of their walk with God and God using them. And as I study the scriptures, particularly the Psalms, and again, the book of Psalms has been such a blessing and challenge to me this summer. I've been reading through it and I've been finding myself whatever psalm I read that morning coming back throughout the day and reading it again throughout the day and God just stealing with my heart. And I'm noticing here a potent combination in this matter of prayer and I'm noticing in Scripture. And that is this. Of course, praying, but saturating my prayer with genuine praise. Not just asking God to give me something or help me or meet a need. But that request, taking that request and baptizing it in gratitude. I find David is a powerful example of coming to God with a request, with a need. Coming to God in prayer, and David no doubt was a prayer warrior, but you study his prayers and they are absolutely immersed. In praise, in gratitude, in thankfulness to God. David was a powerful, powerful man of God spiritually. Few men in history experience the presence of God in their life like King David did. Very few people. Very few people in history experienced the strength of God and the blessings of God on his life as David did. And along with that, very few men have prayed and praised God with the intensity that David did. One thing you find from David, he was grateful for God's blessings on his life. You can't escape that. He was intense In his gratitude to God. And it's almost like he could not approach God without Saturating that entire conversation with God with just thankfulness and gratitude and praise. And I'm telling you, we need that. Amen. We need that in our lives. We need to incorporate into our walk with God a little bit more gratitude to God for what He's doing for us. what he's what he's done for us. Very few people had the consistency that David had in praying and praising God. The sincerity In fact, as I've been studying the prayers of David and his experience, and not just what he said, but how often he prayed and the circumstances he prayed, I've kind of been getting the impression that Just the act of prayer itself was almost as much a blessing to David as it was getting the answer to the prayer. Just being in God's presence, just communicating with God, just sharing his heart with the Lord and expressing his his gratitude to God, looks to me that was as much a blessing to David as the answers. that came in amazing ways. Verse 13, David is making a prayer. Look at what he says. But as for me, My prayer is unto thee, O Lord, in an acceptable time. So the subject of this verse, the topic he's dealing with here, is his prayer life. is coming to God with requests. And notice what he says, O God, in the multitude of thy mercy, hear me And in the truth of thy salvation. Hear me in the truth of thy salvation. So in the midst of his reference to prayer, David brings up the subject of salvation In fact, he is suggesting here, and we find throughout scripture this confirmed, the basis of any relationship with God begins with salvation. You follow what I'm saying? Is everybody with me? Everybody okay? Everybody happy? It's the last Sunday of summer. Say amen. Alright, th no I didn't get any there. If you're sad it's the last Sunday of summer, say amen. If you ain't gonna say amen for anything, say amen. Just making sure everybody's okay. And uh everybody happy? Amen. Good, good. This is a good message. I've read it. It's really good. The basis of any relationship with the Lord begins at salvation. In other words, if I don't have salvation, I don't have a relationship with the Lord. The basis of answered prayer, the basis of even the of even actually praying. Begins with salvation. Now, some folks may take issue with this, and you're certainly free to be wrong if you want, but um If I understand scripture correctly, God does not even hear the prayers of an unsaved person. Now, with one exception, and that is the prayer for mercy. Oh God, be merciful to me. That is not the only the prayer that God will hear. That is not only the only prayer that God will hear from a sinner. That is the prayer God is eagerly listening for. From the sinner. So if I don't have salvation, if this matter of my salvation is not settled, I don't even have access to the throne of God. I don't even have the ear of God. And so David is praying about prayer. He's referencing his prayer life here. And he makes this statement to God in so many words. He says, God, hear my prayer because of the truth of the salvation you have given me. Hear my prayer on the basis of the fact that you have saved me. Salvation is necessary for God to hear and answer prayer. The truth of salvation. Now, I've shared this with you before. It's uh my father's testimony And um a little personal, but I've shared it before, as I said, but back when I was about ten years old or so, um the f families of my parents' marriage was uh going through a very difficult time. And Dad is a very religious man. He was a member of the church there and had grew up in a a deacon's home. His daddy was the deacon of the church. Different denomination, but uh uh my grandparents were saved. I have no doubt about that. Uh dad grew up in Sunday school being taught the word of God. Uh uh He said he remembers as a small child they had gone to a revival meeting and that night uh my grandpa, his daddy came home and said, From now on, we're going to read the Bible and pray every night as a family And so he grew up in that environment, a godly home, a Bible-reading home, a God-fearing home, and now he's an adult, the family And his marriage is on the rocks. And he told me several times, he said I would pray, and we had the basement fixed up. We had we called it the den down in the basement and uh sofa and carpet and all And he said, I'd go down there and I would pray. And he said, I would pray and ask God to heal my home, heal my marriage He said, but as I prayed and the nights turned into weeks and months, he said, God began to show me from the scriptures and help me understand in my heart that I had never been saved. Member of a church, baptized, attended Sunday mornings, grew up in a Christian home, but he'd never been saved. And he said, I realized that my prayers, God wasn't even hearing my prayers. I needed to be saved And as a result of that, he trusted Christ as Savior, and born again, God changed his life. But the point I'm trying to say is my father taught me a lesson there, and that was this. Without salvation, we have no access to God. Now, question, is God good to the unsaved? Sure he is. Does God meet the needs of the unsaved? Without a doubt. The Bible says He sends rain on the just and the unjust. God blesses, God provides in wonderful ways. But all of that, and I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but all of that is to draw the unsaved to Christ. So, our verse here is telling us, our statement is this, without salvation, I have no access to God. In my prayers, I have no relationship with him. That tells me this. With that in mind, that tells me this. The hope of any home begins with salvation. If a home is going to be what God intends for it to be, if it's going to have God answer prayer, lead and direct in a very specific way. Then salvation must come to that home. Daddy needs to be saved. Mom needs to be saved. Children need to be saved. That is the beginning place for that home having the blessing and direction and protection of God on that home. Without salvation, you don't have any of that. Other than just the general blessings God gives to all men. That tells me this: the hope of any nation Begins in salvation. We talk about America need revival, and the churches of America need revival, but America as a nation needs salvation. If we if you say, well, uh we gotta get another party in there, we gotta get this certain politician in there, and this one's that, and listen, you know what we need? We need saved politicians More than we need anything else. We need saved truck drivers. We need saved school teachers. We need saved Sunday school teachers. We need saved people. Salvation is the beginning and the basis of any relationship with God. Without salvation, there's no blessing. Without salvation, there's no leadership and direction of God in the life, other than just the general that God does to all people. But if we want specific relationship with God, the direct leadership and blessing of God, we must have salvation. So David says, O God, in the multitude of thy mercy, hear me in the truth of thy salvation I want to make a first of all my first point or thought is this some statements concerning true salvation Some statements. Number one, and I've already touched on this, but number one, all men need salvation Everybody needs to be saved. No exceptions. I don't mean to be offensive in any way. I would certainly never mean to intentionally offend anyone, but I'll tell you, biblical, it's very clear, the Pope needs to be saved. Nobody's exempt. I worked with uh in when I was in college, and those of you that have been around here, just go along with me, humor me, all right. Those of you who have been around been around here, but when I was in college I worked in the surgery department of a hospital. Come on, you guys know the spiel. Very impressive surgery. I was a doc I had a doctorate of garbology. I cleaned up the surgery rooms after they did the surgery. surgery and took out all the body parts and stuff. And um there was uh head nurse there, very very dignified lady, very moral lady. I mean I just respected her tremendously. Somewhat religious. But I didn't work there very long, and it was very obvious she did not have salvation. And I would share with her my testimony and different things and try and be a witness and try and influence her to come to Christ. And she made this statement one time. She says, Dennis, you were a mess. You needed Christ to save you. She goes, I'm okay. I don't have that need. She missed it completely. All men need to be saved. All people. No one's exactly Not the deacon's kid, not the preacher's kid, not the preacher is exempt. We all need to be saved. The Bible says, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God Every one of us. John 14, 6. I am the way, the truth, and the life. What's the next two words? No man cometh unto the Father but by me It is not church membership, it is not baptism, it is not giving my tithes, it's not taking part in Lord's Supper, it is not being a good citizen, it's not being a good neighbor It is salvation is in Jesus Christ and Jesus Christ alone, and all men need Jesus Christ. The good, the bad, and the ugly. Powerful, the powerless, the religious man, the atheists, the preacher's kids, the missionaries' kids. All men need salvation. So some statements concerning true salvation. David said, Lord, hear me in the truth of thy salvation. Based upon the fact that I've been saved, I want you to hear me. That's the basis of my relationship with you. Now, what is true about that salvation? One, all men need to be saved. Number two, only God can save. We drill this and drill this. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot save one soul I cannot save a soul. Nobody in this church can save someone else's soul. Only God can save a soul from sin in hell. Listen to Acts 4:12. Neither is there salvation in any other. For there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. God in God alone, in the person of Jesus Christ, is the only one that can save a sinner from sin in hell. So number one, all men need to be saved. Number two, Christ, or God is the only one that can be saved. By the way, if the salvation you have is not of God, you don't have salvation. I simply trust God to do the saving. That's all it is. Let me give you a third statement. And this ties in with our message. Salvation, all men need it. Only God can give it. Salvation unites us with our God. It is salvation that puts me in contact with God. It is salvation that puts me in a relationship with God where He can work in my life and I can have His ear. And it becomes a ongoing interaction relationship. I'm afraid it's even creeping into our independent Baptist churches. This idea that religion is just some external thing I go through. It's just some m just some rituals I do and some uh some things I tack on to my life. That is not biblical Christianity. Christianity. Biblical Christianity is me being put in contact with Almighty God through being born again through the process of salvation accepting Christ and I am put in contact with God and now there is a living relationship between my God and myself And that's what salvation does. It unites me with my God. Take your Bibles, keep your place here. We're going to look at a couple other statements here, but come to Isaiah. It's not too far away. It's a few chapter uh a few books back into your uh deeper into your bible Isaiah chapter 59 And this is just one verse of many throughout Scripture that make this statement and teach this truth, but this one's very clear. Isaiah 59. And we're going to look at verses 1 and 2. Now I'm having you turn there because I want you to see these. In fact, this would be a good verse to underscore in your Bible in some way or highlight in some way. Isaiah 59, look at verse 1. Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened that it cannot save. Neither is his ear heavy that it cannot hear. So when Isaiah, under the inspiration of God, is referencing God's ear, not hearing, what's he talking about? Talking about prayer. He's saying, listen, it's not that God cannot hear, not that he's incapable of it. Why will God not hear a person's prayers Look at verse 2. But your what? Iniquities have separated between you and your God. Your sins have hid his face from you that he will not hear. Do you understand what God is telling us here? He is telling us that sin separates us from God. And if I want God to hear my prayers, if I want to have a relationship with God. If I want God involved in my life, leading me and directing me and helping me and protecting me and providing for me, I must have my sins removed. It is the sin that separates me. And if I get that sin taken care of, if I have that sin purged, cleansed, removed Then God hears my prayers. Then I am united with God. Then I have his ear. I have his attention. He's involved in my life and I have access to him. Salvation removes the sin that separates us from God and unites us with God. May 7, 1979, 10:30 at night, I called out to God for salvation. God save me. Come in my heart and life and be my personal Savior. And God removed my sins. And from that point on, I've had access to God. From that point on, I've had a relationship with God. Now, question, and this opens a whole nother can of word. But can a Christian sin? Sure. Not only can we sin, we're pretty good at it. Some more so than others, but Sure, we can sin. Christians do sin. And when that sin comes up as a child of God, my relationship with God is still there. That's not changed. But boy, it plugs up God's ears. So I need that continual confession and cleansing of God that salvation provides. I don't lose my salvation. but it makes it possible for me to have access to God. You follow what I'm saying? And so salvation unites us with God. The moment I trust Christ as Savior, sin is removed, and I have access to God's throne, I can come boldly to his throne, knowing the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses me from all sin. and I have his ear. Listen to Jeremiah chapter 5, verse 25. This is a convicting verse. In fact, I prepared this earlier in the week for my message and ended up reading it this morning in my devotions. And it says this Your sins have withholden good things from you. Think about that God says there's good things you can have, but you're holding on to your sin. You're not having your sin dealt with, and because of that, there's good things you're missing out on. Your sins have withholding good things from you. What does salvation do? Salvation removes the sin And unites me with God. Salvation puts me in such a position, such a relationship with God, where God can begin to develop me from within. I don't know about you, but I'm not satisfied with what I am as a person. I want to be a better Christian. I want my faith to be stronger. I want my walk with God to be clearer. I want my testimony to be more influential. Anybody with me? And it is my salvation that enables God to work and develop in me and make me the person he wants me to be. It is salvation. Salvation puts me in such a position, a relationship with God, where He can develop me from within, where He can direct me through my life. Jesus referenced the Pharisees one time. Question, Pharisees, were they saved or lost? Lost. They didn't have salvation. And you know what he called them? He called them blind leaders of the what? Blind. You know what he's saying? And he referred to the Pharisees several times as being blind. You know what he's saying? He's saying you're just staggering through life. Just trying to make your way through life. No direction, no leadership, no clear understanding of where God wants you to go and what you want you to do. You're just Paul, you're just grabbing a blind man stumbling through life. And brother, isn't that true? The unsaved? See it all around us. Just no clear direction. No purpose in life, no no no guidance from God. And salvation gives me that It puts me in a position where God can direct me through my life. It puts me in a relation with the Lord where God can defend me from ruin. God can defend me and help me from making horrendous mistakes and God can help me from having a successful life, success as far as what God considers to be successful. Listen, I enjoy the world we live in, as far as I'm talking about creation. 18 years ago, tomorrow I stood behind this pulpit for the first time as pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. The 19th of September was a Sunday, 18 years ago ago. And that Sunday morning I started and I preached a message on salvation. And we have thoroughly loved living in Garrett County I don't have to go to the dentist. We can use duct tape for everything. I learned all kinds of things in Garrett Kent. But um is not this a beautiful place to live? I still when I'm driving around, I still get my camera out and take pictures just driving to the mountains and stuff. And those pretty windmills, oh, they're just lovely across everything Pretty. But you know what? Creation cannot unite me with God. Follow what I'm saying. It can show me the evidence of God. It can tell me a little bit about God. Friday night I preached for Brother Ken Lake. They did an men's activity here outside. Man, that sunset was phenomenal. down there. And we looked at that and we just saw, and one of the guys just said, the handiwork of God. But you know, I cannot be united with God through creation. I need to be Salvation to do that. Salvation, a creation cannot take my sins away, that which separates me from God. Only salvation can do that. And once I get God's the true salvation I have access to God, and He can lead me and direct me and answer my prayers and provide for me and help me and protect me So some statements concerning salvation. Number one, all men need salvation. Number two, only God can save. Number three, salvation unites us with our God. Now, notice, come back here to Psalm, and he makes this statement, he says, in the truth of thy salvation. My second thought is this, the certainty of true salvation. That word truth means the sureness of, the reliability of, the certainty of In other words, David did not have a hope-so salvation. It was true, it was certain. In David's mind, he was saved and he knew it There's no question about it, whether uh sometimes I talk uh not sometimes often I talk to people, we ask them this question, do you know for sure if you died right now your sins are forgiven, you go to heaven and not to hell. Do you know what the answer I hear so often is? I hope so. Well, I'd like, preacher, I'd like to think so. That is not true salvation. True salvation is certain. It's sure. It's definite. David said, my prayers come to you, God, not because I hope I'm saved, not because I think I am, not because my chances are pretty good. But because of the certainty of the fact that my sins have been removed and forgiven, and I'm born into the family of God, I'm saved. That's the basis of my salvation. The certainty of it. Let me say this. God's greatest concern for each and every individual is that they would be saved. It's God's greatest concern. You go to Walmart. I call it our Fellowship Hall. Every time I go there, I meet church folk. You go to Walmart and all those people around, you say, what does God want for them in their lives more than anything else? Somebody says, well, God wants them to be happy. I want to suggest to you that that is not God's greatest concern for each and everyone. Individual. You listen to some preachers on TV and you get the idea, more than God wants anything else, He wants you to be happy. He wants your life to have meaning and purpose. Listen, that's not God's greatest concern. God's greatest concern is that people be saved from sin in hell. Happiness and purpose and fulfillment is a byproduct. of salvation. It is not the goal. It is not the God's concern. Listen to 2 Peter 3. 9 The Lord is long-suffering to usward, not willing that any should be unhappy. No, it doesn't say that. Not that any should be unsuccessful in business. Doesn't say that. The Lord is long suffering usward, not willing that any should perish. But that all should come to repentance. God wants everybody to have their sins forgiven and removed. He wants them saved from going to hell. He wants them to have a new life here in Christ. He wants them to have a home in heaven. He wants them to have salvation. It's God's greatest concern. For the people in Oakland, for the people in Garrett County, for the United States of America, for every nation in the world. The little children in the foreign lands God Almighty wants them to be saved from sin in hell. He wants their sins removed so they can have access to Him and a relationship with Him It's God's concern, his greatest concern. Second 1 Timothy 2 and verse 4, speaking of the Lord who will have all men to be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth. God's greatest concern for you and I, and every individual on earth Is that we would be saved from our sin and saved from eternity in hell, the lake of fire. It's God's concern. Above everything else, it's God's concern. The certainty of true salvation, number one, God's greatest concern is for every individual to be saved. Number two, God's salvation, as we said, is a certain salvation. It is permanent A person who is saved and then has the chance of losing their salvation is never saved in the first place. Now think about it. The word saved, what tense is that word as it's used in the Bible? Past tense. It's something that's already accomplished. You cannot use the term saved if you don't have a secure salvation. Right? If I'm in the middle of an ocean and I'm drowning and somebody's pulling me on a life preserv a life uh uh not a life preserver, a personal flotation device And they're pulling me along. If I'm halfway to the shore, am I saved yet? No, I might let go. They might drown themselves. It's not until I'm on the shore that I can confidently and certainly say, yes, I am saved from drowning. The Bible uses the term, past tense term, saved, saved, saved, saved, saved. It is an accomplished fact. It's something that's already settled. So when I'm out talking to people, I ask them, are you saved? Oh yeah, do you know for sure you're going to heaven? I hope so. Well then you ain't saved yet You can't say, yes, I'm saved if it's not a settled fact. You might say, I hope to be saved. I hope someday I'll be saved, but you can't say you are now. But over and over in scripture, Paul says, I'm saved. Saved, saved, saved. So it is a certain salvation. God's salvation, this true salvation, is certain. It's solid. It's eternal. Jesus said in John 10, 28, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. If something's eternal, how long does it last? How long is that? It doesn't end. God gives us, at the moment of salvation, He gives us eternal life. It nowhere in the Bible does it say he gives us temporary life. If I could get saved, have my sins removed, forgiven, a relationship with God, and then somehow that is erased and I've lost it. That was not eternal, that was what? Temporary. It's not probationary. That term is not in scripture. You don't even find that teaching, then our salvation is probationary. If you live, you better live it or you're gonna lose it. That's not eternal So it's certain. When we get God's salvation, when God saves us, it's a settled thing. And number three, under this head, salvation is a total commitment on God's part. Sometimes you'll hear preachers, and I think they mean well, and I'm not trying to be critical here or really critical in any way, but they'll say, you need to come and commit yourself to God to be saved. Now, I'm not, you know, we may be just splitting hairs here a little bit, but actually, my salvation is not a commitment on my part. Salvation is a commitment on God's part. He committed all. All I do is receive what he's done. All I do is by faith accept the commitment he made. Now stop and think with me a little bit about this. He has given his word. That if I trust Jesus, I will be saved. God has committed himself. 1 John 5. 13. These things have I written unto you. I've given you my word that believe in the name of the Son of God that ye may know that you have eternal life. If I could get saved and lose my salvation, God's word would not be good. Come on now, talk to me. Y'all are quiet this morning. Romans 10:13, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That is a promise of God. Are you with me? Now, you know, salvation is not something boring for a Christian. This stirs my heart. I'm preaching better than your amen in this morning, I'll tell you Sometimes you amen better than I preach, but Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That is the promise of God. That's the word of God to me. If I call on the Lord, put my trust in the Lord, I'm trusting you, depending on you. Come in my life, forgive me and save me. And God doesn't save me He's lied. Am I right or wrong? He says, whoever calls on me, I'll give eternal life And if a person sincerely and genuinely calls on him for salvation and he doesn't give them eternal life, he doesn't save them, then God's word is no good. So my salvation, God's committed his word. God has committed his own son. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. And we understand on the cross. That whosoever believeth in him shall not perish in everlasting life. Listen, my salvation didn't cost me my son. My salvation didn't cost me anything. It's a free gift of God. But it costs God everything. Cost him his son. Salvation is a commitment on God's part. Full commitment. Um, God gave Himself for our sins We don't have time. I wish we did. I love Acts 20, 28. It says Paul is speaking to the Ephesian elders and he says, Take heed to yourselves, over whom the Holy Ghost has made you overseers. Even the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood. Now that's an interesting verse. If you pay close attention to the wording there and what he's saying, he's saying, God. gave his blood for the church. You know what that tells me? When Jesus was dying on that cross, that was not just some good man dying on the cross. That was not some great teacher. That was not just some martyrdom of a wonderful man. That was God Almighty dying and giving his blood on that cross. Salvation is total commitment on God's part, Him giving everything of Himself so that you and I can have our sins removed and have access to Him. And part of that have our prayers heard and answered. It all begins with salvation. Unsaved man neglects and despises salvation, yet nevertheless it costs God everything. It costs God everything. Even believers, hey, even you and I that know the Lord, that have been saved, we're guilty many times of taking our salvation for granted. Of being ungrateful for what it costs God. The greatest thing you and I have in life is the fact that God loved us and died for us. for us and saved us from sin in hell. You say, oh, but preacher, my my boat's got a hole in it. My life is without meaning. What are you talking about? God gave himself for you to save you from sin In hell. We get so down, we get so upset over the most trivial things when we have the greatest truth in all the world that God has saved us. Let's not take that for granted. Let's not take a link. When we get up and sing the hymns, say, oh um uh what's a good salvation hymn? What? Saved, saved, saved. I'm happy all that it What's another one? You gotta talk loud, I can't hear you. Jesus saves, Jesus saves. You gotta talk Um you know what when we get up and sing these great hymns of our salvation, let's not do this. Oh, what a wonderful, wonderful day, day on the earth I will never forget. Stop and think about what you're singing about. Huh? Man, the guys at the football games yesterday, the college football game, they sing the national their their school anthem with more vigor than Christians saying about salvation. That's where I would say amen. Right there is where I would say amen. Number three, my third thought. Number one, the the uh statements, some statements about true salvation, the certainty of salvation, and number three, the results of true salvation. You could preach a series of messages on this. Number one, I'm delivered from the judgment of God. When I trust Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, He saves me. From his own judgment on my sins. Romans 8:1. There is now therefore no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. That word condemnation means judgment. There's no more. Listen, I can come and join a church and still be under the condemnation of God. I can get baptized and still be under the condemnation of God. I can memorize verses and doctrinal statements. And I'm still under the judgment and condemnation of God for my sins. But when I trust Jesus Christ as my Savior, my sins are removed And I am no longer under God's judgment. I am free from the wrath of God on my life. Book of John, the Gospel of John tells us that the unsaved, the wrath of God abideth on them. There's preachers standing behind pulpits this morning who have never been saved, and the wrath of God abides on them. There are sweet, kind, humble mothers who are doing their best to be a good mama, who have never trusted Christ, and the wrath of Almighty God abides on them. It is salvation and salvation alone that delivers me from the wrath and judgment and condemnation of God. It delivers me from the judgment of God. Number two, it transforms me by the Spirit of God. 2 Corinthians 5. 17, if any man be in Christ, he is a what? A new creature, a new creation, a new person. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And I always try and point that out. The tense in those words are: old things are passing away. The old life, the things of the world, the things, the old sins that were so ingrained in my life are falling off and fading away And God is continually making me new into a new person, a godly person, a uh uh uh the child of God he intends for me. Romans 8 says he's trying he's trying to mold us into the image of Christ. Salvation begins a process in my life where God is changing me and making me into the person he wants me to be. So number one, the results of true salvation, I'm delivered from the judgment of God. I'm transformed by the Spirit of God. Galatians 5, verse 19, tells us that the fruit of the Spirit that God produces in our life is love and joy and peace. Longsuffering, patience, and goodness and gentleness. Nowhere does it say the fruit of the Spirit is a huge bank account Don't you listen to these yardbirds on TV telling you that God's plan for you is to be some millionaire You know what God's plan for you and me might be? It might be to live in poverty very happily and contentedly. Might be God's will. But he wants me to be have the image of Christ. He wants me to be a humble, godly, sweet testimony for the Lord Jesus. And the Holy Spirit does that in my life. And then last of all, results of salvation, I'm delivered from the judgment of God. I'm transformed by the Spirit of God. And I like this one, I'm destined for the presence of God. When a person gets saved, they trust Jesus Christ as Savior, ultimately they end up in the very presence of God. Listen to what Jesus said before he uh was crucified. He had his disciples around and Peter had a little issue there and he was confronting Peter and he was reassuring Peter. He just told him he's going to fail him. And uh he makes a statement. He says, let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God. It's a reference to salvation. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions, and I go to prepare a place for you And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again. Why will you come again, Lord? To receive you unto myself. Listen to me. this, this is what he wants, that where I am, there you may be also. God's ultimate goal is that someday each and every individual will be in his very presence. And the way that happens is through salvation. Through salvation. Someday, every one of us here If the rapture doesn't take place, if the Lord doesn't come back, every one of us here, these old bodies are gonna are gonna are gonna Die. Right? They're gonna they're gonna quit. This is the word. They're gonna punch out. Right? You follow what I'm saying? A hundred years from now, very few, if any, of us, if uh if the rapture and things are going to still be in these bodies. Right? But you and I are not a body. You and I are a spirit. We're a soul. When God saves us His guarantee is that we will be with him someday. Now here's my question. Are you saved? I mean, genuinely, biblically saved. If not, you have no access to God's throne. You're like those blind Pharisees just going through life. You think you've got it all together, you think, but you really don't In 1830, a fellow by the name of George Wilson. He was convicted of robbing the U. S. mail and was sentenced to be hanged. This has nothing to do with the message, but we could use some of these old sentencings again. Am I right or wrong? But anyway, President Andrew Jackson issued a pardon for this guy, Wilson. But get this, Wilson refused to accept it Sentenced to hang, guilty. President says, listen, I'll let you go. Here's a pardon. You don't have to hang. Because I don't want it. The case went to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court, Chief Justice Marshall, was the Chief Justice. He concluded that Wilson would have to be executed. This is what the Supreme Court judge said. A pardon is a slip of paper, the value of which is determined by the acceptance of the person to be pardoned. If it is refused, it is no pardon. George Wilson Hun Didn't have to. All he had to do was accept that pardon that was freely offered to him. To be honest with you, I have no idea what his thinking was I have no idea what his motivation was. But in my mind, he was a fool. Huh? He didn't have to die that way. And that's exactly what salvation is. God has already paid the price for our salvation. He's committed and did everything. It's set. It's done. All a person has to do is accept it. Receive it. Sins are removed. The relationship is established. Prayer is possible. Heaven is my home. But if I don't accept it, if I don't receive it by faith, I die and go to hell for all eternity. How foolish. How foolish. Those of us that are saved, let's thank God for it. Let's pray and let's start it out talking about the importance priority of prayer. But let's baptize our prayers in genuine praise and gratitude to God for what He's done. done for us and saving us. You want to get God's attention, start thanking Him for salvation. If there's any here or under the sound of my voice, And you're not saved, my plea this morning is come to Christ and be saved. Your church membership, your good things, your church attendance is not going to get you out of hell. It's not going to take your sins away. Only Jesus can do that. You need to come and trust Christ. Father, bless our invitation now. Burn this truth into our hearts. Make it a reality in our lives. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many Christians this morning would say, Pastor, Preacher, I'd like for you to pray with me that God will help me be more grateful on a daily basis? For the greatness of my salvation. Is there any like that, preacher? I just need to deliberately be more grateful. I just take it for granted. We're guilty, guilty. I bless your hands all around. Now that takes a conscious decision. I'm going to deliberately be grateful to God for my salvation, no matter what's going on. Now let me take it another step. I wonder how many this morning Would say, preacher, my prayer life, as a saved person, my prayer life definitely needs to become a higher Priority. And when I pray, I'm going to be more grateful. I'm going to deliberately baptize my requests in gratitude and present them to God. How many say Preacher, God's deal with my heart about my prayer life. The intensity, the consistency, the sincerity of my prayer life. Hands all around. You know what David would do over and over? He would ask God to help him pray.