So um Amos chapter 5. I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm just gonna read um verses four through six to get started here And like I said, we'll kind of be all over the book again. Verse 4 of Amos 5, For thus saith the Lord unto the house of Israel, Seek me, seek ye me, and ye shall live. But seek not Bethel, nor enter into Gilgal, nor pass uh uh and pass not to Bersheba, for Gilgal shall surely go into captivity, and Bethel shall come to naught. Verse 6, Seek the Lord and ye shall live. Lest ye break out like fire in the house of Joseph and devour it, and there be none to quench it in Bethel. Verse 4: Seek ye me and ye shall live. Verse 6, seek the Lord and ye shall live. I'm gonna um it's gonna be more of a study tonight, I think, than uh than a message, but that the we're gonna we're gonna look at um uh the story of Amos tonight. Lord, we thank you for the day you've given us. Lord, sure it was good to be here this morning again. I ask that you would bless the service tonight. Lord, I ask that you would use your word. Um to to bring conviction where needed, Lord, to show us what it is we need to change. And I ask that um you would be glorified. And I ask that we would um at the end of the the the the the day today, at the end of the service tonight We would all decide just to be a little bit closer to you and make a decision towards you tonight, Lord. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. Amos, he's another one of the of the minor prophets. We looked at Hosea this morning. We looked at Hosea this morning. Amos, it's another one of those books that's just kind of tucked away um um i in the old testament there. One of the the minor uh prophets. Again I mentioned this morning the major and minor thing that that doesn't talk about importance But it it talks about the the length of the book. Very, very short book here, the book of Amos. Again, it's like Hosea. You could probably read it in 10, 15 minutes, something like that. The timeline that this was written in that that Amos uh prophesied here was about 150 years after the kingdom of Israel was divided. Remember Israel was all together under Saul, then David, and Solomon, and then it split into the northern kingdom and the southern uh kingdom, the northern kingdom of Israel, southern kingdom of Judah. Um so this is about 150 years after that split. It's about forty years. Before the Assyrians uh took Israel captive, the northern kingdom uh captive. Now Amos prophesied during the reign of uh Jeroboam Now, if you study it um at all, you'll know that Jeroboam was one of the most uh wicked kings that the northern kingdom had. He was not a good guy. Um very, very wicked king Uh he promoted idol worship um under his reign, um the selling of of poor into slavery. Um was wa was was just rampant. And um poor poor people lost their rights pretty much under him Um not a good thing. Adultery was rampant. Even child sacrifice was was very prevalent during his reign as a form of idol worship Um drunkenness was in the land. And if you read the book of Amos here, it talks about that. So it it was not a good situation. Now the people um liked Jeroboam. For the most part, because um under his uh uh rule there was some territory gained and there was some uh land gained there and he was very popular and a lot of wealth was gained, but You know, wealth and um land isn't what makes someone a good king, right? And so Amos, and more importantly, God, saw Jeroboam. As a very, very wicked king due to all the manner of sin and injustices that were going on. Now the book of Amos here uh is a collection of um rebukes and and uh warnings uh from Amos to Israel. God sent uh Amos to to prophesy here and to um send him to the the northern kingdom and to warn them very similar to what we looked at this morning with Hosea sent there is a warning uh here's what you're doing wrong and uh here's what you need to do to fix it. Now if we look at chapter one Keep your Bible out again. We're going to be uh going through a lot of pages here in the book of Amos. Who was this guy, Amos? If you look at verse 1, The words of Amos, who was among the herdmen of Tokoah. Now, if if you do a little research, Tokoah is just a little bit southeast of Jerusalem there. And it was uh then especially it was known for a v to be a very, very small, small community in in terms of population. It was a farming community is what it was Um he was a herdman, he was a farmer is what he was. And um i it wasn't exactly a big city, so His occupation was he was a herdman. He was a farmer. You know, um he he he herd cattle. That's what he did. And um So that's who he was. And actually later on in the chapter, or excuse me, in the book, chapter 7, he claims that he's not even a prophet. Chapter 7 verse 14. I was no prophet, neither was I a prophet's son, but I was a herdman. He's very uh very down-to-earth. He's very um simple Doesn't use a lot of big fancy words or anything like that. He's just straight up, look, I'm not some big shot preacher. I'm just I'm just a farmer. I'm just a herdman. Um that's kind of the mentality ha he had there when he was uh um speaking to the nation. So if we look at uh chapter one, we see who he was, uh points out who he is. But then this is what he does. He starts right off the bat. Again, I think one reason the book is so small is because Amos is so direct and to the point Um it starts out he starts naming the sins of all the nations around Israel and all all the all all the people around Israel uh Israel. Verses three through five he points out the sins of Damascus in chapter one. Um pretty harsh stuff. Chapter one, verse three, Thus saith the Lord, for three transgressions of Damascus and for four I will not turn away the punishment thereof. And and he starts to name them because they have threshed Gilead, the threshing instruments of iron. I'm just going to go through these real quick. I don't want to spend a whole lot of time on each city, but I'll just name them real quick The sins of Damascus, they threshed Gilead, they were violent people. God said he would judge them in verse 5. I will break also the bar of Damascus and cut off the inhabitants. from the plain of Aden. So and then ver and then he goes on to talk about Gaza and what their sins were and and God's judgment there. In verse 6, we see the the the sins of Gaza. And he names them. Verse six, uh captive to sell two, um Um Edom. If you would read verse six, thus saith the Lord, for three transgressions of Gaza and for four I will not turn away the punishment thereof, because they carried away captive the whole captivity to deliver them up to Edom. Uh so that's that's not good to sell people. It's never a good thing to sell people. So they didn't value human life, and in verse 8 God says he's gonna judge them for it Then in verses 9 through 10, he moves on to Tyrus. Again, they sold people into slavery and uh forgot that they had made a promise with Israel. They turned their back on Israel. And then if in verse ten, God says he's gonna uh judge them, but I will send a fire and devour the walls of Tyrus. Verses eleven through twelve, the sin of Edom Verse eleven, it's pretty serious. Thus saith the Lord for the three transgressors of Edom, and for four I will not turn away the punishment thereof, because he did pursue his brother with the sword, he cast off all pity, and his anger did um tear perpetually. And he kept his wrath forever um very, very violent uh towards uh their own kin even. Uh verse el uh verse eleven, God said says he's going to judge them. Verse 12, he says he's going to judge them. Verses 13 through 15, he points out the sins of Ammon. Very violent. Murdering mothers that were with child and verse 13. No value of human life, killing of the unborn, which again this is a by the way, that's still evil to kill the unborn, um they're humans. Um and God says he'll bring judgment in verses fourteen and fifteen on the Ammonites Then chapter two, he just keeps on going. He mentions the sins of Moab there in verses one through three So we get the picture here, right? Um Amos is talking to Israel And he's naming all the sins that are around them, the sins of all the people around them You know, the these people did this and we're going to judge them. These people did this and God's going to judge them. These people did this and God's going to judge them. Didn't Amos go to Israel to prophesy? But he's prophesying about all these other nations. You see that You see that? So then it might seem strange, like I said, because he went to prophesy against Israel, not these other nations. If you looked at a map, these surround, these ones that he just mentioned, surround Israel So, in just a minute, he's going to address Israel. Where do you think they got these things from? From the people around them, from the nations around them. And so Israel had picked up on all of these neighboring cities, and at the very heart of all this transgression was Israel. Do you see the picture? So all of this stuff is going on all around, and at the very center of it is the nation of Israel. And they picked up on just about all of it. And then in verses 4 through 5, he switches gears from addressing the sins of all the nations to addressing the nation of Judah. And then verses 6 through 15, the sins of Israel. Now I can imagine when he first started down this list, it'd be like, Yeah, that's right. A bunch of sinners out there. Yeah, that's right. Those those Edomites, those Moabites, man, I can't believe they do this. I can't believe they do that And then he just lays it right on Judah and right on Israel. And if we and we can look at it. And you'll notice the like if you're if we're in chapter one, verse three It's just three verses there that address Damasc uh Damascus. It's just a couple verses that address um the other the other nations, the other cities But when we get to chapter two, it's most of the chapter that's addressing Israel. So it's almost like he's holding Israel more accountable. Right? And it's not just that, but they're they've pulled a little bit of sin from here, a little bit of habits from here, a little bit of idol worship from here. And they've collected all of this together, and they've not only adapted some of the wickedness of the other societies, but they've become the worst point now. They they b they become the focal point almost of all of the sin that's going on. And so of course God is holding them to a higher standard because they're his people. You know you hold your your own kids to a higher standard than you would someone else's kids. God's holding his own people to a higher standard, of course. But if we can look at some of these real quick in in chapter 2, the sins of Judah, verses 4 through 5, and again remember that's the southern kingdom of Israel Thus say the Lord for thou for three transgressions of Judah and for four I will not turn away the punishment thereof because they have despised the law of the Lord. They have not kept his commandments, their lies cause them to err After that which their fathers have walked. And then he pronounces the judgment on Judah, and then Israel gets the big one. Verses six down through the rest of the chapter. And he lists the sins of Israel. Look at verse six. Thus saith the Lord for three transgressions of Israel and for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof. Because they sold the righteous for silver and the poor for a pair of shoes. Sold the poor for a pair of shoes. That's how they that's that was the level of injustice that was going on in that society. Is uh someone that was of a lower class, someone that was poor was just was seen of equal value with a pair of shoes Very, very sad. Sold the righteous for silver, those that were doing right, those that were trying to to live right. Or looked down on. Very sad. Verse 7, adultery was was rampant. Verse 8, drunkenness, idol worship. Verse 9 through 11, God reminds them what he did for them. Verse 12. This is very, very interesting. Look at verse 12. But ye gave the Nazarites wine to drink and commanded the prophets, saying, Prophesy not. The Israel gotten to the point where it was illegal to be a prophet. That's pretty bad. You're not allowed to prophesy anymore. And actually Amos will address that here in a little bit. But that was the state that Israel was in, and then God says He's going to judge them for it in verses thirteen through sixteen And then chapters three and four give uh more warnings and rebuke. The chapter five um again switches gears a little bit. And if you look at um verses four through six. This is what I read earlier. For thus saith the Lord unto the house of Israel, Seek me and ye shall live. Verse 6, seek the Lord and ye shall live. Amos is saying You can turn this around. You can turn this around. Why don't you go seek the Lord, get things right, and you won't die. You'll live That's what he's saying. Um chapter six is is more prophecies from Amos. Um and then chapter seven It's very interesting. Amos addresses the the high priest, Amaziah, and then the king himself. If look and look look at it in chapter seven, and then after he addresses the prophet uh the the high priest and the king, this is the response that Amos gets. After after preaching After warning the people of their sin and pointing it out and saying, judgment's coming, but you don't have to be judged. Turn to God, He'll forgive you, and you won't have to die This is the response he gets in chapter 7, verse 10. Then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent to Jeroboam, king of Israel, saying, Amos hath conspired against thee. in the midst of the house of Israel. The land is not able to bear all of his words. We can't stand that preacher anymore. That's that's what they're saying. We can't stand that that that Amos guy Man, he's he's conspiring again. Of course that was a lie. You know, it's made up. He's not conspiring. He's just uh saying what God said. And so um Amaziah the priest uh tells this uh to the king, saying, Amos, he's conspired against thee. The land's not able to handle his kind of preaching. Verse eleven, for thus Amos saith to Jeroboam, for thus saith, for thus Amos saith, Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel shall surely be led away captive. Also Amaziah said unto Amos, This is really interesting, O thou seer, go flee away into the land of Judah, and there eat bread and prophesy there. You know what he's saying? We don't like your preaching here. We don't like your prophesying here. It's not popular. Why don't you go back to Judah Because that's that's where Toko was from, just south of Jerusalem. So he's saying, why don't you go back to where you came from and preach there? Go back to the farm and preach there. That's what he's saying. And um I like Amos. I like his response. You know what his response was? More preaching. That's what his response was. So he went he went to uh the the nation of Israel. Remember Tokoah was in the southern kingdom. He goes to the northern kingdom and prophesies, and they say, Go back to where you came from and preach there. I do find it interesting that the Southern Kingdom listened and made it a little bit longer than the Northern Kingdom. So anyway, that's that's just uh by the way But so he goes um he he's told to go back and then in his response uh Amos just just lets him have it and says, you know what Verse 14, then answered Amos and said unto Amaziah, I was not a prophet, neither was I a prophet's son, but I was a herdman, a gatherer of the sycamore fruit. Um and he he's just trying to do what the Lord says. Look at verse 15. The Lord took me as I followed the flock, and the Lord said unto me, Go prophesy unto my people Israel. He's just saying, Listen, I'm you you don't you say you don't like my preaching? I'm no preacher I am just doing what God said to do. I was with my flock. I was gathering the fruit and God said go to Israel, so I just did it It's almost like he's saying, You got a bone to pick. It's not with me, it's with God, you know? And um you know, with that, well I don't want to get too far ahead of myself. Let me keep going. Let me keep going. And then chapters 8 and 9 tells of the invasion from a uh Amos tells of an invasion from foreign enemy, and God would judge Israel. Of course we know that happened about forty years later. So That that that's kind of the again Amos short book, that's kind of what's going on there. He's just uh he wasn't necessarily a um well he wasn't. He claims to not even be a prophet, but of course God used him that way And which uh brings and I'm just gonna go through some observations. I don't really have necessarily like point one, two, three, four, you know what I'm saying, but I just have some observations from the story of Amos. You know um Again, I'd encourage you to go home and read it. It wouldn't take long. But one thing that just really jumps out to me is God doesn't always have to use someone that's like really well known to do his work. Amos was like, look, I'm not even a preacher. I'm not even a I'm not a prophet. They call them a seer. Um I'm not even a prophet. I'm just a herdman. I'm I'm I' I'm from Stacoa. I'm nobody And I feel like a lot of times we feel like we can't do something for God because, oh, I'm a nobody. You know, I don't I've only been saved a couple years. What can I do? I haven't been to school. What can I do? I don't know. I can't even Moses, I can't even talk right. I think God used him. So uh uh I d uh I one thing that really just jumps out to me about Amos is We don't have to be well known for God to use us. In fact, if we're popular and we know it, he might not use us God's not looking for some big shot. He's just looking for a farmer to say, God, whatever you want, I'll do it. He's just looking for someone from Tocoa to say whatever you want, I'll do it. And and there could be it could be that you know you you say, well I don't uh you know I'm not anybody. You know, well good. That means God will use you. God specializes in using nobody's I think again it's interesting that that all the prophets were silenced and the prophets were scared to speak out. So because the preachers wouldn't do anything, God used the farmer. You know, you might not be a preacher, you might not be a pastor or an evangelist or something like that. You know what? That's okay. God is gonna use God can use you. God wants to use you. To lead people to him. God wants to use you to tell people about their sin, but they don't have to be judged for their sin. They don't have to die. They don't have to go to hell. They can go to heaven. God wants to use you to do that. Well, I'm no preacher. I better call the preacher. Now, if you call our pastor and ask him to share the gospel with someone, he'll do it. And that that that's good. But you can too. And he would say the same thing. It's not just the preacher that can share the gospel. In fact, it shouldn't just be the preacher that shares the gospel. It should be everyone. And you might not be the be popular, you might not be well known, you might not be, but who who cares That's who God wants to use to do his work. That's just an observation I saw. Something else I kind of noticed, totally unrelated, but an observation from the story of Amos. God's people can Sure, sin just as much as the world around us. You know what I mean? Again, totally unrelated to the first point. Just just reading through the story of Amos, I thought, man. You know, God's people had been infected with the sin from all the nations around them. A lot of times we think, oh, well, we're not the sinners, they are. Yeah, no, we're just the saved sinners, right? But we I I am, and this is something we need to understand. A saved person is just as capable of sin as a lost person. I if I wanted to, I could I could I could go commit the exact same sense and a lot of times I do. And so uh w we're not immune. Uh and and what what what we need to be careful of and the reason I say that is because If we put these influences around us on purpose, thinking, oh, I'll never give in to that, well yes you will. I'm not immune to temptation. I'm not immune to peer pressure. And I need to understand that when I go picking my influences. When I pick the news channels to watch, when I pick the people to follow, when I pick the people to associate with, I need to be very, very careful because I will pick up on the habits of the nations around me I will. Now youth pastor used to tell me all the time and and the the teenagers probably get tired of hearing it because I I quote it all the time. But you show me your friends today and I'll show you who you be tomorrow. And that's what that's what happened here with Israel. They they were surrounded by these other nations and they just adapted to it And a and it's important to understand that I am just as capable of of sin as a lost person. I I can do the same things. So I need to be very careful by allowing lost people to influence me I need to be very careful about uh associating with people that are against my God. I need to be very careful about that. Something else I noticed from this Um, and this is kind of a big deal. God wants to forgive us. Have you ever sinned against God? Raise your hand. Yeah, like how about today? Oh yeah. So here's the thing. God wants to forgive you. God wanted to forgive his people. Why did God send Hosea? Why did God send Amos? Why did God send these prophets? Because he wanted to give them a chance. He was saying, listen, you don't and in the verse I read at the beginning, chapter 5, verse 4, seek me and ye shall live. Verse 6, seek the Lord and ye shall live. Lest he break out like fire in the house of Joseph and devour it, and there be none to quench in Bethel. Listen, seek God while you can, and you'll live before it's too late. Before the judgment comes, God wants to forgive us. God gave Israel an opportunity to repent, to seek the Lord, and do good. Now God is giving us the same opportunity You know, every time we have an invitation, that's what that is. Is God giving us an opportunity. Whenever you're reading the Bible and God speaks to you, that's what it is. Is God's giving you an opportunity to get right. And um he he wants to to warn us just like he did with with Israel. Now the southern kingdom repented and for another hundred some years um They were spared because they turned from their sin and turned to God. Now looking at this on the more national scale, We see how we can apply that to our personal lives. We need to seek God so we don't have the consequences. But as a nation, we need to turn from the evil now, as individuals, but also collectively. God judged the nation of Israel because of how they acted as a nation. Now, a nation is made up of people, correct? So we need to get right on the individual level, but we also need to promote right in our communities. We also need to promote right in our communities and and and things like that. And our nation as a whole needs to seek God while there's still uh while there's still time. Seek him and live. Christians, and I mentioned this, Christians should not let the world influence them. Well, I understand why why we can't be the influence on our communities. Well we don't have to just you know j j just give up and surrender to to the to the world and their philosophies and and And their way of thinking. We why don't why aren't we the ones that are influencing them? We should be. Now, by nature, conservative uh people tend to be conservative, I get it. But we need to be a little bit outspoken. Amos was. We we need some more Amoses. Well there's no way I could be like you know the uh uh outspoken. There's no way I I'm I'm nobody, I'm not this and I'm not that well he wasn't either. He was just a herdman from Tokoah, but God used him. We need to speak out. Um Now there's just one more thought I want to men I want to mention. It's in chapter two, verse six. Again, like I said, this is more of a study tonight, and we really need to pay attention to some of these what we call the minor prophets. We looked at Hosea this morning, Amos tonight. Don't just glance over those. God put them in there for a reason. Now if we look at chapter 2 and verse 6, this is when he's mentioning Israel's sins. Thus saith the Lord, for three transgressions of Israel, for four I will not turn away the punishment thereof. Because they sold the righteous for silver. They sold the righteous for silver. Can I tell you righteousness, righteous living is more valuable than silver Um I thought of that verse in Proverbs. I think it's 2323. Proverbs 23-23. Buy the truth, sell it not. There's value to truth. There's value to right, there's value to righteousness. And one thing that that just kind of really breaks my heart is when someone will grow up in righteousness and then sell out And then just walk out on it. I pray that's not the case for our young people here. I pray that's not the case, but we see that so often Those that sell out on righteousness, those that sell out on everything that they've learned, on all that's right. They're getting ripped off. They're getting ripped off. And and if you're counting down the days till you till you graduate, I'm talking to young people right now, I know, but if you're counting down the days till you graduate, just so you can Get out of church. Don't don't don't get ripped off. You're counting the down the days so you can get out on your own so you don't have to be a part of of this of this church anymore and be a part of it. You're gonna get ripped off Don't sell out to that. You're gonna get the worst end of the deal, I guarantee it. So Uh there's a lot of different ways that the Lord could be speaking to you tonight. There's a lot in this in this book. Very short, but there's a lot of information. The main things I'm seeing in here tonight is God can use anybody, regardless of of status, regardless of education, regardless of popularity, use you, and he wants to. And then I'm also seeing that I need to be careful who I allow to influence me because I am just as capable of sin as the world around me. And I see that that has consequences. But I also see this if I have fallen into sin. We mentioned this morning, 1 John 1. 9, God wants to forgive me. And if I confess my sin, he will. If I confess my sins, he is faithful and just to forgive it. So with all that in mind, um First off, are you living like the world around you tonight? You can close your Bibles. I'm I'm pretty much done. Are you living like the the nations around you? Maybe we need to be careful who our influences are. Um most of our influences we get to pick. We get to pick. We don't get to pick our family members, sure, but most of our influences we get to pick. Especially nowadays with phones and uh social media and stuff like that, you get to pick your influences a whole lot. Be careful who you're allowing to influence you because you will become like the ones that you allow to influence you. Does that make sense? So um anyway I don't know how God's speaking to you night, but heads bowed, eyes closed. We'll have invitation here in just a moment. Let me just ask you a few questions. Um look thinking about this this short study of the book of Amos, how many of you would say, you know what, um Pastor Matt, first off, I don't even think I'm saved. If I died right now, I am not 100% certain I'd go to heaven. But I'm very concerned about that. Would you just slip your hand up? Pastor Matt, I'm not sure that I'm saved. Would you pray would you pray for me? Could you just slip your hand up Not gonna call you out or embarrass you or anything like that. I just want to pray for you. Next question is this. Are are you are you catching yourself living like the world around you? Or is God speaking to you about something else maybe? I don't know Say, yeah, uh Pastor Matt, I I I I need to be careful of my influences, I need to be careful of living like the world around me. Would you just raise your hand? God's speaking to me about something tonight. Would you slip your hand up? See your hand, yeah, absolutely. Um as we stand to our feet, however God spoke to your heart, I tell the the the teenagers this if you'd if you could stand up I tell them this all the time. If someone's speaking to you and you're not speaking back, that's rude. And if God's speaking to your heart tonight, uh it'd be a shame to not do business with him. The altar's open.