First Corinthians chapter fifteen, if you would turn back there with me while you're uh turning your place. We appreciate your prayers for us this week. Most of you are aware we were traveling. Uh we were able to uh take Elizabeth Barrett out to Oklahoma City. Tell ya, I felt like a truck driver this week. Drove out there, spent a few days, drove all the way back And um uh so we had a great time out there. We had the college days at the Heartland Baptist College, Baptist Bible College. Brother Sam Davison has been with us before. He's the president out there. And we're so proud of Elizabeth. 400 high school students were in there checking the school out and uh part of all the events going on. And uh she got second place in storytelling. And so we were very proud of her, got an award. Give her a hand there, she'll be good. And uh she entered several other competitions, violin and uh solo storytelling, and she plays in storytelling. So Uh we had a great, great time. We appreciate your prayers for it. And also uh through modern technology we were able to listen to FBN Charathon through our cell phone in the car Plugged it into the radio in the car. We're able to follow that all the way out there and back. And what a blessing it was this week. How many folks were able to tune into the charathon this week? What a I love that. I wish it would go on longer. But uh they actually have to do programming that they raise the money for. But um uh we appreciate everyone that prayed and and uh called in and supported that. What a blessing. First Corinthians chapter fifteen I just want to read verse 3 and 4. I know James, Brother James just read this, but I want us to read through it again. Verse 3 and 4. The Bible says, For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received. So in other words, he received this, and now he's passing it on to them How that Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures. Now, verse 1 and 2 tells us, as Brother James read a few moments ago, that that is the gospel. If somebody asks you, what is this gospel you talk about? Go to First Corinthians chapter fifteen, verse three and four is the Bible's definition, the Bible's explanation of what the gospel is. Look at it again. How that Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures, that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day. according to the scriptures. I'm going to speak this morning on the gospel of Jesus Christ. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to bless. Father, we are grateful for a good week. Uh I know Kathy and I are very grateful for safety you've given us. And Elizabeth, as we travel, now we're back here, we've assembled together. Lord, our Bibles are open, and God, we're asking you to speak to our hearts through the Word of God. I pray, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew this hour. With all my heart, I ask you, Lord, that you would speak through me Each of our hearts. Help us to understand what the gospel is very clearly in our minds. Help us to understand the importance of it And what we're to do with the gospel. Bless our visitors that are with us. I pray you would just be with them in a very special way. And Lord, all of us, you know our hearts, you know our needs And uh help us, speak us, give us direction, draw us closer to you is my prayer in Jesus' name, amen. Here's a go, a commuter train that would travel between uh cities hauling uh passengers in in the morning of the evening to into the city and out, uh stalled on a set of tracks that was also shared with freight trains I don't know what the situation was that brought the commuter train to a stop, but whatever it was, it stalled out and it's setting on the same tracks that a freight train uses, of course differing times Though there was concern with the engineers, they knew what to do and how to deal with this situation. So they left the passengers in place One of the engineers got the emergency kit and he went ahead up the tracks to warn the uh freight train that was scheduled to come in a little bit. Not a problem. He would warn them. They would take another track. They'd switch the tracks and uh bypass them, and everything would be fine. The engineer takes off. The train is setting there with the passengers on, and to their horror, they look up ahead, and here comes the freight train That the engineer was to flag and warn to switch tracks, barreling towards them at a speed there's no way he's going to stop. Just before the freight train plows into the passenger train, the engineer, the driver of the freight train, jumps out of The train for his own life, escape his own life, and uh there's a horrific crash, death, injury, just hor horrible. An investigation was uh took place. And they asked the man, the driver of the freight train, why he did not stop when he was flagged by the engineer from the commuter train. And this was his answer. He said, when I came around the corner and I saw the engineer standing there waving what was to be a red flag, which means danger stop. He was waving a yellow flag. And the yellow flag simply meant caution up ahead. Keep going, but there's c be cautious He said, I did not know to stop. I was given the wrong information. They did an investigation into that. And they found that the flag that the engineer was waving was the correct flag, but it had not been used for so long. The red had faded down and it was misunderstood. to be yellow and lives were lost. A tragedy occurred because the information was not clear. The message being communicated was not clear. Listen, there is one message this world has to have. If anybody is going to be saved from hell and eternity in the lake of fire, that is the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. If that message is not clear, if that message is not communicated clearly to the unsaved world, it will be misunderstood. And we'll find people die and end up in hell. The gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is the most important message that Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church has. In fact, I want to take it a next step further. The gospel of Jesus Christ is the most important message in this world, period. People must hear and understand clearly what the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ is, what this world needs most Is the gospel of Jesus Christ. We traveled this week, as I mentioned. And again, we appreciate your prayers. We had a wonderful time. We'd stop and uh spend a night in a motel. And they had in several of them, I noticed they had a little thing in the bathroom, a little placard there, and it would say this, help save the planet And it's very, do you know it's very easy to save the planet? Just don't have your bench sheets washed and lo voila, the planet's saved. That's what it said. Save the planet. Don't wash your bed sheet. And um I hope they washed it before I got there, but um In some people's mind, the most important message to the world is save the world from the ozone layer. Save the world from global warming. I tell you what, there's more important message than that. That's the message of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It must be clear. We cannot allow the gospel of Jesus Christ, that message, we cannot allow that to fade. It must be clear. It must that flag, the flag of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, must be waved very clearly, very earnestly, so this world can be saved from judgment and hell. Now, I want to talk about the gospel of Jesus Christ. You go to ten different churches, you'll hear ten different definitions for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm not concerned what man's definition of the gospel of Jesus Christ is. I want to know God's definition. I want to know what the Bible says the gospel of Jesus Christ is. So let's look at the Bible. And my first thought is this this morning, the definition of the gospel. The definition of the gospel. Notice. In verse number one of our text, uh 1 Corinthians 15. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the what? The gospel which I preached unto you. What in the world is the gospel? What does that mean? Well, the strict definition of the word gospel simply means this good news. You could write in the margin of your Bible there beside that word gospel, you could circle that And out to the right or left, whichever column it is for you, you could write good news. That is exactly what the word means. It can be it means good news in any context where that word gospel is used. It simply means something that is a good report. Positive news. Helpful news, information, you can put this down. Information that is beneficial to me. Would you agree with me that the gospel of Jesus Christ is information that is beneficial to this world? Absolutely. Good news. Good news. In its biblical sense, oh, by the way, that term gospel was used back in the day uh the New Testament times, it was used in non-biblical contexts. It was used in writings outside of Scripture. They would reference the uh uh the gospel of a battle that the Roman army had been in. And they won that battle and they would come back with a good report. They would come back with a gospel The good news that they had won the battle, they had been victorious. It was used in the context of agricultural. The crops were coming, the rain had been just right, and the sunshine. was just right. And um and uh good news the crops are gonna be good this year. The gospel. That was how it was used in the strict definition in any context Now, our concern, as I said, is with the Bible definition. Good news in the Bible, the gospel in the Bible is simply this. Good news or good information that God has for man. Good news about something God has done for us The gospel of Jesus Christ. The word gospel is used in the Bible in two contexts. One is referencing the gospel of the kingdom. You will read that through the Gospels. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. The gospel of the kingdom. John came preaching the gospel of the kingdom. Jesus sent forth the disciples, and they preached the gospel of the kingdom. You need to understand a little bit, I'm getting a little theological here, a little bit of the dispensational teaching of Scripture. In other words, when they're talking about the gospel of the kingdom What they're talking about was the fact that Jesus, the Messiah of God, came to his people, the Jews And he came in the sense of offering himself as their Messiah, their Savior, and their King, ultimately their King. But in John chapter 1, it tells us a tragic passage. That Jesus came unto his own, and his own received him not. They failed to recognize Jesus Christ. as the Messiah. They failed to recognize him as king of the Jews that would ultimately reign from Israel. And they rejected him They refused him. They said, no, we'll not have this man to reign over us. We'll not have him as our king. And so the gospel, the good news That God had sent Jesus to be the Messiah, the King of Israel, was rejected by them, and therefore he went out and opened the doors of the gospel of grace. uh of the gospel of Jesus Christ to all the world. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. But as many as received him To them gave he the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. So the gospel of the kingdom, the good news that God had sent a Messiah, a k a king, a savior to Israel, was rejected by Israel. And in so doing, God opened the doors to the gospel of grace to all the world, that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Now keep your place here. How many folks are happy this morning? Say amen Amen. Alright, how many folks? No, I'm not going to ask you. If you're not happy, I don't want to know about it. Turn with me, if you would, to uh Luke chapter two. Luke chapter two. And here we have the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ being announced to the shepherds. We all know the story of Christmas time. Luke chapter 2, but there's a phrase here that illustrates what we're trying to say. Luke chapter 2, and I want to get to verse number 10. Uh let's come up there. Let's start in verse number eight. Get the context here. Look at verse number eight with me. And they were in the same country, shepherds, abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them. And the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. I would imagine they were sore afraid. Look what it says. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you, read those next two words with me, good tidings. You could write in the margin of your Bible, gospel. Exact same word. Good tidings. I bring to you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. By the way, you could underline that phrase all people and put missions there. The gospel, the good news that Jesus has come is to all people. That means the people in China, people in South Africa, the people in Canada, the people in Hawaii, the people in Korea, the people in India, uh uh just all people, oh uh the people in Oakland. Amen He says, Behold, I bring you good tidings. I bring you the gospel. I bring you information that is beneficial. Information that is good news. He doesn't say, I bring you bad news. There is nothing about the gospel of Jesus Christ that is bad news. It is good news. He doesn't say we bring you sad tidings. There's nothing about the gospel to make a person say it. It is good news. It is beneficial news. It is helpful news. Now, who in the world, who in existence, would want someone to think that the gospel of Jesus Christ is bad news? Who in the world would want someone to think that the gospel of Jesus Christ will make us say it? There's only one person in existence. There's only one being I can possibly think of. That would try and get mankind to believe that the gospel of Jesus Christ will make you sad, that the gospel of Jesus Christ is bad for you, and that is none other than Satan himself. He walks about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. John chapter 8 says he is a liar and the father of lies Satan hates God. Satan hates the gospel. He wants this world to believe that the gospel of Jesus Christ is not good news, but bad news. He wants this world to believe that the gospel of Jesus Christ will not make your life better will not improve your living conditions, will not benefit you in any way, but it'll hurt you. It will set you back. It will make you unhappy. And Satan is a liar. The gospel is good news. The Gospel of Jesus Christ, when received, makes lives better. The Gospel of Jesus Christ, when genuinely received, makes drunkards sober. It makes liars honest. It makes the impure pure. It changes the very nature of a person and gives them a good life and gives them a happy life and gives them a fulfilling life. It is good news. Not bad news Greatest day of my life, with hands down, without any competition even close. The greatest day of my life was the day I received Jesus Christ, accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ, and accepted Him to be my personal Savior. Greatest thing that has ever happened to my life. And many of you could stand and say the same thing. It's good news. Don't let the devil convince you or this world. That if I get saved, if I accept the gospel, then I'm going to be unhappy. I'm going to have a long face. I can't do anything. I can't have any fun. I can't have any happiness. I'm telling you, the exact opposite is the truth. I am come, Jesus said in John chapter ten, verse ten. I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it what More abundantly. Listen, this world can put money in your pocket, but it cannot give your life abundance It can make you have a nice house, but it cannot put happiness in your soul. Listen, the gospel of Jesus Christ, trusting Jesus, your personal Savior, is more than simply getting a ticket to heaven. It is a new life here and now on earth. It is a life of fulfillment. It is a life of purpose. It is a life of meaning. It is a life of contentment. Is it a life without trial? No. But it is a life of joy in the midst of trial. It's good news. It's good news. This world has been duped into thinking that being a Christian is some morbid, sad Miserable type of lifestyle. And it is the farthest from the truth. We worked, we've been I've been in the ministry since 1985. I was serving the Lord before that, but that's what I consider when I began the ministry as my life. Worked with a lot of folks, a lot of young people. I found a pattern I found those that despise the things of God, and I'm talking even within the church, with uh young people sometimes, those that Are irritated by the Bible, those, and this is true of all ages, but those who are irritated by the Bible Those that don't want to live by the principles of Scripture, those that really have no time for the things of God, they want everybody to be like them They want to intimidate and mock and make fun of those who are trying to do right and trying to live for God. But here's what I've noticed: those who are not, who don't know Christ. Those who have not received the gospel of Jesus Christ are the most miserable. Listen to their songs, they say. I'm miserable. I hate everything. Be like me. I don't want to be like you. Uh you're an idiot and I'm miserable. I I I've worked with young people that are just living for themselves and no concern for God or the things of God and any of that You know what they would say? Oh, I hate my life. I wish I wasn't alive. Listen, that's the devil's gospel, quote unquote. The gospel of Jesus Christ is good news It makes you love life. It gives you purpose and meaning. It's good news. It's good news. So, what is our definition of the gospel? Alright? Our strict definition is simply this It is good news. Information from God that is good. That helps us. That benefits us. Jesus came preaching the gospel of the kingdom to the nation of Israel. Question, would it have been good for them to receive the gospel of the kingdom? Oh yeah, it'd have been great. But they didn't accept it. They rejected it. And in 70 AD, they were decimated. They were destroyed. And so the gospel is good news. Now, my second thought is this What about the details of the gospel? The word itself means good news. It's something that's good for me, it's beneficial to me, something that's going to make my life better, it's going to improve my life. Alright, what are the details? What is the gospel made up of? That's where we come to our text. And he tells us very clearly here. Let's go down through there. It's threefold. By the way, I want to point something out in verse number two. Let me read verse one again. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also ye have received, and wherein ye stand By which also ye are saved if ye keep in memory that which I preached unto you. Now look at this last phrase. Now I just want to explain this because it could be misconstrued. Look what he says here. Unless ye have believed in vain. Let me, he is not saying here that it is vain to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. That's not what he's saying. If a person believes the gospel of Jesus Christ, they are saved. Amen? We have a lot of people throughout the year will pray the sinner's prayer with us. They'll make these professions. And sometimes the question comes up. Preacher, do you think everybody that prayed up prayer, you think everybody that made a profession is genuinely saved? And my answer to that is this. I don't know if everyone's genuinely saved, but I do know this. Everyone that genuinely believed is saved. So he's not saying it is vain to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. He's saying, unless uh let me try and put it this way. He is saying, uh, listen, the only way this gospel won't help you is if by somehow God doesn't keep his word. You believe in God's word and and that's just vain, then this is then what I'm saying here is meaningless. It's empty. It's vain But he but he's saying it's the opposite of that. By believing this it is not vain. Boy I made that clear as mud, didn't I? Alright, let's go on. Look at verse number three. Here he goes. For I delivered unto you, first of all, that which I also received. Alright, here's the gospel. Here's the details of this good news. What does this information consist of? First of all, Christ died for our sins. That's the first, that's part of the threefold. Details of this gospel. Christ died for our sins. Now there's a very key word in there. For. F-O-R. That word for means on behalf of. In place of. Think about this with me. If Jesus had not died for our sins We would have to die uh in our sins. You follow what I'm saying If he had not died in place, in our place for our sins, we would have to die in our sins. He was our substitute. That is good news. I don't have to die for my own sins. Jesus Christ died for me in my place. I like to word it this way, and I say this often. Jesus took responsibility For my actions. Jesus took responsibility for the words I have said that I ought not to have said. Jesus has died for the things, the sinful thoughts I have thought in my place He has died for the sinful places I have gone to. He has for the sinful things my hands have done. He died for For me, he took responsibility. He said, I will die as if I'm the one that committed those sins. That's incredible. He died for our sins. He was our substitute. I was reading this past week. I got to do a good bit of reading, uh, not while I was driving, but um uh I got to do some reading this week and um Bill by the way, Bill Barrens kept calling me when I was driving, waking me up. I said, quit waking me up when I'm driving. Uh that was a joke Um we haven't gone over this lately. We have a rule in our church. Whenever I tell a joke It's not whether you think it's funny or not. If I think it's funny, you're supposed to laugh. You get it? Okay, so if I think it's funny, then everybody's Uh move on, preacher. We're uh I was reading this past week and um I read of a father and he had taken his two sons up um mountain uh uh way up in the mountains and they were camping out and this was top snow capped uh you know way up there this wasn't just overnight camping trip this was like a mountain climbing type thing And he's two sons with him, and they had trained for it and whatnot. And uh they had gotten up uh on the mountain and uh they got way up there and unexpectedly a horrendous snowstorm hits And the temperature dropped to sub-zero degrees, and the wind kicked up, and the snow started just dumping down Well, they were not equipped for that type of environment. And so it was obvious they were not going to make it down. They were going to have to weather the storm way up in these mountains. They were not equipped for that. They didn't have the clothing for it. They didn't have the tents and whatnot for that type of environment. So what they did was this high winds, sub zero temperatures, blinding snow. They found the father found a little craig In the side of a cliff type thing where they were hiking. He put his boys back in there as tight in there as he could. He packed the snow around it, then he laid himself on top of the boys On the outside of the craig. They were against the rock. He laid himself over that. And a wind blew, freezing temperature, snow, and it piled up on the father, and the boys were in that little cray, but the father laying over top of them. Morning time came, the boys began rustling themselves, and Daddy didn't move. And they tried getting out, and they pushed, and he was frozen solid as a board. And they pushed their father out, and he had died in the night. Finally, rescuers came and got them, they saw what happened, they got the body back. And uh later on at the funeral for the father. One of the boys said this. My daddy died so that I could live. My daddy gave his life so I could have my life. When the Bible says Christ died for us, it means he took the punishment of our sin, so we did not have to. So that we could live. Someday, May 7, 1979, I accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior. I received the gospel of Jesus Christ. Someday I will be in heaven. Because Jesus Christ died and suffered hell in my place. Follow what I'm saying? Is that good news or not? Is that good information for the world to have? Christ died for you. He's already taken responsibility. And uh you'll see that person there? Jesus Christ died for that person. Every sin they've ever committed, every sin they ever will commit, he has taken responsibility for it. Already paid that price. He died for them. It's good news. All they need to do is accept, receive the gospel. So the gospel, the details of the gospel, the definition is it's good news. We got some good news for the folks of Kazakhstan We got some good news for folks out in Krell. We got some good news for the people down at the gas station. What is that good news? What's the details of that good news? Well, first of all, it's threefold. First of all Christ died for you, for your sins. The second aspect of it, of this threefold detail, is that Christ was buried in a grave You say, what's the big deal? Christ was buried in a grave. I believe that the fact the Bible emphasizes that part of the gospel is that Christ died for our sins, that he was buried. I think that is a verification that he actually died. He didn't just disappear Uh he didn't just, we don't know where what they did with his body. There is actually a grave you can go to and look and see where he was buried, and you find no body there. The fact that he was buried is verification that he died and that he rose again. Of all the founders of religion, only one has risen from the dead, and that's Jesus Christ. It's an empty grave. You can go to the memorials for other founders of their bodies. You can find their grave site, but not the Lord Jesus Christ. He was buried, so Christ died for our sins. Second of all, he was buried in the grave. By the way Now there's a little debate on this, and I wouldn't fuss with someone about it, but my studies of Scripture. When Jesus died on that cross, and they placed his body in the grave Where did Jesus Himself go? You know, you understand, your body is not you. Our bodies are not us. We're spirits, souls. We inhabit bodies. So when they buried Jesus' body, Where was Jesus? Some people teach that he went to hell. He suffered three days in hell. I do not believe that that is correct. I don't think Jesus went to hell. I think he suffered hell during his time on the cross. The darkness settled down over the earth. Luke tells us. And his very first statements, when the darkness of God's judgment set on the earth, his very first statements from the cross, hanging across, were this: My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? That is a definition of hell. God abandoning Jesus Christ completely for those hours on the cross. In that darkness, I believe he suffered the eternal judgment of God on himself. So where did he go? Once he was dead. Into my hands I commend my spirit. It is finished. So where'd he go then? Well, I I uh as I understand scripture, uh, and I don't want to get too off on this, but just some information. Uh uh as I understand scripture, uh while his body is laying in the grave, several things were taken place. One of those things I believe is Jesus went to a place in the Old Testament and the early part of the gospels, it's called paradise. It was, for lack of a better term, a holding tank for Old Testament believers who died and spent uh were went to this place called paradise. They could not enter the very presence of God yet because the blood of Jesus Christ had not been applied to the altar. The veil was still hanging. They had no access to immediate presence of God. But now Jesus shed his blood. You remember? The veil in the temple was torn asunder, top to bottom, from God's end. And now he can take these Old Testament saints and he escorts them into the very presence of God. When the thief on the cross Said, uh, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. What did Jesus say to him? Today thou shalt be with me in Paradise, this holding tank so to speak. That's a bad that's not a good description of it, but it's the best I can think of. And you don't pay much, you don't get much. But um no, I'm kidding. I'm kidding That one was funny. So anyway, he takes them into the presence of God. There to forever be in the presence of God. I think along with that, and I don't know how this all works out. We get to heaven, we'll understand it all. This side we see a little darkly, but I see in Scripture from Hebrews and other passages that during this time somehow I don't know how this works out, as I said. But he took his blood and he applied his blood to the actual eternal altar in heaven before God's throne. You understand that uh Ark of the Covenant and the Old Testament, the tabernacle, all of those things were simply patterns They were simply models of what is actually in heaven, eternally in heaven. And so somehow he applied his blood, he escorted these saints from this place called paradise. into the very presence of God. Somehow that works in. Remember when Mary saw him and she wanted to grab his feet, he said, Don't touch me, for I have what? Not ascended to my Father. And so there was still work going on. Again, this is all very darkly. Some folks have different ideas on these types of things, but this is the way I see it. But nevertheless. That being said, while that was taking place, his body was in the grave. He was absolutely dead. Jesus did not pass out, he did not go into a coma, he was dead. He died for our sins. Was buried. Now here's the third aspect of the gospel. First of all, Christ died for our sins. Second of all, he was buried a grave. The good news, thirdly, is Christ rose again the third day. Look with me at verse 4. And he was buried. Now remember, Paul was telling them, this is the gospel that I preached unto you. This is the good news. Christ died for our sins according to scriptures. He was buried, look at this. And he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. So here is the gospel. Christ died for our sins in our place for our sins. He was buried. Three days later, he rose again He's alive forevermore. He was seen by hundreds. You can read the following verses. They give testimony. They give names, places of where Jesus was seen. Uh rose from the dead. In two weeks from the day, we celebrate uh Easter. Uh Christianity celebrates Easter. Hey, I got news for you. I celebrate Easter every single Sunday. That's why we worship on Sundays. Christ rose on the first day. And so it's not a once-a-year event. In reality, the resurrection of Christ is a daily celebration He's alive. And so they're buried. He was uh he was uh uh in the grave and he rose again and Paul gives testimony. Um There is as much, and again this is another message, there is as much evidence of the resurrection of Jesus Christ, in the in indisputable evidence Of the resurrection of Jesus Christ as there is that Nero was actually King of Rome. Much documentation It is one of the most provable facts in history. The fact that Jesus Christ rose from the dead. There's 500 witnesses. Paul from a suppose uh you were accused of robbing a bank. Let's say um uh Chester just got back from Florida and the police show up and they say he robbed first bank of Florida. For a half a million dollars. And we said, we always wonder where you got all that money to run around all the time. And uh Chester says, No, I didn't rob it. When did I rob it? On Sunday What's the date today? 25th? Sunday, March 25th, at 1130 in the morning. Chester robbed the bank first Baptist Bank of Florida. He says, now there's not five hundred people here, but he says, I've got five hundred wit witnesses can verify to the fact that I was in church at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church Sunday morning. I've got 200 witnesses can verify the fact. And so we call every one of those witnesses up. Yep, I saw Chester there. He's in the choir. He wore a white shirt Gain a little weight. Um no, no, no. He's going back down to Florida. No. Uh and everyone marches by. You know what that jury's gonna say? There is no way Chester robbed that bank in Florida. We got 200 plus folks can testify they witnessed, they saw him in church in Oakland, Maryland on that Sunday morning. Jesus didn't rise from the dead. Paul says, I've got 500 eyewitnesses can testify the fact they saw Jesus Christ rise from the dead He rose again. He's alive forevermore. Jesus Christ right now is at the right hand of the Father in heaven. I mean right now, as real and as certain as I'm standing before you this morning, Jesus Christ right now is at the right hand of the Father in heaven, alive, physical, glorified body. Risen again. He knows every word I've said in this message. He's heard every word of it. A. He knows every thought. At the right hand of the Father, a living Savior knows every thought that's gone through our mind sitting in this service in the last hour. He is alive. He's alive. The good news is, is we have a savior. who has taken responsibility for our sins and paid the price for our sins. They buried him, but he didn't stay dead. He rose again. And Hebrews chapter 7 tells us That he ever liveth to make intercession for us, so that he can save us to the uttermost In other words, he is alive today at the right hand of the Father. He is able and willing to whoever will receive the gospel of Jesus Christ He will save them from hell, he will save them from sin, he will save them from judgment, and they can go to heaven someday because he is standing before God interceding saying, hey, I died for Dennis Leatherman's sins. I was punished. I suffered hell for him. He cannot go to hell That would be double jeopardy. Two people would have died for his sins. I already died for his sins. You must accept him. He ever liveth. That's good news. That means not one person in the world has to die and go to heaven. If they could just get this information and accept that to be true for themselves. They can have eternal life. They can have eternal life. What's the design of the gospel? And this is, Lord willing, in the next couple weeks we're going to preach on this. What happens when a person receives Jesus the Savior. I just touched on it. Well, first of all, there's remission of sins. All my sins are forgiven. That's a wonderful truth. How many folks here, how many folks here, you ever you have something in your past you regret more than anything? Come on now. Something I look back and say, man, there's one thing I could go back and undo. You know what the gospel of Jesus Christ does? Wipes that out. Forgive it. Forgiven. That takes a load off. You're forgiven. You're forgiven. The remission of sins. The gospel. We have the rebirth of the Spirit. God gives us a new nature. That's where the purpose and meaning in life comes in. That's where these sins that are binding me down in bondage to, I'm set free from that. I don't have to live that way anymore. There's a removal of judgment. Talk about that later. There's a reversal of death. Now, when a believer dies, it's not being separated from loved ones and God for all eternity in hell. Now, when a believer dies, it's entrance in the presence of God, and other believers will be reunited. It's a complete reversal. When a believer dies and when an unbeliever dies, two complete opposite things happen One enters the presence of God for all eternity, the other is separated from God for all eternity. One experiences eternal life, the other experiences eternal death. And when I receive the gospel, I'm gonna It reverses death for me. It completely changes what death is all about. So The design of the gospel is remission of sins, rebirth of the Spirit, removal of judgment, reversal of death, and last of all, what is the demands of the gospel? All right, this is good news, brother Leatherman. Praise the Lord Jesus. So what I want. What do I do with it? Two things very quickly. One, I need to receive it personally. Let me ask you this. Do you know for sure this morning That whenever you die, whenever that day is, this afternoon, 25 years from now, do you know for sure that your sins are forgiven? When you die, you go to heaven. If not, you need to receive the gospel of Jesus Christ. Accept Him as your personal Savior. Your sins will be forgiven. And when you die, you can know you're going to heaven. God forbid when I walk out here a little while and cross the road, go home and get changed and start packing up for the trip this week. Um God forbid some maniac comes flying up Broadford Road over that hill, airborne over that little hill, and uh plows into me and kills me instantly. God forbid that that would happen. But I'm standing before you to testify. If that would happen, I know for sure, beyond a shadow of a doubt, I am absolutely convinced that that very instant I was killed, I would be in the presence of God. I would not go to hell. You say, boy, you really think you're pretty good, don't you? No, I know I'm not pretty good. If you don't believe me, ask my wife. She can testify. But the Bible says that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That means if I've called the Lord, if I receive this gospel of Jesus Christ, I can know I'm going to heaven. I'm not going to hell. So what do I do with the gospel? First of all, make sure you have received it yourself. Make sure you've accepted Jesus Christ. This good news about him, that it applies to you. You receive that as your own. And God forgives you and saves you, gives you a new life, takes you to heaven someday. But there's something else we should do with the gospel. And that is this. Share it with others. Share it with others. Clearly. Tell others about the Lord Jesus Christ. I got a note from Brother Matt Dowens. Anyone recognize that name? Matt Goins, our missionary down in Nicaragua. Good young man, his wife, small children. He sent a note back this week. He said he witnessed to a man, and if I remember it correctly, he shared the gospel with a fella uh down there. The fella, if I remember correctly, received the gospel, received Jesus Christ as personal Savior. Two days later, a guy went by with a machine gun out the side of a car and mowed him and a bunch of other people down just a drive-by shooting. Nicaragua's a dangerous place. He said, one day he led to fellow the Lord. Two days later, he was gunned down out in eternity. You know what Matt Gowan said? He said, I'm glad I shared the gospel with that man. Share it with others. Tell it to others. Tell it to others. I gotta I can't, as I said, I did a bunch of reading this week more than usual. I came across a story of a fellow by the name of Maximilian Kobe. In February of 1941, he was a Jew that lived in Poland. He was transferred to the Auschwitz Death Camp, Nazi death camp. He says as he was in that camp and as time went by, things deteriorated and got worse and worse. They just got desperate. Finally, a group of prisoners decided that they were going to escape. I mean, they were going to die either way. So they either escape and get caught and be killed, or stay there and die a miserable death. So they decided to escape. And so they did. And uh they got caught, but the Nazis didn't kill them. They brought them back to the death camp and they chose ten other prisoners. And they said the punishment for you trying to escape. Is these ten other prisoners are going to go into these metal boxes and they're going to lit they're going to die in them of the elements and exposure and we're just going to let them die because you tried to escape A fellow by the name a Polish Jew by the name of Frandyshek. They called his name out. He has to go into these little sheds, uh tin sheds, where he's just gonna have to stay there until he dies. He began crying. Wait, wait. He says, I have a wife and children, please. Spare me, please. They said, no, you die because they tried to escape. The guy was frantic and screaming and crying. And this fellow, Maximilian Colby. Stepped up, this is what he said. He said, I will take his place. The Nazi soldiers said, Okay then. They marched him into the cell with the nine others. He lived in that thing from February. He lived until August 14th. Just barely alive. Miserable. He finally died. Years later, NBC did a special on this Frandesek fella He was 82 years old at this point. They went to his home and they interviewed him and he told his story and they the witnesses that watched the program said that his tears were streaming down his cheeks As he told about Maximilian stepping up and dying horribly in his place. They followed him around his little mobile home type thing. And out back, he had a marble monument very carefully cleaned and flowers around it. And on that marble monument it read this: In memory of Maximilian Colby. And underneath that it said, He died in my place. And every day, Frandeshek Live with the knowledge I live because someone else died for me. Listen, that is exactly what Jesus Christ did for us. We can live eternally. Because of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Let's receive it ourselves. Know we accept it in. Let's share it with others. We've got track month starting next Sunday. What an opportunity to share the gospel of Jesus Christ with people in our community Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you'd help us to understand clearly what the gospel of Jesus Christ is. Help us not let that flag fade. Lord, help our message going out of our church not be unclear. Let it be very, very clear from every one of our lips, every one of our lives, very clear, Jesus died for us. He was buried and rose again. That if we will receive him, we can have eternal life. God help us. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I've accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ. I know I'm saved. And down in my heart there's a burning desire to share that message with other people. Somehow, some way. I have an intense desire in my heart to share that gospel with other people. You say, preacher, pray with me that I can share the gospel clearly and plainly. With my friends and family and folks around me, and God would help me. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, down in my heart, is an intense desire to share that gospel with others. God bless you, hands all around. That would of course be our desire. Goodness. I wonder how many this morning say, preacher, I have somebody that's heavy on my heart. The whole time you were preaching, I was thinking of them. They need Christ. They need Christ. I can see their face with my head bowed and eyes closed. I can see their face. Preacher, I'm burdened for them. I want them to receive this gospel. I'm concerned if they understand clearly exactly what it is. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that somehow I or someone can share that gospel with them, that they would be saved. I'm thinking of somebody very specific. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. Is there any like that by the up of the hand? Somebody very specific. I can see their face even as my hand is raised. God bless you. Many of us have folks we're very concerned about. Let's ask the Lord to help us. Let's pray for them that the gospel would be clear. Get a gospel tract to them. Bring them to a service and revival or something. Let them hear that good news. What Christ can do for them. One last question. You hear this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure that I'm going to heaven when I die. You say I don't want to go to hell. I say God doesn't want you to go to hell either. And he's provided a way to escape It's the gospel of Jesus Christ. So any say, preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. Pray for me. That God will help me settle that in my heart. That I can know I'm going to heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? How about it? Any at all, preacher? I don't want to go to hell, I want to know I'm going to heaven someday. Pray for me. Any at all? God bless you. How about it? Any others? Preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I need to have that settled in my heart and life. Any others? Father, bless our invitation now. Lord, you know our hearts. You know where we're at Help us. I pray for every hand raised. Maybe they'd come find a place on altar here. And Lord, just pray and seek your face. Pray for that loved one that they'd be saved. And help us we pray in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads abound, eyes are closed. Jennifer's just gonna play a few verses of invitation. Well not be long. Don't delay, don't delay. Just come on. Why don't you come on up tonight? Say, God, this is the one I'm concerned for. Here's someone I'm praying for. Maybe it's a student in your Sunday school class. Maybe it's a bus route family. Maybe it's a neighbor, a co-worker, a family member. Why don't you come and pray? Maybe God's dealing with your heart about giving your life to the proclamation of the gospel. Around the world in the ministry in some way. Maybe the bus ministry. God's deal with your heart Why don't you come and just pour your heart out to him? Say, here I am, Lord. Lord, direct me, show me, give me the strength, the boldness. Maybe you've been saved but you've not been baptized. We didn't preach on that, but it's the first step of obedience once we receive the gospel. Church membership, all of these things have their place. The gospel of Jesus Christ. Folks in our neighborhood, surrounding areas of our community have to hear this. Oh, they hear about Jesus. They get a yellow flag about religion. What they need is a very clear red flag of the gospel, clearly communicated. We have that responsibility. Jesus said go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Every creature Let's sing that salty together. Just as I don't think of And that thy mother was shed for me, and as thou hits me come. Just as I am waiting on my soul. A wonder can friends his home. Now, Father We thank you for your precious Holy Spirit, the power of the gospel to change lives, save souls, give new direction and purpose I pray you'd help us have that matter settled. We pray for those in counsel. We pray, Father, that you'd help us to share that message with others in our life, our lips, on a regular, continual basis, we pray. In Jesus' name. There's still some folks being counseled down here, so let's just quiet