Thank you, Pastor. Well, it's good to be here tonight, and I trust you feel the same way. And uh I want you to know that I appreciate many of you have been to every service this week, and I thank the Lord for your faithfulness. That says a lot for your character and and I really appreciate it. I just uh Uh just s stay with it. Keep keep on keeping on. I guess that's uh that's the way to put it. Well we've got uh all the chalk drawings done. And uh I am kind of curious uh which ones is going to be the best for the for the week according to your I mean, according to you. Now I I already have mine picked out, but I'm not going to tell you what it is. I'd like to find out from you what your favorite is. And so if you'll do me a favor, and that is to only vote for one instead of three or four of 'em, that doesn't help me any So see some of these I may put into print and uh if you might vote for three or four of 'em I there's no way I can tell which is really a favorite or not. So if you'll pick out the one that you like the best and raise your hand when I point to it. Why that would be a big help to me. So we're gonna go with the first one there that we did the ship on Sunday night. How many Like that one the best for the week. Let me see your hands. Okay, we got uh about four on this side and five on this side. All right. Thank you. I appreciate that. And then we did the did this one on Monday night uh the bridge over the stream there and and so forth. And that was I like that one. That was a a pretty w I like the fall colors and I like fall scenes. So I may like that one the best. Let me see your hand. So now hold your hand up here 'cause I need to get a count. Okay, got four on this side and we got about four or five six hundred. About twelve on that side. Okay, that's great. Uh so uh I think that was total, twelve Raise your hands again. Yeah, I think it was uh about uh about fourteen altogether, fifteen, something like that. Okay. And then we did the did the one there with the the mountains and the lake. And uh that was I like that one too. I I tell ya, all these are new pictures and and I like every one of them. How many like that one the best? Let me see your hands. Remember the the hidden effect? We're gonna show the hidden effects at the end of the service So we got about six on that, five or six. And then we did uh so we did the serpent on uh one night. How many like that one the best? Let me see your hands. One, two, three. Three of you. Jerry, two others competition there. And then we finally did the the one last night, the uh the lighthouse. And I really like the the hidden effects in that one. How many like that one the best? The lighthouse. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen back there Fifteen, all right. Well let's see that that makes the uh what was it the the ship that was uh fourteen or fifteen? Oh, is that over there? Okay. So that that's almost a t I'd say that was a tie. And then we did this and tonight. I mean like this and the best. Throw that in the way. Is that what you're saying? Okay, we got a couple that that like that one. And uh uh you know the th what I like what I need to do is is take the vote after we showed the hidden effects. Because I have a feeling that uh it's going to be changing somewhere down the line. All right. Thank you so much for your help on that. And uh once again I I really appreciate uh the hospitality this church always shows uh the Williamses as we come up here. Uh of course you're like family uh to us and I guess we're like family to you and that's the way it is. And So uh you treat us like that and I really appreciate it. So we haven't got any fights yet. You know, usually families have to fight a little bit. I haven't done that yet, but uh, you know, we got another service to go, maybe we can get a good fight uh somebody. Haven't left you. Okay. All right. So uh thank you again and and uh boy uh uh I can't tell ya how how great it's been this week. I've just enjoyed it thoroughly. And uh Uh yeah what can I say? Take your Bible and turn to me to the book of John, if you would please, chapter 19. Matter of fact, we're gonna s we're actually gonna start reading in chapter eighteen. Uh and we're gonna I'm I'm reading a number of verses now, so don't go to sleep on me, but I just want you to uh I want you to get the the feel for the for the message. This is introduction and and uh it it puts you right in the in the spot there where I want you to be tonight. And I want you to think about this seriously as we get into the message. I'm looking at verse 28, John chapter 18, verse 28. The Word of God says, Then led they Jesus from Caiaphas into the hall of judgment. And it was early, and the an they themselves went not into the judgment hall, lest they should be defiled, but that they might eat the Passover. So now we know we know when it is. The Passover, remember, goes back to to Egypt when uh they uh st killed the lamb, took the blood and put it over the doorpost and the lentils on the side and uh they ate the lamb and and Uh the death angel came and and when he saw the blood he passed over them. That's where the the Passover came and and everybody, the firstborn and and uh those who did not apply the blood uh paid the price. Their firstborn was dead, died. And so uh that's the Passover. And so this is the time of the year when the nation of Israel uh slays a lamb and and uh for the s sins of the of the nation of Israel. So that's the there's the Passover in remembrance of the Passover and the Lamb that They're supposed to uh uh cover or be an atonement for their sin. Pilate then went out unto them and he said, Uh what accusation bring you against this man? So this is the the secular or the political leader here dealing with the with the the high priests or the religious leaders And they answered and they said unto him, if he were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him up to unto thee. And then said Pilate unto them, Take ye him and judge him according to your law And the Jews therefore said unto him, It's not lawful for us to put any man to death. They already had it figured out that he's supposed to die that the saying of Jesus might be fulfilled, which he spake, signifying what death he should die. And then Pilate entered into the judgment hall again, and he called Jesus, and he said unto him, Art thou the King of the Jews? And Jesus said unto him, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it thee of me? And Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thine own nation, the chief priests have d delivered thee unto me, and what hast thou done And Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight that I should not be delivered to uh to the Jews But now is my kingdom not from hence. Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then? And Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king, and to this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world that I should bear witness unto the truth. And every one that is of the truth heareth my voice. And Pilate saith unto him, What is truth? And when he had said this, he went out again unto the Jews, and he saith unto them, I find in him no fault at all Verse 39 says, But ye have accustom that I should deliver unto you one of the one at the Passover. Will ye therefore that I release unto you the king of the Jews? And they cried, Then cried they all again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber. Then Pilate therefore took Jesus and scourged him. And the soldiers planted a crown of thorns and put it on his head, and they put on him a purple robe, and said, Hail King of the Jews, and they smote him with their hands. Powell therefore went forth again, saying unto them, Behold, I bring him forth to you, that you may know that I find no fault in him And then came Jesus forth wearing the crown of thorns, and the purple robe, and Pilate saith unto him, Behold the man. And when the chief priests therefore and the officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify him, crucify him. And Powell says unto them, Take ye him and crucify him, for I find no fault in him. Now we'll we'll stop the reading there because we want to focus on some other verses here. Here in this in this uh uh version of the of the crucifixion Or leading up to the crucifixion. You have John given the basics, just right down the line, telling you just what happened, when happened, who did what, who said what. But you can fill in the the four Gospels are are meant to supplement each other. And so when you read the other gospels, you find that that for this period of time that each one of them has its own little thing to add uh to this story in order to f make it full and you you get a a greater picture of it. Now we're not gonna go back and read off the other uh uh Gospels, but but I just want you to understand that. And there's things that I've noticed uh uh about the New Testament particularly. How that many times you you in order to understand the New Testament you have to get back in the Old Testament And sometimes the things in the Old Testament are explained in the New and it's it's important that we you know that we get both of it there. Uh some some of us said, well we you know we don't need the Old Testament because we we're the New Testament church and And everything we need to learn is right there. Well boy, I feel sorry for somebody that has that attitude and leaves the the book of Psalms out and all the wisdom of Proverbs and all the you know, there's so much there And then when they get to the book of Hebrews, how are they going to understand what the the new covenant is if they don't know the old covenant? So you see it's th they're this is these are this is sixty-six books that are that are one. And it just they just fit perfectly together. Did you notice the have you noticed the in the the the four gospels the different robes that Jesus wore in that? You remember when when Pilate uh when Pilate interviewed Jesus the first time, and John doesn't get into all that, but the other gospels give you a little more light. And when when he talked to to Jesus the first time, why uh they found out that he was a a uh Galilean. And so uh he said, Hmm, uh I can get this off my back if I send him to Herod. He has jurisdiction over that. And so he sends Jesus to Herod. Well Herod was interested in this whole scenario anyhow. He wanted to meet Jesus and wanted to know a little more about him. When he goes up there and interviews him, why uh after Jesus wouldn't answer anything to him, why he sends him back to Pilate. But what he did was he put a a gorgeous robe, it says, or a white robe, a pure white robe, on Jesus and sent him back. Well that's curious. And you wonder, you know, you read these other accounts there in the book of Luke, it talks about the scarlet robe that was placed upon him. And then here we just read about the purple robe that was placed upon him. That brings up another question. What robe did Jesus, what color was the robe that Jesus had on? Have you ever wondered about that? Maybe only a talk ours would wonder about the color of the robe. But uh I've thought about it, you know, it and but tradition says that he had a blue robe. That was his robe, the one that did not have any, you know, uh buttons or anything that they cast lots over So I got to thinking about this. So you have a gorgeous robe or a white robe, and you have a scarlet robe, then you have a purple robe, and you have a blue robe And where do you find these colors at? Well, you go back to the Old Testament again, and you find in the book of Exodus and the book of Leviticus, you have them, those colors are there uh that has to do with the tabernacle. But not only that, the tabernacle itself, which is the the ten curtains that's over top of the of the boards of the tabernacle, those were were What color? They were pure white, they were red, they were purple, and they were blue. That's interesting, isn't it? Maybe it's not interesting to you, but it isn't me because I'm a chalk artist But then I noticed also that the high priest garment. Did you notice that? The high priest garment with the same colors as the as the uh tabernacle covering, the the cover the the covering that's over the boards of the tabernacle. uh same colors. It was white and it was red and blue and purple. But that's not all. There was a the other curtains that goes in front of the boards of the tabernacle With the same colors. All those four colors are uh in in any a area of the uh of the tabernacle you'll find those four colors. The door of the t of the of the uh outer court, the door of the outer court The curtains were red and purple and blue and white. What does that mean? It just means that somehow God got those four colors in here to let us know that there's a there's a a a connection between Jesus And the high priest, Jesus in the tabernacle, Jesus and the Old Testament. It's just another little thing that God just throws in there. Just sort of, you know, just sort of give you a little interest in the Bible. That's why he says to study to show yourself proved unto God a workman that need not to be ashamed. If we study the Word of God, we see these little things that that uh on the surface mean little or nothing. But when you get in and dig around while you you realize that, hey, God is really trying to tell us something. You see, I d I believe in every aspect of the of the crucifixion leading up to the crucifixion itself Uh, there is things in there that we can learn that will help us understand the whole of God's message to us today. So I want us to look at another another little thing that that uh we uh uh sometimes just pass over. And it's found uh it's found there in in uh let's see the 19th chapter of of uh of uh John and I'm looking now, I'm gonna read the first three verses. And then Pilate therefore took Jesus and scourged him. And the soldiers platted a crown of thorns and put it on his head. And they put on him a purple robe, and they said, Hail, King of the Jews, and they smote him with their hands. The soldiers planted a crown of thorns and put it on his head. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, as we uh once again open your book and and uh attempt to to bring forth a message to honor you and will speak to our hearts, I pray that you would speak to us. Pray, Lord, that you would fill this place with your spirit. Fill me with thy spirit. I pray that you would work upon our heart. Help us to see Jesus as he was in this day Ready to die for the sins of mankind, willing to go to the cross and pay the price that we might have eternal life. And I pray as we preach this message, Lord, that it might convict us of how lackadaisical our Christian life really is at times. Lord, I do thank you for these folks who've been so faithful this week, and some of them traveling good distances and and still hear every service. And I thank you, Lord, for for each one of them. And I pray that you'd uh you'd bless them in a special way. I don't know uh how it might be that that you would uh pour your blessings out on behalf of individuals, but I just know that you're able to do it. So I I pray that you'd Bless them for for the faithfulness. And then I pray once again that you convict us of our lack of faithfulness. Because there are areas that we need to deal with. Then I pray for that one who's here that does not know Christ as their personal Savior. Perhaps they've come out of curiosity, perhaps they've come because somebody asked them and they just wanted to be kind, didn't want to turn them down. But they're here, and I pray that the the gospel message will come through in such with such power that uh that the Holy Spirit will have Little to do more than just to convict them and they walk the aisle and trust you as Savior. God help them to help them to come tonight, I pray in Christ's name. Amen and amen. I want us to look at uh at the cruel crown, if I was going to give a title of the message, that's a simple message, I guess. The cruel crown And I want us to look at it, and I want us to look at at uh four or five, I don't know how many points we'll actually get to tonight, but but I want us to I want us to think about the cruel crown And what what it has to do with, what it what is the symbolism here? Is there is there something that we can learn from just that one That one item that's mentioned in the scriptures, the crew cru the crown of thorns that the soldiers plaited and placed upon his head. First of all, I want us to look at at the at the material of the cruel crown. Notice what it says in verse 2. And the soldiers platted a crown of thorns. And put it on his head. A crown of thorns. Now where do we where do we where do we see thorns at? Well you have to go back in the very beginning, don't you And the very first place that you read about thorns is as a direct result of the sin of Adam and Eve, where God cursed the land and he said it was going to bring forth thorns and thistles What was that for? Well, it was to hinder man. It was to cause man pain. It was to cause man problems because all before everything apparently lacked the thorns and thistles And it was just a a a beautiful garden, you know, that was carefree and a place where where Adam and Eve could enjoy life, and and that was the way it was meant to be until sin entered in, and then it became a problem. And so the the material of the cruel crown, it's simple. It's just thorns. Well, what's the significance of that? Well it's it's the thorns point to uh point to the the curse of sin on this earth. So we're we're gonna get a little bit of a picture as we see that Then I read in Genesis chapter 3 and verse 18, Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee. And then in Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 8, it gives us a little bit more. It says, but that thou but that that which beareth thorns and briars is rejected and is nigh the cursing, whose end it is to be burned. Well, there it tells the story, doesn't it? So the thorns have to do with cursing. It has to do with the curse of God on the earth as a direct result of man's sin. I think about the parable there of the sower in Luke chapter 8 and verse 14. Again, a picture of sin. It says, In that which fell among the thorns, are they which, when they heard, go forth and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life and bring no fruit. to perfection. And in Matthew thirteen, twenty-two, it it takes uh talking about the same parable, and the care of this of the wor of this world And the deceitfulness of riches choke the Word of God. That's that's the thorns and the thistles. So we can We can begin to see a picture that the that the crown of thorns is more than just an object placed upon his head, but it was there to tell a story of thorns and thistles, that which was a direct result of the curse of sin. Man's sin. The second thing I want us to look at is the making of the crown. You have the material. Now the making. I see these soldiers as they as they strap Jesus to the to a post. And I see him as they uh take the cat of nine tails and they begin to beat him. And they finish beating him and the blood running down his back and his back all chewed up raw. And I see them then they they look at him and they they begin to mock him about being the king of the Jews. And they say, wait a minute A king must have a crown. And so let's let's see. What can we make a crown of? Now they could have done a lot of things. They could have just got a garland, you know some leaves and some bushes or something, you know, and made s something out of it, stuck it on his head and made fun. But they chose they chose to make the crown out of thorns And so they took the uh they ripped a branch off of a thorn bush here and one off here and one off there. And the Bible, notice the wording there. It says, and the the soldiers platted a crown of thorns They didn't just wrap it around. They platted it. So I got to thinking about platting. And I remember that that uh when you go downtown and you're going to buy a rope And you're gonna buy this rope and it's got to be strong, you've got to be able to trust it. Uh you want something as strong, it's not gonna unravel like the the twisted kind of rope does occasionally And uh so what do you do? You find a braided or a plaited rope. That's the strongest rope that there is. And now I'm I'm looking at at the the crown of thorns and I see that the soldiers uh took that and and Platted it. I'm not the best platter, but I can get a pigtail if I need to, you know. And I can see them as they platted a crown of thorns. Tied the ends together, finally wrapped it, however they did it, and interwoven the thing, and then they take the crown of thorns and place it on his head. It reminds me of of sin. It reminds me of that verse back in the book of Proverbs that talks about that and uh they were bound with the the cords of their own sins. You see, sin does have this binding effect. And I noticed in the in that verse in Proverbs, it speaks of sin's plural And I can see Satan as he takes the sin that you get involved with, that sin which does so either beset you, or the sin that that and perhaps there's two or three things, weaknesses in your life And how he'll take those things and weave them into your lifestyle to the place where you you find it almost impossible to give that thing up It platted a crown of thorns. Boy, Satan is so good at at interweaving sin into your life. It's so easy for him to just get you started in some little thing that doesn't make any difference. It's like telling a little white lie. You think you can get by with that, and there's no problem, but but it has ramifications, even the smallest sin. Remember the verse back there in the Song of Solomon says it's the little foxes that spoil the vines. And it certainly is the little sins. And the reason the little sins will get you is because Satan is good at taking that little sin and weaving it into your lifestyle until it's difficult to separate and and break through. So I see the crown now, it's the material is that which caused man to sin. the the crown of thorns, I say caused man to sin. It's the result of man's sin, the crown or the thorns. And then I see the the making of it as the soldiers, sinful man, platted the crown of thorns And then he placed it upon his head. Are you following me? I'm not I'm not uh Okay. You're still most of your eyes are opened, so we'll go we'll go on. Proverbs 522 is the verse. He says, His own iniquities shall take the wicked himself, and his he shall be holding or bound with the cords plural of his sins. Notice the plurality. Then the third thing. How about the misery of the Crew Crown? The misery of the Crew Crown. Well, obviously there is Misery involved because I really don't believe that the soldiers, as they planted this crown of thorns, no doubt using their leather gauntlets as gloves to to to to to make this crown But I can't really see them as they walk over to Jesus and say, here, let me let watch out now. I'll try to get this on there where it won't stick you or anything. I just don't see that. These are hardened soldiers. They've beat people to death with the cat of nine tails. They've watched them die on the cross and broken their legs. These are hardened soldiers. You think they're going to care whether that's that thorn pierces the brow or punctures an eye? Do you think they care? They don't care And so the first thing I see is the the obvious misery of the crown and his willingness to take that misery and take that pain without As the Bible says, as a lamb, he opened not his mouth. Isn't that amazing that Jesus would go through all that he went through? Without one complaint. It didn't mean that he didn't open his mouth. That's not what it means that there was no complaint. There was no crying out of God, why me? There wasn't that There wasn't a the the you know the the the thought even that entered his mind well what what did I go through all this for? Because this is why he came, to say seeking to save that to which is law. This is why he came. This was his cause. This was the purpose of his life was to die on the cross. So I see the soldiers, they'd make this crown of thorns. I don't know what the thorns looked like. Maybe they were big thorns. I've seen some crowns that were made, you know, that people make, you know, and hang on something nice big long thorns. I don't know how I don't know anything about the exact thorn size. All I know is when they jabbed it on his head, they didn't care whether it brought blood or didn't bring blood, and I have a feeling that it did. So there was misery there. But then I think about how the misery of the cruel crown, when I think of the crown representing sin, I begin to think about the misery, the misery that sin causes. Oh my. How about the how about the the misery of a guilty conscience? Did you ever I remember when I before I was saved. And you know what you you've heard all the stories. I'm not gonna give you back into my life. But it wasn't wasn't good. But I can remember laying in bed at night before I was saved, and when everything all at once got quiet. There was no television blaring, no radio sounding off, not even a car going out through the front there that I would out in front of the house that I would hear. When everything just all at once, the house got quiet, the children were asleep, the wife had dozed off, and I'm laying there by myself In the quietness of that moment, I heard a guilty conscience say guilty. Guilty. Guilty. Guilty. Guilty And it would startle me out of the bed, just about. It would it would just it would scare me. It was so real. The fear of repercussions of my sin, the fear of being found out The what can I say? There's misery in sin. The cruel crown points to that misery. That Jesus bore. You see, all of our miseries, all of our heartaches, all of our problems All of everything that you could think of negative about your life as a result of sin was upon him that day on the cross of Calvary. Everything was there. He became sin. For us who knew no sin. Crown of thorns. Material was thorns. The making was by man. Platted, a picture of the strength of sin, the misery, I think of the reaping Of what you've sown, reaping the whirlwind. I think of the the fearing the wrath of God, fear of being found out, sins revealed But you know, I think one of the miseries that Jesus carried with him He came into his own. He came into his own people, the Jew. He came into his own The very ones who were created in his image. He came into his own, but his own received him not. It had to be, it had to be a heartbreak. For him as he hung there and he watched it. As that one verse says, and all his disciples fled from him. All his disciples. Think about it. Even his own people rejected him that day. And then to hear him cry out on the cross, My God, my God, why has thou forsaken me? Think about it. The misery of the cruel crown, the misery of sin. Then I believe there was another element about the crown. That is the mocking of the cruel crown. I read in Matthew chapter 27 and verse 29 where it says, And when they had platted a crown of thorns, they put it on his head, upon his head. and a reed in his right hand. And they bowed the knee before him and mocked him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews. And they spit upon him. And they put the reed and smote him on took the reed and smote him on the head. And after that They had mocked him, they took the robe off from him and put his own raiment on him and led him away to crucify. A crown of thorns upon the brow of the very Son of God, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords for Where it should have been the glorious diadem of gold entrusted with the most precious stones. But instead he may he wears a crown of thorns, the mockery of it all. As they made fun of him. The very one that spoke the universe into existence. Then there's the misery that sin makes of sin of God's creation. The beauty, the wonder of man. In Genesis chapter 1 and verse 31, and God saw everything that he'd made, and behold, it was very good. But sin made a mocker of his total creation. And then finally, we come to the final point. Someone say amen right there. I hope you're listening. The meaning of the crown. By now the meaning is pretty obvious. It's become pretty clear that the cruel crown's a picture of sin. And I want to read you some more scripture. I don't think we can get enough of it anyway, could we? But I want to read this to you. I think it'll help us. Who has delivered us, who has believed our report? And to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? For ye shall grow up before him as a tender plant, as a root out of dry ground. He hath no form nor comeliness. And when we shall see him, there's no beauty that we should desire him. He's despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrow. acquainted with grief. And we his were our faces from him, and he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he had borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, and yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord has laid upon him. The iniquity of us all. Do you get that last verse? And the Lord hath laid upon him The iniquity of us all. For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him The cruel crown. Wore that crown for you and I. Bore all the misery and the mockery, everything that that uh could come by For you and I. You're here tonight, you've never been saved. I want you to understand that were it not for his mercy and grace All of us would be in hell today. Because there's none righteous. No, not one. There's not one of us can boast of being good or having anything to offer God Because all of our righteousnesses are filthy rags, the Bible says. But Jesus loved us so much. I can't help but think of of Jesus as he looked over Jerusalem that day and he said, Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem. Those of you who have have killed the prophets, stoned those that we that we uh that we sent to you to warn you. Oh, how gathered you as a as a hen would have gathered her chicks under her wings. And you would not. You wouldn't come. What a tragedy. What a tragedy. I think about I think about the uh story of a of a f uh family who's who got caught in a flood. Mother is washed away in the water and the son dives in after and She can't swim, but he can. He could he could save her. Every time he'd get close to her, she would try to grab a hold of him and would almost grounding but he kept pushing her away and he'd just say Mom if you'd if you just if you if you'll just if you'll just let me I'll save you. Just just don't fight me But she was lost. And finally after her death they had the funeral, the sun could be heard Next to the casket there saying, Mom, if only you would have let me, I would have saved you. You know, I think about people who who turn the Lord down. He wants to save you. He's done everything that he possibly can. He's given his life. He's sh. What more could he do? But if you'll just quit fighting him and just let him save you. If you come, let somebody take an open Bible to show you from the Word of God how to be saved, you can get saved tonight. Yeah? Change your life. How would it be tomorrow to wake up and you hear instead of six feet of snow outside, you hear the Robins scene? And the dandelions would be grown. Yeah, I'm not sure that would actually happen if you got saved But I'm gonna tell you something. I got saved in February. And when I walked out to my house uh that next day, that's how I felt. And I know in February there's no day in the lines, but it just seemed like everything, the sky was bluer, and everything is, I mean, that's how it seemed. It's because I was free from the burden of sin. I didn't carry the misery any longer. Jesus bore it all on the cross. And the crown of thorns was a picture of what he bore. If we can have the lights out, I'll show this chalk drain