But at verse number twelve, in Matthew chapter sixteen, it says, Then understood they, the disciples, how he, Jesus, bade them not beware of the leaven of bread But of the doctrine of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees. I want to talk this morning about the leaven of the Pharisees, or I have a secondary title, Beware of False Doctrine. Beware of False Doctrine. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we thank you, Lord, for another Lord's day. And Lord, we are quick to acknowledge, Lord, this is your day, not our day. This is a day set aside of the seven you give us. This one, the Bible clearly teaches, is yours in a special way. And now as we've assembled together in your name, your body, your church, on your day, we're asking you, Lord, to have your way in our lives. God, I pray that I'm speaking on behalf of many of our folks. That we present ourselves to you now. We yield our will to you and ask, Lord, teach us, show us. Address our spiritual condition and help us to respond in faith and respond humbly and trust you and obey you, follow your instructions. Lord, I have nothing in and of myself. That is of any value spiritually or eternally, we need to hear from you and your word. So I present my body anew to you with all as m as much as I'm able, I yield my will to you, Lord. And I ask that you would fill me with your spirit and you speak through me to our hearts and minds. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Jesus Christ did not come to earth to be a teacher. He came to be the Savior. Luke 19, verse 10 says, The Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. His primary mission of coming to Earth, becoming a man, and spending uh thirty-three and a half years on planet Earth, his primary mission was to offer himself up as a sacrifice to be judged of God for the sins of mankind so that we could be saved. Jesus came to earth to be a Savior, to be the Savior. However, his three and a half year ministry with the disciples, when he called the disciples to himself, He present himself to Israel as their Messiah. He called to himself his disciples, spent three and a half years training them and preparing them. uh for the establishment of the church, the New Testament church, and send them out into all the world and preach the gospel and start churches. That three and a half year period of time, though his primary mission was to be the Savior. And by the way, if you're here this morning and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, that is the most important decision a person must ever make To accept what Jesus Christ came to earth for, what he's done, in and and offering forgiveness of sins through faith in him and what he did on the cross, rising from the dead, that is the most important decision. In fact If we die in our sins, if we die without Christ, the Bible says we're separated from God for all eternity in a horrific place called hell. And so Jesus Christ came to be the Savior of mankind. However, as I said, that three and a half-year period of his ministry of the disciples, he did a tremendous amount of teaching. He taught. And I want to suggest to you, Jesus is a master teacher. I challenge our Sunday school teachers and really anybody that is in any type of teaching position If you uh I think it would do you well to study the teaching methods and techniques of the Lord Jesus Christ. He was a master teacher. I want to suggest his uh he was a master teacher, first of all, because his subjects were not trivial. What Jesus taught on, what he taught his disciples, and what we have through the pages of scripture of his teachings is vitally important. It's eternally important what Jesus taught about. What Jesus taught his disciples and you and I through the Gospels is spiritually practical. In other words, he taught us of salvation, as I just said. He taught us the importance of being saved. He warned us through the pages of Scripture, the danger of neglecting salvation. He gave illustrations and object lessons. He gave parables. And he would illustrate by people, for instance, in one case, there was a he told of, and this wasn't a parable, it was a true story, about a rich man and a fellow by the name of Lazarus. How many people are familiar with the rich man and Lazarus? And the rich man died in his sins. The rich man died without Christ. The rich man died an unbeliever. And the Bible, the very first statement it makes after he died, it says, And in hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torments. Lazarus, the poor beggar at his gates, who knew the Lord as Savior, had the Lord as Savior, died, and the angels took him into Abraham's bosom. He was pressing upon us in that story he told, in that incident he related, he is pressing upon us the importance of salvation. Jesus taught of salvation. I like what Jesus said in John chapter 5, verse 24. He says, Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that heareth my words and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life And shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. Jesus Christ said that we taught that we need to be saved, we can be saved, and we can know we are saved. His subjects in his teaching were tremendously important. They weren't trivial. They were practical in a spiritual sense in the matter of salvation. He was teaching what was practical in the sense of Christian living. He taught his disciples what it meant to be a disciple I believe one of the greatest sermons ever preached was preached by the Lord Jesus Christ in Matthew chapter 6, 7, and 8, the Sermon on the Mount. And if you and I I'm of the persuasion that if every Christian, I'm convinced, if every Christian, every person that knows Jesus Christ as Savior would simply live by the principles of the Sermon on the Mount This world would be a different world. Our lives would be different. Our homes would be different. And Jesus taught us how to live the Christian life. He taught us how to be a disciple of Christ. Jesus was a master teacher in his subjects. They were profoundly significant. They were profoundly important. On knowing I'm saved and living the Christian life. Jesus was a master teacher, not just in the subjects that he taught, but he was a master teacher in the methods that he used. He was tremendously effective. And by the way, his methods were very varied. He would use different methods in different settings and with different crowds. Sometimes he would use the question method. He would approach, often he did this with the Pharisees who were adamantly opposed to him. We'll see here in a minute. And he would use the question method. He would say something like this, what think ye? Or he'd say, what about this? And he would ask them pointed, profound questions. Now let me point this out. Jesus never one time asked the question to try and get information. You understand that, right? Jesus is God Almighty in the flesh. Jesus is all-knowing. The term, the biblical term, the theological term is Jesus is omniscient. All-knowing. Jesus Christ knows more about you than you know about you. Jesus Christ knows all about your preacher. By the way, there's a vicious rumor going around that the preacher got a cat. Don't tell Brother Rossi this, whatever you do. But I come back from the conference and there is a cat in our house And um there's a picture going around of that little kitty cat uh on my shoulder. Don't be fooled by the picture. That cat is attacking me in a vicious, vicious way. Uh my wife named her named her Lucy. I said, what's that short for? Lucifer? How in the world did I get off on that? The Lord knows Jesus Christ didn't ask questions to gain information. He wasn't trying to figure things out or find out something he doesn't know. Jesus knows it all. But when he asked the question, he would do it to make a point. He would use that question to get his hearers to think a little bit, to stop and look at themselves and stop and consider their own spiritual understanding, their own spiritual condition. And I tell you, the best thing that can happen to a person is when they stop and consider where they're at spiritually And Jesus would confront and challenge his hearers with questions. Sometimes he used questions. Sometimes the Lord Jesus Christ would use parables. Now generally we think of a parable as a uh a made-up story, just a fable or something like that. And that could very well be, but there's something in the back of my mind that just has a hard I uh has a hard time with Jesus making something up. You follow what I'm saying Um I've got a sneaking suspicion we get to heaven we might find out that these parables weren't just fictional stories, that they may very re very possibly have been actual events that Jesus in his omniscience knew took place and then use them without assigning names or places and just use that to illustrate a truth. So I don't know. I wouldn't fuss over that. The Bible calls them parables. But nevertheless, he would use this as a method. He would tell some story about somebody who experienced something, somebody that made a bad decision, or somebody that uh took this action as a sow or went forth to sow. And he sowed the seed. He would use that to illustrate a spiritual truth about the Word of God. about winning the lost, about the condition of man's heart. And so Jesus was a phenomenal teacher uh in the subjects he taught on, in the methods he used, questions and parables. Sometimes he would use object lessons. He would pick a little child up and set that child in his lap and in his arms and he would teach about humility And how to enter the kingdom of God, coming with the faith of a child, for of such is the kingdom of God. He would use object lessons, he'd ask questions, he'd tell stories, parables, and sometimes. He would use a circumstance that came up, and he would use that to illustrate or teach a spiritual truth. Jesus never missed an opportunity To take something that happens and illustrate a spiritual truth. He's out on the ship with the disciples crossing the sea and a storm blows up. And he uses that to teach and display to them that he has authority over the waves and the and the winds also. And here in our text The Lord is using a situation to teach his disciples a very important spiritual biblical truth. He's approached by the Pharisees and the Sadducees And he uses their confrontation. Of course, they were very um adversaries of the Lord Jesus Christ. They were opposed to everything he stood for and everything he was teaching and preaching, everything about him. They hated the Lord Jesus Christ. We were talking about the Pharisees and the Sadducees in Sunday school this morning. The Pharisees were very religious leaders. They were the religious leaders of the day And uh they would they were they considered themselves experts on the word of God and teaching it. Let me put it this way, and I mentioned this in Sunday school, but I want to mention again the Pharisees were in some ways, and I'm going to be very careful about saying this, but in some ways, they were a little bit like the fundamentalists of their day. They believed the Bible. In fact, they held to the very details of the Bible, the very every jot and tittle of the law. They were adamantly adhered to that. The problem with the Pharisees was this. Not that they didn't believe the scriptures, the problem with them was it was just all superficial. It was all a show. It was all simply to present themselves as these righteous, godly men, and everybody ought to look up to them and everybody ought to respect them because of their great commitment to the Word of God. But their commitment was only skin deep. And over and over and over, Jesus rebuked the Pharisees not for their belief in the Word of God, but for their hypocrisy concerning the Word of God. Outwardly they looked good. Outwardly they were white walls. Outwardly the cup was clean. But within them, in their heart and soul, was corrupt and dark and nasty. And Jesus rebuked them sharply for the hypocrisy, and they hated him for it. They hated him. He was exposing them And they hated him. The Pharisees were adamantly opposed to the Lord Jesus Christ. Then you have the Sadducees, and again we talked about them in Sunday school. What I'm trying to say is if you miss Sunday school, you miss a lot Now I've got to say it all over again because y'all weren't here in Sunday school. The Sadducees were enemies of the Pharisees. They were ideologically they were absolutely opposed. The Sadducees did not believe in the resurrection. They did not believe in angels, the spirit world. They didn't believe in miracles. They had a natural explanation for everything in the Old Testament. Now, they'd say, oh yeah, we believe the Torah, we believe the Old Testament, what they had. But none of that spiritual stuff. That's just allegories. And they rejected the whole miraculous, supernatural aspect of their faith. And the Pharisees hated them for that, and the Sadducees hated the Pharisees for their adherence to the Word of God, and they just were haters. And they hated Jesus. And here's what happens. When you have two enemies, I said this in Sunday school, when you have two enemies that have a common enemy, these two enemies become what? Allies. And the Pharisees and the Sadducees joined arms in opposition to Jesus Christ. And that's what's happening here in Matthew chapter 16. They're approaching the Lord Jesus Christ And they uh they uh they have confronted him. Look with me if you would at verse number one in Matthew 16. Says the Pharisees also with the Sadducees. Now that's That statement in and of itself tells you how deeply their hatred of Jesus Christ was and that they would come together on anything. And tempting, they came, and tempting desired him that he would show them a what? A sign. They're looking for a what? A sign from heaven. We want you to prove to us with a sign that you are who you claim to be, that you are the Messiah. They came looking for a sign from heaven. Um now as I said, everything about them was phony. The uh Sadducees, no matter what he did, they weren't going to believe in any kind of supernatural aspect of the Lord Jesus Christ. The Pharisees were not about to admit and acknowledge their hypocrisy. They'd look like fools. They'd be exposed for what they were in front of everybody. So everything about them was phony. And notice what it says here. It says it says, they came tempting him. They're trying to catch him in his word. They're not looking for a sign. They're looking for somehow to catch Jesus in his word, to make him look like a fool, to somehow get the people To disbelieve him and abandon him. They had no desire for proof that he was Messiah. The fact of the matter is, he had given them many signs that he was the Messiah. He had uh uh there was more miracles done. Listen, there's more miracles performed in the three and a half years of Jesus' ministry than any other period of time in human history. They had more, they observed more supernatural acts of God In their very eyes, in the life and ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ, than any other period of history. And they refused to accept it. They weren't looking for signs Jesus had up to this point he had performed 18 miracles. Up to this point, there's more to come He had uh thousands of people have been affected by his miracles, feeding 5,000 men at one shot, not counting women and children. Another time, 7,000 people Healing the sick, making blind people to see, making deaf people to hear, miraculously making lame people to walk. Everybody saw it. Everybody knew what Jesus had done. It was indisputable the power of God was upon Jesus Christ. upon a person like never before and never again in history had Jesus Christ displayed the power of God. They didn't need no sign. Signs weren't the issue. There's signs were everywhere. He fed the hungry, healed the sick made the blind to see, raised the dead, made the lame to walk, made the deaf to hear. They weren't looking for signs. They were looking for a scandal. They're trying to take Jesus Christ out. And by the way, I don't believe for one minute. Now, this is just me. But I have a hard time believing that anybody down inside their heart and soul is a genuine atheist. I think they can convince themselves. And over a period of time they convince themselves. But I'm convinced down in the heart and soul of every human being there is an understanding and awareness that God is. God exists. If you would, take your Bibles, keep your place here. And I wasn't going to preach on this, but uh I want you to look with me Romans chapter number one. Just quickly. Would you come there? Is everybody alright? I know it's been busy and everybody's tired. I'm glad some can get caught up this morning on their rest. Listen, we try to meet every need of man we can Romans chapter number one. Look with me if you would at verse number 20. Say, well, I need to see some evidence that there is a God. Look at verse 20 of Romans 1. For the invisible things of him, God, from the creation of the world are what? Clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even as eternal power and Godhead, so that they are what? Say it with me, they are what? Without excuse. Because that when they knew God They glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Look at verse 23. They changed the glory of God, the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible man. And birds and four-footed beasts and creeping things, wherefore God gave them up. You know what he's saying here? He's saying here, listen, they know, they know there's a God. Down inside their heart and soul, there's an awareness that there is something beyond this. Did you know that every single society No matter how remote, no matter how isolated, no matter how primitive, every single society on planet Earth has worshiped some sort of God Now that means something. The most isolated tribes in Papua New Guinea, the most isolated societies in South America and the Amazons of South America and in Africa, every single one of them worships some sort of supreme being. Now they're misguided on who it is and their minds are darkened as the truth of this God that every single part of this world God, a God is recognized and worshiped of some sort. You know what that tells me? Down in the heart and soul of every man, woman, and child, there's awareness of God. Say, well, I want to see some signs. Brother, look at the sky at night. Look at the design of a little caterpillar. Uh look at look at the DNN makeup of a kitty cat. That cat's getting in my head. Um This this this blows the mind. I've said this before. You go out west and they have um uh what are those things called where the the years ago they drew on the walls, not hieroglyphics Um it's petroglyphics where you go out there and have a drawing of a mustox or a drawing of a a stick drawing of a man with a spear throwing it at a giraffe or something. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Do you remember studying them? They see these little stick drawings and they say, good night Some intelligent being drew these little stick drawings and these antelope. They drew these little rustic primitive drawings of these antelope. There must have been intelligent life here to draw these drawings. And then they look at the actual antelope that is ten billion times more complex than a stick drawing and say, oh, but that just happened. Are you kidding me? And so the Pharisees and the Sadducees came, Oh, show us a sign! Bunch of hypocrites. They didn't want no sign. There were signs all over. People say, Oh, I don't there's uh I don't see any evidence of God. Good night. Open your eyes. It's clearly seeing all around And so anyway, I got off on that. Jesus rebukes them sharply. Look there in look there in verse number four. Well, verse 2, he answered and said, When it's evening, ye say it'll be fair weather, for the sky is red. In the morning it'll be foul weather today, for the sky is red, lowering, ye hypocrites. You can discern the face of the sky, but you can't discern the signs of the times. Now look what he says in verse 4. He gives a sharp rebuke here. He says, a wicked and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign. Look what he says. And there shall no sign be given it. But the sign of the prophet Jonas. And he left them and departed. Now it's interesting here his response. He refers, he says, I'm not giving you no sign. You've already got a sign. The prophet Jonas. Jonah. You know what he's doing? When he references Jonah, he says, that's the sign you have, Jonah. What's he doing? You know what he's doing? He's pointing them to Scripture. Their record of Jonah was in their Old Testament scriptures, was in the Word of God given to them by inspiration of God. He's saying, you want a sign about the Messiah? You want information? You want confirmation that Jesus Christ is the Messiah, the Savior of the world, then you look to the scriptures for that evidence. I'm not giving you any sign. And I'm telling you today, you and I do not need signs in the sky, or we don't need visions, we don't need dreams, we don't need uh uh uh uh revelations God says, you want to know me? You come to my word. You come to my word. When Jesus referenced Jonah, he's pointing them back to the scriptures He's pointing them the scriptures. Some dangers about seeking after signs. Number one, I put this down, it indicates a weak faith. If I need some sort of sign in the sky or something to verify what God has already said, that means I can't take God at His Word. If I would promise, suppose I would promise Austin, I'd promise Austin, you know, I'm going to take you out and get you an ice cream cone down at Devlars. I'm going to promise that. He would say, prove it. Give me some proof that you're going to actually do that. If he would say that, what would he be implying about my word? It's no good. I need some sort of proof. I need some sort of evidence that what you say you're going to do, you're actually going to do. And that is exactly what we're doing to God when we say, Oh God, I need some sort of sign to confirm that what you've already said in your word. Listen, if God said it, that settles it. I don't need to doubt his word. I don't need God to give me some sort of confirmation that what he says is so. That indicates a very weak faith. In fact, look how Jesus described it. He says, a wicked generation. I'm telling you, it is a wicked thing for God's people to doubt God's word. That is a wicked thing And I have no time, I have no time for any preacher or quote-unquote Bible teacher who casts doubts and questions and criticizes the Word of God. That is wickedness. And so it indicates a weak faith. Seeking after signs indicates a misplaced confidence. I'm wanting a sign rather than scripture. I'm wanting some feeling or some experience rather than the promises of God. And Jesus describes that as adulteress, a wicked and adulteress. You want something other than the Word of God. You want some experience, some confirmation other than the Word of God. Did you know that Satan uses signs? To advertise his Antichrist? Take your Bibles if you would. Now keep your place here, and I've got to hurry up because I got off track there earlier. Look at Matthew 24. Come back to Matthew chapter 24 and look with me at verse 24. Jesus disciples came to said, what will things be at the end of when you come back in the last days. What will be the signs of the last days? And come down to verse 24. And he says this, for there shall arise false Christ and false prophets. Let me just say this. In the last days, one of the chief characteristics of humanity will be deception, liars. In society, in social media, politics, in business, in religion, deception on every hand, chief characteristic of the last days. Now I don't know where we're at as far as in line with the rapture of the church, my mind, I I uh any day now, maybe today, the Lord will come back. Would you agree with me? We live in a world saturated by deception. And the world has come up with every possible means of communicating dishonesty Now look what he says. He says, In the last days thou arise false Christs, false prophets. Look at this, and shall show great what? Sign. and wonders. Insomu that if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect. What I'm trying to say here this morning and what Jesus said here in Matthew 16 You and I need to be very, very careful. In fact, we need to stay away from this mentality that we need some sort of sign from God to prove that the Bible's true. The Bible's true, whether we got signs or not. And so he warns them. It indicates weak faith. It indicates a misplaced confidence. And I believe it fosters unbelief. If I can't believe the Bible without having some sort of sign, I'm going to end up not believing the Bible. Right or wrong? And by the way, if I can't trust the Bible, how can I trust the sign? How do you know that sign's of God? And so what he's saying is, you need to come back to the Word of God. Listen, this Bible is our sole authority right there. This is the Word of God. Every word of it is true. Given to us without error. Eternally perfect, given to us. Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. He points them back to the scriptures, back to the scriptures. Listen, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we go by what that book says, not by what signs are, what society says, what religious says, what denominational leaders say, what the publishers say. We go by the Word of God. And so he rebukes these Pharisees sharply. And he says, You don't get no sign, you got the Word of God. The Word of God. The Word of God. Now come back here if you would. Let me show you a few things real quick and we're going to wrap this up. First thing I notice here is the Lord's caution. Look at verse 5 and 6. He says to the disciples, and the disciples, they come to the other side. They cross, after Jesus rebukes the Pharisees, Sadducees, they cross the lake. They get the other side and the disciples, oh man, we forgot bread. They must have been getting older in their years. The other day, no joke, the other day, Bible time, I came all the way up front here from my office in the afternoon. I got up here and for the life of me I couldn't figure out why in the world I walked up here They've forgotten to take bread. Then verse 6. And Jesus said unto them, Take heed and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. Those he just rebukes sharply, he says, you watch out for their leaven. He gives a caution to them. The disciples, what are they thinking about? They're thinking about what? Food. They're thinking about bread. I'm telling you, the Lord's more concerned about spiritual deception than he is about physical nutrition. Matthew chapter 6, he told his disciples, he says, You take no thought for tomorrow what ye shall eat, what ye shall drink. God takes care of the sparrows. Now I'm paraphrasing here for time's sake. He says, You seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things be added unto you You put the Lord in his rightful place and God will take care of you. Oh, what am I going to do? The economy, and we're going into a recession. Listen, don't be dumb, but trust God. Amen? Trust God. Um in uh Luke chapter twelve. Come over there real quickly. Let me see if I can get that for you real quick. Luke chapter 12 in verse 4. Listen to what he says. He says, I say unto you, my friends, be not afraid of them that kill the body. And after that have no more that they can do, but I'll warn you forewarn you whom ye shall fear. Fear him which after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell. Yea. I say unto you, fear him. You know what the Lord is saying? He's saying you ought to be more concerned about your spiritual well-being than you are about your physical well-being. And he says, they say, oh my word, we forgot bread, good heavens. And the Lord says, listen, beware the leaven of the Pharisees. He says, take heed there in verse 6. Take heed. It means pay close attention to. Beware. He says, be extremely cautious about this. Be on your guard. In other words, there are some things in life that are more important than our physical well-being, and that's our spiritual well-being. Something's more important than what we put in our stomach. And that's what we put in our head, in our hearts. I tell you, we've got this health craze, and I'm all for you can look at me and you know I I'm very very health crazed What I'm saying is, if we'd be as careful about what we feed our soul as we are about what we feed our body, we might be better off spiritually. The disciples were focused on food. Jesus was thinking of their spiritual well-being. Spiritual well-being. Number two, the disciples' confusion. Look at verse 7 here. And they reason among themselves saying, it's because we've taken no bread. Apparently these guys were hungry. All they're thinking about is bread. Their mind was fixed on their material issues. Now stop and think a little bit. What in the world does the leaven of Pharisees, what in the world would literal bread, have anything to do with Pharisees? Their mind was stayed on material things. If they'd have paid attention to what the Lord was saying, They wouldn't have made that statement. The leaven of the Pharisees. I think we need to listen to what we need to pay attention to what God says. The eleven of the Pharisees has nothing to do with physical bread, but that's all they got. It's all they were thinking about We need to pay attention. We need to think about what God says to us. When we read this Bible, we need to put our brain into gear and listen and think about what the Lord is telling us. That's where cults start. Just taking statements and giving them unscriptural definition and taking them out of context. The Levin of Pharisees had nothing to do with physical bread. If they'd have thought for a moment, they'd have known that. We have to be very, very careful. So the disciples were confused. Let me, thirdly, well quickly, notice the Lord's correction. Look with me, if you would, at verse 8. When Jesus perceived, he said to him, Oh, ye of little faith, why are you reasoning among yourselves because you brought no bread? What are you guys thinking? Do ye not yet understand, neither remember? We have five loaves and we fed five thousand. How many baskets took ye up? Neither the seven loaves or the four thousand. How many baskets took ye up? How is it you do not understand what I spake, that I spake unto you not concerning bread, but that you would beware the leaven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees? He's correcting them. Their faith was so little. He doesn't say ye have no faith, he says ye have little faith. Some people are willing to believe God to save their souls, but they're not willing to believe God to meet their needs. Listen to me, if God's willing God can save my soul, God can take care of my stomach. Amen or not? Romans chapter 8 says, How shall he not that freely gave his own son not also freely give you all things? I didn't quote that exactly right, but if God's willing to give his son, God's willing to take care of you. Listen to me. If God was willing to suffer hell, die and suffer hell for your sins so you can have eternal life. I'm here to tell you He's willing to take care of you for the few years we're here on this planet Earth. Disciples miss that. They're all worried. And by the way, did you ever wonder what the Lord did with the baskets of bread that remained after he fed the 5,000? Anybody ever? What did he do with all that leftovers? And then the 7,000, 12 bass, what'd they do with all those leftovers? Well apparently the disciples didn't have it because they're out of bread. They must have been like Baptists and divvy it out and send it home with everybody So the Lord corrects them. Their faith was little. They were quick to forget. Their spiritual memory was short. I tell you, spiritual memory is important for spiritual growth. Coming up here in September, we're going to be celebrating the 60th anniversary of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. 60 years this church has been preaching the gospel here in Oakland area. Sixty years. I think it behooves us as a church to never forget what God has done for us those 60 years. That's when churches go bad, they forget where they came from. That's when Christians go bad, they forget what God has done for us. Oh, how are we going to make it? Oh, what's going to happen? Listen, God saw us this far. He ain't abandoned us now. They were s quick to forget and they had the wrong focus. All they saw was the physical and they missed the spiritual And I'm afraid in a lot of our churches, a lot of Christians, we're getting our eyes off the Lord and we're looking on our circumstances. All they saw was a material. And I end with this, the disciples' comprehension. Finally they got it. Verse 12. Then understood they. How that he spake them not to beware of the leaven of bread, but of the what? Doctrine of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. I put in the margin of my Bible, beware of false doctrine. Beware of false doctrine. In these last days. False doctrine is becoming a bigger and bigger issue. We have got to stick to the word of God. Can I give you a little advice? 99% of these preachers on TV, you ought to just turn them off. Turn them off. They're charlatans, they're scammers, they're out after money. Now, not all of them. I'll give it that. Leaven is a type of yeast. It ferments. You put it in the dough, you mix it in the dough, the bread dough, and it ferments that dough and causes it to rise. And here's the thing, just a little bit of yeast, just a little bit of leaven will leaven that whole lump And it permeates that entire loan. You put a little bit of false doctrine. You allowed a little bit of false doctrine to creep into a Sunday school ministry. You allow a little bit of false doctrine to get into the pulpit of an independent fundamental Baptist church. And it may make it grow You say, oh, somebody said to me one time, preacher, we'd have more people come out if we didn't preach so strict. Listen, it's not a matter of strict preaching, it's a matter of Bible preaching. And our responsibility, hear me, our responsibility is to obey preach and obey this book, whether it's popular or not. We're not going to let any leaven come in so that we can get bigger. Now I want our church to grow, amen or not. But if we're going to grow, we're going to grow the Bible way. We're going to grow on the truth, the preaching of the gospel, and the holding of the standards, scriptural standards. If we're going to grow, that's the way we're going to grow. With God's blessing. So leaven is a type of yeast that permeates ferments the dough and permeates that whole lump. And leaven of the doctr of the Pharisees is false doctrine, false living. They preached that Jesus was not the Messiah. I'm here to tell you, Jesus is the Messiah. He's the only Messiah. They taught that good works will make you acceptable to God. I'm here to tell you our good works, if we're trusting our good works, they'll damn us to hell. Only Jesus is the Savior, and our good works are nothing but filthy rags in the eyes of a holy God. False doctrine of the Pharisees, their false teaching and their false living. They were hypocrites. They were hypocrites. Well, I kind of rushed through that. I hope you got the point. We need to be on guard. We need to watch out. Just a little bit of leaven. A little bit of false teaching. And I'm telling you, we stand guard on the Sunday school materials we use. We stand guard. on what we allow to influence this church. If it's Bible, if it's not Bible, it ain't coming in. With God helping us. That book is our sole authority. I read it, you say, well, it's just a little bit. Preacher, you know, it's just not that big a deal. I read about a fellow Nick Birchell I'll just abbreviate this a little bit, but he was a an a sailor in the Canadian Navy. And he had a meeting, uh big some sort of meeting. in um uh Victoria, Canada, wherever that is. And he got he was staying in a very fancy motel. It's called the Empress Motel hotel, big fancy place, and his buddies that he was meeting up with, they wanted the certain kind of pepperoni that was real popular in that area. So he figured being a salary, he says, I'll just buy. He bought a whole suitcase of this pepperoni. Pepperoni. He's going to this meeting at this motel. Well, on his flight there, the Airline lost his luggage. And he didn't get it for about two days later. So he got there and he thought, open it up, and here's all this pepperoni. It's been in the luggage for two days He thought, well, pepperoni, it's probably still good. Just needs to be cooled off. So it was kind of cold out, so he opened the windows of the motel there Hotel he's in, third floor, or something like that. He's up high. And he laid all this pepperoni on a table in front of the open window so the cool air could cool it down. He had a meeting. He was gone for four or five hours. While he was gone, the seagulls came and found that table full of pepperonis. He said when he came back and he opened the door, there were seagulls all over there. He said apparently seagulls' digestive system does not handle pepperoni very good. He went running in and he tried to shoo the p the seagulls out and instead of flying out the window, they flew all around the room And their digestive systems are doing what their digestive system is doing after they eat pepperoni. They're knocking over lamps. He's running around trying to get them out. Every the whole place is destroyed Finally he gets opens other windows. He finally gets them just about all out. There's a couple there. He grabs a towel out of the bathroom. He throws it over one of the uh seagulls to get it out. He takes his shoe off, throws his shoe at another one to get it to go out the window. This is a true story, by the way The shoe goes out the window, comes falling down, lands in a puddle in the yard, he takes the bird with the um uh in the towel, he throws that he's hand slips, the towel goes out uh of the window, it falls on a bunch of Taurus with a seagull covered in seagull stuff, uh, lands on the Taurus. He realized his shoe is down there, so he goes down, gets his shoe, it's all wet, he's got to go to a meeting, so he gets a hairdryer, he's drying his shoe off, another seagull is coming out the window, he drops the hairdryer, it falls in the sink. The water shorts it out and uh knocks the power out of the whole motel. He was told at the desk he was banned from that motel forever. And he said the lesson he learned was this one little action that seemed so innocent, putting a little pepperoni out. Had such disastrous consequences. And I'm saying this: just a little bit of false doctrine. A little bit of false teaching, a little bit of hypocrisy, and we tolerate that in our lives, it has disastrous consequences. We can look at denominations that one day were powerhouses of God, preaching the gospel, starting churches, and today they're a mess. They don't know if their preachers are men or women. They don't even know what they're doing. Little doctrine. And my call to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is we stand guard. We beware. We stick to the old book. Amen or not. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to beware of false doctrine. Help us, Lord, to stick to that old book for the next sixty years if you tarry. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how we would say this morning, preacher. I need to be a little bit more careful. I need to pay a little bit more attention to my spiritual well-being. I get all caught up in the bread of this world and the temporal, material things. And I'm ro really not giving my spiritual well-being the attention it ought to have. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. Maybe that means daily Bible reading. Maybe that means faithful church attendance Maybe that means being careful what I allow into my heart and mind, in my eye gate, ear gate. But I need to be more careful. Any others preach or pray for me? I need to give careful attention to my spiritual well-being I wonder if there's some say, Preacher, I know I ought to be reading that Bible like I should, and I'm not. By God's grace I want to get back in that book every single day, spend some time in the Bible. Any like that, preacher? I need to be reading that book like I should be. God bless you. Hands all around. Honesty is where it begins There's some here this morning say, preacher, I know someone that's unsaved. They're living for this world. I'm not trying to be judgmental, but they're living for this world And they don't seem to care at all about their spiritual well-being. You say, Preacher, pray for me. I'd be a good witness to them. I could see them saved. Is there any like that? Preacher, I got somebody I'm burdened for. God bless you. Me too. My hands raised One last question. You're here this morning say, preacher, I don't know I'm saved. I'll know for sure my sins are getting on my way to heaven. I'm concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm saved. Any like that, preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled. Anyone at all? Any at all? Father in heaven, bless our invitation this morning. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.