Chapter number twelve, if you have it there. Let me read this, and I'm aware of the time, and uh I'll try to be respectful for that. Uh verse number 15. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. This is the preacher preaching, and he's saying this, all right, in conclusion. Are you there? Did I say the wrong verse? What I say. Chapter twelve verse thirteen. Alright, everybody there now. I just figured y'all could figure that out for yourselves. I didn't Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and keep his commandments. For this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment with every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil. Wow. Pretty blunt statement to bring this whole thing to an end. This whole message he's been preaching, these truths he's been presenting. He brings it all to this final statement. Fear God. Keep his commandments, for God shall bring every work into judgment. Let's pray. I'm going to try and just share some thoughts here real quickly. Father. I ask now that you would bless our time in your words. It's been a good day. I'm just thankful for what you're doing here and around the world. And that we can have just a small part in the great work of God. And so I ask now you calm our hearts, help us zero in, take something out of this for this coming week, something that uh would help us and would uh impact our lives and our witness. Fill me with your spirit, I pray. I give myself anew, my body. Pray that you'd speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. One thing that's real clear in Scripture, and I don't know I'm going to get through all this tonight But one thing that's real clear in Scripture is this: we are not our own. We're not our own. God created us, and God gave us life And we are not ours. We are his. How many people here know what the, understand when the Bible talks about somebody being a steward? of something. Anybody understand what that is? A steward is somebody that is given the responsibility for something that they don't own. It's somebody else's. The owner gives this person the responsibility, the stewardship to take care and use For the purpose intended by the owner to use it towards that end. They're a steward of that. Jesus throughout the Gospels many times Would use as a parable or as illustration, he would reference some husbandman or a farmer, we would say. And he's he's been given the stewardship of a vineyard. or farm. And it's not his, but he's to keep that vineyard. He's to take care of the soil and reap the harvest. And then the husbandman or the farmer would show up and he would ask for an account of that person's stewardship. How did you take care of it? Did you use this for the purpose it was intended? Did you neglect it? Did you abuse it? Did you use it to its full potential for what I intend for this vineyard to accomplish? And that is what the Bible says you and I are as individuals. We didn't create ourselves. We didn't give ourselves life. It's all given to us by our God. And He's entrusted this life to us. He's given us the stewardship of it. Now here's my question. And I think this is what Solomon's getting at. Let me ask you a question. What are you doing with the life that God has entrusted you with? It's not yours, it's not mine. He's given us the stewardship, the responsibility. And what am I doing with this life That is no making of my own. I can't claim this is mine. I did this. No, God gave it to me And he's entrusted me. So what am I doing? What am I doing with the life that God has entrusted me with? How am I using it? Let me ask you this. What are we doing? How are we using the resources that God has entrusted us with? God has given to all of us resources of some extent, and He's made us stewards over that to be used for His purpose, His glory. So, what am I doing with the life God has entrusted me with? What am I doing with the resources God has entrusted me with? Now, having with that thought in mind, let's look at what he says here. Verse 13, he says Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. My first thought is this tonight, Solomon's conclusion. He's not talking about the conclusion of his sermon, although that's definitely part of it here. Earlier in the chapter 12, he talked about this old house that deteriorating and falling apart and eventually the house collapses, he dies. We go to our long home. When he says in conclusion, he's not talking about the conclusion of his sermon. And I don't think he's talking about the conclusion of his life. I think what he's talking about here is this is the bottom line of everything that life is about. This is the whole purpose. This is the whole end. This is the bottom line What life is all about. If you'll remember, earlier in the book, he would repeat a little statement over and over. He had two statements he repeated over and over. One of them was under the sun, under the sun, under the sun, under the sun. His secondary statement was this, Vanity of vanity, always vanity, vanity of vanity and vexation of spirit. And his point was coming through there was that under the sun, the exclusion of God, the exclusion of spiritual realities, the exclusion of the Word of God, living my life just for here and now, what I can get out of it here and now. Produces emptiness, frustration, vanity. And he says, here's the conclusion. Having all of that in mind, all that's been said, we come after reasoning through this, this is the result. This is We've done research on this. We've uh reasoned with this. This is the final result. Here's the conclusion. I got looking up what the most common goals are for people in life. What do they want out of life? They interviewed people. What do you want in life? What do you want to see happen in your life? The number one answer was, anybody want to take a guess? Number one answer was what? What do you think? Live long, be rich. Those are part of it. Number one answer was I want to be happy. I want to be happy in life The secondary one was to be successful and to be wealthy. My goal in life is to be successful and be wealthy. Interesting, very high on the list was I want to lose weight. But if that's all my life consists of, if that's the only thing that I'm living for, is to be happy, have a good time, get more stuff. Have more money? Lose weight? If that's all I'm living for, and that's what Solomon's talking about, then that's pretty vain. That's pretty empty. I saw a bumper sticker, I've seen it numerous times over the years. It says, he who dies with the most toys wins. You ever see that? He who dies with the most toys, he wins. You know what that philosophy is? That's under-the-sun thinking If all there is to this life is physical, if all there is to this life, if all there is to existence is the physical, what I can see, feel, hear, taste, and smell, that's all there is to life, then hey Try and get as much as you can. Go for the gusto. But Solomon said, I've come to a conclusion there's more to life than just what you see, hear, smell, feel, and touch. It's a whole lot more to reality. Solomon's answer, his conclusion's much different than the world's conclusion is. What is life all about? Solomon sees it from God's perspective. Solomon sees it from eternity, from above the sun. So he gives his conclusion. Let me, number two, notice his our concern. Solomon's conclusion, the conclusion of the whole matter. Is this. And that brings up our concern. Look what he says. Fear God and keep his commandments. And he says, this is the whole duty of man. This is man's responsibility. This is man's obligation. The bottom line is our we are responsible for how we live our lives And that responsibility is twofold. Our responsibility in life is twofold. Now he's very blunt here. He doesn't paint a flowery picture. He doesn't try and you know, be uh uh real uh ta uh tactful or sensitive. He just says, hey, bottom line, conclusion, life requires we're we're we're we're responsible for two things. Number one is to fear God. Fear God. I wonder how many Christians He asked them, what's the purpose of life? What's your number one responsibility in life? I wonder how many Christians would say my number one responsibility in life is to fear God. We don't think that way. But that's reality. If God, if there isn't God, and there is And if God is what the Bible presents him to be, and he is, and I'm not my own, and I'm a steward responsible for how my life is lived. Solomon said your number one obligation, your number one duty is to fear God. Now what does it mean to fear God? What's he talking about? Walk around scared to death? I don't think he's talking about cowering before God, just, oh God, I'm scared of God. May include that a little bit, but I believe when he says fear God, this was the best way I could put together to define it. I believe it means having a very holy and a very humble all. of who God is. Anybody hear any thunder last night? My wife was mad. I was up all night, that thunder. So what do you want me to do about it? I'm telling you, I'm telling you, you get out and you see that lightning and you hear that thunder roar. And that is a small, small sense of the awe of God Anybody ever see a lightning and just stand in awe? The power behind that. He says, fear God. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, we we have an awfully irreverent view of God today. I'm suggesting to you, and I'm talking about within our Bible-believing churches, we have such so little fear of God. Such little reverence, such little awe of who and what God is. God is just like some, oh yeah, oh, oh yeah, God I'm telling you, I'm getting ahead of myself here, there's a day coming we're going to see God face to face, the God that spoke this into existence. The God that is absolute power, blindingly holy, we're going to come into his very presence. I believe then we'll fully understand what it means to fear God. And Solomon says that's what life is all about. That's the bottom line. Learn to learn to, I put this here, I put it this way, an overwhelming and even terrifying reverence for God. You hear people say, well, if Jesus walked in here, if Jesus came walking, you know what I think would happen? If Jesus came walking in here, we'd fall on our faces Before him. We would be in awe. Why, God, why? I wish God would show himself. You might have some second thoughts about that. Dear God, our God, our God is a blindingly holy God. He is all-powerful, He is all-knowing He is terrifyingly awesome. In fact, he is so overwhelmingly awesome just to use his name lightly. Is considered by God a grave, grave sin. Dear God Our country needs revival. Our churches desperately need revival. This week I was reading some things, and just in our independent fundamental Baptist churches, we need revival. And we've lost our fear of God. We are so in love with ourselves. We are so enamored with ourselves. I think part of fearing God, I think part of fearing God is this: getting off my own high horse. You know what I mean by that? Did you ever hear that? I think fearing God, part of fearing God, is just dying to self. No, it's not me, it's God. I am nothing. I tell you, the day comes when you and I, I believe this, I was thinking this this whole trip that was on When the day comes where you and I learn to truly and thoroughly die to ourselves, I believe that would be a turning point in a lot of our lives. I believe that I think that's a game changer. When I learned, no, not me. It's the God that made me. The God whose I am. This holy, perfectly, infinitely pure God Solomon says, here's the whole thing. This is what the bottom line is. This is what it's all about. It's not you, it's not me. It's fearing God. I want you to show you a few verses here real quick. Turn with me, if you would, to Isaiah. Isaiah learned what it means to fear God. I mean he learned firsthand up front real quick. What it means to fear God. Now I'm not suggesting he didn't before. He was much greater man of God than any of you and I would probably ever hope to be. But in Isaiah chapter 6 His good friend King Uzziah died. And in the year that King Uzziah died, God revealed himself to Isaiah in a unique way. Now, God is spirit. He's invisible. You can't see God the Father. I can't see God the Father. We get to John chapter 12. We find out who he saw here was actually the Lord Jesus Christ. But look at look at the revelation of Jesus Christ here and look at Isaiah's response. In the year that King Uzziah died. I saw the Lord, I saw also the Lord sitting upon a throne high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. Above it stood the seraphims. Each one had six wings. With twain he covered his face, with twain he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly. Now look at this. And one cried unto another and said, Holy, holy, holy. is the Lord God of hosts. The whole earth is filled with his glory. Look at this. And the posts of the door Moved at the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke. What a terrifying, intimidating The scene is taking place. What an experience. And look how Isaiah responded. Then said I, what? Woe is me. Self is gone. No room for pride. No room for, I'm something, I deserve better than this. I want this. I need that. This is my way. None of that. That's all that all melts in fear for a holy God Woe is me, for I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips. I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. My eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. Phew. You agree with me? We could use a little bit of that in our churches, huh? We got a lot of braggadotias. We think highly ourselves. We're really something. And Solomon says, here's the conclusion. The duty of man, number one, is to fear God. I want to show you one more verse real quick. Come over to Mark. I think the disciples had a taste of what Solomon is talking about when he says fear God. They learn in an experience they had what it means to fear God. Mark. Chapter number four. And all the way at the end of the chapter, we'll just pick up in verse 39. There's a storm. The Lord, they're out in the boat. There's a storm. The Lord's asleep in the midst of the storm. They wake him up. We're going to perish. Don't you care, Master? We're going to perish. And Jesus arose, verse 39. Look at this. And rebuked the wind and said unto the sea. Now this is the way I envisioned. He's here. It's thundering and lightning like last night. It is pouring rain. It is windy. The Lord steps up. And just without fanfare, without trumpets, he just says, peace! Be still. And phew. Look how the disciples responded. And he said unto them, Why are you so fearful? How is it you have no faith? And they what? Feared exceedingly. And they said one to another, What manner of man is this? That even the wind and sea obey him. I don't know about you, but I picture it this way. They're staring at Jesus. What in the world? Who is this? Tell you who he is, he's God And they feared exceedingly. Solomon said, this is our duty to have that mentality, to have that approach and that attitude to God, not this flippant thing, oh God's cool. That ain't cool. God's holy. God is all powerful. And so, number one, he says our concern is to fear God, is to fear God. When we get to the point where we die to self and fear God, Makes all the difference. Self is removed and God is exalted. Then he says, let me real quick, you guys are bearing with me, thank you. And keep his commandments I put it this way: number one, fear God. Number two, follow God's instructions. Now, Solomon puts a little bit more strongly than follow God's instructions. He says, keep his commandments. Pretty blunt, straightforward, simple statement. Keep my commandments. Keep God's commandments. Do what God says That's what he's saying. My responsibility, the whole conclusion of life as a steward, someone that is not my own, I don't own mine, I'm the Lord's. He's entrusted me with a few things. Those two things include, number one, fearing him and a right attitude about him, and number two, following his commandments, acting as he instructs me to That's what he tells us to do. Life isn't that complicated. Fear God and follow his instructions. Do what he says. Do what he says. Period. Do what God says. Period. That's what Solomon's saying. Early on when I was pastor here, I'd preached a message. I don't know what it was. I have no idea. But afterward, I was down here, we were talking, I don't remember what we did. I was standing about here, a young lady was coming at the time for a little while, she came up to me, and again, I don't know what I preached, I don't know what I said, she came up and she goes, Pastor, this is my app this is my approach. This is the way I think. She says, as long as you love God, it really doesn't matter what you do. I said, that doesn't even make sense. If I love God, then it really, really matters what I do. Can you imagine if I would go to my wife and say, Kathy, as long as I love you, it doesn't matter what I do. I promise you, there'd be more than hair missing off his head. She'd gowse my eyes out, cut my ears off, and chop my nose off Because we love God, well do what he says. Jesus said over and over and over, John chapter 14 and 15, if you love me, keep my commandments. If you love me, keep my commandments. If you love me, keep my commandment So the modern Christianity says, well, we just love God. We just love God. We should love God. That's the first and greatest commandment. But that love for God produces an obedience to his instructions because we love him. I do not have the option of walking out here tonight and this coming week doing what I want to do. I wasn't created for that. I'm not on my own, I don't have that option. I'm God's I walk out of here and I do what he tells me to do. I follow his instructions. I keep his commandments. Say, preacher, well, that don't sound very fun. Here's the problem. We've got and we're teaching a whole next generation and and your generation and my generation, we're guilty of this also. We're after running around trying to find happiness. I just want to be happy. And we'll have these ridiculous shows on TV that are so stupid just trying to make us laugh. And it's phony, it's counterfeit, it's superficial, just laughing, laughing, and there isn't an ounce of happiness in anyone's heart. You know why? Because I cannot pursue happiness. It will evade me every single time. I cannot run fast enough. I cannot spend enough money. I cannot drink enough to ever attain to happiness. Happiness is a product, not a goal. It's the consequence, not the the substance. You know what I found out? And a lot of you have testified the same thing. And I pray, I pray some of our young people come along would see this and get a hold of this You'll never find happiness doing my thing and keeping my commandments and doing what I want to do. It's going to elude you every single time. But when I say, you know, I'm going to die to sell. God is God. I'm going to do what God says. You know what I found? Happiness floods in. Joy fills my soul. Because happiness cannot be attained. It is the result of attaining the will of God. Stop chasing happiness and start doing God's will, and happiness will run to you. Happiness will come to you. Most miserable people I know, most miserable people I know who people who claim to be Christians and are doing their own thing and living meaningful in their own understanding, going their own way, and they're miserable. I just want to kill myself. Y'all need to be like me. I just want to kill myself. Huh? Fear God and keep his commandments. And I tell you, there is joy and there is peace. As long as you love God, it doesn't matter what you do. That's a recipe for disaster. Two hard facts concerning our primary responsibility in life. Number one, fear God. Get off your high horse, guide self, get self off the throne, fear God. Number two, obey God. God. Verse 14, I'm going to say that. We'll look at that. The third thing is God's court. I'll just say this and I'll end. We need to keep in the back of our mind at all times that our lives are racing the day when we stand before God. Every single one of us, we're racing to that day, stand before God. As saved, the judgment seat of Christ. For the lost, great white throne judgment. But there is a day of judgment. Nobody preaches this anymore. You don't hear it on TV. Hardly any churches preach it, but I'm telling you, God is the judge of all the earth. And we must and will give account of ourselves to Him. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, it's been a good day. It's a full day, beautiful. We thank you for meeting with us here as we've assembled in your name. I pray you'd help us get a hold of these two statements that Solomon instructs us here. The fear you, fear you. And to follow your instructions, do what you say. We've experienced in our own lives, we've seen it in others. We do things our way, and Lord, it's empty and vain and frustrating. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I really need to, I really need to focus on who God is and what he is. I need God to put that fear in my heart. I need God to reveal Himself to me through His Word. So I can have a clear perspective on who He is and what I am before Him. Is there anything like that, Preacher? My prayer is God would revive me And I'd have that holy fear of God. God bless you, hands all around. I think we need to ask God to give that to us. We can't work it up. God has to reveal Himself to us. We need to see that. How many would say, preacher, I know I'm not following God's commands like I should? I know I'm not. And we all fall short. I know that. But it's our responsibility to pursue and press on. And we say, preacher, pray with me. I've got to get my life in line with God's word and his instructions. Any like that by the uplifted hand? I really do. Maybe God's spoken some specific areas to your heart that need attention. Let's do business with God tonight. We're going into a big week. Busy week, holiday, Bible time. Maybe tonight we kneel on an altar and just say, Lord, here I am. Show me yourself. Help me get this self out of the way. And just follow your instructions. So there's someone here tonight say, preacher, I don't know I'm going to heaven when I die. Listen, God says you don't have to go to hell. You can know for sure. So any say, preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. Pray for me that God will help me settle that. Is there any like that? Any at all? Preacher, pray for me. I've got to have that settled. God bless you. How about it others? About it others. Father, bless our invitation time now. Help us to be sensitive and responsive To what you've spoken our hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed. You raised your hand. God spoke to your heart. The invitation is given now. As the piano plays, you