While you're turning there, I want to uh give a little challenge out to the men, both young men and uh uh grown men in our church this coming year. And uh I really want to put a challenge out to Yeah, whatever your uh habit is as far as reading the Bible or whatever is concerned, uh I really want to challenge the men of our church, as I said, both the younger and older, is to read a chapter of the book of Proverbs every day. this coming year. There's 28 chapters in the book of Proverbs, and it fits beautifully with the calendar. Of course, most months you'll have a day or two extra at the end of the month. But I'm telling you, the book of Proverbs is a powerful, powerful book. It's written primarily it was written, of course, under the inspiration of God by Solomon unto his son. You'll find a little phrase repeated throughout the book, my son. Son, my son, and it is the advice of a godly father, at that point, a very wise father, to his son And uh so if you have some boys uh as children, it would be excellent, very, very helpful. Um whether you have boys or not, if you're a man, it's directed to you. And so I've done this for many years and uh I want to challenge the men of our church. I hope you'll take that challenge up and uh read one chapter of the book of Proverbs a day and you'll be amazed at how God uses that in your life. And how God will give you wisdom. Alright, Proverbs chapter 20. This is the first Sunday of a new year, but it's the last command of the ten commands we've been looking at. say Proverbs. I want you to read Proverbs, but turn to Exodus. That's the thing about this congregation. They're always correcting me all the time. Exodus chapter twenty, second book of the Old Testament, verse seventeen The Bible says, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox. Nor as ass nor anything that is thy neighbors. I have two titles for the message. The one I put in the bulletin was the basis of all other commands, but I have another title that I really like a little better I think it's a little more descriptive of what the message is. But I'm calling it this the dark side of desire Covetousness, the dark side of desire. Let's pray. And we'll ask the Lord to uh to teach us and speak to our hearts here this morning. Father Thank you for a good service. I'm grateful for the folks that have been out this morning, a new year, a new Sunday, and I pray that this would uh uh perhaps the uh this service would set the tone for the coming year A year of commitment to Christ, a year of trusting you, as Kathy's saying, and a year of rejoicing in the Lord and seeing your blessings in our lives as you change us and mold us into the people you want us to be I pray you'd use this message this morning, Lord, as part of that process of us being the people that you desire. I yield myself to you, Lord. I present my body anew. And I ask you, Father, with all my heart, on this new year, this new morning, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, and you would speak through me, and uh it would be your word being applied to our hearts and lives Now we ask in Jesus' name, Amen. The main Danny Samson probably doesn't mean anything to any of us But the Associated Press a number some time ago reported that Danny Sampson robbed a bank in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. He used a handgun. Apparently he had had the gun around the house. It was a hand down from his dad and his grandfather, apparently. When he robbed a bank, he went out the bank doors with $6,000. That's what he got robbing the bank. Of course, he got caught The Canadian mounted police caught him. Of course they confiscated the gun. He went to jail, and if I remember correctly, got six years in jail, something like that. But here's the interesting thing. When the police got the gun, they sent it back to the lab as they always do. you know, just uh checked it out. And uh when it got to the lab, they noticed immediately something very unique about this gun. It was of Colt 45. It was very, very old They went ahead and decided to have the gun appraised. The gun was worth $100,000. Danny Sampson held in his hand a $100,000 gun, robbed a bank for $6,000, lost the gun, and ended up in jail for six years. What a knucklehead. The fact is, what he had was worth far more than what he wanted. Do you get that? What he had was worth far more than what he wanted. And what he wanted was not legitimately his. God has given us these ten commands. This past year we've tried memorizing them, and like I said this past week, I hope that some of us got them down memorized. Don't have them memorized, at least we're pretty familiar with them now, more so than we were a year ago. I've tried once a month to bring a message on these commands in the order, and here we are at the tenth command As I got looking at this command a little bit more in depth and preparing the message for it, something became obvious immediately, and that is this, that this command This tenth one, thou shalt not covet, is unique from all the previous commands that we looked at. In fact, I believe that the tenth command is the basis. Or the root of all the other commands. And this is the reason. Because the tenth command deals with the heart of man. Thou shalt not covet. That is not necessarily something that you do externally. That coveting isn't necessarily a behavior as much as it is a condition of the heart. First command, thou shalt have no other gods before me. Second command, uh, don't make any graven image. Third, um, uh, what's the third one? Um But don't take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. I'm glad somebody memorized these around here. The fourth one is uh uh honor the Sabbath. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it away. Fifth, honor thy father and mother. Six, thou shalt not kill. Seven, thou shalt not steal. Commit adultery. Uh you've got the idea. You know America I got I got them all, just not in the right order. But here's the thing I'm trying to say. The previous nine had to do with actions. Adultery, lying, stealing, killing, uh. . remembering the Sabbath day. They're primarily actions. The tenth one is an attitude It is possible to have the first nine right and have ten wrong and be eat up with number ten. You follow what I'm saying? I can have all my outward behavior exactly the way people expect of a Christian. Outwardly I can look and act like the ideal Christian And yet be eaten up on the inside with covetousness. In a very real sense, the first nine commands are rooted in the tenth command. Now let me give you a few thoughts. The first thing I want us to notice, and this is really very obvious, but sometimes because something is obvious, we miss the significance of it. The first thing I notice here is that we have the condemnation of covetousness. God condemns it. Look at it again. Thou shalt not covet. Brother, God cuts it clear there, doesn't he? No question about whether I should covet or not. Whatever covetousness is, and we're going to look in what God means by the word covet there But whatever it is, it's very clear God condemns it. Sometimes folks get me, and to some degree, there is uh this is this is a factor But a lot of times folks will say something, there'll be something the Bible condemns or requires or forbids, and someone will say something to me like this: Well, preacher, that's in the Old Testament Well, it's still the Bible. Now that is a factor in some situations, I agree But uh God, in both the Old Testament and the New Testament, strongly condemns covetousness. Now, that's obvious. If God says, thou shalt not, you better not. Right? We need to, when God states something so strongly That something is not to be part of our lives, we need to take that very seriously. And I'm afraid sometimes we just take too lightly The commands of God and the prohibitions of God. We must understand that the restrictions in God's word are always for our good. Let me ask you some questions. How many folks are doing okay still? Everybody alright? Alright. Good. How many people are glad you came to church today? Amen. I he would rather be here than in uh Antarctica. See you gotta look into positive things. I was gonna say Florida, but I was afraid of what the answer might be. Um let me ask you some questions. Is God good? That's a dumb question. Of course God's good. Does God love us? Yes, that's a great thing. One of the greatest songs ever written. Jesus loves me. This I know. Isn't that a great little song? Teach of the kids, it's good for us. So God is good. God loves us. Let me ask you that. So if God is good and God loves us, would you agree with me? God wants what's best for us. Right? Just like a parent wants what's best for children. God wants what's best for us. He's good, he loves us, of course he wants what's best for us. Let me ask you a question. Does God know everything? God knows everything. He's all-knowing. The big theological term for that is omniscient. Omni science, all-knowing. God knows everything. So if God is good and loves us, and the logic tells us if he's good and loves us, then he wants what's best for us. Is it possible for you and I to love maybe our child and want what's best for them, but not necessarily know in every situation what is best for them? Is that possible? Sure. That's why we go to emergency rooms. Because something's wrong with a child sick. We don't know what the best thing to do is. So we go find someone that does. Right? Are you with me? Is it possible for someone to love someone, want what's best for them, but because they don't know what's best to do, they're limited, they end up doing something that's not good for them Sure, that's very possible. It happens all the time. But here's the point I'm trying to get across in this thought. God loves us God is good, He wants what's best for us, but because God is all-knowing, He knows what's best for us in every situation. Follow? So God would never tell me not to do something if that thing would be good for me. Right? And God would never tell me to do something that would be bad for me. He's too good. He loves me too much. And he's all-knowing, and he knows what's good and what's not good for me. And so when God comes in his word and he tells us very strongly, do not do this. I need to pay very, very careful attention to that. I need to take it very very seriously because God loves me. He wants what's best for me. He knows more than I do. He knows what's best for me better than I know what's best for me. And if he says very strongly, do not do this, I need to trust him on that. You say, well that doesn't make sense. Here you hear it so much. Well I don't see what's wrong with just fill in the blank. Fact of the matter is, God sees things a lot clearer than we do. And sometimes we don't see what's wrong with this. God says, don't do this. I don't see anything wrong with that. Here's the difference between you and God. God knows everything. You and I don't know nothing. Comparatively speaking. So we gotta trust Him on this. We gotta believe that God has my best interest in mind. That God's not just being restrictive. It's not just old-fashioned. It's not just narrow-mindedness. It's a good and loving God that wants what's best for me, that loves me dearly, and knows what the best thing to do is and the best thing not to do. So the first thing I notice is very, very obvious here. God condemns covetousness. Whatever it is, God is very strong in his statement saying it ought not to be a part of my life. Now, second of all, we need to consider the characteristics of covetousness If God is so strong about this, we better make sure we understand what it is so that we can avoid it The word covetous, the word covet itself, and other places use as covetousness, is really, the definition is this And this is a very important part of understanding this. An excessive desire for something that is not legitimately mine. Let me say it again. An excessive desire for something that is not legitimately mine. Now, as I was studying this, I looked to see what other preachers and Bible scholars and whatnot had to say, and just, you know, get their take on it And I saw something, a theme coming up through a lot of my studies that I strongly disagree with. A lot of folks in preaching and teaching on this mixed greed and covetousness Into the same definition. Now, as I study my Bible, covetousness is different, being covetous is different than being greedy. Being greedy, I may desire something. To be greedy, I desire something that may legitimately be mine, but I'm never satisfied with enough of it Let me ask you a question. Is it wrong for a person to make money? No. In fact, we've got to. God says we should. We've got to provide for a family. We work Is it wrong for a person to try and earn more money? No. Hey, if you get it, if the boss offers you a raise this coming year, you better take it, knucklehead. And you you better tithe on it too, by the way. But uh I'm joking. Um no I'm not. But um It's nothing wrong if you're able to get it right. Hey, if you have an opportunity for promotion or maybe a better job somewhere else, better income, is that wrong to take that? No. Well, you know where greed comes in? Greed comes in and says, doesn't matter how much I get, it's not enough. I'm not satisfied. With where I'm at. Now listen, you and I ought to be satisfied where we're at. If God provides more, praise the Lord, it's all right, take it. But don't be dissatisfied. When we become greedy We want more and more and more of things that could legitimately be mine. We're never satisfied. Here's where covetousness is. To covet something is not to desire something that is legitimately mine. To covet something is to want something that I have no legitimate claim on. Now look at the verse again. Thou shalt not covet, and that's where most of the Ten Commandments end, but that's not where it ends. Thou shalt not covet. What's that next phrase? Thy neighbor's house, wife, manservant, maid servant, ox, ass, or anything that is thy neighbor's Let me ask you a question. Is it wrong for a man to want to have a wife? To desire a wife? No. That's legitimate. Is it wrong for a man to want a house? No, that's a legitimate desire. If a person doesn't own a house and they say, I would like to own a house, that's not coveting. You're legitimate, you earn it, go about it right, you can get a house A man's not married, and he uh says um uh you know I would like to have a wife. Proverbs says, he that findeth a wife findeth a good thing. I'm praying for James. And um I've been harassing him about that a little bit. But anyway There's nothing wrong for a young man to want a wife. Now man servant, maid servant, it would be wrong for, hey, if you could afford it, how many folks, how many ladies here would love to have a lady come and clean the house for you. You get afforded how many people would love that, yeah. How many guys would like to have a manservant, you know, do stuff around there for you, huh? I would. Take out the garbage and all that stuff That's what teenage boys are for. Manservant means teenage boy. There's nothing wrong with that. But I'll tell you where it becomes covetousness is when I want Tom's house. Now Tom's wishing somebody would want his house. It's for sale. But you follow what I'm saying? I've got to have something that's not legitimately mine. Um it is wrong is it wrong for a man to want a wife? No. But it's wrong for a man to start want another man's wife. Hear me? Another man's car. Another man's lawnmower. I'm going to get that. That's his, I want it. Now, is it wrong to try and get a like my neighbor? No, it's legitimate. Covetousness Is when I covetousness is not the desire itself for something. Covetousness is the desire for something that is not legitimately mine. It is the dark side of desire. There's nothing wrong with the desire in and of itself. To covet is an intense desire to have something that is not mine to have. Take your Bibles, if you would, and turn with me to Joshua, the sixth book of the Old Testament. And chapter 7. Now, if you've been around Mountain Lake here long, you've heard us make reference to a guy, or if you've been in church or read your Bible, you're familiar with a fellow by the name of Aiken. How many people are familiar with good old Achan, bad old Achan? Achan was a soldier in the army of Israel under Joshua. They had crossed the Jordan River. They were invading the land. The first city they got to, as they're entering the promised land, God is uh they've got God on their side, they get uh Jericho. How many people are familiar with the battle of Jericho? Joshua fought the battle of Jericho and the walls what? Came tumbling down. We all know that story seven times. Blew the trumpet shout, uh, the place comes down. Then God had told them before the invaded Jericho to not take any gold, not take any silver, not to take anything of that city. That was the first spoils of their invasion of the land. God's promise to give them the promised land. All of the spoils from Jericho were to go to the Lord. First fruits of the Lord's And so it was a principle throughout Scripture. And so they went in there, and later on they would get plenty, and God would provide for them. They'd have plenty of opportunity to get gold and silver and whatnot But Jericho, God declared, that all the spoils of that city were the Lord's. So you know the story Aiken gets in there, they're going house to house, gets to one house, man. Here's a stack of gold blocks and silver bullion, and there's some beautiful Babylonianish garments And I can hear him thinking, man, that's retirement fund. That's a new chariot, an old donkey. Man, my wife would look great in these dresses. So he stuffs them in his backpack somehow, gets them back, digs a hole in his tent, and buries them. Question. Was that gold and silver and Babylon's garment? Was it legitimately Aiken's? No. He desired something that was not legitimately his. And he took it. Now look in chapter 7 and look with me if you would at verse 21. Now God goes through a process, and most of us know the story here. They go to the next city, AI, and they get defeated. God's presence isn't with them. God has removed his hand of blessing. Joshua comes and says, God, you told us we would have no defeat. We'd have all victory. Now we're defeated. God says, hey, there's some sin in the camp. And rather than just telling Joshua who it was and what they did, they go through this elaborate process. Finally, Achan is discovered. He's revealed that he's the one. And they're interrogating him. Why'd you do this? Now here's where verse 21 comes in. Verse 20. And Achan answered Joshua and Joshua and said, I indeed have sinned against the Lord God of Israel. And thus and thus have I done. When I saw among the spoils a goodly Babylonian garment, two hundred shekels of silver, and a wedge of gold of fifty shekels of weight. Of fifty shekels weight, then I what? Coveted. Was it wrong for him to see that gold and silver and Babylon's garment? No, nothing wrong in the world looking at it. In fact, he couldn't probably couldn't avoid it. But he began to desire something that was not legitimately his Now let me ask you a question. Where was Achan's sin? And it reads on as I desired them and I coveted them and took them. Was the initial sin taking the gold and the silver and the Babylish Goman? Is that where he sinned? No, where did the sin begin? In his heart. He saw it. He knew it was not legitimately his. He knew he had no right to dis to to possess that. And yet in his heart he wanted it. That's where his sin was. Covenant. A desire For something that is not legitimately mine. A very serious sin. Jesus spoke much of this sin. I'm tempted to go, I have a whole slew of verses here. I'm tempted to take the time and go down through, but we won't do that because I made a New Year's resolution to preach shorter sermons in 2011. And all God's people said, hallelujah, praise the Lord, glory to God. So I'll just give you the references. In Mark chapter 7, verse 21 through 20, God says, gives a list of hideous sins. Murder, adultery, lasciviousness, we talked about that in Sunday school. Stealing, drunkenness. And right smack dab in the middle, he says, covetousness. And you know what he says? He calls them evil things. And he says they come out of our heart. Comes out of our heart. In Romans chapter 1, verse 29 through 32, he lists a bad crowd of people. And right in it is those who are covetous. If a person desires in their heart something that is not legitimately theirs to have, that person's in a bad crowd, as far as God's concerned Oh, they may look good outside. They may have their King James Bible. They may have their fundamental haircut. They may have all their D T D's totted and T I's dotted and T's crossed. Outwardly, everything could be good, but if they're eat up with covetousness inside, God says you're in a bad crowd. You're in the same crowd as the drunkards and the thieves. Ephesians 5, verse 3 through 5. The Bible says a covetous person is no better than a whoremonger or an idolater. That's what God says. 2 Timothy 3, 1 through 12, he says, In the last days, perilous times shall come, for men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous. One of the characteristics of the last days, just before Jesus comes back, sin is going to increase, it's going to get dangerous, this world's going to be a bad place. And one of the very first things he said will characterize those days, people will be covetous. People will be desiring things that are not legitimately theirs. God says it's very serious. Covetousness is the mother of all sins. I believe any sin that you can name or you find in the Bible, if you follow it back to its root, It comes down to a desire for something that I have no claim. If I tell a lie, I am trying to accomplish something in a way I have no right to accomplish. Remember Adam and Eve? Now I don't know that you were there and actually remember it, but remember the story of Adam and Eve. Some of you might have been. But I think they all went to Florida, I think See I can insult them. They're not here now. You know, the serpent came. Yeah, yeah, God said, da da da He goes through the spiel. Eve eats the forbidden fruit, which was not an apple, by the way. Adam eats the forbidden fruit. And God approaches Eve. And she says, well you and she said, I saw that the tree was uh good to eat and to be desired. Same thing Achan did. He saw it. He desired it. He had no legitimate claim to it. But he desired it. He coveted it. Eve had no legitimate claim to take that fruit. God said, You can eat any fruit in this old garden you want to. There's tens of thousands of various types of fruit are joyable, are good for you. This one tree, you save that one tree for me. That's mine. Don't touch it. She says, boy, I got looking at that. And I desired something that I had no legitimate claim on. And that plunged the whole human race. into the mess we're in. Serious. It's the root of all sins. Dr. Lee Robertson said that covetousness is an ancient sin. Trace it back to Eve. An ancient sin dogging modern man. So we have the condemnation of it. God speaks very strongly. We must not allow this to happen in our hearts We must guard our hearts, shield them, do not allow them to become covetous. God is very strong on that. He loves us, he wants what's best for us, he knows what's best for us, and he says, you cannot allow this. And then we look at the Bible, we find what the characteristics of it are. It's an ugly sin. And last of all, what's the cure? If covetousness is going to be characteristic of the last days, and I think most of us, if not all of us, would agree, we are in the last days. And so that means covetousness is on every hand. Everywhere you look, people are desiring things that they have no legitimate desire claim on. People are wanting other people's houses, people are wanting other people's spouses, and people are wanting other people's possessions. It's where stealing comes in, murder is much a part of this. If that is what is going to characterize the last days, And God says, under no circumstances can we allow it to be part of us, then we've got to have the defense. We've got to know how to deal with this. We need the cure for covetousness. C. H. Spurgeon, one of my favorite preachers. Powerful ministry in the late 1800s over in London. Tens of thousands of people saved. This was back before they had the mega churches. Charles Spurgeon on Sunday mornings had 5,000 people in church. Sunday nights, they would have more than that, and he would tell his church folk: don't come to church tonight so we have room for visitors. Now you will never hear that from me. He saw thousands and thousands of people saved. And Charles Spurson, towards the end of his life, made this statement. He said, Of the thousands we've had saved, I have never heard someone say they were saved from covetousness. Now, do you think that was because nobody coveted back then? You know why? No, it wasn't because nobody coveted. It was because nobody recognized it and dealt with it. Huh? I was reading another fellow who's a uh was, I think he's in Catholic or something, but he was talking about this. and they do confessions in the Catholic. Let me say this. You don't have to confess to a man. You go right to God. But nevertheless, he said something very interesting. He said, of the tens of thousands confessions I've heard, He said, Never once have I had somebody come and confess the sin of covetousness to me. Now you mean to tell me the Bible speaks that much of it? The Bible is that strong in its condemnation of covetousness, and yet nobody's doing it? Now, I'll tell you what the problem is, nobody's dealing with it. And that may very well be one of the reasons why it's becoming more and more prevalent. Nobody sees the cure. Nobody sees the need for the cure. Just because I, all right, if I don't act on it, then it mustn't be sin, wrong. The simple desire in my heart for something that is not legitimately mine is already sin. That's why Jesus said, if you look on another woman to lust her, you've already committed adultery in your heart If you say in your heart, I hate that person, you've already committed murder in your heart. So it's not that nobody is committing that sin It's that nobody is recognizing as sin. Nobody's dealing with it as sin. We think because it's not outward, it's not external, it's not visible, therefore it's not wrong. God judges the hearts of men. And so we've got to deal with it. The cure for covetousness I put it twofold. Number one, I must delight myself in the Lord. Delight myself in the Lord. Now, I'm going to give you why I put it that way. Turn with me, and uh, this is the last verse we'll turn to. But if you would, turn to Psalms chapter 37. There's very little attention given to this very Lord's sin. And Psalm 37, verse 4, I believe us one part of the cure. For covetousness, to protect my heart from being covetous, or maybe that desire for something or someone is already there that they don't have a legitimate claim to. Here is how I cure that Psalms 37, verse number 4. Delight thyself also in the Lord. Now let me just stop and give you a little, expound on that word delight there a little bit The word delight means to be excessively joyful in, to enjoy the Lord. To find delight in him. The Lord, his person, the things of God. You know, I just love it. I enjoy it. It brings delight to my heart. So God says, if you do that, delight thyself also, Lord, look what shall happen. And he, the Lord, shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Now here's how some folks take that. Oh, great. If I like the things of God, then God will give me everything I want. It's not what that verse is saying. It says he'll give you the desires of your heart. Is it possible for us to have desires that are wrong? Sure, that's what this whole message is. To covet is to desire something I have no legitimate claim on. And so I can't, God would never say, alright, if you delight in me, I'll give you whatever you want. I'll give you all the desires of your heart. That would be contradictory. God wouldn't do that. So, what does it mean? If you delight yourself in the Lord, He'll give you the desires of your heart. This is what it means: God will give me the desire itself. God will change my desires. God will change the things that I'm desiring in my heart. And He will change. If I delight in the Lord, if I commit my heart to Him and determine in my heart and soul I love God. God will take away those desires for illegitimate things, and in their place he will put desires for the things that are right. Instead of desiring coveting my neighbor's house, finally I'll be satisfied with my little tent And if God chooses to bless and increase in legitimate ways, praise the Lord for it. But he takes away that illegitimate desire. Are you with me? Delight myself in the Lord. You say, well, you know, how do you just delight just decide I'm going to love God? Say, what if I don't feel like it? Do you always do everything you feel like doing? If you do, you're an idiot. Somebody says, Man, he calls us idiots a lot. I'm including myself. That makes it better. You know what you can do? You can insult someone, and if you end it this way, it doesn't have any effect. Just say, bless their heart. You can say whatever you want about someone. Boy, Curtis is a terrible hunter, bless his heart. It works But the fact is, whether I feel like it or not, I need to say, you know, I love the Lord. I love the Lord. That works in marriage. Some days, you know, that feeling just ain't there. Don't look at me like it never happens to you. But you know what you say? I love that woman back then. Whichever one. You follow what I'm saying? You just say, you know, I love the Lord. Nobody else does. Everybody else is out doing everything. Yeah, but you know, I want my life to count. I want to get to the end of this thing and stand before God and hear him say, Dennis, well done. So I'm just deciding I'm going to delight myself in the Lord. Let him straighten out the desires of my heart. Purge out the illegitimate desires. Give me the legitimate ones. I'm just going to love them and live for them. Trust them. Go to church. Go to church. Go to church. Yeah, there we go. I'll just keep saying it until two this afternoon. Uh read my Bible. Man. Make whatever changes I need to. And God moves in a miraculous way in my heart, and he starts changing things. I got saved May 7, 1979. You know what? God has been changing my ever since. I tried for for six months to try and get off the garbage and drugs and everything that was killing me. I couldn't do it. I couldn't do it. I couldn't do it. I trusted Christ I just, I wanted God, I wanted my life to be right. And God started changing. He gives us the desires of our heart. The desire itself. The second way to cure covetousness, I put this down. Determined to have faith in God. Over and over and over, God tells us we can trust him. Have faith in him. We can trust him. So what I need to do is just say, all right, God, you said this should not be part of my life. I'm going to trust you. I'm going to have faith in you that what I have is fine. You'll take care of what I need. I don't have to desire something that is not legitimately mine. You can take care of what I have. And give me fulfillment and satisfaction in where I'm at. Does that make sense? Have faith in God. This coming year, 2011, why don't you just decide, I'm going to trust God on this? I'm just gonna God says don't do this, do this, you know. Man, I'm looking. How's that gonna help me? I don't see why that's good for me. But you know, I'm gonna trust God in this thing. I'm just gonna have faith in Him I'm going to do what he says. Now that's easier said than done. Can I get a witness? But nevertheless, if I want my life to count If I want to be what God wants it to be, I've got to trust God. No sin so deadly as covetousness. the root cause of all other violations of the Ten Commandments I read about some businessmen who were very, very successful. I have no idea where they were from or when this Apparently true story. They were having a meal together in a very fancy restaurant. As I said, they were very, very successful. They were laughing and talking about how good their Business has been and how well things were going. One of them got reminiscing, and he told the others about how poor he was as a child. And he said when a young teen, apparently this was years ago, someone had given him a very large coin, and from my impression is it was like a silver dollar or something. But they were so poor, and it was very rare for a child in their condition to have any coin at all, let alone a large one like that. And he got laughing. He said, you know, my little sister would beg me just to hold that coin. Just to let her hold it. He laughed and he started telling the guys that he could get her to do all coins of all kinds of chores for him just to let her hold the coin for a little bit. In fact, he said, one day, I got her to go out in the field and mind the cows all day. And at the end of the day, she got to hold the coin for a little while and had to give it back to me. These guys are laughing and how childish his sister was and how foolish she was to do all that just to hold something for a little while then have to give it back. And notice one of the businessmen was not laughing. And when the laughter died down, he reminded them that all that they were now doing in their labor and service Was simply for the privilege of holding on to a few possessions for a little while. And he made this statement. At the end of the, he says, the end of the day is coming And we will have to give up all these possessions just like your sister did. Now here's the point. What in the world are we doing? Investing so much time and effort and commitment and love and desire for things. That are going to last a few years at best. Is it wrong to want a house? No. Is it wrong to want a wife, have a wife? No. Is it wrong to, if you can, have employees? No. It's wrong to want a car. No. But I need to understand that everything I possess, when God calls me out of this life, I'm going to leave it behind. Did you get that? I'm going to leave it behind. Thou shalt not covet. Let's delight in the Lord. Let's have faith in God. And if we can lick this sin, we can eradicate this from our hearts by the grace of God. I believe we'll find victory in so many other areas. Amen? Father in heaven, I pray you bless this truth to our hearts I pray we can live lives that are covet-free. That's not an easy thing. And so, Lord, we need your help. We need you to help us delight in you and commit our hearts to you and your will for our lives. We need to help us trust you and have faith in you. I pray that would be true. How many would say, and you know, it's difficult to give a specific invitation, maybe in something like this, but how many would say, preacher, as a Christian, I want to determine by God's grace and with His help, this coming year, I'm going to be satisfied with what the Lord provides for me. I want to guard my heart Not just greed, but covetousness. That I'm satisfied with what God has given me. How many would say, preacher, pray with me? That's my desire for this year To just be content, be satisfied, God bless you, hands all around. Of course we would feel that way. How many would say, preacher, you know. This one thing touches on so many areas of my life. And you'd say this coming year, not just this matter of satisfaction, but my whole Christian life. I want to be more of what God intends for me to be. I really do. I've got these areas of my life that have just spiritually are lacking. My relationship with the Lord, they're just weak. They're not in line. God's been dealing with my heart. And you say, preacher, pray for me. I want every area of my life to be pleasing to God. That God can have his way. Would there be any like that? How many would say, God bless you? Of course we'd feel that way. Goodness. Would there happen to be someone here this morning and say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? Say, I don't want to go to hell. Everything I have, I'm going to have to leave behind. It's inevitable. And you'd say, preacher, pray that I can get assurance and confidence in my heart that God has saved me from hell. And I can know I'm going to heaven. I don't have to worry about that. You say, preacher, when you pray for these other folks that raise their hand, pray for me also that God will help me settle that. That. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preach or pray for me. I'm concerned about that. God bless you and you and you. How about it? Any others? Preacher, I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that God has saved me. That when I die, I go to heaven. I don't want to worry about it. I want that settled. How about it? Any others? Father in heaven, I ask your blessing now on the invitation. Many hands were raised. God, you know our hearts. Help us, Lord. God, you've given us an old-fashioned altar where we can come and pray and ask for your help and have Christians pray with us. I pray for every hand raised. You help us find a place at the altar this morning and do business with you. In Jesus' name, I pray. Let's stand together, heads above, eyes are closed. Jennifer is just going to play a few verses of invitation. This morning, God spoke to your heart. You say, I'm going to start out the new year with my heart yielded to the Lord. I want to start out the new year with my life in tune with God. And it may take nothing more than just kneeling at an old-fashioned altar and saying, God, here I am. God, come and take me. Change my desires. Help me delight in you this year. Just to make that decision, whether I feel like it or not, I'm going to put you first. Maybe you raise your hand and you say, preacher, I don't know I'm going to heaven. I'm I don't want to go to hell. Nobody in the right mind does And I'm praying for you. And I'd like to invite you, if you raise your hand, say, preacher, I'm concerned about that. I'd invite you to come on down. We got folks down here who can show you from the Bible how you can settle that and not have to worry about it. Our church can't save you, none of us here can save you, but Christ can. We can show you what the Bible says and how to trust Him and how to get that matter settled. It's very clear in Scripture. Maybe you've been saved, you've not been baptized. What important part of your Christian life The beginning of a year saying, oh I want to just get everything in lined up exactly as God wants it. Maybe church attendance and membership is an issue. Father in heaven, once again we thank you for your Holy Spirit, for the precious Word of God. Teach us, Lord, in the coming months, in the year ahead. to know you better and to understand your will clearer. And we ask, Lord, that your will be done in Jesus' name