Proverbs chapter 4, verse number 7. I'd like for us to read this together in unison, Proverbs 4, verse 7, all together. Ready? Here we go. Wisdom is the principal thing, therefore get wisdom, and with all thy getting, get understanding. I want to speak this morning on the principal thing. The principal thing. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our time together in your word. And Lord, my heart has been stirred This morning already, in the fellowship, and the singing, all that's taking place, or it's just good to get with your people and to be able to laugh a little bit. Or we get together and we cry. We sing and we pray. And Lord, you're just so good to us. I thank you for the church. I thank you for our church. And what it means to be a part of this body. And I ask now, Lord, as we have our Bibles open and we look into your word, I ask that you would speak to us. I pray you'd give us instruction for our lives. Instruct us, Lord. I pray you'd challenge our faith. I pray, Father, you'd convict us where we're off-kilter. Help us get back. Lord, I pray that you would uh stir us, encourage, and bless. Father, I always knowledge, I'm totally aware, I have nothing in and of myself to offer of any spiritual or eternal value. So it has to come from you, Lord. It has to come from your word. So I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. I pray that your Holy Spirit would fill me and speak through me to our hearts and lives. Help us make right decisions. God, give us wisdom And the decisions we make, and the actions we take, and the words we use. Give us wisdom, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I doubt anybody recognizes this name. In fact, before I read this article, I would not have recognized the name. But the name is Josiah Holland. Josiah Holland was an extremely popular novelist in the 1800s to mid to the end late 1800s. He wrote numerous articles. He was editor of a paper. He wrote a magazine. He edited a magazine. He was a prolific writer. He was also a poet. He was extremely popular. We only heard him hear him today, but back in the day everybody knew of Josiah Holland, the great writer. He wrote this poem. Seven years after the Civil War, our country was reeling still from the devastation that the Civil War had brought upon our land. Corruption was creeping into government in ways unseen before. People were trying to regroup and reorganize. We were trying to reunite. He wrote this poem. He said, God, give us men. A time like this demands men with strong minds. Great hearts, true faith, and ready hands. Give us men whom the lust of office does not kill Give us men whom the spoils of office cannot buy. Men who possess sound opinions and unwavering will. Give us men who have honor and will not lie. I think what was true in 1870 when he penned that is still true today. I think one of the greatest needs in our homes and in our churches and in our communities, our nation as a whole. Is men, men of honor, men of integrity Men of conviction, men of God, we need in our homes We need in our churches, our communities. Men like Noah, who have the courage and the conviction to do what God instructs them to do. Whether anybody else is on board or not, he's doing what God said to do. We need men like Abraham Who had faith in God even when all circumstances and all appearances seemed hopeless, yet he trusted God He believed God's word. God give us men of faith like Abraham. Give us men of courage like Noah. We need men of integrity like Joseph. Men who will do right regardless of the cost. Let me say that again. Men who will do right regardless of the cost. Joseph. Our homes need men like that. Our church needs men like that. Our communities need men like that. Men like Moses. Who had a conviction to stand and lead to where God says to go. Men like Daniel. Who purpose in their hearts that they're going to trust God and do right, even if it means being eaten by lions. He said, Josiah Holland said, God, give us men. Give us men. I believe Solomon In 970 BC, 970 years before Christ was born, I believe he saw that same need in his country. He saw a need for men in the nation of Israel. He saw a need for men of integrity and courage and conviction and faith. In the nation of Israel as he was king. And Solomon penned the book of Proverbs, I believe, to challenge his son to be such a man. Now, I want to be quick to point out, and I always do this, I want to be quick to point out, though Solomon is the penman of the book of Proverbs, God is the author. He penned these words, I believe, from a burden of his heart, he saw a need And he penned these words, but all the while the Holy Spirit of God was moving upon him to write down exactly what God wanted him to write down. But Solomon saw the need for men. And so he penned this book to his son. If you would, notice with me verse number one, or chapter number one, I'm sorry, and verse number ten. Notice how he starts. Let me take you back there. Verse number 8. Notice how he starts the verse. Proverbs 1:8. My son, hear the instruction of thy father. Look with me if you would at verse number 10. My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not. Look at verse 15. My son. Walk not in the way with them. He would come over to chapter number two and verse number one. My son, if thou wilt receive my words. Chapter 3 and verse 1. My son. Verse 11. My son. Verse 21. My son. And it goes on and on and on through the first half of the book. Over and over and over. He's addressing his son. Solomon wants his son to be a man of God. His nation needs it. His home is going to need a man of God, a man of faith, a man of integrity. A man of conviction and courage. The nation of Israel is going to need such a man. So Solomon is writing to his son, and he's challenging them, and it's a fascinating study. In verses, come back to chapter 1 again, real quick with me if you would. Let me show you some of the things where he's challenging his son to be a man. Notice in verse number 10 of chapter 1, he says, My son If sinners entice thee, consent thou not. If they say, Come with us, and let us lay and wait for blood, let us work privily for the innocent without cause Let us swallow them up alive as the grave, a and whole as those that go down to the pit. We shall find all precious substance. We shall fill our houses with spoil. Cast in thy lot among us, let us All have one purse. Look what he says, verse 15. My son, walk not thou in the way with them. Refrain thy foot from their path. He's calling on his son, he's challenging his son to be a young man of integrity. Don't you go with that crowd. Don't you run with wrong associations. You be very, very careful who you run with. You be very, very careful who you allow to influence you. You be a young man of integrity. Solomon's concern for his nation. It's concerned for the homes in his nation. It's concerned for the spiritual well-being of his people, and he knows that there must be some men of integrity. Notice with me, if you would, chapter 3. And notice verse number 11. Chapter 3. 11. Again, he's addressing his son. The whole book is addressed to his son, among others. He says, My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord Neither be weary of his correction. For whom the Lord loveth, he correcteth Even as a father, the son, in whom he delighteth, he's challenging his son to be a young man of humility, be teachable. Son, you're going to get off track. Son, you're going to get out of whack. And God is going to intervene, and God is going to confront you. And he's going to chasten you and he's going to seek to correct you. Listen, don't you despise that. You humble yourself before God You be teachable before God. Let God have his way in your life. You be a man of humility. God give us some men of humility. Integrity. Men who are teachable. Men who will say, I want God's will in my life. That's what Solomon's concerned about. Men of integrity, men of humility. Look with me, chapter 5, if you would. Verse number one, my son, attend unto my wisdom and bow thine ear to my understanding. That thou mayest regard discretion, and that thy lips may keep knowledge. For the lips of a strange woman drop as a honeycomb. Her mouth is smoother than oil. But Her end is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword. Her feet go down to death. Her steps take hold on hell. Lest thou shouldest ponder the path of life, her ways are movable, that thou canst not know them. Hear me now, therefore, O ye children, depart not from the words of my mouth. Remove thy way far from her, come not nigh the door of her house, lest thou give thine honor to others and thy years unto the cruel. Lest strangers be filled with thy wealth and thy labors be in the house of a stranger, and thou mourn at the last when thy flesh and thy body are consumed, and say, How have I hated instruction? My heart despised reproof. And I have not obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined my ear to them that instructed me. I was almost in all evil in the midst of the congregation. He's challenging his son to live a life of purity. A life of purity. Our homes need men who are pure in heart and mind. Our church needs men who are pure in heart and mind. Our community needs men who are pure in heart and mind. Solomon is concerned for his son. He challenges him. He says, son, you be a young man of integrity. Don't you run with the wicked of this world? He says, Young man, you be a man of humility, and you let God teach you, and you let God have his way in your life. And he says, Son, you be a man of purity. You keep your heart and mind pure. You be careful the places you go. You be careful the things you look at. You be careful what you expose yourself to. You keep your heart and mind pure. God give us pure men. Look with me if you would at chapter 3 again, back to chapter 3. He challenges his son again in verse number 7 of Proverbs chapter 3 He says, Be not wise in thine own eyes. Fear the Lord, and depart from evil. It shall be health to thy navel and marrow to thy bones. Honor the Lord with thy substance, and with the firstfruits of all thine increase, so shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy presses shall burst out with new wine. He's challenging his son here to be financially responsible. Accept responsibility for the resources God entrusts you with. Now we don't hear a lot of preaching on this. Maybe I don't preach on it as much as I ought to. But Solomon addresses this all through the book of Proverbs And he wants his son to be financially responsible for what God has entrusted him with. Would you agree with me? Our homes need some financial responsibility They're falling apart financially. This society has established our economy, and the devil has this whole world set up in such a way that a young person can get so far in debt before they're barely out of diapers they can't do a thing for God for the rest of their life. I know this isn't popular, I know people know this, but I'm telling you it's the absolute truth. Solomon says to his son, Listen, you honor the Lord with the finances God gives you. You honor the Lord with the first fruits of your substance. You put God where God needs to be in your finances. Men of integrity, men of humility, men of purity, men of financial responsibility. Take one more time, if you would, come to chapter 10 of Proverbs. By the way, these challenges are to Solomon's son, but they are not exclusive to the men. All right, ladies, you're getting in on this, all right. Oh, I saw some ladies there. Oh good, it's my husband, not me. No, not really. But Solomon's concern for the leadership and the homes, his nation. Look with me, chapter 10 and verse number 4, if you would. Proverbs 10 and verse 4, he says, He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand. But the hand of the diligent maketh rich. He that gathereth in summer is a wise son. But he that sleepeth in harvest is a son that causes what? Shame. Come over to chapter thirteen if you would, real quickly, and look at verse number four. Proverbs 13 and verse 4 The soul of the slugger desireth and hath nothing, but the soul of the diligent shall be made fat. By the way, I kind of like that verse there a little bit, that last one. So some of us have been very diligent, you can tell by the What's he challenging his son? He's challenging his son to be a hard worker, to be industrious. He said, son, don't you be a lazy bum Amen or not. Don't you be a sluggard. You get out and work. You get up and do what needs to be done. You work. I've referenced my daddy too much, I know, and my heart goes out as Jennifer was singing. I was I was weeping. I miss my daddy, and I'll tell you one thing, there may be a lot of things my daddy wasn't, but it's one thing my daddy was, he was a hard worker. He taught us to work. Solomon is challenging his son. Would you agree with me? Our world, our homes, our churches, our communities need men of integrity. Men of humility, wanting God's will to be done. Men of purity in heart and mind. Men of financial responsibility. Men who work hard are industrious. Proverbs Solomon's penning Proverbs to his son and challenging him to be that man. The book of Proverbs as a whole is one of the most practical books in all the Bible. It's one of my personal favorites. I read every day, I read the corresponding chapter to that day's date. Today's September 3rd. This morning I read Proverbs chapter 3. I've done that for years and years and years, and I'm telling you, every major decision I've made in my life, God has used Proverbs to be a factor in helping me make that decision. I cannot over now don't misunderstand. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. All of it's profitable. We ought to read and study all of it. But would uh is there anybody here there's certain portions of scripture that just stand out in your life. Anybody know what I mean? There's just certain books and certain chapters and maybe certain passages that you gravitate to because God has used them so much. That's what Proverbs is for me. It's a very practical book. It's a how-to book on living a life of wisdom. The central theme of the book of Proverbs is practical wisdom. The word wise or wisdom is used over 125 times in the book of Proverbs. It's not just the theory of wisdom. He doesn't just talk about the theory, the concept of wisdom, but the book of Proverbs tells us how to put wisdom into practice. What wisdom does and does not do, what a wise person gets involved in, or what a wise person avoids. How a wise person interacts with others. It's a tremendously practical book on wisdom. It tells us how to think wisely and not think as a fool. It tells us how to speak wisely and not speak as a fool. It tells us how to behave wisely and not behave as a fool. Proverbs. It's tremendously practical. Our text, Proverbs chapter 4 and verse 7, if you would come back there with me. Last month I was reading my Proverbs, and on August 4th, I read Proverbs chapter 4. And I've had this verse underscored in my Bible and highlighted. I've had it memorized to an extent for many, many years. As I read it last month, this phrase stuck out again. Wisdom is the principal thing. Wisdom is the principal thing. I want us to consider, first of all, the precept of wisdom, and by that I mean I want us to consider the meaning of wisdom. Now, how many people here, you ever have a word? Now, of course, being a preacher and a student in the Word of God, words are very big in my life. Words are important to me because I want to be able to communicate God's word accurately. Do you ever have a word that you know what it means? But it is really, really difficult to define it, to say what it means. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That word wisdom is kind of that way. We know what it is. But to define wisdom is a little challenging. Wisdom is not the same as knowledge. Did you know it's possible to have a lot of knowledge and hardly any wisdom? Wisdom is not knowledge. Now it's difficult to have wisdom without knowledge, but you can have a heap of knowledge and zero wisdom. I've met some people like that. Wisdom is not intellect. You can have a high intellect, great intellect, and still be very foolish. Wisdom is not education. A person can have tremendous education and have all kinds of degrees and yet still be a fool. Amen or not? And a person can have zero education and yet be a tremendously wise man or tremendously wise woman. Some of the wisest people I ever met, never made it out of third grade. But they were tremendously wise. They knew God. They knew what wisdom was. They knew how to live. A la hillbilly lady said to her son, Son, if you don't got no education, then you have to use your brains. And um I think there's some folks with education could use their brains a little more. So wisdom is not the same as knowledge, it's not intellect or education. And by the way, one man's wisdom is another man's folly. What the world considers wise, God says, is foolishness. And what God says is wise, the world says all that's foolishness. We won't I won't ask for a response, but I'd venture to say there's a heap of people in the auditorium here this morning that would say Folks have called you a fool because you trust God and trying to live for God. I've had it happen. You're crazy. What a fool. Go to church. You read in your Bible. I had a guy when I got saved that worked in the meat packing plant. Rough. It was just about all ex cons, and the ones that weren't ex cons were still cons. And um I got saved. God changed my life. I mean immediately, visibly, obviously. It was God did it. I'm just along for the ride, God Guys come up after a while I'm going to church and I'm not going out and partying everything. I'm not involved in that. One fella comes up to me. He says, Leatherman, you're a fool. You're a fool. I said, I'm all I said, maybe I am, but I'm a whole lot happier as God's fool than I was for the devil's fool. What the world considers wisdom, God considers foolishness. We don't have time to go there. 1 Corinthians 3. 19. What is foolishness? God's wisdom is foolishness to the world. So one man's wisdom is another man's foolishness. And one man's foolishness is another man's wisdom. I'm not too concerned about what the world thinks is wise. I'm not too concerned about what the world thinks is foolish. I seen what the world's wisdom produces, and I'm not impressed I'm concerned with what God says is wisdom. I'm concerned with what God says is foolishness. If God says this is wise, I want in. If God says that is foolishness, I don't want nothing to do with it. Amen or not? Wisdom is the principal thing. Well, listen, I need to know what wisdom is. Here's my attempts to define wisdom. Now, what the world thinks is wisdom, what God says is wisdom, are two different things. I want what God says is wisdom. Here's my attempts at defining it. And I've looked up scores of Bible scholars and men I respect to get their input. This is what I come up with. Wisdom is the ability to see life from God's perspective and act accordingly. To look at my situation, to look at people, look at look at life, and I see it the way God sees it, and then I act in line with the way God sees life. That's one attempt. I put this down. Wisdom is the ability to determine what is genuinely right and what is genuinely wrong and act accordingly. Have you ever met someone that had no clue about what is right and wrong? It seems like they're oblivious To what they're doing to themselves and what they're doing to their family and what they're doing to their friends. It's like they're oblivious. To where uh what they're doing, where it's leading them to, and how they're going to end up. And it's like you want to come, you want to shake them and say, Listen, look what you're doing. Wisdom is to be able to see and say, you know, this head's a bad way, and this is good. Here's the problem. We're raising a generation who determine right and wrong by what society says is right and wrong, and society is a disaster. Why are we listening to them? Wisdom, biblical wisdom, is the ability to see what is genuinely right, and this is genuinely wrong. And be able to act accordingly. I put this down. Wisdom is the ability to determine the will of God and correctly apply God's will to every area of my life. Turn with me, if you would, over to chapter 9 of Proverbs. And notice with me verse number 10. Solomon is trying to help his son grasp what this principal thing is: wisdom, what it is. And in verse number 10, he says: the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And the knowledge of the holy is understanding. What's the fear of the Lord? If that's the beginning of wisdom, if that's the basis, the starting point for wisdom Then what in the world does it mean to fear the Lord? Does it mean to be scared of him and cower in fear? No. The fear of the Lord is giving God the reverence and respect that he deserves. And then living accordingly. The fear of the Lord is Respecting this God that created me, this all-powerful, this blindingly holy This perfectly good and just God, and respecting and reverencing that and living in light of who and what he is. That's where wisdom begins. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. So here's my simplified, overly simplified definition of wisdom. And you come to me afterward and say, Preacher, that was an overly simplified definition of wisdom. I'll say, Amen. But this is it. Wisdom is living out the will of God as it's given to me in His Word. Simple, right? Wisdom is simply saying, alright, I'm going to live my life the way God tells me to live his life. I'm going to I'm gonna do what God tells me to do. Would you agree with me? It's pretty wise to do what God tells you to do. You're a knucklehead if you don't. Let me use a biblical term. You're a fool if you don't. I want to do what God says. I want to think the way God tells me to think. I want to behave. Now I fall short of it. We all do. We have simple nature we've got to contend with. But wisdom A wise man, a wise woman, a wise young person says, What is God's will? This God that created me for him. I'm the creature, he's a creator one, he's a creator, I'm the created one. He's wise, he's perfectly wise, he's all-knowing. I'm going to listen to God. I'm going to live my life in light of what God instructs me. If he makes a promise, I'm going to claim it. If he warns about something, I'm staying away. That's wisdom. That's the principal thing. Living out in an attitude of reverence and respect, the will of God As it's given to me in his word. So that's my attempt to give the meaning, the precept of wisdom. Number two, I want us to consider quickly the priority of wisdom Proverbs chapter 4 again, if you come back there and have it, he says, wisdom is the what? The principal thing. Alright, what does that word principle mean? I'm glad you asked. It means to be first in order. It means first in importance. It means first in priority, wisdom is to be number one on the list. Seeking wisdom, being wise, that's the principal thing. That's the most important thing. If you're not going to get anything else accomplished in your life, seek and find wisdom. It's the principle thing. Principle thing. Proverbs chapter three, if you would notice verse number thirteen. He says, Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding. Look at this. For the merchandise of it, wisdom. Is better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold. She, wisdom, and by the way, all through Proverbs, wisdom is personified as a woman Or whatever that's word. I'm I'm for it. I'm with I'm for ya, ladies. I'm saying God It says she is more precious than rubies, talking about wisdom, this ability to determine what is right and wrong, what is good, and what God's will is, and then live it out and fulfill it She's more precious than rubies and all things that can be desired or not to be compared unto her. Length of days is in her right hand, and in her left hand riches and honor Listen, there are some extremely wise people that die young. There's no doubt about it. It's true. But generally speaking, A person that plays the fool ends up in the hospital a whole lot more than the person that tries to be a little bit wise. You follow what I'm saying? Here's the famous last words. Hey guys, watch this. Right. Oh, nothing can what could happen? Wisdom is the principal thing. She's a tree of life. Verse 17: Her ways are ways of pleasantness. All our paths are peace. I know this. I can testify, I've seen it a hundred I've seen it a thousand times. I'm telling you right now, a wise person is happier and has more peace of heart and mind than a fool does. Guarantee it. We don't have to, we don't have to. We don't have to sacrifice the peace of God In our hearts and minds, we can have the peace of God if we'll trust God and follow His instructions and live His way. Be wise. And we get a peace of heart and peace of mind. We don't have to be on edge all the time We don't have to be uh go around with some chip on our shoulders. We can go around with peace in our heart If we are wise. If we're wise, it's the principal thing, it's the priority She is a tree of life, verse 18, to them that lay hold upon her, and happy is everyone that retaineth her. There's a lot of laughter in our world, but I want you to say there's not a whole lot of happiness. It's a lot of comedy, but there's not much peace of conscience in our world Wisdom. Happy is everyone that retaineth her wisdom. The priority of wisdom, the principal thing. The most important thing in life is gaining wisdom, living wisely. It's the most important thing in life. It's wise to get saved. You and I are sinners under the wrath and judgment of God, whether we like it or not. Whether we believe it, I have guys I've had a number of people tell uh uh not long ago, well I don't believe that. That doesn't change the facts one bit. We have sinned. We're born in sin. We have sinned against God. We have violated His holiness over and over and over and over. And John chapter 3, Jesus Christ Himself said that we are under the judgment and condemnation of God because of our sin. And if we die in our sins, if we die unforgiven, we are separated from God for all eternity in a very real, literal place that Jesus Himself described as hell. Say, oh preacher, you guys don't you don't still believe that. Brother, it is in the book, and I believe that book What a fool! God comes and says, I died for your sins. I'll take that judgment. I'll take that condemnation. I'll take responsibility for your sins upon myself, and I'll be judged of God the Father in your place. I'll pay that judgment for you. And he did The wrath of God was poured out upon Jesus Christ for the words that I said, and the blasphemy that's come off of my lips. And the deeds that my hands have done, and the ungodly thoughts that my mind has thought. Jesus Christ was judged of God for my sins. Buried and rose again. And he says, I offer forgiveness and salvation. You just come and trust me. I'm not forcing on you. You come, your own full will. You receive what I've done for you. You trust me as your personal Savior. I'll forgive all your sins. I'll secure you a place in heaven. I'll indwell you with the Holy Spirit of God. I'll give you peace and purpose in your life. I'll give you direction. Would you agree with me? Only a fool would say no to that. Well I got saved May 7, 1979, the following weeks I just could I just went around telling everybody, I would say this, for the first time in my life, I did something good I trusted Christ. For the first time in my life, I did something that was wise. I received the gift of God, which is eternal life. I received it freely. Praise God. It's wise to get saved. And I want to say to you, getting saved ought to be a awfully high priority. We spend a lot of money. We put a lot of effort. We spend a lot of resources in trying to get people saved. Why? Because it's wise. And wisdom's the principal thing. It's wise to do what's right. It's a f how foolish are we? How foolish are we in knowing that something is wrong and we know no good comes out of it, and yet we dive into it. Right or wrong? We know we ought not to say this, and we say it anyway. It's wise to do right. It's wise to trust God. It's wise to be kind. I find this on my heart and mind more and more all the time, and it creeps into my teaching and preaching more and more. Is that just be kind. This world has turned into an unkind place. I called COVID the virus that killed kindness. There was unkindness before that, but it seems like it has exploded. Just be kind. Say, yeah, well, you don't know what I'm dealing with. I don't care what you're dealing with. God's been awfully kind to you. Why don't you be kind to someone else? Amen or not? So, wisdom is the principal thing, these things that God instructs us. It is wise for us to do it. It is foolish for us to ignore and disregard the Word of God. How foolish. And then the procurement of wisdom. Say, preacher, if if it's the most important thing, how do I get wisdom? How do I get it? How do I attain it? Where is it found? Do you got some for sale? Can I buy some wisdom? How much does it cost? Does Amazon have it? Keep your place if you would, but come with me back to Job. I was talking to somebody recently. They said they don't like the book of Job. I forget who I was talking to. Oh, it's Wilbur! I like the book of Job. I'm kind of morbid, more more mmm morbid But Job was a pretty wise guy. Not a wise guy, he was a pretty wise man. And notice in chapter 28 of Job, notice what he says. And I want to begin reading in verse 12. Now he's suffering. I mean, God's taken everything from him, his family, his possessions, his health. I mean, he is at the bottom. Terrific condition he's in. And God allowed all of it for a purpose. Now look at verse number 12. He asks this question: But where shall wisdom be found? If wisdom's the principal thing, and that's the most important thing in life, where in the world do I get it? Where is the place of understanding? Now he goes on. Look what he says. He says, Man knoweth not the price thereof, neither is it found in the land of the living. The depth saith, It's not in me. The sea saith, It's not with me. It cannot be gotten for gold, neither shall silver be weighed for the price thereof. It cannot be valued with the gold of Ophar, with the precious onyx and sapphire. The gold and the crystal cannot equate it, equal it. The exchange of it shall not be for jewels or fine gold. No mention shall be made of coral or of pearls, for the price of wisdom is above rubies. Boy, I'm glad wisdom doesn't cost a million dollars. You know why I'm glad it doesn't cost a million dollars? Because I don't have a million dollars Whence then cometh wisdom, verse 20. Where is the place of understanding? Seeing it is not hid from the eyes of all living and kept close from the fowls of the air, destruction and death say, we have heard the fame thereof with our ears. God understandeth the way thereof. He knoweth the place thereof. God knows where wisdom is and how to get it. For he looketh to the ends of the earth and seeth under the whole heaven, to make a weight for the winds, and he weigheth the waters by measure. When he made a decree for the rain and a way for lightning and thunder, then uh did he see it and declare it, he prepared it, yea, and searched it out. Here's verse twenty eight. This is what I was getting at And unto man he saith, Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom. And to depart from evil is understanding. I'm telling you, I know it's not cool, it's not popular, it's not going to get you a thousand likes on your social media, but I'm telling you doing right is the wisest thing a person can do. He says, the Lord, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom Don't listen, don't let this world intimidate us into thinking we're foolish because we're trying to live for God. Don't let people come and go ahead and let them talk down to you. Go ahead and let them make fun of you. Go ahead and let them mock you. Go ahead and let them call you names. Go ahead and let them isolate you. Go ahead and let them uh uh abandon you. That's all right. Wise thing to do is do what's right, and I'll tell you, God will honor it every single time. We've cowered to this world's foolishness far too long. So how do I get it? Job said, you can't buy it. It's not in the ocean, it's not in the mountains. You've got to get it from God. That ability, that motivation, that desire to do right above everything else has to come from God. I put three things down on end. How do I get wisdom? Number one, I gotta want it. Proverbs 2, 1 through 5. He says, you gotta want it more than you want gold, you gotta want it more than you want your paycheck. You gotta want it more than you want a fancy house. You gotta want it more than anything else. You gotta want it. Number two, I gotta ask for it. It comes from God. James 1:5. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God who giveth to all men liberally and abradeth not. Say, preacher, I need wisdom. I need to know what's right. I need to know what to do, what's right in every situation. I need to know God's will. Come and ask God to give you wisdom. Help, ask Him to show you And number three, just do right. Just do right. I want to read to you, and then I'll end with this. Proverbs chapter 2, verse 7. Look what he says: He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. That tells me if I try and be as righteous as I can, then God lays up wisdom for me. Study the Bible, do what it says. I put this in my notes. I kind of like it. No Bible, no wisdom. The first step of being a wise man, or woman, or teenager. The first step of being a wise person is developing a walk with God. Is developing a relationship with God's Word. And let God teach me and let God speak to me and let God instruct me and let God convict me where I'm wrong. Let God correct me and encourage and motivate me. That's where wisdom's found. That's where wisdom's found. God give us men. And women of integrity, conviction, humility, purity, many women who are wise. The principal thing. Let's pray. Father, I ask you'd help us. Lord, we want wisdom. I ask on behalf of the whole church that you would give Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church wisdom. To know and determine and know your will and then carry it out as you instruct us. I pray for wisdom for myself as pastor. Pay for wisdom for myself as a husband, a father, a Christian. I pray you'd help us to want it more than anything. Lord, if there's someone under the sound of my voice that has no assurance of their salvation, has doubts or concerns, I pray today they'd make a wise decision and settle that by trusting Christ as Savior. And Lord, if there's any prodigals, folks that are away from God, they know they're not right with God. I pray that today you'd stir their hearts and then make a wise decision to come back to the Lord. Help us. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I wonder if there'd be some this morning. Say, preacher, I need God's wisdom. Maybe you're in a particular situation, maybe you've gotten yourself into a circumstance. Maybe things have happened and no control of yours and you need wisdom from God and know what's the best and right thing to do. Any here like that by the uplifted hand preacher, I need wisdom. God bless you. Hands all around. Both my hands are raised. I want to urge you this morning, find a place, old altar. If any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God. You come and ask God. You trust him and you ask him to put a desire in your heart for wisdom that maybe's never been there before, that overrides all the other desires. There's some here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure. My sins are forgiven. I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that God's forgiven me. Journey like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I've got to get that settled in my life. There's doubts and con I'm not sure. And I need that settled. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name.