First Peter chapter number one and I'm going to begin reading in verse number twenty-three down through verse twenty-five. Now we're only going to get to look at verse twenty-three tonight But uh I want to read the the three verses together to keep it in context here. We'll do briefly review a little bit what the book is about and what we've looked at so far And then we'll pick up tonight. And I want to share a thought with you. 1 Peter 1, verse 23, the Bible says this, being born again Not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the word of God, which liveth and abideth forever. For all flesh is as grass. and all the glory of man as the flower of grass, the gl grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth away But the word of the Lord endureth forever. And this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you. Well let's look at verse 23 tonight. The new birth and the Bible. The new birth and the Bible. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we are thankful for the Word of God I'm thankful for the Church of God that um uh you've uh ordained your body. And I pray that you would help us in these uh uh trying times to uh stay as connected as we can, Lord, and to pray for one another. uh communicate the best way we can safely and so I ask you to bless now as we've assembled together so to speak through the internet. And I pray that your presence would be here in this place. And then as your word goes out, I pray your presence would be very evident in every home, every every place where folks are turned tuned in. As always, Lord, I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you anew. I present my body anew for this hour to you, so that you could speak through me, Father. Touch hearts. Challenge. Help us to grow in our understanding. And I pray, Father, that you'd be glorified in what takes place now in the next few moments. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We've been studying first Peter, as you were aware, those that have been here in on it for the last, oh, I don't know, several months And we've noticed and we've pointed out the fact that 1 Peter is written, of course, by the Apostle Peter. He's the penman, God's the author of all scripture And so God used Peter to pen this letter to believers who were scattered all throughout uh uh Asia Minor there. They were being persecuted intensely because of their faith in Christ. They trusted Jesus as their Savior. They believed the gospel. They committed themselves to live for the Lord. And that brought intense persecution down on them and they were forced out of their homes, they were forced out of their communities, their neighborhoods And uh many of them suffered severely, loss of employment, uh family members rejected them, some of them were tortured, uh violently uh and many had lost their lives. So Peter is writing to them and he's trying to encourage them and instruct them on um on the Christian life in that type of setting. Now if you remember those that were in on it, we noted that the first half of the chapter up to about verse 12, I believe, he's encouraging them. He's writing encouraging things. in their in their trials that they're going through. And he encouraged them to remember that they're just passing through. This world is not our home. Man, uh praise the Lord. I wish we could all say amen together, but uh I've I'm sure many, if not all of you, feel the way I do. I am glad this world is not my home. We're just going through And so he encouraged them, reminded them that we're just passing through. He reminded them that they have reserved seats in heaven, that when it was all said and done here down on earth, they had a place in heaven And they would be in the presence of the Lord. He assured them of the security of their salvation, and uh they would not lose it. Uh they were s their salvation was secure And he uh mentioned about them rejoicing in the midst of their trials. In fact, that's exactly where they were doing. He makes an amazing statement. He says that they uh had joy unspeakable and full of glory. And so the these Christians that he's addressing are amazing, we're amazing people. Their faith was uh tremendous and uh their commitment to Christ was tremendous And so he's writing to encourage them. Then a beginning in about verse 13 down through verse 22. Now he's exhorting them And he's exhorting them in two areas. One is to live holy lives. Do not allow the persecution. Do not allow opposition of the world. Do not allow their trials to uh uh to uh diminish their walk with God. They were to maintain holiness. If you remember, those that were in it, verse 15 he says, But he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all c manner of conversation, because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy. God expects his people to live holy lives. To be separate from the world, separated unto the Lord. Regardless of our circumstances, regardless of the situations we find ourselves in, we are to be committed and separated unto the Lord. So he challenges them, exhorts them to live holy lives. Then he comes down and we looked at this, he exhorted them to love one another sincerely, to be honest in their love for each other And uh to encourage each other. Now we come to verse 23, 24, and 25, the final verses of this chapter. And I believe what he's basing what he's doing here is he's pointing out that the basis of the encouragement we get, the basis of this exhortation was the fact that we are, they were, and those of us that know the Lord, were born again. We've been born again. So the basis of uh living a holy life, the basis of loving my brethren uh sincerely, uh the basis of the assurance of my salvation, the basis of uh reserves uh uh seats in heaven. The basis of all of that is the fact that we've been born again by the word of God. And uh so he's challenging that. Notice with me, if you would, verse 3. He says, being born again Not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible. Now look at that next small word there. But of incorruptible, by the word of God. Now he's addressing this subject of them being, of us being born again, and he says it's by the Word of God. That word by there has this idea because of the Word of God. We are born by the Word of God The new birth is a result of the Word of God. We'll talk about that here in a little bit. I want to back up. Actually, I want to look at verse number the first word in the verse there. He says, being born again Not of corruptible seed. That word being there means because of. So let me back up here. I got a little ahead of myself there. What he's saying here is this holy life that he exhorts us to live, this honest love for one another, sincere love for one another, is the result of, is the basis of, is because of the new birth. That word by being there, being born again, because of. The new birth makes this hope for eternal life possible. The new birth makes holiness, living a holy life makes it possible. The new birth uh makes it possible for me to love my brothers like I should. And so the basis of all this is the new birth. Now, verse 23, 24, and 25, he gives three truths about the Word of God. We're going to look at one tonight. And I'm kind of rushing through here because I want to get to my main point. The first thing he points out in the first part of verse 23 is that the word of God produces regeneration. We'll talk about that word here in a moment. The word of God regenerates. Sinners. Number two, we'll notice in the last part of verse 23, down through verse 25, the Word of God remains In other words, it's eternal. It will endure. It's going to last forever, the Word of God. And then the third thing we're going to notice, and this will be in future messages The last part of verse 25, the word of God is reliable. We can trust our souls with it. We can put our eternal destiny, base it on the truths of God's word. So the Word of God. Now, tonight, what I want to do, in a little bit of time, I'll try and be brief here. But I want us to notice that the Word of God regenerates us. Again, look with me at verse 23. Being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the word of God. That word born again We use a theological term sometimes to refer to it. It's called regeneration. Now there's a $64 million word for you. I like to every now and then use big words just so our church knows how educated I are. And Bible college years study and I are very, very educated. So I try to use Some big words every now and then. Regeneration. Now, if you've been around Bible preaching church, you've heard that term. You're no doubt familiar with it. If you've been to our Bible Institute, uh you've heard the term regeneration. It simply means this. Re means again. Re-again. Generation to generate something simply means to produce life. To generate light, to bring something into being. For instance, you have a generator, it produces electricity, it brings electricity into being. If you will, it burns Electricity brings it into being. When we use the term regeneration, we're talking about God rebirthing us Being, to use the term here in the Bible, born again, brought to life again. And again, we point out here, it's by the Word of God. It's through the Word of God, by means of the Word of God. And so the Word of God brings regeneration, brings this new birth. Now I want to point out a few things about this new birth That the Bible uh brings about, makes possible. First of all, here's the outline. I hope you'll follow along with this. Number one, the new birth is a spiritual birth. It's a spiritual birth. Notice he says here, being born again, regenerated, being this new birth, born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible seed. Not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible. Now when he uses that word seed there, I believe what he's referring to is life He's mentioning two different types of life here. Corruptible seed, corruptible life, and then incorruptible seed, incorruptible life. Now what is he talking about when he says being born again not of corruptible seed? Not of corruptible life. I believe what he's talking about there is simply the physical birth, our physical life the moment we were born. I was born on May 6th, 1960, last century. And if you would mark that down, May 6th, about five weeks out. Keep that in mind Uh May 6, 1960, I was born physically. I was born of a corruptible seed, a corruptible life. You say, what do you mean corruptible? In other words This life is temporary. This physical life. Uh it's it involved with decay. Uh it it it it de it has to deal with sickness. This physical life, we deal with sickness, we deal with decay, it deals with death. This physical life is mortal. It's corruptible seed. It is the word corruptible there has in its meaning an idea of dying seed. It is a life that is dying. Now I'm not a medical doctor, but I've been told, I understand, that in some sense, from the moment a person is born, they begin to die. That process begins to take place of corruption and decay And so he says, we're born again, being born again, not referencing this physical life that we already have, this corruptible life that ends in death But being born again of incorruptible seed. Now what is this incorruptible seed? This is life, the word seed, again, I believe he's referring to life. This is life that does not die. It's incorruptible. It doesn't decay. It doesn't deteriorate. Other places in the Bible refer to this incorruptible seed, this incorruptible life as eternal life. As everlasting life. As undying life. If you would, take your Bible and turn with me. Now keep your place here because we're going to look at this verse pretty closely. But come back to John chapter number 10. John chapter number 10, and we're going to be in John a little bit here. Now, I want to mention we're going to be using our Bibles a little bit in the next few moments, so keep them handy there. And uh John chapter 10, and look with me, if you would, at verse number 28. John chapter 10 and verse 28. Give you a chance to find it there, John 10, 28. And he says this. This is the Lord Jesus talking to his disciples. He says, and I give unto them what kind of life? Say it there in the living room. Say it. What kind of life? Eternal life. I give unto them eternal life. Incorruptible seed, incorruptible life, life that cannot and will not die. I give unto them eternal life. Now look at this. And they shall what? Never perish. Never die. The word perish means die and go to hell. What the Lord is saying here is He's referencing the exact same thing that Peter is referencing when Peter said incorruptible seed. Jesus says, I'm giving them eternal life, incorruptible life, undying life. They will never perish. That life will never die. That life will never cease. That life is incorruptible. And so this new birth that Peter is referencing is a spiritual birth. It's different than the physical birth that we have. It is a spiritual birth. Jesus addressed this. Now if you're there in John, just come back uh towards the front of your Bible actually to John chapter 3 Now, some of you were probably thinking about Nicodemus. We're talking about being born again. This is probably the most well-known passage on the new birth. John chapter 3. And notice with me verse number 3. Now, uh Nicodemus comes to the Lord Jesus by night. He's a good man. He's very wealthy. He's very religious. Probably in a lot of ways, humanly speaking, he's a good man, a moral man. Uh he's a religious man, but he was lost And he comes the Lord Jesus, and he says there in verse 2, he says, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God. For no man can do these things that thou doest except God be with him. And notice in verse 3, Jesus doesn't even address the kind words that Nicodemus says. That's just water off a duck's back, really. The Lord doesn't respond to that. And look what he says in verse 3 Jesus answered and said, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be what? Born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Here, Jesus is referencing this new birth. And then Nicodemus responds. Look at verse 4. Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? Now what's Nicodemus? Oh well let's read on. Can a man be born how can a man be born when he was old? Can he enter the second time into his mother's womb and be born? What kind of birth was Nicodemus Had did he have in mind? What what what was what was going on in his mind? He was thinking of the what? The physical birth He was thinking of that corruptible seed, that corruptible life. He says, how born again? Oh, I go back and be born, reborn physically? And the Lord says, no, no, no, you misunderstand. Look at verse number uh five. Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. Now, Jesus is explaining to Nicodemus this new birth, this born again, this regeneration, is not a repeat of the physical birth But it is something completely different. It is a spiritual birth. Now don't let that little word there in verse 5, water, throw you. He says that He says, um, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit. Some people want to inject baptism in there. That is a serious mistake. There is no mention of baptism. They're not talking about that at all. They're talking about a new birth. They're talking about uh the contrast between the physical birth and a spiritual birth. And the Lord says, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit. Incorruptible life birth and a corruptible And he goes on in verse six and he explains exactly what he means. There's no question what the Lord is talking about. Look at verse six. That which is born of the what? Flesh is flesh. That's the corruptible seed, corruptible life, physical. And he says that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. He's saying these are two completely different types of birth. The corruptible life, the corruptible seed, is that which is the physical birth The incorruptible seed, this incorruptible life, is a spiritual life, is a spiritual birth. And so he's talking about the same thing here that Peter's referencing The corruptible seed and the incorruptible seed. Physical life, spiritual life. Physical birth, spiritual birth Born of the Spirit is the new birth, it's the incorruptible seed. So number one, we pointed this out. And Peter says, being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible He's talking about a spiritual birth. He's saying that uh that we need to be born spiritually. We've been born physically, we have this physical life, but until we're born again, until that second birth takes place We have no spiritual life. We need to be born again. And then what the second thing I want to point out is the new birth, number one, is the spiritual birth. Number two, it produces a completely different type of life Again, come back here to 1 Peter chapter 1 there. He says, being born again, not of corruptible seed but of incorruptible, he's contrasting two fundamentally different types of life, two fundamentally different types of seeds. Corruptible on one hand, incorruptible on the other. So what is the new birth? The new birth is not a reformation of the old life It is not just cleaning up the old life. Most of you have heard me say it so many times. May 7, 1979 was my new birth. May 6th, I was born physically, 1960 May 7, 1979, I was born again. I was born spiritually. When that took place, it was not God just cleaning up the old dentist It wasn't God just reforming the old Dennis and just washing some of the sinful dirt off of him and cleaning up some of the rough edges. No, no, no. It was a completely different person being born. It was a completely different nature coming into being When I trusted Christ as Savior, and that's true for every person that gets saved. It is a brand new divine life that God gives to us When we trust Jesus Christ as Savior. It's not, as I just said, cleaning up the old life. It's not a reformed old life. That old life is a completely separate That's the old man. That's the old Dennis I referred to. And when we're born again, we're a new person. We have a divine nature, the Bible tells us. 2 Peter points that out We have a divine life. Can I say this? The new birth, this new life, this new birth, is a sinless life. You say, wait a minute, uh Christians aren't sinless, I agree a hundred percent, but all of our sin, all our sinful thoughts, all our sinful actions are rooted and sourced in the old man That corruptible seed is where that sin comes from. The new seed, the incorruptible seed, the eternal life, the spiritual life God gives us. cannot sin. Now let me show this to you in the Bible. Take your Bibles if you would. Turn to 1 John chapter number 3. 1 John chapter number 3. Are Christians sinless? No Christians are not sinless. We still have a sinful nature, but that is from the corruptible seed, that is from the old man that we were born with physically, that sinful nature. When we're born again, we're given a new nature now that is sinless and cannot sin. 1 John chapter 3. Look with me if you would at verse number 9. Notice what the Bible says Whosoever is born of God, that's the incorruptible seed, the incorruptible life, the spiritual life that comes the moment we trust Christ Doth not commit sin, for his seed, God's seed, that incorruptible seed, that incorruptible life, remaineth in him He cannot sin because he is born of God. Now, is he saying that a Christian cannot sin and does not sin? No, no, no. We do sin. But that's the old corruptible seed. That's that old sinful nature. That's what the Bible refers to as our flesh produces that sin. This new seed, this new life, this eternal life, that does not produce sin. Sin is not rooted in that. It does not come from that. In fact, it cannot sin Again, if you would take your Bibles, turn with me to Romans chapter number 7. Paul references this in Romans chapter 7 Right after Acts, Romans chapter seven. And uh let me get here And look with me if you would down at verse number 18, Romans chapter 7. Now we're a little theological tonight, so I hope you'll bear with us. Don't turn on Jeopardy or something else. Stay focused here. Stay right with us. And look at chapter 7, verse number 18 of Romans. Look what Paul said. This is the Apostle Paul. For I know that in me, that is in my what? My flesh. The corruptible seed, that physical life, that old nature, dwelleth no good thing. For to will is present with me, but how to perform that which is good I find not For the good that I would, I do not. But the evil which I would not, that I do. Now if I do that, I would not, it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me, that old sinful nature, that old fallen nature, uh I find then a wall that when I would do good Evil is present with me. For I delight in the law of God after the inward man. Can I say this? The incorruptible seed, that new life that's born when I trust Christ The inward man, but I see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, bringing into captivity the law of sin, and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members. The corruptible seed, corruptible life, old life, fallen nature. Oh wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death? Corruptible seed, body of death I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So with the mind, I myself serve the law of God. But with the flesh, corruptible seed, the law of sin. Do you see what he's saying here? Paul is saying there's a warfare that goes on in the heart and soul of the believer. On one hand, we have this corruptible seed that we've been born with, a fallen nature, a bent towards sin. corruptible morally, physically, spiritually. We're corrupt. But when we trust Christ, we're born again. And now we have this new nature that cannot sin and will not sin. And so this battle is going on between one and the other. Now here's the question. You say, well how how do how do we end up sinning? The c the more I feed my flesh, the more I live with my old nature and that old fallen nature, the more I'm going to see sin. The more I live according to the new nature, this new life that God has given to me, the more victory I'll have over sin. What does 2 Corinthians 5. 17 say? Anybody know what that says? If any man be in Christ, he's a what? New creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. What's he saying? When I get in Christ, when I trust Jesus Christ as Savior I'm born spiritually with a fundamentally different nature. And uh if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature, incorruptible seed, incorruptible life. I have this new life Old things are passed away. As I live according to this new life, as I yield to the Lord, that old flesh, die the flesh, mortify the deeds of the flesh. Ah, all things become new. So this new birth, number one, it's a spiritual birth. It's not physical. It's spiritual Number two, it is entirely different than the physical life we have. It is a holy new life. And then a third thing I want to point out real quickly is it's completely God's doing This new birth is completely God's doing. Take your Bible again, if you would. Turn with me to John chapter 1. We've been in John a good bit tonight. John chapter 1. And I want to read verse 12 and 13, John chapter 1, verse 12 and 13. I hope you're hanging in here with me. I hope you're following along. Again, a little theological tonight, but it's very, very important for us to understand. John chapter 1, look at verse 12. But as many as received him To them gave he power to become the sons of God, born again, born spiritually, born into the family of God. Look what he says: even to them that believe on his name Believe uh uh what the Bible says about Jesus' name uh through the Word of God. Now look at verse 13. Which were born, that second birth, that incorruptible seed Not of blood, nor of the will of flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God Now he says we're born not of blood. In other words, my bloodline does not give me spiritual life. I thank God for a Christian daddy, and you know he went to be the Lord this week And uh this last Sunday, and uh we had the funeral Friday for him. I thank God for a Christian daddy, but you know, having a Christian daddy didn't make me a Christian son My daddy had eternal life. He trusted Christ 1970. And uh born again, born of a born from above, born with incorruptible seed now. And uh but that doesn't transfer to me. I've got to be it's uh uh Daddy can't give me eternal life. A Christian mother cannot give a tr a child uh Christian eternal life. It's not it cannot be given by our b parents. We don't get this new birth through our parents. Not through friends. We had a fellow years ago, old Dave, he was a good guy. He got saved and baptized. He was growing. He said, Pastor Leatherman, I want you to go visit some of my friends and save them like you saved me I said, Dave, I didn't save you. I can't save your friends. I can't even save myself. Now I knew what he meant. He was he didn't understand exactly Oh how he was saying it. But uh I can't save anybody, you can't save anybody else. It's not by our family, it's not through friends. Hey, by the way The church can't save anybody either. Church can't give incorruptible seed. Church can't give new life. Uh the Baptist Church won't s you can be a Baptist and not be born again You can be a Methodist and not be born again. You can be a brethren and not be born again. You can be charismatic and not be born again. Church can't give anybody eternal life. Church can't save a soul. Nobody gets born again through church membership. The new birth is God's doing. It's God's doing. I can't make myself born again. Uh I can't do it. Uh uh You may have Christian parents. Hey, I might be talking to some young people. You've got Christian parents, but you've never been born again And uh uh it you might you might have religion and not be born again. You might be a Baptist and not be born again. You may have gotten baptized but never been born again. You might be a Sunday school teacher and never been born again The church, the family, friends, nobody, nothing physical can give me spiritual life. Only God can do that. Through the new birth. It is all of God. Only God can give this incorruptible seed. You say, well, how do I get God to give it to me? Well he's offering it to everybody all the time everywhere. Uh whosoever will come, whosoever call upon the name of the Lord. God wants to give you a new life, God wants to give you a new birth But you and I have got to come by faith, believing that Jesus died for our sins, rose again, and by faith receive that gift of eternal life. Receive that new life And God births us, so to speak, into his family and gives us that new life. Only God can give this corruptible seed. Remember what we pointed out back there in 1 Peter of being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the word of God. We come God's way. We believe what the Bible says about our sinful condition, what Christ did for us, buried, rose again. And we accept by faith that to be true. And God births us into this new life. Then last one, and I don't have time to deal with this, but we're born into God's family. When we're born again, we become children of God. Do you know not everybody is a child of God? In John chapter 8, verse 44, Jesus said to a bunch of religious folk, He said, You're of your father the devil You're of your father the devil. You've never been born again. You've never been born into the family of God. Now, this might sound a little harsh, but if a person's never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, they are outside the family of God. And they're under, in a very real sense, under in the family of Satan. And ye must be born again. Ye must be born again. No man can enter the kingdom of heaven unless he be born again Christ emphasized that. It's so important, so important, born into the family of God. I was reading this past week about Winston Churchill. Now he is a rough character, but he was a pretty amazing man, provided tremendous leadership in in England during World War two And the story goes that uh when he was small, uh his family had a gardener uh there working in the garden. I guess apparently they were pretty wealthy. And they heard this young child uh hollering and yelling out in the pool uh out in a uh uh a pond, out behind the house, and they ran out, and here was the young Winston Churchill was drowning in the pond out behind uh on their property. The gardener ran and jumped in the pond and rescued young Winston Churchill from drowning. He would have drowned certainly, and the and the gardener saved his life. Winston Churchill's parents came to the gardener and they said, What can we do for you? We owe you the life of our son. And he says, Well, he hesitate a little bit. He says, you know, one thing I would really like is for my child, the gardener says this, for my child to be able to go to college. Churchill, Mr. and Ms. Churchill says, absolutely, we'll make sure, we'll finance him, we'll get through him through college. And they did it Years later, Winston Churchill was Prime Minister of England. And at one point, he got very, very sick and he developed pneumonia. In fact, it got so bad that they didn't think he was going to live. They called in the country's best physician. His name was Alexander Fleming. He discovered and developed penicillin. But uh he was able to help Winston Churchill and nursed him back to health and save his life. It turns out Alexander Fleming was the child of the gardener who rescued Winston Churchill when he was a small boy. Later on, Churchill made this statement. He says, he remarked, rarely has one man owed his life twice to the same person. That gardener rescued him from drowning, and then the gardener's son rescued him from dying of pneumonia. One man saved his life twice, so to speak I can think of someone else that gives us new life twice, the Lord Jesus Christ. He gave us physical life. We were born. That life was from God. But we're fallen, sinful creatures. And if we'll trust Jesus Christ as Savior, we'll turn to Him in repentance and faith, accepting what Jesus Christ has done for us. The Lord will give us eternal life, incorruptible life, salvation be born in the family of God. If you're not saved tonight, we urge you, turn to the Lord Jesus. You can get on your knees right there in your home You can call out, God, have mercy on me, save me, and forgive me. If you'll believe Jesus died for your sins and rose again, and sincerely trust what he's done for you. God will birth you into his family, give you a new life. He'll change you. I can testify. He changes your life, gives you a new life Those of us that know Christ as Savior, we need to walk in this new life. We need to commit ourselves to live according to the new principles and the new nature God has given to us and mortify that old corruptible life, that old corruptible seed. And walk with the Lord, and God will bless us. And we need to share this message of the new birth. Being born again, not of corruptible seed, we've already got that, but of incorruptible, eternal life. And God will give it to us through the Word of God, through trust and let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to take these thoughts tonight, and I pray you would just bring it home into our hearts and minds. And Lord, again, if there's any unsaved tuned in, we pray they'd be saved. Oh God. And I pray those of us that know you of Savior, we've been born again. Help us to live like it, Lord. Help us to live like children of God. Help us to live according to this new nature you've given us, mortify that old flesh, the deeds of the flesh, and Lord, bring glory to you. So bless us now, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen.