Kings. 2 Kings 18. I want to get right into the message today. Amen. I I want to uh go as quickly as possible, but I'm not going to run ahead of the Lord either, okay? And uh I want to follow the leadership of the Holy Spirit and welcome him into this service in just a minute. But 2 Kings 18. Are you comfortable? Everyone comfortable? Okay. Let's stand up. You say, why, Brother Harney? Well, be because of the reading of God's Word. It it's a good thing to stand up. Take a deep breath. Take a real deep breath and and let it out. Careful which way you let it out, okay, just in case you're suffering from a little helitosis this morning. Okay, you get a little more oxygen to the gray matter Amen. That's a good thing, right? But hey, in honor of God's word, I think it's a good thing to stand. And so I'm just going to read a few verses and I'm going to let you sit down and I'm going to stand up for the rest of the time Okay? Does that sound good? Alright, good. You got foam rubber to sit on? Woo! Come on, here we go. All right. 2 Kings 18, verse 1 Come with me now. Take a little trip back into history, into time, to a point where there was the split kingdoms, Israel and Judah. Two different kingdoms, two different kings. We're going to look at both of them and glean from one of those two kings by the name of Hezekiah. It says here, now it came to pass in the third year of Hushia, son of Elah, king of Israel, that's the other kingdom, that Hezekiah, the son of Ahaz, king of Judah, began to reign. So Judah and Israel. He was a young man, it says in verse 2, and 25 years old Was it when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem? His mother's name also was Abbe, the daughter of Zachariah And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, according to all that David, his father, did. He removed the high places and break The images and cut down the groves and break in pieces the brazen serpent that Moses had made, for unto those days the children of Israel did burn incense to it, and he called it Neshukan He trusted in the Lord God of Israel. Look at this next statement. So that after him was none like him among all the kings of Judah, nor any that were before him. So he was basically the number one king of all of Judah, even though I don't think he had a very good end, but right now he's clicking on all eight. Why? He trusted in the Lord God of Israel so that after him was none like him among others. That's why. That's why, because he trusted in the Lord. And six, preclave to the Lord. Pardon out from following him, but kept his commandments, which he the Lord commanded Moses. And the Lord was with him. Why? Because he trusted in the Lord, because he claimed to the Lord. And the Lord was with them, and he prospered whithersoever he went forth, and he rebelled against the king of Assyria, and served him not. He smote the Philistines even unto Gaza. And the borders thereof, from the tower of the watchman to the fence sitting. It came to pass in the fourth year of the king of Hezekiah, which was the twelfth year of Hoshiah, the son of Elah, the king of Israel, that Shelemaizar, the king of Assyria, came up against Samaria and besieged it. I want to talk about three things this morning. I want to talk about Hezekiah's position. His preacher and his prayer. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for loving us now. And oh dear God, as we still our minds and our hearts from the daily routine, from the world in which we live Help us, dear God, to just move to the background the burdens of life It's the pains and aches of our bodies. If we have them, Lord, move them to the back and help us to focus and to concentrate upon these eternal truths And oh God, we ask, Father, that you would allow by your holy unction, your Holy Ghost, to have free reign in this service. That we might, each and every one of us sense his presence, and that our minds and hearts might be open unto him. And Father, we welcome The Holy Spirit that lives within us to be amongst us now. And Father, as I step back, we pray you step forward, articulate my speech, clarify, and direct my thoughts But oh dear God, help us to follow you so that you might lead and guide us into all truth. Show us those things to come. And we'll give you all the praise and glory for what you're about to do, for we ask it in the precious name of your Son and our Savior. And by the power and the merit, and especially the authority that's in the name of Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen. Thank you. May be seated So, Hezekiah, just a young man, 25 years old, you think about that, okay? A lot of times, this is when a young man's just getting his footing. Well, this guy here, he hits the ground running. And he's trusting in God, and he's doing right, and he's taking away, you might say, those idols from his country Even that idol that they made from the brazen serpent that Moses fashioned in the wilderness wanderings when they were being bitten by the fiery serpents. And uh God told them fashion, that fiery uh fashion, that the representation of that fiery serpent in a brazen serpent, put him up on a pole, and the people look They'll look and live. We sing a song about that very thing. But they had taken that, and they were burning incense to it. You know what that should teach us? Anything that you put above God becomes an idol. It can even be a good thing. But if you put it above God, it becomes an idol. And behind every idol is a demon. So be careful. A lot of times people say, well, we don't have any idols in our culture anymore. Oh yes, we do. Football is an idol. Football is an idol to many people. And by the way, football is an idol to some independent Baptists that stayed home and watched the Super Bowl instead of coming to church. Hello. As my old preacher used to say, if your phone's ringing, pick it up. Okay? Look, professional sports. Nothing wrong with them. They're good. Put them above God, they're an idol. Government? Government we need to be very careful of. It's a beast. But people put government above God, and that's what they're doing right now. And government becomes an idol and demonic That's what's happening in our country. Oh, I I I want free stuff. Every time you want free stuff, you have to give freedom. Never a good choice. Ever. Hezekiah, he's tearing out these idols from his nation. He's once again Building a government that is pleasing to God. And with that, he rebels against tyranny. He rebels against the tyranny of the Assyrians. He's not going to serve them any longer. Because when you get the idols out of your life, then you rebel against the tyranny of sin. And let God just erase it from your life. I don't know about you. I love being free. I love being free from the power of sin, from the penalty of sin. I love being saved. I just I love it. And and hey, I I'm telling you, I love giving tracks out. Amen. I love and everywhere I go I'm giving tracks out to people. I'm walking up to people. I I walked up to a TSA guy the other day coming out of the airport Forgetting out what state I was in, but I was walking out and he and he started walking towards me. And I started smiling and he started smiling and I took a tract out and gave him a tract. He said Oh, you know, I could tell you a good man just by the way you started walking towards me with a big smile on your face. I said, look, this is good news from a far country. It'll tell how you can be knowing where you're going I said that'd be a good thing, wouldn't it? It's good news. We need some good news, don't we? He said, yes. He said, I'm going to read that. He said, I have enough time because I'm just watching people, so I'm going to read that. What I'm saying is, hey, there's too many of us that are missing the harvest time. You know why? Because we're saying, oh woe is me. Oh, look at our country. Oh, what's what what are we gonna do? Hey, it's time that we start going forward. Amen. And and showing people look. Get released from the tyranny of sin. People say, well, we have no hope in man. We don't But that's how we started. That's what was going on here because his position, albeit good His position taking the idols out of his country. His position once again establishing a nation that was glorifying to God, the devil brought his people in, the Assyrians, the most vicious people of the day, and they surrounded Judah with a hundred and eighty-five thousand War-hardened men, the terrorists of the day. I think it's interesting that even today Syria is still a terrorist nation. Don't you? It's just interesting some things never change. And so We see something going on here that we started our country through and black because a lot of times people say, it just doesn't seem like there's any hope. I say, yeah, that's how we started You get that, right? We started this country with no hope. I mean we didn't even have a navy. We were going up against the greatest naval force in the history of man. Great Britain. We got real excited when we won our first naval battle. Say why. Well, if you go to the Smithsonian, you'll see why. Because the boat that we fought a man of war from the British fleet looked like an overgrown fishing boat with one cannon lashed on the front of it. And we sunk that boat and won a victory. with an overgrown fishing boat. It had a sail and one cannon. No wonder we got excited. Amen. But you say, well, how on earth Did our founding fathers ever think they had a chance going up against Great Britain? I'll tell you how, because they had faith in God. Where's our faith in God? I tell you what, too many people watching the news. And just, I mean allowing them to just regurgitate into your mind and heart. That's why there's so many people, God's people that are downtrodden Hezekiah, he was a man, took the idols out of his country, re-established a nation that was glorifying to God, and then the devil moved in. And his position was exactly how our position was when we first started this country. It was hopeless as far as man was concerned. You say, well, Brother Harding, it just doesn't seem like there's anything good going on. Well, let me just share something with you here that's uh simply amazing to me. During June, when our nation was celebrating sodomy, the Supreme Court brought the ruling of Roe v. Wade. The Supreme Court also brought a ruling for West Virginia against the EPA that said the the EPA does not have any ability to regulate the energy sector, limiting measures of West Virginia or any other coal or oil producing states You know what that means? Some of the wealthy states as far as coal, which are very poor, are going to be some of the wealthiest states now monetarily. That's going to help us to stand against tyranny. School prayer, Kennedy versus Bremerton School District. The court ruled that a football coach at a public school had the constitutional right to pray in the 50-yard line after his team's game. That was the Supreme Court of the United States. You get this right. All in June, the Second Amendment, New York State Rifle and Pistol Association against Brune, the court ruled that states with strict limits on carrying guns in public violate the Second Amendment. And that's going to help Maryland. It already has helped Maryland. So before if you couldn't get a concealed carry permit, guess what? You can get a concealed carry permit now. Amen. And uh I've told the story, I want to tell it again because you say why? Because I like the story About a woman, a very nice, petite, well-dressed Christian woman going from Oklahoma to Texas. Where they have reciprocity and she had a concealed carry permit and she got pulled over by a state trooper, a Texas state trooper and got so uh nervous that that she gave him her concealed carry permit instead of her license And the guy looked at her and here she was a spetite, nicely dressed lady, and and oh I'm sorry officer, that's my concealed carry permit. Uh here's my license. Finally he got up enough nerves and said, ma'am, do you have weapons in the car? Oh yes, officer. I have a 357 Magnum in my glove box. I have a 45 underneath my console right here. I have a 22 Magnum in my purse. And uh oh yes, I have a saw-level shotgun stuck underneath my dashboard. He said, ma'am, what are you afraid of? She said, Absolutely nothing. And that's America. Amen. Right there. Well, hey, we just got that ruling on the Second Amendment from the Supreme Court. You understand how amazing this is coming out in June. Not only that But the separation of church and state, Carson versus and Macon, which the court ruled that main programs that had religious schools could go ahead and get. Whatever any other school got because it was a violation of the free exercise of religion. I don't know about you. I'm kind of excited about what's going on You know what that is? When things like that happen. Do you know exactly what God's saying? He's saying in the midst of a month where this country celebrated sodomy I'm still in control. I'm still on the throne. And I still have a hand in the affairs of men. I don't know about you. That gets me going right there. Amen. If that doesn't excite you a little bit. Take that finger, put it right here. Cause if you don't feel a heartbeat, please raise your hand. You're dead We want to carry you out of here before you start stinking up the place, okay? But when God's men and God's people are not vigilant, but when we ignore our government, it quickly turns into what our founding fathers warned us about a beast. If we don't keep the beast chained down, it gets loose and starts eating its own. Thank God. Do you understand how big that re uh that overturn of Roe v. Wade is? You know how how big that is, even in history? There's only two nations in the history of all of mankind. Once they started killing the unborn, stopped. Israel and America. All of the nations in history, in the history of all of mankind, that started killing the unborn, continued to kill the unborn until God destroyed them. I don't know about you, but hey, God's anger has taken off of our nation a little bit. And that just gives me some great hope in what's going on. But hey The reason why socialism, communism, Marxism, humanism, statism is bad. I mean, look at the people in Virginia, the parents in Virginia, going to that school board meeting and the FBI started to investigate them. As domestic terrorists? You gotta be kidding me, right? What happened to the Department of Justice? As far as we're concerned, it's the Department of Injustice now. Where they will start to get the FBI also politicized and go and take control of information from a former president Unbelievable. That's never happened in history. And you've heard all of that mess going on there. I'll guarantee you what that's going to do, that's just going to help Donald Trump. It's just going to help them, in my as far as I'm concerned, because they're they won't find anything, in my opinion, just like they didn't find anything anywhere else. But hey, Hezekiah, when we look into Hezekiah, we see something I think that's very interesting. He was surrounded. He had no hope. And any time that a nation and people want to turn away from God, the very first thing they do is try to get God. out of the culture, out of government. You know that, right? Let us break their bands asunder and cast away their cords from us. Guess what we've been doing for decades as independent Baptists? Oh, it's not spiritual to be involved in government. How many times have you heard that, Brother Leatherman, in the past? Oh, we shouldn't be involved in government. You know, separation of church and state. Right? That goes against the Bible. And by the way, that also goes against our Constitution. Amen? Our Constitution says nothing about the separation of church and state aside from the fact that the state stays out of the church. It never says the people of the church stay out of the state. Ever. It doesn't say that constitutionally. It doesn't say that historically in our country. It doesn't say that biblically. The only reason our founding fathers were who they were was because of preachers, pastors that were preaching into our founding fathers. That sacred fire that burned so brightly that basically spread among everyone. In fact, the Continental Congress Ask the preachers to preach against the violations of the mother country, which was a violation under international law. That's why We wrote the Declaration of Independence from preachers preaching messages about that very thing. The Declaration of Independence was not written, as I told the men yesterday, by Thomas Jefferson. It was a compilation. of messages preached decades leading up to the Declaration of Independence. See, we've been robbed of our Christian heritage And we need to understand something. Constitution, this is the most amazing, miraculous, governmental document ever written by man because it's based on the most miraculous document ever written by God. The Bible. This isn't perfect. That is. Amen. And so we can basically base our whole mindset upon God's word. So what was his position. Well let's look at it in 2 Kings 18. It says this that In verse 12, and preface it with verse 11, the king of Assyria did carry away Israel unto Assyria And put them in Halla and in harbor by the river Gozan, and the cities of the Medes Now why? Look at verse 12. It's 2 Kings 18 and verse 12. Why did he conquer Israel? Because they obeyed not the voice of the Lord their God, but transgressed his covenant. The whole nation was given over to the devil. You want to do something for your country? You want to keep God from bringing his judgment, which we deserve today? Live a holy life. Live a life that's pleasing to God. Follow God's mandates and His Word. And when you read God's Word, I mean, really get into it like you've never gotten into it before. It's amazing to me that when he, Hezekiah, brought all of these things to bear, he rebelled against tyranny. The tyranny of the Assyrians. That's what our founding fathers did as well. And the only hope he had was God. Because there was no way that he was going to be able to win. In fact, look at this now, and I want you to get some comfort from this because I'm not about doom and gloom. I don't think it's over for our car country. I'm about God's glory, his majesty, and his power for a country that he has a vested interest in. The only other nation in the history of mankind that started from the premise of his word. Israel and America. Now, we're not a theocracy, but neither are we a democracy. We are a republic. Just to give you that reminder real quickly. But I want you to see something here that was going on then. It says in verse 13, now in the 14th year of King Hezekiah did Sidakare, the king of Assyria, come up against all the fenced cities of Judah and took them. So Hezekiah was seeing some losses You understand that? Are we seeing some losses today in our country? Shake your heads up and down. Yes we are. But that didn't deter him. So he was surrounded. Some of the fenced cities, some of the outlying cities were being conquered. Okay? But he did something very unique. When Ramseki came to him, who was Sennacherib's mouthpiece, He was lying to him. He didn't believe the lies of fake news of the day. So there's fake news in the Bible? It's fake news. I'm going to read to you right here. In verse 25. Look at it with me. It says, and now It says, I and I now come up. And am I, excuse me, am I now come up without the Lord against this place to destroy it? He's talking to Hezekiah and the men of the wall. The Lord said to me, go up against this land and destroy it. There's a lot of, even our brethren that are saying, it's too late for America. I don't believe it. It's not too late for America. God's showing us it's not too late for America. And by the way, the news media is saying this, that, and the other about what's going on in that country. That's fake news. He was a liar. God never told him to go up and conquer Judah He was a liar. So the position of Hezekiah, he was being barraged and attacked with lies. He was surrounded by the enemy. He had suffered some losses. There was no hope in man. But he goes to his preacher, number two. And I love the fact his preacher, his counsel is Isaiah. Oh wow. Isaiah Who is a man that was connected with God and connected with the man of government Connected with God Almighty, he had an upward relationship with God, an outward relationship with his country's leadership. And I want you to see this here in chapter 19, and it came to pass When King when King Hezekiah heard it that he rent his clothes and covered himself with sackcloth and went into the house of the Lord and and he sent Some men to Hezekiah for sake of time. And he sent them, and look at verse 4. It he asked Hezekiah through his emissaries, it may be that the Lord thy God We hear all the words of Rabshakhi, whom the king of Assyria, his master, hath sent to reproach. Oh, here it is. Here's the beginning right here of how we need to pray for our country. To reproach the living God, and will reprove the words which the Lord thy God hath heard, wherefore lift up thy prayer for the remnant that are left And so the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah, and Isaiah said unto them, Thus shall ye say to your master. Thus saith the Lord, be not afraid of the words which thou hast heard, with which the servants of the king of Assyria have blasphemed me. He goes on to say he's going to send a blast upon him, and that he will hear a rumor. And he'll return to his own land. And he'll fall by the sword in his own land. Now, here's what I want you to understand something about what his preacher said. His preacher looked through the circumstances and got his message from God. We need to look through the circumstances of the news and Get our message from God. What do we do? Do we listen to all of these people on the communist news network? Do we listen to the people on MSLSD? And all the rest of these crazy news medias that are saying this and that and this is going to happen. No, we don't listen to them. We go to God. We go to God. We get all this fake news. Oh, the Lord told me to come up. No, the Lord never told you to come up and attack Judah. No, God didn't tell you that. We need to go through the minutiae and go to God. As I believe it was said yesterday, failure is prayer failure. The problem with God's people moving into the third and last point is that we don't pray like we should. The average Christian prays about 15 minutes in fervent prayer a week. We sing a song, The Sweet Hour of Prayer. You asked yourself, when was the last time I spent an entire hour in prayer? I'll tell you folks, every single one of you. is important to God. Every single one of your prayers that you pray are just as important to God as anyone else living or have lived. Every single one of you. Even this young man right here, Evan, at sixteen. Can go to God and see miraculous answers to prayer. But here's the thing: we need to start talking to God The reason our nation is in the trouble that it's in is because God's people haven't been praying like we should. And there'd be some embarrassment in here if I was to say, uh show me your prayer list. There'd be some embarrassment in here. I'm talking about even young people. Prayer list. Say, but Lorney, what's your prayer list like? I I pray for over 240 pastors by name every day. Not once in a while, not here and there, but every single day I pray for it. And your pastor is one of them. Brother Rossi, who was here yesterday, he is another one. Then I pray for missionaries. I can't even count how many missionaries I pray for, but they're all in my prayer list. And I pray for them, and I pray for the families, and I pray for the children by name. And I pray for the elected officials in in Washington, D. C. over certain things. By name. And it's so wonderful when I go and see them. I can look in their eyes and say, I want you to know I pray for you daily. And I told that to the GOP Whip Scalise in his office in the Capitol. You should have seen his face. He put his hand on my shoulder and said, I came again to tell you how much that means to me. I had someone, several people actually come up to me and say, Brother Harding, I pray for you every day. I say, you know what that's like? That's like oxygen to me. Spiritual oxygen. Where someone looks at me in the eye and says, I pray for you by name. See, here's the thing. We don't realize how important our prayers are to God We don't realize how powerful our prayers are. Because if we did, we'd be spending at least an hour in prayer every day. Every one of us. There was a guy that he he said uh I'm I am so busy that I spend four hours in prayer every day. He said, what? That's like a contradiction. He says, no, because if I spend four hours in prayer, then the time that I spend for the Lord is so much more effective. I get through my prayer list. It's not a burden. And when you start realizing that your prayers Are important to God. How old are you, young lady? 17, are you driving yet? It's a good thing, okay? Twelve. Okay. Your prayers are important to God. How old are you? Fourteen. Your prayers are important. God hears you. Your prayers go to the throne of God. And you know sometimes where you're frustrated, you've been frustrated? You have you have any sisters or brothers? Three what Yes, you have two two brothers? You get frustrated then, don't you? And here's the thing, I I get so mad sometimes when I hear the news, I could almost spit And I don't even have to put that in words. I can go to God and say, Or the Holy Spirit takes our Our thoughts that we can't even articulate. And he brings them to God. You ever been burdened for someone? Heartbroken? Why don't you take that to God, put that before the throne? Do you realize there's enough people in this room to literally change the course of our country? One man changed the course of Texas. One man. Look how many we have here. We could change the course of our state. Of your city, of our country, if you realized how powerful, how important your prayers are to God. And then the the icing of the cake, every once in a while he he gives you blessings too Amen. I've told you about our house in times past, and I told you about our automobile that that God gave to me for hosting pastors. And uh, you know, uh uh, I mean it's out there. It's a suburban premiere, $75,000, $80,000 vehicle that God just gave me. I mean, gave me. So that I could host pastors. And uh I told my wife not too long ago, I I said I need I need a couple of new suits. Not that my suits were sweat threat threadbare, but I just said I need a couple of new new suits. I didn't even pray about it, I don't think. I don't remember praying about it. Maybe I did. You know, I I'm always praying. Always keep that prayer, that channel open with God, right? Amen And so the next church we went to, a guy came up to my wife and said, Does your husband need some suits? She said, Yeah, he was just telling me that. And he came to me and said, hey, do you need some suits? I said, yeah, I was just talking. He said, yeah, I just talked to you about it. She said, now the suit I was wearing wasn't threadbare. It was a nice suit. But it wasn't an expensive suit, but it was a nice suit. It was a nice suit. He said, I'm gonna get you some suits tomorrow. He said, have you ever been measured for some suits? I said, no, I own I don't go that direction. I go on sale, you know, 75% off. That's where that's when I go. He said, Well, I'm going to take you tomorrow And I'm gonna get you measured for some suits. I said, okay. And he took me to a clothing store. My wife came with us and uh and he said, pick out the materials you want Pick out the lining and then we'll get you measured. I was thinking, well, maybe he said suits oh two two suits. That's I was so excited. You know. Get measured for a suit. I felt like you know This is one of the suits. This is one of the suits here. He bought me three double-breasted Three single-breasted suits. Six suits. I mean I was you could have knocked me with a feather. He said, he said, you can pick up the lining. Look at the lining I picked out Pretty fancy, huh? And the guy said when he was measuring, he said, You want a ticket pocket? I said, What's that? He says to put tickets in. I said I hope I don't get any tickets, at least traffic tickets, but yeah, I'll take it. I got a ticket pocket. Look at my ticket pocket for the leatherman I put I don't know, I put chapstick in there, you know. He said you uh he said, Do you want the pocket slanted or straight? I said Oh, slant them. Slant my and they said, how about stitching? You want I said, Yeah, I'll take some nice stitching. And then he asked me, Do you need some shirts? I thought, Lord, I don't want to, you know. He said, Do you need some shirts for the harding? I said Yeah, I I I could use some shirts. I'll go pick he said no I'm gonna get you a measure for some shirts. Hey, come on over here, buddy. Measured me for some shirts. Egyptian cotton shirts. You know what Egyptian cotton is? Feel, feel, feel feel that it's like putting on pajamas. They're so soft. French cuffs. Amen. He got me four Egyptian cotton shirts. They told my wife. He gave her some money. He said, go pick out some ties And some handkerchiefs to match his suits. And my wife started giggling, because you ladies like to shop, amen. And so she went running off giggling. And this is what he said. Don't look at the price tags. He said, make sure they're they're uh handkerchiefs to show, not to blow. Well, it's a show, so she got me. Well, what am I saying There's no way that I could have afforded even one of these suits. I got six suits, four shirts, ties to match the six suits, and then he said, How about some shoes? I said, really? I'm gonna I'm getting embarrassed now, you know? I said, okay. I do need a pair of shoes. He got me some shoes and not just any shoes. Alan Edmonds, you know what Alan Edmonds are. They're and then he then he gave my wife some money to go shopping as well. The next day it was a conference. He came up to me. You know what he did? He showed me a an amount on a piece of paper. He said, you see this? I said, yes, sir. He said, this is something that came into my office today completely unexpected. This amount of money came into my office today, turned out to be a pretty well-healed individual. He said it's almost twice of what I spent on you yesterday. He said, you see, you can't outgive God. I thought, wow. But none of that, you see, would have ever happened if God just simply wasn't honoring my prayer life And I'm not bragging on anyone but God because I know I'm not deserving of anything. I'm not deserving of a thing But your prayers are so important to God. Your prayers are powerful with God And if you knew what you could accomplish through prayer, every single one here would be spending an hour in prayer. or close to it every day. You'd be getting a prayer list. Get some people on that prayer list and start praying for those people fervently. And Hezekiah, you see, he said, look, uh I I need to pray for my country and I want you to see something and I'm done. I I'm done. I just want to see because you know how I've always prayed for my nation? I've always prayed, oh God, please, please bless. My nation so the young people can grow up in freedom. Please bless my nation so we can continue to see the gospel go forward. First and foremost, to keep this pulpit open so people can come to the knowledge of the truth, and truth has a name, and his name is Jesus Christ. When I've seen the news, I've gone to people that I know. Did you hear what they just said? And they agree with me. And we solve all the problems of the world, right? Because we're of like mind and heart. We're righteous people. But that doesn't garner the attention of God. I want to show you just quickly these last few truths and then we're done. Everyone still okay? Everyone's still okay When he got the bad news, when Hezekiah got the bad news from Rabshiki that he was going to try to destroy his nation, I want you to see something. Because it says in chapter 19 and verse 14. And Hezekiah received the letter of the hand of the messengers and read it, and Hezekiah went up. into the house of the Lord. And look, look what he did. He spread it before the Lord. He said, I got some bad news, God. I want to just put it before you. I just heard some bad news about what's going on in our country. I want to put it before you. And look it look at what he says. Verse 15. This guy prayed before the Lord and said, O Lord God of Israel, which dwelleth between the cherubims. Thou art the God, even thou alone of all the kingdoms of the earth. Thou hast made heaven and earth. You know what he's saying? I'm really not the king. I I know you're you're the king. I'm just the figurehead. Do you know who the king of our country is? It's it's God. Jehovah. Our founding fathers said it when they signed the declaration, we'll have no King but King Jesus and no sovereign but Jehovah. He's the sovereign of our country. Now stay with me and just watch this now. Watch. It's amazing to me Verse 16, Lord, bow down thine ear and hear. Open Lord thine eyes and see and hear the words which Sennacherib. Look at this. Hear the words of Senakrob which sent him to reproach the living God. So we hear the news and we go to God in prayer. You know what we say? Do you see what they're saying against you, God? This is your nation. Our motto is in you, in God we trust. Do you see what they're saying against you? This is not against us. This is against you, God. You understand? Oh, yeah, we want our children to grow up in freedom. Oh, yes, we want the gospel to continue to go forward. But first and foremost, this is against God Himself. Okay? You with me? Okay? I'm going somewhere. Hey, this truth in your mind and heart, in your prayer life, could save our country. Right here. I want you to see something. Because this is to me phenomenal. It says this. Look. It says Then Isaiah the son of Amos sent to Hezekiah, saying, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, that which thou hast prayed to me against. Sennacherib, I have heard. You see, he wanted Hezekiah, all the kingdoms of the earth to know that God was the God of And the king of his country. He wanted all the nations to know by God delivering them, the nations could say, God is the God of that nation. You attacked that nation and you're attacking God because He's the king of that nation. And Hezekiah said the prayer that you prayed against My enemy? I've heard it. I've heard it. I sit with some very high-level people. One is on the Committee to our military. And it is All about the military and the defense of our country. And he's one of the senior people that sit on this committee. You know what he said? We're more in jeopardy now than we were before 9-11. Because this man in the White House left billions of dollars of high-tech equipment to the Taliban in Afghanistan and made them the number one terrorist arms dealer in the world for the next decade. And the Armed Services Committee in Washington DC Put out a notification, a lot of people don't get it. And you don't see it on the news very often either, that we're in some great peril right now. But look what it says in verse 34. This is God speaking to Hezekiah. Try will defend this city to save it. Why? For the young people so they can go up and live liberty So that men can live in peace and prosperity? No why? For mine own sake and for my servant David's sake So you know the right way to pray for our country? To garner God's attention, to get his power? Lord, save our nation for thy sake. For thy namesake, so the whole world will say, How did America get out of that mess? They were right to the precipice. How on earth did they get out of that mess? Hey, they said that in 2016 when Christians showed up in a miraculous amount and voted in a president unlike any president in our lifetime, Donald Trump. And they said, what happened? It wasn't a what? It was who. God stirring the minds and hearts of his people. But that's nothing compared to what God can do. And saving our country. And he said, I will defend your nation for my name's sake and for my servant David's sake. Hey, every day I'm saying, God, please. Do something. Bring us back from the precipice as you have so many times before. Bring us back from the edge of destruction for thy name's sake. That thy name might be glorified. And God told his kind, I will defend this city for my sake. That's how we need to pray. You want to do something for your country? Get to an old-fashioned altar and say, Lord, I didn't realize how important my prayers were. How old are you? 13. What's your name? Jacob. Jacob's real excited about being in church today, aren't you, Jacob? Really excited, aren't you? Right? God hears you. The God that made universe. Jacob, he hears you. And if you pray in believing to him, he's going to give you some amazing things through your prayer life. And it could be Jacob, that could be the next prayer warrior that sees some miraculous things. But God, no matter what your age is, he's waiting to hear from you He can do anything. He has the ability to do anything To bring our nation back. Hey, to take care of all of the things we can't even touch But we need to understand how important our prayers are to him, how powerful they are. So I want to give an invitation today. Actually two. Because you know why I want God to show up? In verse 35, and it says, and it came to pass that night that the angel of the Lord went forth. and smote in the camp of the Assyrians 104 score and 5,000. And when they arose in the morning, behold, they were all dead corpses. You know, you're having a bad day when you wake up and you're a dead corpse. Right? Just want to check and see if you're still awake or not, okay? Why don't we get to an old-fashioned altar today? Say, Lord, I I just I didn't understand how important my prayer was to you. I didn't understand that I can be a prayer warrior, that I can see some miraculous things happen. I didn't understand that my prayer could be the prayer, the prayer, that would bring you to defend this nation. Against the terrorists for one thing. Against these people in Washington DC and they're trying to destroy our nation. And I'm sorry to say they're the majority right now. But hey, the midterms are coming. We need to pray that God stirs the hearts of his people to get to the midterms to vote because that will help to keep the floodgates c closed a little bit longer so we can see God work in our nation a little more. to see people come to know him. But I want his name to be glorified. What about you? Oh, I like the peace and prosperity. I want the children to grow up in freedom. I want to continue to go forward with with this the spiritual liberty. But first and foremost, like Hezekiah said, Lord, for thy name's sake. And God said, I'll do it for my name's sake. Two invitations today. Number one, are you one of those people that have never accepted the gift of eternal life? If you are, I'm going to ask you a question in just a minute. Second, if you are saved, in just a moment, I'm going to Be praying at this altar. I'm going to invite you to come and pray with me because I'll guarantee you, look, if your prayer life is exactly where it needs to be and you're good and you really can't improve upon your prayer life, then you don't need to come down the altar. But if you know that you can increase your power with God in prayer, this is how we do it. By humbling ourselves. That's why the altar is here. As reminiscent of Old Testament times, where God's best people did God's best work. So if you would please close your eyes just for a moment. Bow your heads, let me ask this question. Who are you today? That would say, Brother Harding, I I've never actually accepted that gift of eternal life one time in my life, but I want that. I want to go to heaven Brother Hart, would you pray for me that I would come to that point in my life where I know for sure when I die I'm going to heaven, not because of going to church or reading my Bible or believing, but acting upon that belief because the devils believe and tremble Belief's not enough. You want to go to heaven? You can go to heaven just by accepting Christ. But the hearty that's me Here's my hand. Raise your hand up. Let me see. Who are you? Raise your hand up and write right back down again. Don't know for sure. I think I see a hand there. Anyone else? How many saved by the hardy? I know, I know for sure I've done what the Bible says to do. I know for sure that I'm going to heaven when I die. I'm positive I've accepted the gift of eternal life. Here's my hand as testimony. I know for sure, Brother Harding. Here's my hand as testimony. Raise your hand. Let me see. Know for sure. I know for sure, Brother Harding. I know for sure. If you couldn't raise your hand then Wouldn't you raise it now? Thank you. Put your hands down. Couldn't raise your hand then, wouldn't you raise it now? Just let me pray for you. No one's going to come to you. I'm not going to embarrass you. But if you want me to pray for you, I'll pray for you. You wouldn't like that. Anyone like that? All right. I'm asking if you would please stand and look right right up here. Stand up and look right up here. A little different different type of a invitation. Wouldn't you like to see God do some miracles in our country? Wouldn't you like the whole world to say what's what's going on over there? And we could say it's not what it's who. See, if there was an atomic bomb going off in Washington DC, we'd all be at the altar, wouldn't we? Wouldn't we? Because our life would be on the line. Uh guess this. The our life is on the line. How bad does it have to get for us to get out of our comfort zone? Oh, I'm exactly where I need to be with my prayer life. Really? I'm not. I'm not I need to increase my prayer life. I need to increase my prayer. Say, Brother Hardy, I didn't realize how important my prayer was to God. Would you join me in an old-fashioned altar? I'm not going to ask the piano to play. I'm just going to ask you to come. In humility, and get with me at this old-fashioned altar