Let's jump into this here. The Bible says, but the fruit of the Spirit, that's our series, we're talking about this fruit of the Spirit. Is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, and then he makes this statement that su against such there is no law. The fruit of the Spirit. Let me pray, and then we'll jump into this real quick. Father, we thank you for a good day. Busy And uh looking forward to a great week. But I pray now as we pause here this evening, as we finish out the Lord's Day, that your Holy Spirit would take this passage, this fruit of the spirit, what it means for us as believers. I pray your Holy Spirit would help us understand this. And I pray you'd speak to our hearts. And if there's any decisions or actions we need to take so that this fruit could be born in our lives, that you would help us to see that. And then, Lord, I pray it'd serve us, be willing. To do what we need to do to have the fruit of the Spirit in our lives as believers. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. This passage is written to believers, people that know Jesus Christ as Savior People that come to the point, they recognize the fact that I'm a sinner. Because of my sin, I'm separated from a holy God. But God loves me. And He doesn't, as one of the evangelists said God doesn't want us to die and go to hell. He wants us to go to heaven. He didn't create us to go to hell. He wants us to go to heaven. But we've sinned. And the c wages of sin is death. The consequences of sin is Spiritual death, separation from God. If we die in that condition physically, unforgiven for my sin, I'm separated from God for all eternity. in this place called hell. But Jesus loved me, died for me. He took responsibility for my sins, was judged in my place, was buried Rose again, and when we call on him to be our personal Savior, trust him to forgive us, he gives us that gift of eternal life, and we can know for sure we're going to heaven. And that's who he's writing to, folks that have made that decision. And the important thing to understand, again I'm being a little repetitious here from previous message, but on purpose, it's important to understand the moment that we accept Jesus Christ as Savior The Holy Spirit of God takes up residence in our bodies. Now, to me, that's such an amazing thing. And I know I keep saying this, but it just is amazing to me that as a believer, saved person The Holy Spirit of God, God Almighty, and the person of the Holy Spirit dwells within my body. Now we don't always recognize that. We don't necessarily feel it. And, you know, there's not necessarily all these things, but he's there. And one of the purposes of the Holy Spirit dwelling within me is so that he can, as Brother Mark saying, mold me and make me into the image of Christ. The Holy Spirit dwelling within me will produce this fruit in my life if I allow him to. Now, Galatians, we won't go back and look at all of it, but we noted previously that he points out very clearly, and we're aware of this, that when we trust Christ as Savior, we have this conflict within our being. We have what is referred to here as the flesh. And then now we have the Holy Spirit within us creates a new nature in us. So the flesh, when he refers to the flesh, he's not talking about flesh and bone, blood and guts. He's not talking about our physical flesh. He's talking about our sinful nature. Everybody here is aware of the fact we have a sinful nature, right? And when we get saved, that sinful nature doesn't go away It's still there. It's it's in our flesh. It's part of our our our nature. We have this tendency to do wrong. We have this bent towards evil. And it's still within us. I h how many people sense it there? You still sense it there? Yeah, every day There's this part in me that wants to do what I want to do, that um uh wants to disobey God. There's a Has a desire to do things that are contrary to the holiness of God and the will of God. That's fair. But as a believer, now the Holy Spirit is in me And there's a part of me, there's a desire for me to do right. How many people here have ever decided, yeah, I want to do right and you end up doing wrong? Yeah. Paul said that in chapter 7. That's that conflict And if you remember, we pointed out last week, earlier in the chapter, I think it's around verse 16, somewhere around there, he says that the way we conquer that old nature, the way we conquer that flesh is by walking in the Spirit. And I'm yielding to the Holy Spirit dwells within me. I'm yielding to him and letting him lead me and direct me. He uses the Word of God. He uses the preaching of the Word of God. To direct me and mold me and make me, and when I yield to him, when I walk in the Spirit, letting him control me, then this fruit is produced in my life. And uh so my first thought, and this is what we touched on last week, and we didn't get all the way through the message, but the source of this fruit. Now look at the fruit again. Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. That means self-discipline. How many people would like to have that true in your life? Those characteristics. I'd like to have that in my life. And the question people have sometimes, and sometimes we think this way, and again I touched on this a good bit last week, and we will throughout the series. But people think, well, what do I have to how do I get love, this love that he talks about? How do I get this peace in my heart? How do I have this joy that where do I go to get it? How do I get this joy to be true in my life? And the point is this. This is the whole thing Paul is saying. I don't manufacture it and I don't grab it out there somewhere and bring it in. Every one of those characteristics is already within the believer's heart and soul. It's already there in the person of the Holy Spirit. He produces it. He makes these things true to be in my life And so I don't have to go to some seminar and learn how to be self-disciplined. I don't have to go to some counseling thing and learn how to have the peace of God and the joy of the Lord. To have to learn to love people. It's already in me. What I need to do is allow the Holy Spirit just to bear that fruit. Anybody here ever have a garden or a field and the weeds grow up and they and they choke out the fruit that you're planting? Anybody know what I'm talking about? What I need to do is get those weeds out of the way and let that Holy Spirit bear that fruit. Here's what happens. We're reading our Bible, and God will speak in my heart about some area that I need to address, maybe something I need to get out of my life that's hurting me, hindering me Maybe it's something I need to bring into my life, something I need to incorporate that will help me grow and be what I ought to be. Maybe it's an attitude I have I need to adjust and deal with. Maybe it's some habit, some addiction, maybe something But what and and God will speak to my heart about that and He'll stir me to do something. And I have an option. I can agree with God and say, yes, God, okay, I'll do that. I'll make that adjustment. I'll make that change. Or I can say no to the Holy Spirit. The term for that in Ephesians is it's called quenching the Spirit. In other words, the Holy Spirit wants to do in my life, wants me to get into the position, the condition, where these fruit can be true, that I can have genuine love in my heart. I can have a supernatural peace of God even regardless. I can have all that if I'll simply submit to the Holy Spirit. Don't quench him when he deals with the heart. Anybody here ever in a preaching service, maybe revival or whatever, and God speaks to your heart, but you don't want to do what God spoke to your heart about? Anyone know what I'm talking about? Yeah, I've been there. Try preaching, and that happens to you while you're preaching. That's rough. And it's like, man, God, I don't know. And I can resist the Spirit and say no, and I can quench him, and guess what? I'm not going to have the peace of God. I'm not going to have that love of God. I'm not going to have the joy of the Lord in my life. I'm not going to have that temperance, that discipline. I'm not going to be gentle. I'm going to be harsh. I'm going to be frustrated. Because why? Because the Holy Spirit produces that and I need to recognize He is the source of that. It's already in me I just need to get out of the way. I just need to cooperate with the Lord. When He deals with my heart, yes, Lord, I'll submit to that. I'll do that. I won't I'll stop to that. I'll make these changes. And then the Holy Spirit can bear. So the source of this fruit that he's listing here that we're going to look at is in the person of the Holy Spirit. And again, I said last week, you know, sometimes we think, well, in my circumstances, there's no way in the world I can have joy and peace and patience and gentleness and I can't have it. In my circumstance, there's no way Listen, it is not my circumstance that produces this fruit. It's the presence of the Holy Spirit in me that produces the fruit Say, preacher, if you knew if you knew who I had to live with, you know why I'm mad all the time. The Bible says if I got the Holy Spirit in me, I can have the joy of the Lord, even if in a terrible situation You follow what I'm saying? It's already in us. That's the m-that's if the one thing I got out of this study so far in this is this. Every single one of those characteristics is already in me. All I gotta do is just let it happen. All I gotta do is get out of the way. Get myself in a position, a condition, where the Holy Spirit can do it. I don't have to work it up What are you doing? I'm trying to have love. What? What are you doing? I'm trying to have the fruit of peace in my heart. Uh knucklehead, you can't do it. It's the Holy Spirit does that. Right? Takes the pressure off. And the Lord does it. It's a supernatural thing. So the source of this fruit Spirit. Now let me get to point number two. That's what we preached on last week. And that's so vital to understand. Remember this. Remember this week when you s when you start when when you s when you start You get to the point where, man, I just need some peace of God. Remember it's already in you. When you're in a situation and say, I need to be more loving in this, remember it's already there in the person of the Holy Spirit It's there. I just need to let the Lord do that. Let the Lord do it. Number two, one thing I want to notice very quickly is the sequence. The source is the Holy Spirit who dwells within us as believers. Notice the sequence of the fruit. In other words, notice how the list, the order that it's given here. Notice it says, what's the very first fruit mentioned? Love. And then he goes on there. Joy, peace, long-suffering, generous, goodness. The order that it's given. Now, I got looking at this. The Bible does not expressly say that there's any significance to the order that's given here. But I know enough about the Bible to know this. God does not do things haphazardly. I don't think it's just an arbitrary list, he just put them down, whatever What I understand about God from studying the Bible is God does things decently and in what? Order. So I think there is some significance to the chronology, the sequence of the list of this fruit. And the very first one is what? Love And I think there's a purpose for that. I think there's a significance that that is listed first. Love is the number one. I think, this is in studying scripture, I'm more and more convinced as I study this. That love is the foundational fruit that makes all other fruit genuine, that makes all this other fruit possible. If I don't have the love of God, if the Holy Spirit is not, if I'm not allowing the Holy Spirit to produce the love of God in my life, I'm not going to have joy. There's not going to be any peace there. I'm not going to be very patient with people. I'm not going to be very gentle. I'm going to be harsh. I'm not going to live a good life. I'm going to do bad things. My faith is going to struggle. I believe love is a foundational characteristic of the Christian life, particularly in the Holy Spirit, bearing this fruit. I think there's a reason it's listed first. Take your Bible, if you would, with me, and go with me. Now keep your place here because we're going to end up back here, but go with me to Matthew. Matthew chapter 22. A fellow comes, the Lord Jesus Christ, and he asks him a profound question. And Jesus gives an answer here that I think helps us understand maybe why the word love, the characteristic of love, is listed first. Now remember, this is for believers. This is for those of us who have a trusted Christ as Savior. And he says, the very first thing I want to produce in your life, the very first fruit characteristic I want be to true in your life is love. Look at Matthew chapter 22 and verse number 37 This fella comes the Lord Jesus and he asks him, verse 36, he says, Master, which is the great commandment in the law? Now notice the Lord's answer. This is the great commandment of all the commandments. Here's the great one. Look what Jesus said. Jesus said unto them, verse 37: Thou shalt what? Love. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God. Then he goes on with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind. Look at his statement. Look at this next statement. This is the what? First and great commandment. I don't think it's coincidence that love is mentioned first in the fruit of the Spirit. Because Jesus says here, this is the first commandment. The one thing the Holy Spirit wants to produce in your life and my life, the very first thing, is the love of God. Have a loving heart, love for God. Now notice what he goes on and says: the second is like unto it. Thou shalt love thy what? Neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. I do not believe it is haphazard. I do not believe the list of fruit of the Spirit is haphazard. I think he lists the word love deliberately. It has significance. Why? Jesus says that's the first commandment. That's the great commandment. On these to hang all the other. I think on that on that characteristic of love hangs all the other fruit of the Spirit. All the other. Come with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 12. Come over there real quick with me. 1 Corinthians chapter 12. Now the world has a skewed understanding of what love is. And we're going to spend a message just on the fruit of love. But I want us to notice this the sequence here and why this first one is so vital. Look at 1 Corinthians chapter number 12. And all the way at the end of the chapter, chapter 12, all the way at the end, he says, but covet earnestly the best gifts. Now he's talking about the gifts of the Spirit. Galatians is the fruit of the Spirit. But notice what he says. He says, yet show I unto you a more excellent way. He says, Let me show you the most excellent of all the gifts. Let me show you the most excellent. Look at verse 1 of chapter 13. Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not what? Charity. I become as a sounding brass tinkling symbol. And though I have the gift of prophecy, I understand all mysteries and all knowledge. Though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, if I and have not charity. I'm what? Nothing. You know what charity is? Charity is unconditional love in action. A lot of modern versions change the word charity, the word love. I think it's a mistake. The word charity is a description of love, unconditional love. And it's referring to the manifestation of love, the expression of love, how it affects, how it treats others. If we had time, we'd go down through the chapter. And every one of his descriptions of love is an action verb. It's kind. It's gentle. All these all these other fruit are result of me loving uh of having love. And Paul says this is the more excellent way. I don't think it's a coincidence that the very first fruit listed of the Holy Spirit is love. Now the word love there in Galatians is agape love, unconditional love. Loving with no expectation in return. Loving with no expectation of love coming back, just loving. Look at verse 13 of chapter 13 of 1 Corinthians. And now abideth hope. Faith is important, right? Yeah, we're saved by faith. Hope And charity, these three. But the greatest of these is what? Charity. Charity. I'd like to, if you would, come over to 2 Peter real quick. Bear with me. 2 Peter. Chapter 1, all towards the back of the New Testament, 2 Peter chapter 1. We preached through this here not too long ago. And he gives a list of things that we're to add to our faith. This is Christian growth, my development as a believer. And notice what he says. And again, I think there's significance to the chronology of these things we're to add. He starts out with faith, verse 5. Add your faith virtue to virtue knowledge, knowledge, temperance, to temperance, patience, to patience, godliness. Do you notice any fruit of the Spirit here? Yes, almost identical, the list. And the godliness, brotherly kindness, and the brotherly kindness, what? Charity. It ends with love in action In other words, I believe he's telling us that the ultimate goal of Christian growth is where I can get to the point where I love God with all my heart strength Soul, mind, and spirit, and I love my neighbor unconditionally like I love myself. That's the ultimate goal of the Christian life. That's where we're leading to, that's where we're growing to. And Paul says in Galatians 2, he says, the very first fruit of the Spirit is this love, is this charity? Love So again, I'm convinced there's significance to the sequence of these lists. God wants us to learn to love He wants us to love him. He wants us to love one another. The world looks at that and says, oh, that's just kind of sissy. Love, love, love. I'm telling you, God. 1 John 4. 8 says, God is love. 1 John 4:16 says again, God is love. God wants us to love Him and to love one another the way He loves us. So there's significance. You say, preacher, I am not it is not possible for me to love somebody unconditionally. I love them, I treat them kindly, I do everything, I get nothing back. In fact, sometimes we love somebody and they're absolutely unloving back to us. You know what I'm talking about? You say, preacher, it's not capable for me to love this person unconditionally. I just can't do it. That's the point. It's not me doing it. It's who? It's the Holy Spirit puts that love in my heart. Romans chapter 5, I think it is, says that the love of God, the love that God has Is shed abroad in my heart by the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit enables me to love someone that hates me. The Holy Spirit enables me to be kind to someone that's unkind to me. The Holy Spirit enables me to be gentle and giving and gracious to somebody that gives nothing back. You say, I can't do that. I know we don't have to. The Holy Spirit does that. As I yield to Him, and He empowers me, He fills me, He enables me to do that. And so God knows our limitations. He knows that we're capable of doing. Say, preacher, I don't have that patience. I don't have that long summary. Right, God knows that And so the Holy Spirit is us, and He produces that. You ought to read, every Christian ought to read accounts of these old martyrs back in the 1400s, 1500s When the Catholic Church in Spain and around the world was martyring, torturing people for no other reason than that they believed that Bible and they were preaching Jesus Christ. For no other reason than they were teaching we're saved by grace through faith, not through our works. And the organized church turned on them. I mean horrific torture. Uh when we were in Mexico a few years ago they had a museum, an Inquisition Museum. Remember from high school history And they had the actual instruments of torture that were used in the sixteen hundreds here down in Mexico And people actually sat in them and they showed how these things worked and what they did to the bodies of these believers. And we saw it right there. And you read the accounts of these people that endured that, and you find a peace of God while they're going through that. Horrific torture. And yet they're rejoicing in the Lord and they're witnessing to the people that are torturing them. I got a book I just finished a few months ago. Um it was called Forbidden Faith. And it's 40 accounts of people currently now, contemporary in our world today, over in the Middle East, China, different places, that lost fingers, were beaten, some were killed. For no other reasons they're telling other people what you and I take for granted, they were losing their life over. And without exception, every one of them said, you know, that person that's treating me this way, I may be the only one that ever tells them of Jesus. And so while they're being persecuted, they're witnessing in love for that person that's doing it. How many people agree with me? That's tough In fact, I'll suggest to you, that's impossible humanly. You know what they had? They had the fruit of the Holy Spirit The Holy Spirit was putting that love in their heart. The Holy Spirit was putting that grace in their heart. And it was God shedding abroad through their life the love of God through the person of the Holy Spirit. It's a powerful thing. God knows our limitations, and so he gives us the Holy Spirit and enables us to do this. Now I want to end with this, and we need to come back to Galatians. I want to point something out to you real quickly here Galatians 5. Are you there? Because I want you to look at this. Galatians 5. And look at this list. So, number one, the source of this fruit is the Holy Spirit in us. It's already there. We just let Him do it. The sequence starts with love. We're going to look at that probably next Sunday night. Now notice the structure of this list. If you look at it very carefully, there's three sets of three Do you see that? Three sets of three. You have love, joy, peace. There's one set of three. Long-suffering, gentleness, goodness. There's a third set, second set of three. And then you have faith, meekness, and temperance, a third set of three. Again, I think there's significance to this. If you look carefully, and we will in the coming months, look carefully at that first set. I believe that addresses the condition of my heart: love, joy, peace. That's an inner condition. That's something the way I am. I have the love of God in my heart. I have the joy of the Lord in my life. I have the peace of God in my life. I wonder how many of us would say, man, if I just had the peace of God. We resist the spirit, we we quench the spirit, and we wonder why we have no peace. We wonder why we have no joy of the Lord, why we have no love. It's just frustration and bitterness. We quench the Spirit. God says, listen, this first list here has to do with my inner condition. Then the second list, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, that's my actions towards others. If I have the love and joy and peace in my heart, then I'm going to be able to be long-suffering to others. I'm going to be able to be gentle and not harsh to others. I'm going to be able to be good, treat people in a good way. Not dependent on their actions, not dependent on how they're treating me, but the Holy Spirit of God enables me. So the first set is an inner condition The second set is my conduct towards others. Then the third set is the quality of my character before God. Faith. Meekness. That's a form of humility. Temperance, that's self-discipline, self-control. And before God, the Holy Spirit enables me to have faith in God. I don't know about you. Sometimes I struggle. Sometimes I struggle trusting God. Can I get a witness? Sometimes I think, man, my faith is so weak. My wife and I, we uh try to with her health, sometimes she goes to to sleep awfully early, but we try to if if it's possible Most of the night we'll pray before we go to bed together. I have my own devotions at night, but we try to pray together before we go to bed at night. And you ask her, uh my prayers is over and over, God help me to be stronger in my faith Stronger in my faith. Anybody here know what I'm talking about? You wish your faith was stronger. God help me to trust you, not worry. You know what? The Holy Spirit, one of the fruits of the Spirit, is faith. And the Holy Spirit enables us to have faith in God, to trust him. If I let him, he will enable me to have faith in God. And so faith and uh uh meekness to humble myself in temperance, and then the significance of the fruit, and again I am with this. Why does the Holy Spirit bear this fruit in our life? What's the what's the purpose of this? Just so we can be nice people? So is this fruit in my life just so I can be nice? Or is there more to it? I think there's more to it. I think this fruit, when the Holy Spirit bears this fruit in my life, what he's doing is he's producing in my life the characteristics of the Lord Jesus Christ. And when I'm filled with the Spirit, and I'm walking in the Spirit, and God is producing these characteristics in my life, what I'm doing is I'm becoming like Jesus Christ. Every one of these characteristics are characteristics of Jesus Christ. I want to turn there, but we won't. But in Acts chapter 5. Uh the disciples. I think it's chapter five. Uh in Acts uh uh well Acts chapter one uh it might be five or seven, I'm not sure. But uh in Acts chapter one verse eight he makes this statement. He says, but ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And ye shall be what? Witnesses unto me. Now that witnessing absolutely includes the preaching of the gospel, proclaiming the gospel. But I think there's more to it. I think that witness that the Holy Spirit produces in me comes upon me, the power of the Holy Spirit comes upon me, is people seeing Christ in me. My witness, not just my lips, but my life reflects Jesus Christ I think it's chapter 5, chapter 4, chapter 5. John and Peter are there. And the Pharisees took notice that they had been with Jesus. You know what? That was the Holy Spirit producing a witness, the fruit of the Spirit, and they were seeing Christ in those guys' lives. And it had a profound effect on the unsaved. Later on, it says that they were first called Christians at Antioch. The word Christian means little Jesus, little Jesus. And there's New Testament believers were so filled with the Spirit, and the fruit of the Spirit was so abundant in their life. That the world looked at him and said, uh, those people, they're just like Jesus. Oh, they're just little Jesus is running around. Now the world meant it in a derogatory term They were mocking them. But the believers, they took it as a compliment. They owned it. I'm a little Jesus. They see Christ in me, the fruit of the Spirit. And so this is a significant Truth in scripture that you and I as believers have within us this fruit. It's there. And we can experience this, we can portray this, we can manifest this if we'll just let the Lord have his way. Die to self, yield to the Lord, let him fill me, and he can produce this. How many people are glad to know that we can have the peace of God, the joy of the Lord, the love of God in our life? We can Well just trust them and let them have his way. Submit to them. Father, please bless now. I'm looking forward to this study, and I ask that you would Give us open hearts and submissive wills that you can lead us, those decisions we need to make, those actions we need to take, so that you can do this and bear this fruit. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I find myself resisting the Spirit sometimes. I find myself quenching the Spirit. He's trying to lead me. He's trying to produce this. And my flesh fights it. And I wonder if there's some tonight say, preacher, I want to walk in the Spirit. and and uh and have victory over that flesh. Any like that? Anybody here? So this fruit? Sure. Who won? So let's ask the Lord to help us. And when he speaks to heart about adjustment needs to may make, trust him. He speaks our heart about something we need to do or stop doing or change whatever. Trust him. And then he can bear this fruit. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. As we finish.