Chapter 4, if you would, look at verse eleven. We started this last week. My intention was to um just preach this verse one message, but the more I got working and looking at it There's a lot of tremendous stuff here. If you would notice, verse 11, it says, if any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. And then he says this, and if any man minister, then he gives the criteria for going to minister for God. The criteria is, even so, or if any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth. And then he finishes out this statement that God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be praise and dominion forever and ever. Amen. I see three things in here. The first one I noticed was our speech. He says, if any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of a God. We looked at that last week, and I believe what he's saying there, whether it's behind a pulpit or it's on the workplace or in the living room at home or wherever it may be. Our speech ought to be characterized. Our speech ought to be like that of God's speech. In other words, the way God speaks. If you remember, we said last week we went back to Proverbs, and we noticed that God's speech the way God speaks is positive. He speaks of excellent things We talked about that. Then we said our speech ought to be pure. In Proverbs 8, it says that we ought to speak the truth. And Christians ought to be true. in their lives and we talked about that in our speech. And then our speech ought to be plain, just straightforward. Just don't beat around the bush. Don't twist words, twist meanings. Don't try and manipulate with our words to accomplish a goal. Just speak plain. So if we're going to speak, let us speak as the oracles of God, the way God does. How God's speech is characterized. That's the way our speech ought to be characterized. Now, what I want us to look at this evening is the second instruction Peter is giving, and that is our service. If any man minister, Let him minister. Let him minister. Let him do it as of the ability which God giveth. And then Lord willing next Sunday night, we're going to look at our stimulus, our motive. That God be glorified in all things. So let's pray together and look at this. I don't think we'll be long tonight. And let's ask the Lord to challenge us and help us. Father in heaven. Lord, it's been such a good day. I thank you for your blessings on our church and just every member that's a part of Mountain Lake. And I ask our Lord that you would help us. I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. And Lord, I pray that you would speak through me tonight your word and the truths here in this passage. And I ask, dear Lord, that you would help us. And I pray that uh that uh we be open to what you have. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you remember, there's two factors to the context, what Peter is writing here to these believers. Number one is up there in verse number, if you look back up there and verse number seven, he says, the end of all things is at hand. And he's referencing, in a general sense, the fact that the Lord's coming back again. And just like the rest of the New Testament writers, they anticipated the Lord's return in their lifetime. And I think you and I have every right, and we have a biblical basis to anticipate the return of Jesus Christ in our lifetime. Our theme for this year, maybe today. It's a biblical thought that we can every day anticipate, maybe today the Lord's coming. And so that's the context he's writing to them in these end times. Our speech ought to be, the criteria for our speech, the criteria for our service, what our motives should be But the other context is that of persecution. And as we say, as we study through here, they are facing intense persecution. And it's hard for you and I to relate to that, but what they were going through was absolutely challenging. And so that's the context behind it. Now what I want to look at is the second statement here In verse number 11, if any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth. If any man minister Now, that word minister there has the idea of serving one another. It has the idea of attending to the well-being of another person. And I think we touched on this in a previous verse, but it has the idea when you go to a restaurant or you go to a motel somewhere and they have a or or flying a plane, they have a steward or a waitress and they come and they say, how can I help you? What can I do for you? Is there something you need? Is there something I can help you with? Now, in those cases, a waitress, a steward, or a cashier or a person attending a motel, they're doing it primarily to get compensated for it, right? I mean they get paid. And the nicer they are and the better they serve you, the bigger the tip And so they have a motivation there. What he's talking about is not a paid position. He's not talking about doing a service to get compensation back for That is not what the motive is behind this ministry. And we'll talk about that in the next message, about to God's glory. But he's talking about serving. Now, just for whatever it's worth, the interesting thing about this It's the exact same word as the word deacon, to serve, to minister. And the deacon's role in the church is to serve the church, to help the church function. You go back. To Acts chapter 6, there was issues in the church. The church was struggling. They chose out seven men, had certain criteria for them. And they helped the church get through that challenge and helped the church function and go forward. They ministered. The pastor is referred to in Scripture as a minister, serving in that capacity for the well-being of the church and the providing oversight and direction for the church And so he says, if any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth Now, I got a few thoughts about ministering here I got from the Word of God. Number one, ministry. Now this is, I don't mean the word I'm using here exactly, so I'll explain what I mean. But ministry is a duty For every believer. Now, I use the word duty. I don't, that's a little stronger word than I want, but this is the idea. It's expected. God expects, now listen, God expects every member of a local church to have a ministry. We've got a little few amens there. God expects every member. And when he says, if any man minister, the idea isn't that, well, I don't know, I might or I might not. You study it carefully how it's used throughout Scripture. The idea is, it's expected that if any man minister, the idea is whenever you do that Whenever you serve your ministry, whenever you invest and you serve the church in some capacity. And so the whole idea here is that God expects every member of a local church of the body of Christ to be a minister. Sometimes churches will use this as their motto. Every member a minister. I've heard a number of churches that had that for their motto. Every member of minister. That's a biblical motto. Everybody serving. Every member has a part in church work. Every member has a part in church service. Every member has a part in the body of Christ. In Corinthians, and we're going to go there here in a little bit, but in Corinthians, Paul compares the body of Christ to the physical body of a person. And he mentions various members that make up the physical body. And I got thinking about that, and every single member, every single part of my body has a function, has a responsibility, has a ministry to the well-being of my body. For years they said that the appendix was a meaningless organ in the body. And they would remove it at the drop of a hat You know what they found out? The more they found out, they found out the appendix actually does have a role in the well-being of the body. And I think it has something to do with antitoxins or something like that But every single part of the body. Did you know your big toe plays a role in the well-being of the of the body And so, just like every member of the body, every organ in my body, every muscle, every tendon, every Every blood vessel, every uh internal organ, all of it has a role to play, has a ministry, has a service to the well-being of my f my physical well-being, every single member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church has a role, has a service, has a ministry to the well-being of the church. Can a church f Can a physical body function without a big toe? Sure. But it's handicapped a bit. Can a physical body function without a left leg? Yeah, you can get by. You can limp by, but it's handicapped. Can a church function without every member doing involved to some extent? Yeah, we can get by But they can't do what they can't function as they intended to, as designed to. And so what I'm trying to say is this, the duty Every member has a duty or is expected by God to have a role, to have a service, to contribute in some form. To the well-being of the local church. Dr. Lee Robertson used to say to the preacher boys class, I was able to get in down there when he was still there. He used to say this 10% of the church folks do 90% of the work. Now I think that is true in a lot of places. I'd like to believe, and my opinion is that Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church Those that are involved in the work is a higher percentage than ten percent. To be very honest with you, I think we have a fairly high percentage of our church members that are involved in some form of serving Mount Lake Indep serving the Lord in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Are we a hundred percent? No But I think we got a pretty good percentage. But God expects every single member to have a part, have a role, have something they are serving, contributing, ministering to. The success and the function of the body of Christ. And so ministry is a duty. Every member has a ministry. Number two, I put this down, ministry is diverse. Now, every person has a part, every person expected to be a part of it, but not everybody does the same thing. Everybody has a different role, everybody has a different capacity Where they served. Everybody has something different, a different talent, a different ability, a different area that they contribute. It's not all the same. It varies from person to person. Now I would like, if you would, turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 12. And Paul goes at length into great detail here in communicating this to the church at Corinth. And he's wanting them to understand that they all have a role, but everybody's role is not the same. Now the problem in the church at Corinth there, one of their problems. Was that they got jealous one of another. One person maybe had a more visible role, and all the others were envious. They all wanted that. It was the most, probably the most immature church you'd ever come across. And Paul's addressing that, and he's trying to correct that, and he's trying to get them to understand. Listen, what one person does for the well-being of the church isn't the same thing as another. Look in 1 Corinthians chapter 12 And look with me, beginning in verse 14. I want to read an extended portion here. Notice what he says: For the body is not one member, but many. Obvious. But he's trying to make a point. If the foot shall say, because I'm not the hand, I'm not of the body, is it therefore not of the body? And if the ear shall say, Behold, because I am not the eye, I'm not of the body. Is it therefore not of the body? If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? If the whole were a hearing, where were the smelling? Now look at this. But now hath God set the members Every one of them in the body as it hath pleased him. And if they were and if they were all one member, where were the body? But now they are what? Many members, but one body. The eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee, nor again can the head to the feet, I have no need of you Nay, much more, those members of the body which seem to be more feeble are necessary. And those members of the body which we think to be less honorable, upon these we bestow more abundant honor And our uncomely parts have more abundant comeliness. In other words, those members of the church and those ministries and those church and the areas of service in the church Some people might say, oh, that's not as dignified as this office. That's not as important as this ministry. Paul's saying, hey, listen, those that some might think aren't that significant are very significant. And those that are considered, that's not a very honorable ministry, he says, oh, we bestow more honor on that. Everybody has a part, but not everybody's part is the same. Look what he goes on here. Verse 24. For our comely parts have no need for our comely parts have no need, but God hath tempered the body together, having given more abundant honor to that part which lacketh. Look at this. That there should be no schism in the body. But that the members should have the same care one for another. Do you get that? There's various capacities. Everybody's involved, verse 25, everybody has a role Everybody has a ministry, everybody has an area of service, everybody has something to invest, but it's not all the same. It's not all the same. What Eric has to offer, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, what he has to offer Mountain Independent Baptist Church isn't the same as what Dave has to offer Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church What Pam has to offer Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church isn't the same as what Betty has to offer. Everybody has something to offer. Everybody has an area they can serve, but it's various, it's diverse We all have something different. Imagine if everybody was the preacher. We get here and everybody preaches. Brother, that'd be a mess. We have a rough time with just one. And so it's diverse. It's diverse. So number one, ministry is a duty. God expects every member to have a part, something to contribute. Number two, it's diverse Number three, and let me explain this one a little bit. This is my point. Ministry is divinely enabled or divinely empowered. Now keep your place here in Corinthians. Well, actually, we're done in Corinthians. Come back to 1 Peter. I hope you kept your place there. Look what he says in verse number 11. Makes an interesting statement. He says, if any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. We looked at that. Then he says, if any man minister. Any man he gives of himself, he serves. Look what he says. Let him do it as of the what? Ability which God giveth. In other words, God gives every member of the local body of believers, God gives every member of that church at least one ability Now, in Corinthians and Romans, he refers to it as a gift, a talent, a skill, something that I can do. Something that I have to offer. Now it's not all the same. What Ron has to offer isn't the same thing as what Jed has to offer. What Ken, what uh um what's your name? Vern has to offer Isn't the same thing as what Carolyn has to offer. But here's the point. God has given to every one of us A gift or an ability or some capacity to serve the Lord in the local church for the well-being and for the function of that church. God gives it to us. And God gives it as he sees fit. Um, Philippians chapter two, I think it's verse ten. Or verse 13, he says, it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. And so we look at the body of Christ, and God gives this individual certain abilities Puts a desire in their heart to do something for the Lord in the church, and then he gives them ability to do that, and God gives this person something different and that person something different, and God gives it, and it all fits together beautifully. And it all functions together, just like the physical body at local church service. I tell you a beautiful illustration. I've mentioned this before, but I just, it just absolutely almost overwhelms me. Is every year on the first Saturday of March, a large team of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church folks goes out to the Pleasant Valley Community Center. And I wish we had a time-lapse camera of what happens on that one day when that building is setting empty and within 12 hours time. It is all set up for a wild game dinner. The gospel's preached. Decisions are made. Souls are saved. And that thing's all broken down. And every person has a role, every person has a part, and it's just boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. And if anybody knows anybody notice that? What an amazing thing that is I think it was Shanna was talking to Kathy. She says, my mind is blown. She said, when I saw how this thing just works. And that is the way God intends the church to function, not on one day out of the year, but week after week after week after week as we serve each person. Their God-given ability, their God-given skill, their God-given talent is serving the Lord, contributing to the well-being of this thing called the body of Christ. And that church has then functions as a testimony and a witness to this whole world of the gospel of Jesus Christ, as everybody has a role to play. And it's a beautiful thing, and it's what God does. I look at these guys sometimes and Mark and some of these guys, Derek and others, Randy and Ron. I see how they use tools and man they'll just take something, they'll build something. And I'll go home and I'll say I can do that And I end up calling around saying, You know anybody that does home repairs? You can come and fix what I did. I'm telling you, maybe I don't know. I just I try And God has not gifted me in that area. And I look at people and I see something and I say, God has gifted them. I thought about in the Old Testament, you ought to study the life of Bezileel. What a man. God gave him wisdom in his heart. to build things and to make things. You go back earlier, there in early Genesis, and men that were gifted on uh making inst musical instruments and works of iron And God gives all of us, every one of us, as a God-given ability, something that we can contribute. To the Lord and to the function of the church. God expects every member to be a part ministry, serving in that local church in some capacity. It's all different. And God gives to each one that specific, and sometimes he'll give some more than one, but he gives everyone at least one. And they contribute and they work and they use that talent and that ability, that skill, that gift. For the function of the church. And man, then the church is a powerful, powerful witness in this old sinful world. So it's a divine ability. Any ministry I can do, listen, get this. Any ministry I can do is a divine, it is because of God's enablement. Any service that I can render to the church, it's because God has enabled me to do that. God has done that. God has given me that ability. You know what that does? And that's so important for you and I to understand that whatever I can contribute, whatever I have to offer, whatever it may be, and we all have something I need to understand it is God that has enabled me to do that. You know what that does? That keeps me humble Well, look what I can do. And I've been in situations where there was folks like that. You know, it's me, I, you, I do, I'm telling you, it's not me or you, it's God And that keeps us humble. Listen, I'll tell you a good example of that. Years ago, Dr. Don Williams did a drawing, and his drawings are phenomenal. And he stood back one time and he said to me, he said, Brother Dennis, sometimes I'm just amazed. He said, it's not me. And there wasn't an ounce of boasting in his statement. It was all, I'm humbled. But why God has made possible for me to do. And if we understand it's God that enables us to do it, it's God that gives us that ability. It keeps us humble. We don't get proud about it. It's not us. It makes us grateful. I hope I can communicate what I'm thinking on this point. That God, listen to this, that God would want to use me And that God would give me some ability, something to offer to the body of Christ and the cause of the gospel. Man, we ought to be grateful for that. I see people sometimes treat ministry and service as I've got a right to this and I deserve. No, no, no. That God would want to use me in any capacity. That God would give me any type of ability to offer. I would be very, very grateful. I tell you, I do this all often. You ask my wife, we have our devotions. I just pray. And Pastor Matt will tell you, we pray together, and so often I just get overwhelmed. I say thank you, God, for the opportunity to serve you and to have a role in the eternal work of God, a part of the body of Christ. And God would let me do that. And so it keeps us humble. If we understand it as God gives us the ability, keeps us humble, it makes us grateful. And by the way, it also does this: it helps us be content. Sometimes people get jealous of what others can do. You know, boy, I wish, oh, I wish I could teach like she teaches. Oh, I wish I could sing like he sings. I get that a lot on Wednesday nights when I leave the sing and folks sing But you know, if we understand that God, in his grace and his wisdom, gives to us as he sees fit, I can be content with what I can do. Man, I can do this. And find contentment there in the church at Corinth. There was envying and fussing and Jealous of each other. I tell you what, you understand God does, God enables us. That takes all that away. Takes all that away. The fact that He would use any of us Is a phenomenal display of His grace. Of His grace. So God enables us. God expects All of us have some part, invest something. We all have a duty to play. We all expected that we serve, minister in some capacity. God gives us all different abilities. God is the one that gives it He's the one that empowers us. He's the one that works through us. He's the one that we are just the conduit through. He uses us for his end. It's kind of like electricity. You have one you have one instrument, I guess. uh uh instrument and you inject electricity into that instrument and it produces light It's a lamp, a light. You run electricity into the chandeliers here, and they produce light. You take that same electricity. And you run it into the floorboards, and it produces heat. Same electricity Same thing. Electricity produces light in the chandelier, but it produces heat in the floorboard. And that same electricity you run it into another instrument and it'll produce electromagnetic energy. It produces energy and and uh for things to function like a motor And things like that. Same thing, electric, but in different instruments, it has a different result. And that's the exact same way the church is. We have the Holy Spirit of God. Same Holy Spirit in me, it's in you. But the Holy Spirit fills one person and it produces teaching or serving or whatever that gift is that God gave him. You have another person, the Holy Spirit empowers that and it produces something different. And the Holy Spirit empowers this person. it produces something different. And it all works together for God's glory and for the advancement of the gospel. God does it. God does it. Nobody has a right. Listen, we stand up and say, boy, look at me, I'm really something. Look at my gift. Look at my ability. Everybody pay attention to me. You know what I'm doing? I'm stealing glory from God. Taking glory for myself that belongs to the Lord. Belongs to the Lord. And so, ministry is a divine enablement God gives us. And let me end with this. My last thought: ministry is directed towards others That is so important. I've studied this book. I'm reading this Bible through over and over and over and over. I'm reading it. And I can't find one place in this Old King James Bible. I can't find one place where we are instructed to be ministered to. I can't find one place where we are instructed to be served. As a Christian, my focus, now listen, this is so important in ministry. In serving God in the local church. Our focus is not to be on how others serve me. Our focus is not to be on other people's ministry to me. Every single time he addresses ministry in the church, it's always me. Ministering to others. Me serving others. To use Dr. Lee Robertson's little phrase It is dying to self. It's not serving me. It's not blessing me. It's not ministering to me. It is me serving, me being a blessing, me contributing, me ministering. You say, well, there's not much blessing in that. You've never done it I tell you what, you set out to be a blessing, you'll be blessed more than when you go out seeking a blessing. So ministry is always directed towards others As a Christian, my focus not to be what others do for me or how others serve me. My ministry, my focus is to be on how I can minister to others. Take your Bible, one last verse, and we'll end. Matthew chapter number 20. A lot of Christians out there in churches all angry because they're not being ministered to. Folks aren't treating me right, people aren't a blessing to me, they aren't this to me, and they aren't that to me, and they're doing this and they're not doing that. And I tell you, they're minister they're miserable and they're angry and they're frustrated. But we could die to self and get our focus on what others are or are not doing for me. Get it all for that. And how can I give of myself to others? And then the joy comes and the blessing comes and the peace comes. Matthew chapter number 20, would you come over to verse number 26? But it shall not be so among you. The disciples were fussing who was going to be the greatest. Who was going to sit in the seats and be served and be someone? He said, it shall not be so among you. Now listen to the words of the Lord Jesus Christ. But whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister. And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your what? Servant. Would you agree with me? We got our eyes turned around on this whole thing. We got our mind twisted. Oh, it needs to be for me, it needs to be done according to me, it needs to be mine, it needs to No no no, Jesus says, no. That's the way the Gentiles do it. But not disciples of Christ. Look at verse 28. And I've taken this verse for 2022. I've asked the Lord to help me live this verse on a daily basis. I mean that I have. At the beginning of the year, I came across this. I said, God, I want to live that verse. Look what it says. Even as the Son of Man, this is the Son of God, this is Jesus Christ, came not to be ministered unto But to what? To minister. Give his life a ransom for many. If you and I, if I if I could just get a hold of that, And every day, in every situation, in my home, in my church, at work, wherever it may be, I'm not there for people to minister to me. I'm not there for what's done for me. I'm there to minister. And whether anything is done for me at all or not is irrelevant. I've come to minister. You know what? That's exactly what Jesus did. And I believe when we serve others, die to self and just give ourselves to the others and to the well-being of the church and the cause of Christ. We are about as much like Jesus as you can get when we minister and not be ministered unto. For the Son of Man has come. Not to be ministered unto, but to minister. We need to view our God-given abilities. As given to us for the purpose of serving others and serving the church and the well-being of the church. I read about, this week I read about an elderly widow. She was homebound. She knew the Lord. She loved the Lord dearly. And down inside her heart, she wanted to serve God. And she wanted something she could do that would be a help and a blessing to others and to the cause of Christ. But she was very elderly and widowed and she was homebound. One day God put a thought in her mind. She was a piano player. She had a piano in the home. She put a she bought an ad in the newspaper. And she said, anybody that is sad, despondent, discouraged, call my phone number And I'll play a hymn for you over the phone. Free of charge. Anybody want to guess what happened? Her phone started ringing off the hook. And she would ask them, what hymn would you like? And they would say, and she'd put the phone there, and she would play for them. And she said many times there'd be weeping on the phone as they heard that old hymn. And she'd get to talk with them and share scripture and pray with them. And had a ministry to people and actually ended up leading souls to Christ. All because one elderly widow lady that was homebound said, God has given me something I can serve him with. And God used her. And God, would you agree with me? Some would say, oh, that's not very significant, service. I don't know about you. That sounds pretty significant to me. And God has given you an ability, God has given me an ability. It's not about us. We're humbled that He would do that. Let's take and let's invest ourselves. The body of Christ and the cause of Christ. Father, bless now. Help us, Lord, as we go into this week, to find and look for areas that we can minister and get our eyes off of what others are doing for us. And see what I can do for Christ. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Pastor, down inside my heart, there was a desire to serve God? There's something down in there. God put it there. And I want to serve him. God has given you an idea. And how many would say, preacher, I commit tonight to give myself the Lord to use me for his glory. Any like that? Whatever he's enabled me to do, regardless of what others may think of it, I want to use it for God. I want to use it for God. God bless you. And God will use us. If any man minister, let him do it as the ability which God hath given. Father, bless our invitation. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.