Second Samuel chapter number ten. I'll read down, it's uh pretty lengthy, nineteen verses, but if you bear with me, I think we'll get the whole idea. We're not going to even preach on the second half of the chapter we're just going to introduce that. I want to focus on the first several verses. But uh verse number one, 2 Samuel chapter 10, it says, And it came to pass after this that the king of the children of Amnon died. And Hanan, his son, reigned in his stead. Then said David, I will show kindness unto Hanan, the son of Hahash, that's the fellow that died As his father showed kindness unto me. And David sent to comfort him by the hand of his servants for his father. And David's servants came to the land of the children of Amnon, And the princes of the children of Amnon said unto Hanan, their lord, Thinkest thou that David doth honor thy father, that he has sent comforters unto thee Hath not David rather sent his servants to thee to search the city and to spy it out and to overthrow it? Wherefore Hanon took David's servants and shaved off one half of their beards. I don't know, today that would fit right in uh styles today, I think. I saw a guy on vacation. I mean literally one half was shaved as bald as my h hair, the other half was down over his shoulders and It was just I think he was one of David's servants here that they sent. They saved off the one half of their beard and cut off the their garments in the middle, even to the buttocks, and sent them away. When they told it unto David, he sent to meet them, because the men were greatly ashamed. And the king said, Carry at Jericho until your beards be grown, and then return. And when the children of Amnon saw that they stank before David, the children of Amnon sent and hired the Syrians of Bethrehab and the Syrians of Zobah, 20,000 footmen. And of the king of Makkah, a thousand men, and of Ishtab, twelve thousand men. Boy, they uh they armored up, didn't they? We'll see here in a bit why they got so many others in with them. And when David heard of it, he sent Joab and all the hosts of the mighty men. And the children of Amnon came out and put the battle in array at the entering in of the gate, and the Syrians of Zoba and of Rehab and of Ishtab and Makkah were by themselves in the field When Job saw that the front of the battle was against him, before and behind, he chose of all the choice men of Israel and put them in array against the Syrians. And the rest of the people he delivered into the hand of Abishiah, his brother, that he might put them in array against the children of Ahmed. And he said, if the Syrians be too strong fore, then thou shalt help me. But if the children of Ammon be too strong for thee, then I'll come and help thee. Be of good courage. Let us play the men for our people and for the cities of our God, and the Lord do that which seemeth him good. And Joab drew nigh, and the people that were with him unto the battle against the Syrians, and they fled before him. And when the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians were fled, then fled they also before Abishai and entered into the city. So Joab returned from the children of Amon and came to Jerusalem. And when the Syrians saw that they were smitten before Israel, they gathered themselves together And Hadarezar sent and brought out the Syrians that were beyond the river, and they came to Helam, and Shobak, the captain of the host of Hadarezar, went before them And when it was told David, he gathered all Israel together and passed over Jordan and came to Helam. The Syrians set themselves in array against David and fought with him. And the Syrians fled before Israel, and David slew the men of seven hundred chariots of the Syrians and forty thousand horsemen, and smote Shobak, the captain of their host, who died there And when all the kings that were servants of Hederazar saw that they were smitten before Israel, they made peace with Israel and served them. So the Syrians feared to help the children of Amnon anymore. Isn't this a strange chapter? Starts out with one man showing kindness, and it ends up with a military slaughter of several nations. How do you get from verse 1 to verse 19? Well we're that's what we're going to look at tonight. How do you go from a man showing kindness on the death of a of a a young man's father? to a horrific war. Let's pray, ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, again we're grateful for the Word of God and for these lessons in the Old Testament, particularly from the life of David. Or you've taught me and I trust us so many things these last months as we've studied this. And I ask you to challenge us again tonight. Father in heaven, I pray that you would speak our hearts. I ask that you fill me with your Holy Spirit Lord, I yield my will, I present my body, and I pray you speak through me, Lord, and help us tonight, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen. There's one word that connects chapter 9. Now it's been a few month a few months, a few weeks ago, since we've been looking at this with Bible time and then uh uh sword conference and out of town and all of that But there's one word that connects chapter nine. Now look there and see if you can figure out what I'm talking about. There's one word that connects chapter nine to chapter ten. Anybody pick that out The word there that we looked at in chapter 9, and lo and behold, it shows up in chapter 10 again. Anybody got it? Anybody see it there? Look in uh, if you will, uh look in verse chapter 9, look at the fourth last word in verse 1. The fourth last word in verse. Kindness. David showed showed kindness for Jonathan's sake. Verse 3 that I may show the kindness of God. Verse seven. For I will surely show thee kindness for Jonathan's sake. Then we get over chapter ten. That was Mephibosheth and how David showed him the kindness of God and took him into his household and treated him like a king and and uh just kept his promise to Jonathan. Now we get to chapter 10 and lo and behold that term shows up again. In verse number two, he says, Then David said, I will show kindness unto Hanan, as his father showed kindness to me. And so what I've entitled the message is rejected kindness. And uh uh so you have this word that connects the two together. I think kindness, we talked about this quite a bit in chapter nine But I think kindness is one of the greatest characteristics of a Christian, that they are just kind. I think it's characteristic of a mature Christian You find someone that's unkind and rude and arrogant, hateful, and unkind to people, I tell you right now, that is a very baby Christian, amen or not? Hello, anybody out there? Everybody with me tonight? Uh uh kindness, I believe, is a characteristic of a spirit-filled Christian. If you'll study Galatians chapter 5 very carefully, down verse 21, I think it is, and you find the fruit of the Spirit, one of the fruits of the Spirit is what Kindness. Kindness. When a person is filled and controlled by the Holy Spirit of God, one characteristic is going to be there, and that is kindness. They're going to be kind. I think it's characteristic of somebody that has the love of God. The Bible says in Romans that the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts. And we have the love of God flowing through us and being shed abroad out of our hearts. The love of God, it's going to be evidenced in kindness to people. Now let me ask you a question. What is kindness? Somebody help me answer this, define this. What is kindness? Right here. Alright, there you go. It's a fruit of the Spirit. But what does the word mean? What does it mean to be kind to somebody? We know the term, but what how do you define the concept of kindness? Yes. Being nice. I tell you, little kids are great theologians. Dorothy. Just being nice to people. How about it? Anybody else? Any add to it? Yes? Being helpful? I looked it up from the word that the Hebrew word it comes from. It means to do good to other people It has the idea of being merciful and compassionate towards others. And just being nice, being helpful, being a blessing, trying to do good and help others. I believe, as I said, it's one of the great characteristics of a child of God. King David, we think of David, we think of a warrior Man, he's killing Goliath with a stone. He's cutting his head off. He's slaying ten thousand Philistines. Um it's kind of gruesome. He comes back with thousand four skins You think, man, David's cold-blooded. This guy is vicious. This guy's brutal. This guy's savage. But you know, you get studying David, as great of a soldier as he was I'm studying the life of David here, and I come to this conclusion. I think David was pretty tender-hearted, to be honest with you. I think he had a heart of compassion. And again, that term tender-hearted is an interesting word. I always like that when I come across it. If I'm going to speak in order or studying it, tender-hearted. What does that mean? I think the way I view it in my mind, I like to kind of use word pictures in my mind, but uh do you ever get sunburned? Everybody here ever get real bad sunburn We were down on vacation. We were worried about getting sunburned. I'm telling you, I was covered head to toe. Kathy had this one hundred percent sun blockage, and uh I came out of the sun whiter than I was when I went into it But you get sunburned really bad. And somebody comes along and touches it. What do you do? Yah you react. You feel it. It's tender. It's very tender. Well, to be tender-hearted, I believe, has the idea of somebody's hurting, somebody's struggling, somebody's having a difficult kind. It affects me My heart's tender and I'm touched by that. I'm affected by that. Just like that burnt skin. Ah, you feel it. I feel what that person's hurting. And I see that in David, a tender-hearted man, a great soldier, fearless, savage on the battlefield. But brother, he had a tender heart, easily affected by the needs and the hurts of others. Now here's my outline. Real quick, I'm going to show you what I got here out of these first several verses. Again, we're not going to look at the battle and all of that. We're just going to tack uh address that at the end. But the first thing I want us to notice is David's compassion. David's compassion. Look with me if you would at uh verse one. It came to pass after this, the king of the children of Anon died. Anon had his son, Hanan his son, reigned in his stead. Then David said, Now this this This Hanan fellow, his daddy just died. And David said, I will show kindness unto Hanan, the son of Nahash, as his father showed kindness to me. I tell you what, you get the death of a daddy, and many of you know what I'm talking about. If a father, a beloved father, passes away, that leaves a hole, doesn't it? And effects there's a grief there. Uh one year ago, uh my father's birthday was this past Monday. About a year and a half ago, dad passed away. And I don't know, I just you know I I I I don't know, something Monday on his birthday it really got to me. I really got missing dad. And that and and I guess you have to experience it to understand. And many of you know what I'm talking about but just that heart, the effect it has on your heart. And David sensed that in this Nahan, the king of Amnon, his daddy passed away, and David thought, you know He's hurting. He's struggling. No doubt he misses his daddy. And David said, I want to go and be a blessing to him. I think chapter 9 and chapter 10, it's like God is highlighting David's compassion. It's like God's teaching us, here's a man of great kindness and great compassion. He cared about Mephibosheth. He loved Jonathan. Now he's reaching out to um uh to uh the king of the prince of uh amnon. By the way, it's not the first time we've seen David showing kindness. Now this is the first time it's really highlighted But if you would, come back just a few pages to the last chapter of 1 Samuel. Actually, 1 Samuel chapter 30. Not the last chapter, the second last chapter, but David, if you remember, he had he had gone to the Philistines and he was hiding out with the Philistines And uh h his home base was in Zieglag. If you remember, these armies came in and invaded his his home uh his camp while he was gone, took his wives' possessions. How many people remember that? We looked at that about a month or two ago. All right. Now he's coming back. He went and he recovers everything. But look with me, if you will, at verse 22. Of 1 Samuel chapter 30. Notice what it says. They get back and they bring all the stuff. Now there was a group of men while they were going to rescue their families that got tired, and he told them to stay there. Then they come back. Look at verse twenty two. Then answered all the wicked men and men of Belial, and those that went with David, and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them aught of the spoil that we have recovered Save to every man his wife and his children that we may that they may lead them away and depart. They're saying, hey, these guys didn't go with us in the battle. Why is sh why should they get any of the spoil? Why should they get anything? We fought, we risked our lives. These guys are sitting back here And uh they're just kind of uh cold towards these fellows. In fact, the end of the verse there kind of implies: give them their stuff back that's theirs and get out of here. We don't want them around. But look how David responds Then said David, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with that which the Lord hath given us, who hath preserved us and delivered the company that came against us into our land. into our hand. For who will hearken unto you in this matter? Nobody's going to listen to you. But as his part is that goeth down to the battle, so shall be his part that tarrieth by the stuff, and they shall part alike And it was so from that day. You know what David was doing? He's being kind to these fellows. He's sharing with them. Then, if you would, look over at chap verse 26. Then when David came to Zaglag, they got back to their town there where they're saying, he sent of the spoil unto the elders of Judah. Even to his friends, saying, Behold, a present for you of the spoil, the enemies of the Lord. David showed this kind heart he had. David was a man of compassion And I tell you, the challenge to me as I'm studying this is that um is that God would help me be more compassionate. I think I've said this somewhere, not too long ago, but I thought if I could go back in time. When I started out in the ministry, and when I started serving the Lord in the ministry, I think there's one thing I would change. Some people say I wouldn't change a thing. I always think they're they're dummies because they didn't learn anything But I learned some things I think and I would go back and one thing I do, I'd work at being more compassionate with people With church members and family members and people that uh uh maybe aren't so compassionate to me, but to be compassionate And David showed that. And I see that here, and I'm challenged by that. I noticed a few things about his compassion. Number one, his compassion was extensive. Look with me back here in chapter 10 of 2 Samuel. His compassion was extensive. He's going now to the Prince of Amnot. His compassion, his kindness is extended beyond his family. You know, some people are very, very kind to their family, but that's it. David's compassion and kindness extended beyond just his inner circle, his clique. Remember in high school when they used to have cliques? Boy, you had a little group and if you weren't part of them, if you weren't part of the in crowd, whether they were snooty and mean and hateful to you. Anyone remember those days a long time ago? You know what? Sometimes that carries even into adulthood. David wasn't just kind to his family. He wasn't just kind to his close friends and the people that he knew very well. He wasn't even just kind to his nation, even the people, his own people in his nation. He extended it out beyond the borders, and he was kind to people outside of his inner circle. Now, I take away from that, you and I as Christians, we ought to be kind to everybody. I got thinking about that. Who is somebody in the world That I, as a Christian, as a child of God, somebody that's to be a witness of the grace of God, who can I justify being unkind to? You know what I came up with? I can't think of anybody. I can't find you say, well, what if somebody's unkind to you? Well, as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, I'm supposed to bless them that Curse me. I'm supposed to do good to those that are treat me evil. I can't find anybody in the world that I, as a Christian, am justified in being unkind to And so David's compassion, David's kindness extended beyond the borders of his nation, beyond the blood ties of his family. And it went out to the king of Ammon. I'm reading a book. I've been reading all year. And uh I've been reading a book on uh modern-day martyrs. And it's fascinating. It's kind of a devotional type thing. And each day it has just a brief account of somebody that either gave their life for the gospel or were severely persecuted. Anybody want to guess which countries most of this persecution? We're going back about 100, 150 years. Anyone want to guess which countries they suffered the most in? Soviet Union, Romania particularly, China a little bit, and now more current, uh more of the Muslim countries. And I noticed a common thread through each day as I read this account of somebody that was beaten in prison, somebody, I I read one just the other day uh a few days ago where um uh this guy's in prison he's a preacher in Romania, I think it was, uh during the Cold War nineteen fifties. He was a prisoner in Romania And uh they would beat 'em, and every day they'd come in, they wanted information on the underground church and where they were getting their Bibles from And they just beat him mercilessly. And he said, one day the prisoner prison guard came in and he said, Can you tell me the Ten Commandments? And this preacher thought for a moment he thought, wow, maybe he's been trying to be a witness to him, he's been talking to him about Christ And so he started quoting the Ten Commandments, and he got down to commandment number five. Anybody know what commandment number five is? Honor Honor thy father and thy mother. And when he said that, he said, stop. He says, Do you think you should obey that command? He says, yes. And they removed the curtain and they had this preacher's mother all bloody beaten. They had beaten her. They had a gun to her head and they said, now You're supposed to honor your mother. Either you give us the information we want, or we will shoot your mother through the head. Let me ask you a question. What would you do? So the fellow sat sat there for a minute and he said, Mother, what should I do? And she said, son, don't deny Christ. I have a home in heaven. Everything's settled. Don't deny Christ. And he said, Sir, I'm going to honor my mother. And they shot and killed her. And he maintained his testimony. And I notice as I read these accounts each day, I'm challenged on my walk with God. I'm challenged. Somebody says something that I don't like and I get all worked up. And here are men and women To have gone through horrific persecution. And the the thing I was getting at, the theme I noticed over and over again in the accounts of these dear people That gave their lives and gave their freedom and gave their bodies to be beaten for the cause of Christ. One thing I noticed, they all said that the account of them was they were kind to their persecutors. Now this is what I was getting at. That other was a little I thought of that. This is what I was getting at. Uh one fella said uh the other prisoners, he was beaten And he'd be so kind to the people beating him. And he'd say nice things and he'd do things the best he can for it. And they said, why are you treating these people that are beating your body? They're going to kill you. Why are you being so kind to them He said this, I may be the only testimony of the grace of God they ever have in their life And if I responded back in kind in the same way they're treating me, I will never be able to win them to Christ. Isn't that something? Kindness. David's kindness was extensive. It went out beyond just those that were kind to him. Went out beyond just immediate family. I can't think of anybody in this world that you and I as a Christian ought not to be kind to You say, preacher, if you knew what they did to me, if you knew how they acted, if you knew what doesn't matter. Doesn't matter. Thing is, does God know what we are? Yes or no? Is God kind to us? I was just texting with my sister before church, and she was saying something about the church here, and uh um she said um she said God's sure been good to us. I said, amen to that. So David's kindness, his compassion was extensive. I put this down, his compassion was expensive. Was expensive. He says here, he says, I'm sorry, was expressive. Compassion was expressive. Look what he says here. David said, I will show kindness unto Nahan. The word show means to produce or bring about something. David didn't just talk about having compassion. He didn't just sing about loving others. He didn't just preach about it. He didn't just talk about it. But he displayed it. He produced it. Read 1 Corinthians chapter 13, the log chapter. Every one of those words is an action word. Does this, love is this, charity is this, charity is this, charity is this. David's compassion, his kindness wasn't just talk. He showed it. It was expressive. He expressed it. David's compassion and kindness was not in word only, but in deed and in truth. Now I got looking who this Nahash guy is, the father that died. And David said he showed kindness to me. Now I tried to find out what in the world, kindness, this Nahash, what did this guy do for David? And to be honest with you, there's no information in the Bible. There's a couple Nahash guys mentioned in the Bible. The others are probably not this guy. And so we don't know who he is or what he did for David, but David remembered it. And David was grateful for whatever this king did for him, and he remembered that I found that unkind people, I found that unkind people have a tendency to have an entitlement attitude You follow what I'm saying? Unkind people tend to think everybody owes me something. Unkind people tend to think that everything has to be absolutely perfect to be accepted by me, or else I'm going to retaliate. Do you ever sit in a gr you ever sit in a restaurant and watch people and the waitress comes up and maybe she makes a mistake or she Brings the wrong thing or Trump doesn't do something right. And man, people just lash out at him. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And that dear lady, who knows what she's been through? Who knows what she's dealing with And I found that unkind people have a tendency to think I deserve to be treated better than the way I am. And unkind people have a tendency to be ungrateful And to take things for granted and to assume that everybody's got to treat me a certain way. However, I found that kind people tend to notice kindness in others. A kind person has a tendency to notice if something somebody says or does something kind to them, they tend to see that. They tend to be grateful for that. They tend to respond to that and thank you so much. Unkind people, it's just I deserve it. I'm entitled to be treated this way So David, his compassion was extensive, it reached out beyond the borders, it was expressive, he showed it And then last of all I put this, his compassion was expensive. Now here's what I notice in verse 2. And David sent to comfort him by the hand of his servants for his father. And David's servants came to the land of the children of Amnon, and then they go in there, and you have the problem. It cost David something. Cost them as servants, cost them expenses for them to travel. There was some effort put into this, time David invested significantly to try and encourage and comfort Hanan. He could have just sent a note. He could have sent a little text. Sorry to hear about your daddy. But he didn't. He sent a a team of servants, a caravan. And took time to get down there. Anybody here ever get a little text from somebody? Just a little encouragement, a little text encouragement. Anybody? James Smith is tremendous at that In fact, sometimes he sends so many, so many, it's like, quit sending me so many encouraging tests. I'm not very kind back But it's a great thing to get a I got uh from a preacher yesterday, I got a little cur a little note. Preach brotherman, I'm praying for you. I hope things are going well That means a lot, right? It means a lot. How about when somebody comes by and just stops by and knocks on the door and say, hey, I just want to stop by. Say, listen, I want to be encouragement to you. Brought you some tomatoes or whatever. And just say a few words. I'm telling you, David invested significantly here. He didn't just do whatever he could to get by. Man, he sent servants down there the long way And it was expensive for him. So David's compassion here was extensive, it was expressive, and it was expensive. And now second of all real quick, everybody doing all right? Everybody bearing with me here tonight? All right. You look like you're sleepy a little bit, Daryl. I didn't tell a joke, so y'all are disappointed. So first thing I see, David's compassion. Real quickly, I want us to notice Nahan's cruelty. Now this is where it gets interesting. We knew David was compassionate. We saw that in chapter 9. Now look how these guys respond. To David's kindness. Verse 3. And the princes of the children of Amnon said unto Hanon their Lord, Thinkest thou that David doth honor thy father, that he has sent comforters unto thee? Hath not David rather sent his servants unto thee to search the city and to spy it out and to overthrow it. Kindness isn't always well received. Do you ever do something nice for somebody and they lash out at you? They treat you unkind in return. Kindness isn't always returned. I want you to notice three things here, real quick, and then we're going to quit. I want you to notice, first of all, the advice that Nahan got was bad advice. Verse number two, the first part. And his princes said unto him, and the princes of the children of Annon said unto Hanan their Lord, These guys show up right away, as soon as David's servants get there, no doubt they had gifts, and they're trying to give condolences to him. And the servants show up, and brother, they start running their mouth And they start giving him advice. I don't know where he got these guys, but they had bad advice for him. Israel at this point, now keep bear with me now. This is where it gets interesting, I think. Israel at this point is a powerful, powerful nation. Did you notice later on when they do go to war? Did you notice how many allies they got? Do you notice how they built up this massive army to attack Israel? Yeah, Israel was powerful I don't know what they were thinking. I don't know what they were trying to accomplish. I got thinking of this. Did you ever hear of this small man syndrome? Does anybody know what that is? Small man syndrome. No? A small man syndrome is this, as I understand it, is you get a short little guy And everybody's bigger than him, and he ends up picking fights with everybody because he's the small guy and he wants to prove himself. Anybody know what I'm talking about? There's a guy when I was growing up in our neighborhood He was short little guy and brother he was in fights every day, all the time, everywhere. He was just trying to prove himself to everybody and I think I'm wondering if that's not what these guys were doing. Here's this massive nation of Israel, powerful army. They got this nation of Amnon, which is your average below average nation And they're trying to poke them in the eye. They're trying to poke this bear and get a reaction out of them. I don't know if that was their motive or not, but I don't know what they were thinking. But I know this. Bad advice is very prolific. It's everywhere. Bad advice is on the TV shows. I'm telling you, if you're making decisions based off of something you saw on TV, you're getting bad advice Some talk show host say, well, they're conservative. I know I don't care what they are. That's not the place to go for advice. TV shows. Uh hey, if you're t if you're making decisions and getting advice off of Facebook, you're getting bad advice. Uh bad advice is everywhere. Songs the world sings. You ever listen to the words of the world's songs? They're all giving advice. They're all telling you how you should live and what you should do. Brother, I'm telling you the rock and roll world is a bad place to get advice. And rap and country and western. That's a bad place to get advice. Bad advice everywhere. Books the world sells. By the way, some of these blogs people get on or read blogs You better be careful. There's a lot of bad advice out there. YouTube, coworkers, uh, songs, Facebook. By the way, sometimes you get bad advice from church members It's true. I've been around long enough. I've had people give advice, and somebody they'll come to me and say, Well, so-and-so told me I should do this. I'm like, what? I hate to say this, but it's true. Sometimes you get bad advice from preachers. Huh? I've heard some advice. I've heard some advice I've given and later on say, no, no, don't do that, don't do that. What's the best place to get advice from? The Word of God. Word of God. I've said this from day one. I'm preaching up here. If I say something that's contrary to the Word of God, you stick with the Word of God and throw out what I say. And that's true across the board. So these guys had bad advice. There are a few people I trust. I got a lot of good advice from Dr. Pat Cree. He has helped me tremendously. And I have a handful of and mentors I call them that I'll listen to. And the Bible says uh counselors, uh uh the the importance of counselors, but be very, very careful Number two, their number one, their advice was bad. Number two, their accusations were false. Look here at verse 3. Thinkest thou that David doth honor thy father? Well, yeah, actually he was That he has sent comforters unto thee? Well, yeah, actually he did. Hath not David rather sent his servants unto thee to search out the city? No, that's not what he did at all To spy it out? No. And to overthrow it? No. Their whole accusations were false. They couldn't have been farther from the truth. I tell you, we've got to be careful when we start throwing accusations around. Amen or not? False accusations are addressed in the Bible Do you know the Ten Commandments forbids false accusations? Thou shalt not bear false. God condemns it. In Deuteronomy chapter 19, if somebody made a false accusation, they were severely punished. Psalms 5, verse 6 tells us that false accusations bring God's judgment 2 Timothy 3, verse 3 tells us that false accusations are going to characterize the last days just before Jesus comes back. And false accusations are characteristic of the devil. Revelation chapter 12 and verse 10 says describes the devil as the accuser of the brethren. Now I've got studying the Bible. I've done this years ago. I've got studying the Bible, and I never can find anywhere in the Bible can I find a spirit-filled Christian going around making accusations about other people I can't find it anywhere in Scripture. You know who we find in Scripture going around throwing accusations? The enemies of God. Did you ever hear of Naaman? When he came and accused the Jews that they were going to overthrow here, these guys You study in the Bible, you find that the enemies of Christ made accusations. The Pharisees, all they did was through accusations. This guy's a wine bibbler. Accusations, accusations. I can't find any godly, spirit-filled people making accusations in the Bible. Go through the book of Acts, the enemies of the Gospel. I went through and highlighted in Acts years ago, accused, accused, accused, accused. And every time that word is used, it's an enemy of the gospel. Not one time do you find a disciple of Jesus Christ Going around making accusations. Not once. These guys, their accusations were false, their advice was bad, and last of all, Nahan's actions were foolish. You know what one thing is worse than hearing bad advice? You know what one thing is worse than getting bad advice? Is listening to bad advice. Acting on bad advice. And Hanan, this knucklehead, he's got these princes coming, they're giving him bad advice, they're making these false accusations, and he listens to them And he responds to these baseless accusations. He's acting on bad advice. Can you think of anyone else in the Bible that Got bad advice and acted on it? Do you think is there is I don't know if anybody's with me or not. I'm having a good time up here. And can you think of anybody in the Bible that got bad advice from someone and acted on it and paid the price? Eve, yeah, she listened to the devil. I didn't think of Eve, that's a good point. How about who else? Amnon had a friend. He loved his half-sister and it vexed him. He knew this was wrong. And his cousin, Jonathan, comes along and says, Hey, here's how you do this. And he listened to him. He raped his sister and it cost him his life. Ruined her life. The only thing worse than lit ha getting bad advice is acting on it. Can you think of anyone else in the Bible that got bad advice and acted on it? Rehoboam, Solomon's son. He became king and he said, Alright, I need advice for a king. Good move. And he got the older men, he got their advice, and they said listen, be kind, be compassionate, be gracious. And he got the sa uh his peers, the people the same age as him, who had no more experience than him, had no more education than him had no more insight than he did. And they said, boy, put the hammer down. And he lit like a knucklehead he listened to them, and it divided the kingdom. Bad advice. The only thing worse than getting bad advice is following it. And then, last of all, the last point, I'll just say it, is the unnecessary conflict. David's compassion. Hanon's cruelty. And then the rest of the chapter is bloodshed. Slaughter. How many people died? How many mothers' sons died on the battlefield? How many wives lost their husbands on that battlefield because one person listened to bad advice and false accusations? And destroyed a lot of people's lives. I'm telling you, compassion and kindness will win out every time. But we live in a cruel world. Here's my invitation. Here's I end with this challenge. Let's just be nice. Amen? Let's just be nice. Let's say kind things. Let's help people. Let's try and be a blessing. Let's give of ourselves. Years ago I heard a preacher say, he said, I used to pray that God would use me. God used me. He said, then I got into ministry and I felt like I was being used. Uh yeah. And you'd just be kind. And you'd just be nice. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us, Lord, to learn from David's experience here. Lord, we look at this whole world and we just see a lot of cruelty, a lot of unkindness. And I pray you'd help us to live by a biblical standard. I pray you'd fill each of us with your Holy Spirit and bear that fruit through us, and we can be a light shining in a dark world. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many like me would say, preacher, I was challenged tonight to work on being compassionate. Regardless of how people react back, I'm just going to be kind, just going to be compassionate. Anybody like that? I had to stop when I was done studying this. I had to stop and say, Lord, help me. Help me. And I believe God will. I believe God will. Father, bless now our invitation. I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen.