Matthew chapter 4, just one verse. As I said, it's not a Christmas message, but it is a Bible message. And verse number 19, I'd like for us to read that verse together. Matthew chapter 4 Verse number nineteen. Do you have it there? Let's all read it together in unison. Ready? Here we go. And he saith unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men Follow me, Jesus said, and I'll make you officiers of men. I'll make you fishers of men. I want to speak this morning on the call to discipleship. Call to follow Christ. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our study of this passage of Scripture. I pray that you would challenge each of us that know you as Savior, those of us that Have that point in time that we trusted you as our personal Savior. You saved us, gave us new life. And pray you challenge us now to be followers of Christ. And uh I pray, Lord, by chance there be someone in our service or under the sound of my voice that does not have assurance of sins forgiven, maybe a hope-so, salvation, or thinks so, or or a maybe type thing. I pray today would be a no-so. Get that settled. And so please fill me with your spirit. I ask with all my heart. I pray you'd be the preacher, you'd be the speaker through me And apply these truths to our lives and help us to make the decisions that need to be made in this hour. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I believe the Lord knows my heart, and I believe I can say with all sincerity, I really, really, really want to see people saved. Amen? And I think I can speak for our church as a whole that Mountain Lake Independent Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church wants to see people saved. And by that I mean coming to Jesus Christ, being safe from sin, a life of sin, and uh finding forgiveness and a new life and And having the assurance of the acceptance by God that when this physical life passes away, we're in the presence of God and not separated from God in hell. That's my desire I believe I can speak for our church as a whole. That's the desire of our church. We spend hundreds of thousands of dollars over the years, millions, no doubt about it, getting gospel, getting missionaries out on the mission field, getting the gospel in printed form everywhere we possibly can. We run buses, we have a radio station, we have special events and big days and outreach events and all these things. And our desire is to see people saved, lives changed We like to see drunkards get sober. Amen. We like to see people living in sin, their lives transformed by the power of the gospel and by the presence of Jesus Christ in their life, find a whole new life. And a life of a godliness and purity and joy and fulfillment and holiness. That's what we want. That's what we want. Now what we want You know, is one thing. But more importantly, I believe, and I know with with I know, I'm absolutely convinced, God wants to see people saved God wants to see lives change. God wants to change lives. God wants to save souls. God wants to bring forgiveness of sin. God wants to bring a new life into lives that are empty and and uh struggling. I like ch I like Luke chapter nine and uh Luke chapter nineteen and verse ten. I don't know if you know that verse. It says this, for the Son of Man is come Somebody help me, what's the rest of it? To seek and to save that which was lost. Now that there is a Christmas verse for you, right there. You want a Christmas verse, there you go. For the Son of Man is come. To seek and to save that which is lost. That's the desire of God's heart, that people be saved Um you're here this morning, or as I said in my prayer, you're under the sound of my voice, you don't have that assurance. Can't honestly say, I know I've been born again by faith in Christ and a new life, eternal life Home in heaven? You can't honestly say I know I have that. God's desire is for you to come and trust Jesus Christ as Savior. Let Him change your life, give you a new life, give you a home in heaven And then those of us that know Christ as Savior, God's desire, we're going to see that here in a bit. God's desire is for us to take that message out to others. And so that they get they they'll be saved. Uh listen to 2 Peter chapter 3 and verse number 9. Uh the Bible says that God is not willing that any should Perish, die and go to hell. God's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. God wants everybody Turn from their sin and trust Jesus their Savior. Everybody, listen, don't entertain this idea that God only has a select few that He wants to be saved and the rest He wants to go to hell. That is not in the Bible That is a wicked thing to think that God would want somebody to go to hell. And that teaching goes around sometimes 2 Peter 3. 9 is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. God wants everybody to be saved God wants everybody to have a new life. God wants everybody to be delivered from sin. Listen to 1 Timothy 2 and verse 4, speaking of the Lord Jesus, who will have all men to be saved. God wants people to be saved. And Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, I believe, again, I believe I speak for our church and I say, we want to see people saved. We want to see people come to Christ. However, that is not all that we want. That's not all that God wants. God wants people to be saved from sin and hell. He doesn't want anybody to go to hell. He wants anybody to live a lives of sin. He wants them all to be forgiven and have eternal life. But there's more than that. God wants those that do get saved. He wants them to go on And follow the Lord Jesus Christ as a disciple. Now, I think sometimes, and I know I've been guilty of this, I think sometimes we don't do it deliberately. We don't mean to present it this way. But I'm afraid sometimes we present the gospel, we present the gospel in the idea that all it is, there's nothing more to it than getting a ticket out of hell. That all salvation is is going to heaven and not going to hell. I'm telling you, there's a whole lot more about salvation than simply just going to heaven and not going to hell. Now that's a huge part of it. Don't misunderstand me. That is uh you know where we spend eternity is incredibly important But there's more to salvation. God's desire for people to be saved is not escape hell. Period. That's it. God wants people to be saved, and then those that trust Him as their Savior, He wants them to go on and follow Him. He said, He we read the verse here: Follow me, follow me! And I'll make you fishers of men. I'll make you fishers of men. And so God's desire is not just that we believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved and have new. He wants us to go on, be disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. Matthew 4. 19, what we just read here. Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. That is a call not to salvation That's a call to discipleship. That's a call to follow the Lord. Now, believing on the Lord Jesus Christ, that's the beginning of new life. I believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the beginning of new life. Turn with me to John chapter 3. Would you do that with me? Come over. Keep your place here. And come over to John chapter 8, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, and chapter 3. There's a verse here we're going to look at. Everybody in this auditorium knows this verse. I am confident of that. John chapter 3, anybody guess what verse I'm talking about? John 3, 16, the golden verse of the Bible, the most famous verse in the Bible. You can go anywhere in the world almost, and people will know John 3. 16, where there's any type of Christian influence at all. Look at verse 15 He says that whosoever believeth in him, the Lord Jesus, should not perish, but have what? What's the condition to having e not perishing and having eternal life according to verse 15? Believing on him, believing in Christ, turning Christ. Look at John 3:16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever Believeth on him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. Come down, look at verse number 18 of John chapter 3. It says, He that what Believeth on him is not condemned, but he that what believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not Believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. Come over to verse 36, John chapter 3. Look at this. Listen, this is group involvement today, alright? It's cold and snowy out there, and uh need you to uh uh be involved here. Look at this, ready, verse 36. He that Believeth on the Son, hath what? Everlasting life. He that believeth not, the Son, shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. What is the distinguishing factor between those who are under the wrath of God, those who are condemned already for their sins, and those who are forgiven and are not under the wrath of God? What's the distinguishing factor? They what? They believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. Believe, believe, believe, believe, believe. It's all through there. I think I'm just quoting off the top of my head here, but I'm pretty close. I believe 94 times in the book of the Gospel of John, it references believing on the Lord Jesus Christ. 94 times. Come over with me, if you would, to Acts chapter number 16. And verse number thirty, I believe, is what I want. Acts chapter sixteen. Here's Paul and Silas are in prison. They've been imprisoned for preaching the gospel, preaching what I'm preaching here to some extent, and uh they're preaching, and they come in and say, You can't preach in that name. They throw them in prison, they beat them up, whip them with Scourges and uh in the middle of the night they're in the prison and they're singing praises to God and they're praying and the prisoners heard them, and God sent an earthquake and shook that place And the bars fell off the prison and they were free to escape, but nobody escaped. But the prison guard, the jailer there, he thought everybody was gone. He's uh hired by the Roman government. He's responsible for this. If these guys get out, the Roman government's going to kill him in some horrific way. Maybe crucify him. I don't know. But it's going to be a terrible death because he failed in his responsibility. So he makes a decision. He's going to take his own life And Paul comes in, falls down, and says, No, no, no. Don't do that. We're all here. All the prisoners are here. You don't have to kill yourself. But I think that jailer heard Paul and Silas singing praises to God and witnessing and sharing the gospel. And look what he says in verse number thirty. And he brought and brought them out And said, this is the jailer to Paul and Silas, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? Now look at the answer very carefully. And they, Paul and Silas, they said, What? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. And they spake unto him the word of the Lord and to all that were in his house. And the old boy, the old boy got saved. The old jailer trusted Christ. I don't know what jailers were like back then. I don't know what they're like today. All I know is Tom and uh the jailers, you know Maybe they're all like him, I don't know. I'm teasing, of course, a little bit, but um uh I don't know what this jailer is. I don't know about you, but I picture in my mind some hardened old grizzled Rough guy. Anybody picture this guy that way? I mean he's working with these prisoners and they're merciless, you know. They're they're just beating these guys up and doing all this stuff. And uh uh and this old guy gets saved. Maybe he cussed. Maybe he drank strong drink and uh whatever form of whiskey they had back then. Maybe he was a hard drinker, maybe he was a cussing man, maybe he was unfaithful, womanizer, I don't know I don't know. That lifestyle, that occupation, you'd imagine it'd be pretty rough. Paul and Silas say to him, you, and here he's under conviction. He knows he's He was that close to going out into eternity. He goes, what do I have to do to be saved? What do I have to do to be saved? They said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. Now we need to be very careful with that word believe. Sometimes folks get the idea, well, believe just means to mentally acknowledge, I believe that's true, just in a cerebral way, just in a mental way. Oh yeah, that's true, that's true. That's not what they're talking about when they say believe here. It means I am coming to Christ. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. I am coming to the Lord Jesus Christ and I am trusting Him. I'm putting all my hope and dependence on Him to forgive my sin and cleanse me and give me a new life and a home in heaven. But it's all upon believing. Now I said all that to say this. When I get to the point in my Christian life, I may be a church member, I may be a jailer, I may be just a good guy that pays my bills and tells the truth as best I You know, I try to tell the truth, I try to be honest, a good person of character, and uh keep my word. But if I've not trusted Jesus Christ, my personal Savior, I'm no better than that old drunken uh cussing jailer. So whether I'm morally righteous in my own eyes and man in man's eyes or whether I'm some wicked old uh uh whatever, the jailer might have been. All need to trust Christ as Savior. But I'm getting at this. When I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, that's the beginning of a new life. That's not the end. That's not the goal. Believing is the beginning, I put it in my notes, the beginning of the Christian life. It's starting out. Then when a person trusts Jesus Christ as Savior, when they're born again God begins changing their life, and uh they're a new creature, old things are passed away, all things are coming new. And God says, then God says to that person, hey Come now, follow me. You come follow me. That's what Jesus is saying to the disciples here. Following Jesus as a disciple And we'll explain this here in a minute. Following Jesus as a disciple is the product of believing on Jesus as a sinner. I come to Christ as a sinner, I turn to him, I trust him as my personal Savior. He forgives me, changed my life. Now, what he wants me to do, he wants me to follow Jesus. Follow me. Follow me. It is the purpose of believing is to follow Christ. It's what the Lord calls us to do. When we accept Jesus Christ as Savior, they can get up and follow him. That's one of the reasons I believe, one of the reasons I believe following the Lord in baptism after salvation is so important. It's so important. It is making a public statement. I'm a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm no longer my own. I've trusted him. Now I want to live for him. I want to follow him. I'm coming out and out for Christ. And it's an act of faith. I'm going to trust God and uh let him lead me. I'm going to follow him. Um I've got a sneaky how many people here, how many people here want to see people's? Let me back up a little bit. How many people here you're saying you know it? Say amen How many people here you're saved, you know it, and you say, Preacher, I'd really like to see people saved. I've got some individual people individually or just generally. I would really like to see other people come to Christ. How many people feel that way Sure, I think our church feels that way. I believe any believer would feel that way. Um how many people here are a little bothered by how few people we see get saved? How few people, how many people think, boy, we we'd like to see more people say? Seems like there should be more. I got studying this here and thinking about it. Jesus said, follow me And I will make you fishers of men. What do fishers of men catch? Fishers of men, what do they catch? Yeah. They catch people, they catch men. What's he talking about? People getting saved, being one to Christ, drawn to Christ, and accepting Christ. I got thinking about this. Why does it seem sometimes We don't have more people saved, more people being one to Christ, more people being caught, quote unquote, to the faith in Christ. I wonder if it's because there's so few believers following Jesus. Huh? He said, follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. And maybe maybe we need to stop. Here's my message. Maybe you and I that know Christ as Savior, maybe we need to stop and just step back and take a look at ourselves for a moment and ask this question, am I really following Christ? Am I really following Christ? Because he says, follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. I will make you fishers of men. Now, just real quickly, a few thoughts about this statement he made. Come back here to Matthew. A few statements about, I wrote these in the Marge of my Bible and devotion some time ago, it's been several months ago. Just a few thoughts about this call to follow Jesus. Number one, I put this down, it is a call to a decision. It is a call to a decision. We make thousands and thousands of decisions every day. This morning the alarm went off and you made a decision. Am I going to hit snooze or am I going to get up? Amen. How many succumbed to the snooze? Yeah, I did a couple times. Snooze. And um uh that's a decision we made right from then we uh get up and say, all right, am I gonna What am I going to do now? And uh get up and drink coffee and have devotions and get cleaned up or whatever. Then you looked out the window, snow and ice, and then you had to make a decision, am I gonna go to church today or not Oh, if I don't go, that preacher will be all over us. Oh, I better go. And so you made a decision to go to church. By the way, I'm glad you did. Made a decision, go to church. Anybody let me just say this. How anybody here ever go to church? You really didn't feel like it. You're just kind of grouchy and uh you didn't well you just went anyway because you know you should, and afterward you say, man, I'm glad I went to church today. Anybody know? Sure. The preacher's done that. Um uh but we make decisions Life is made up of decisions after decisions after decisions. You and I are today what we are because of decisions we've made throughout our life. You say, oh, it's my circumstances I was born in. Oh, it's the situations I found myself in that make me what I am. No, I don't believe that for one minute. I think it's the decisions I make within the circumstances I find myself that determine what I am. Right? Decisions, decisions. Two people grow up, exact same circumstances, exact same environment, exact same home, exact same situations and uh one makes certain decisions, their life goes one direction. Another one makes certain decisions, their life goes another direction. Decisions What's life made of? It determines our lives. Now, some decisions are more significant than other decisions. See if you agree with this statement. The decision I make, what toothpaste I decide to use Is not nearly as important as what person I marry. Yeah. Hello I think some people make decisions on marriage as lightly as they make what toothpaste they use. Yeah Some decisions are more significant than other decisions. Why? Because some decisions have greater consequences in my life than other decisions I made. And so when Jesus said to his these fellows here, he says, Follow me! Hey, you guys, follow me! I'll make you fishers of men. Oh, now they've got a decision to make Are they going to just keep working their nets and keep the business they've been in and doing what they've been doing? Uh I believe, I believe at this point these guys are already saved. I think that I can show you scripture for that. I think they've already trusted Christ. They've already been saved. They knew the Lord. They've interacted with Him in the past. This isn't a first meeting here necessarily. And uh He says, Follow me, fellas. I'll make you fishers of men Now they got to make a decision. Am I gonna am I gonna follow him or what am I gonna do? I believe the most important decisions in life have to do, now there's a lot of important decisions. We mentioned who I marry I say these young people down here are sitting on the front row and scattered around. Boy, you ought to pray, you ought to get counsel, you ought to make sure that person you married is God's will Because that decision is huge. I feel grieved me. Who you marry is a big decision. Sure. Huge decision. It's going to affect your future. It's going to affect your children's future. Who you marry So important. By the way, can I just throw a little advice out? Can I? I don't care what you say, I'm gonna do it anyway I don't believe you ought to marry the person you love. Say, well, if you love them, then you can marry them. Wait a minute, it's possible to love somebody that's not in God's will. You can fall in love with some old wicked sinner, right? Some old person hates God, doesn't care about things of the Lord at all, and oh, he's so dreamy. Tell you what, uh now should you love the one you marry? Sure. But that ought not to be the determining factor. It ought to be, is it the will of God for me to marry this one Huh? Yeah, I don't I don't think I sold you on that, but it's true. It's true. You know, in other societies and years ago and other cultures uh mom and dad would pick out who they're getting married and they wouldn't even meet the fellow they're going to marry till wedding day. Oh I wonder what he looks like. How would you like that? Love wasn't a factor in it at all. But they learned to love them. They decided I'm going to love that person, and they and they love them, and it worked. But my point I'm trying to make is that there are decisions in life that are incredibly important, but I believe these are the most important decisions in life, the ones that have to do with my spiritual well-being And I'll say this: those are usually the decisions that are the most neglected. The most neglected. My spiritual well-being, my standing with my creator, my eternal destiny. So many times those decisions that are so important, I've often said this, the most important relationship I have in my In my life, it's not with Kathy, not with my boys, my dad, any family member, it's not with this church. Most important relationship in my life has to do with my relationship with my God and Savior, Jesus Christ. When that's in place, then all these others can work out. And so the decisions concerning my spiritual well-being, hey, Hollywood's not going to talk about that The old media out there, they're not going to put news reports out. Oh, the most important thing decision in life is your spiritual well-being. They're not going to say that at all In fact, they're going to ridicule that concept, but I'm telling you, it is the truth. My spiritual well-being, my standing with God. So decision about salvation. We've already talked about this a little bit, but salvation boils down to a decision I make, whether I'm going to trust Jesus Christ as Savior or not. Where I go to heaven or hell boils down to what will I do with Christ? What will you do with Christ? You want to trust him and put your complete hope and faith and confidence in, forgive you and save you and give you a new life? Uh it's a decision. It's a decision we have to make. Do I decide? Will I decide to humbly turn to him and trust him as my personal Savior? Or do I reject him? And turn away. You know, sometimes I've been doing this a pretty long time now. Sometimes I'll share the gospel with somebody or I'll preach the best I can, try and urge people to be saved, sinners I'll try and urge them to come and decide. Decide for Christ. You know what I found? Sometimes people say, no, I'll not do that. I'm not going to trust Christ. I'll not make that I'm going to decide against him. I'm going to decide to go another way. I've had that over the years. I've had that over the years. Praise the Lord. Many times folks have decided to trust Christ. You know what I found happens a lot? Somebody, they don't necessarily come out and decide to trust Christ, and they don't necessarily say, no, I'll not have them. They just. Ignore the decision. They'll just say, uh I don't want to think about that right now. I had people all through Mount Lake, all around this community. Uh they said You ever think about heaven and hell? Yes! Uh can I show you from the Bible how to be saved? Uh well I don't know. Uh uh not right now. Uh I'm busy. And they just neglect it. They'll just push it off. Now, I don't know. My mind is a decision to not trust, when I decide to say no, I'm not going to trust Christ now, that's a decision to say no to Christ. Really? If you boil it down. Decision. Follow me. Hey fellas, follow me. I'll make you fishers of men. Oh, they're going to make a decision now. I'm going to do what he says. I'm going to answer that call. I'm going to follow him or I'm going to go my way. Salvation is a decision, and this matter of following Christ is a decision. It's a decision I make as a believer. I found this interesting. I got looking through the Gospels. You know what I found out? Not everybody that Jesus invited to follow him followed him. Some said no. There were some rich guys who came and said, follow me. They said, oh, we we got our riches. One says he walked away very grieved because he had great riches. Because no, I'm not gonna follow the Lord. I I I want my money. I want my s I want my possessions. I want stuff and things rather than following Jesus. Some some people in the gospel said no. Jesus called them. Others said, hey, follow me. They said, oh, I just got married. I got the wife. I gotta go buy her stuff and and uh make her happy and do everything my wife tells me to do. I've gotta go, we just got married. It doesn't exactly say that, but um He says, I've got to go and uh can't follow you. You know, sometimes people don't live for God because they let their family influence them not to live for God. Now, family important? Yes. Do we love them? Yes. But wait a minute, my relationship with the Lord is number one. I can't. Oh, I just bought an oxen. And I can't follow you, Lord. I gotta check this thing out and and see how he runs, you know, and what and uh check this oxen out. I can't Well, I got work to do. I got jobs. You know, you can't live a Christian and be successful in my line of business. You can't live by you can't follow Christ and be successful in my business. You guys dog eat dog. I'm I can't follow the Lord. Some people said no. Jesus said, come on, you follow me. Uh no, Lord, I got I got family, I got I got an oxen here. I bought some land, investments. I can't follow you So when Jesus said to these guys, Follow me, I'll make you fishers of men, they had to make a decision. I had to make a decision. What I am as a person and what I am spiritually is a result of decisions I make. decisions I made. Folks got up this morning, it's a little snowy and slippery out. So I'm going to go to church. You know what I always think? Every Sunday morning, you ask my wife Every Sunday morning, I think, when I'm preparing my heart and mind for preaching and service, I'm thinking there'll be people there today that might make life-changing decisions. There may be some decisions made that absolutely change their lives. And this is important. And decisions made. What I am spiritually, just the decision to go to church may change your life. Completely. You never know. God's working. We go out Thursday nights, knock on doors, and visit people, come visit. And uh when we go out there, we we pray And we never know. We knock on someone's door. They may trust Christ, their whole life might be changed. You never know. And so decisions we make determine uh what we are as a person, what we are spiritually. I love Romans 12, 1 and 2. I quote that all the time. I beseech you therefore, brethren. Save people, brethren. I beseech you therefore, Brennan, by the mercies of God, God's done so much for you Beseech you, by the mercy of God, that you present your bodies, a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto the Lord, which is your reasonable service. You know what he's saying? You make a decision to follow Christ. You make a decision. I'm out and out for the Lord. I'm presenting my body holy, acceptable unto him. I'm just presenting it to him. It's a decision He's calling us as believers to make this decision to follow Christ. Follow Christ. How many people recognize the name Ronald Reagan? Yeah, I liked it. It was the first president I ever voted for I turned 18 in 1978 and I was able to vote and 1980, I guess it was 79, November 79, I voted for uh President Ronald Reagan. He was one of my favorite presidents I'm not trying to get political, but you can be wrong if you don't agree with me, that's fine. But um I liked them. I voted for him twice. But anyway, I was reading about Ronald Reagan And he told a story. He was a great storyteller. He told a story about when he was a small boy, he was with his aunt. And his aunt had him down, I guess it was out in Los Angeles, somewhere wherever they're at Uh she took him to a cobbler store. Anybody know what a cobbler is? What does a cobbler do? Chews. He makes shoes. So it was cobbler back then. And she took him in and she was going to buy little Ronnie. She was going to buy him some new shoes. And so he was in there. He's just a small boy And uh they're looking at him and the cobbler said, Now Ronnie, I got two different kinds of shoes I can make you here. Do you want square toed shoes or you do want round toed toe shoes? Round toe or square toe shoes. He didn't know. I don't know. Round or square, round or square. And he struggled and struggled and he never and finally he says, I don't know. I don't know what I want And they said, Alright, uh let's go, we'll do something. So later on, a couple days later they were down and the cobbler saw him and he says, Uh Ronnie, did you decide what kind of shoes you want? Square toed shoes or round-toed shoes And he says, I don't know, I can't decide. He says, all right. A couple days went by and the cobbler came out and says, Hey Ronnie, I got some shoes for you. He says, What are they? He says, I got you one square toad and one round toad And he said he had to wear those shoes. One was square-toed and one was round-toed. And he said, I learned a lesson. Don't ever let other people make decisions for you. I thought that's a good lesson. You know what I think? I don't mean to be unkind. I'm afraid there's people in hell right now that let other people make decisions for them. They knew they needed to be saved. They knew they needed Christ. They knew they needed to turn from their sin, accept Jesus. They knew that. They let other people keep them from making that other people made decisions. I tell you, it's a whole lot worse spending eternity in hell than it is wearing round and square toed shoes. Decision. Hey, fellas, follow me. I'll make you fishers of men What am I going to do? I got to make a decision. Hey, you and I, as Christians, those of us that know the Lord as Savior, we've got to make a decision. Am I going to follow Christ? I'm just going to go on and do my thing. Am I going to take my life and invest it in eternity and the things of God and the things that'll last for all eternity? For I'm just gonna waste my life on meaningless temporal things that when I die they're gone and left over. Uh my son and I, I enjoy hunting. It's a hobby for me. Fishing is a hobby for me, it's not my life. My son, good night, it he He just ate it up. And uh one day we were talking, we were watching a little hunting show, and this guy had a room, it probably wasn't as big as this, but it was a big room as this, trophy room And he said he had a hundred and fifty trophy white-tailed deer mounts all up and down the hundred and fifty of them Oh I mean they were amazing. We looked at that and we got talking a little bit and uh my son said you know that'd be kind of an empty life you die and all you leave for your family is a bunch of dead heads, dead deer heads. And the hundreds of thousands of dollars that were invested in that. And all now listen, I enjoy it as much as anybody. I shoot bigger deer than most of the guys in here, I think. In my dreams. But um But wait a minute. What I gotta decide. What am I gonna invest my life in? What am I going to live for? Stuff? See how full I can stuff my garage with things? You know? Jesus says, you follow me, I'll make you a fisher of man. I'll give your life purpose and meaning, something that goes beyond just the here and now. And so if a decision has to be made, you and I as Christians got to decide What am I going to live for? What am I going to invest my life in? Am I going to follow Christ? Am I going to follow this world? Am I going to just follow my own desires? So there's a decision needs to be made here. Number two, I put this down. This is a call to a decision, but it's also a call to submission. Notice what he says. He said unto them, follow me. I got studying that word, follow. It's interesting. It means what you think it means, but Think about it. Dwell on that a little bit. It says follow me. The word follow means to step in behind Risa, you come on. I'm going to use Rissa for an illustration. Come on up here, Rissa. Oh, she's so sweet and gracious. Come up here. Alright, you stand right there. And uh fa yeah, right that that's fine. Turn around the other way. Turn around. No, the other way. Alright, just do what I tell you to do. I'm walking along. Hey Rita, follow me. Go ahead. What'd she do? She that that was very good. Give her a hand. Uh yay, Ruth. What did she do? She gave up what she was doing and she stepped in behind me and now I am making the decisions where she goes For her to follow me, she had to submit to my leadership. Right? You follow what I'm saying? You follow what I'm saying? It's a decision. It's a call to submission. Christ is saying, listen, follow me. Alright, I've got to decide. Am I going to follow him or not? Yeah, I will. All right, that means I'm submitting to him. That means he's calling the shots. He's he's directing my life. He's leading it. I'm just, I fall in behind. and I take a position behind. It means I am no longer going my own way. I'm now following his way. Now it's the Lord's direction for my life. When I decide to follow Christ, I'm placing under his authority. You are calling the shots. You are the authority. No longer me. No longer, I'm not the authority in my life anymore. Christ is the authority. I'm submitted to Him. I'm submitted. I'm under His control. He is leading me and directing me. I don't know about you, but I found this out in the last 40 years that I've been walking with the Lord. I've known the Lord I found out one thing. Things work out a whole lot better when I follow his leadership than when I lean on my own understanding. Anybody here say you'd ever do things your way? What a mess. But I've learned this. I have never regretted trusting Christ. I have never regretted following his leadership and doing it his way and letting him lead me. Never! One time I've done a lot of funerals in my ministry, a lot of them. I sat by the gr uh bedside of many people when I was especially when I was with hospice And folks are on their deathbeds ready to go off. You know, I never had one person, never ever out of hundreds, I never had one person on their deathbed say, Boy, I wish I hadn't lived for Christ. Never had one person ever say, boy, I wish I hadn't trusted Christ. You know, I've heard over and over and over and over, oh preacher, I wish I'd go back, do it over. I wish I'd have done right. I wish I'd have followed the Lord. Wish I let him have his way. I tell you what, it's a decision to submission. Lord, you run my life. You're the Creator. You made me. You know the end from the beginning. You know what tomorrow holds. I don't know. You know what next year holds. And the Lord says, all right, you follow me because I know what's going to happen down there. No, I'm doing it my way. I'm going. And man, you make a mess and you hear stuff comes up you never anticipated. I didn't know that was going to happen. Lord says, you follow me, you trust me, you submit to me. I tell you, one of the greatest decisions in the Christian life is to submit to the leadership of Jesus Christ Let him lead me, let him direct me. And I tell you the young uh let's see if I'll some of you old old folks, some of you old folks, uh how many uh how many people agree with me? The younger you are you make that decision, the better off it is. Hey, follow me. Fellows follow me. I'll make you fishers of men. Oh, what are we gonna do? Alright, we'll follow him. Alright, I'm going to follow Christ. Alright, that means you submit. You get him behind. Let him lead and direct. Let him have his way. Turn with me, if you would, real quickly. James chapter number four. What a great passage. Way back in the back of your New Testament. 1 Timothy, Titus, Philemon, Hebrews, James. James chapter 4. James chapter 4 is right after James chapter 3. And look at verse number 6. James, you got it there? I want you to see this. And maybe you might want to get a pin out and highlight or underscore. This passage in your Bible, look what it says, James chapter 4. Now this is God's word. Verse 6. But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto who Now look at this next verse. Now there he set the attitude up. Humble. Look at this next verse. Submit yourselves, therefore, to God. Resist the devil, he'll flee from you. Draw nigh to God, and he'll draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Purify your hearts, ye double-minded. And he goes on down through there. Look at verse 10. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, he shall lift you up. You know what James is telling us under the inspiration of God? He's saying, just submit yourself to Christ. You just get in behind him. You just let him lead. You just get in step with Christ. And let them lead you. Years ago, years ago there was a lady, and God was blessed in church. We were doing really good and and um you know from my perspective anyway, but she said, Preacher, we need more unity We need unity. How many of you believe there ought to be unity in the church? Sometimes when people say there needs to be more unity, what they really mean is they need to do things my way. Sometimes that's code word for that So I say, yes, I agree with you. So well how can we get how can we get more unity? So I don't know, you're the preacher. This is what I think you get unity in the church. Uh let me get alright uh Risa and Virginia you come up here and Xander and Gun uh Garrett you come up here and uh you guys just kinda wander around here like just like you're confused. I mean just act normal and um Just kinda right in that area there. Just kinda and uh is there unity here? No, they're all just walk they're not even walk walk in circles, guys. Do something And uh there's no unity here. Let's say, now I don't I don't want to be disrespectful. Let's say I'll represent the Lord Jesus. Alright, and I'm walking this way. Now you're not wondering. Come on, man. And uh so I'm there's the Lord Jesus. This is the direction the Lord Jesus is going. He's going this way. And old Gunter decides he's gonna he makes a decision. I'm gonna follow the Lord. Get in here and you follow me And then Virginia says, Oh, I'm going to follow the Lord too. And she comes over. And then Brissa, oh, I'm going to follow the Lord. And then Xander, he just keeps wandering around Now Xander decided he's going to follow the Lord. Hurry up! Follow the Lord. Now question, is there unity now? Yeah, what was the difference? They all forsook their own ways and they submitted to the Lord's leadership. And when everybody submitted the Lord, followed the Lord, then it brings unity. Is that making sense? Thanks, guys, good down. We were very good at wandering in circles. And that's what happens in a church or a family when it's all disunified and everybody's fussing and it's because they're all doing their own thing on the right. But we submit our we make it I'm going to follow Christ and we humble and submit ourselves to Christ. Boy that thing comes together. When a whole church is following Jesus, well, you'll have a unified church. They're all going the same direction. It's Jesus making that decision. And so it's a decision to, it's a call to a decision, it's a call to submission. Let me give you the next here real quick, and I've got to end. It's a call to relationship. He says, hey fellas, follow, what's the next word? Me, Jesus Christ. This isn't, he doesn't say, he doesn't say, hey, fellas, follow this doctrinal statement. He doesn't say, hey, fellas, follow this religious ritual. Now question, are doctrinal statements important? Yes. He doesn't say, hey fellas, follow the church. Is church important? Yes. But wait a minute. You can you can be the best member of church, guys, and go to hell. Uh you can you can believe all the doctrines straight down the line, die and go to hell. There's people in hell believe Jesus is the Son of God. There's people in hell believe Jesus is the only way to be saved. There's people in hell belie Never trusted Christ. And by the way, you can be saved and believe all that stuff, but if you're not following Christ He said, follow me. It's a personal relationship. I don't know if I can say this the way I mean it, but following genuine Christianity and being the disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ is first and foremost Mm-establishing and having a relationship with Jesus Christ. If we're not careful, we'll think, well, I'm a disciple of Christ. I do this, I have this list of do's and this list of don'ts, and I check them all, and I'm a disciple. Well No. It's a relationship with Jesus Christ. And when I have that personal relationship with Jesus Christ, then the do's and don'ts, they all fall in place. Anybody follow what I'm saying? It's not some outward ritualistic form. It's not some external things I do It's a it's a I'm gonna follow Christ. I'm gonna establish a relationship with him. It's interesting. From the beginning of the Gospels, when Jesus Christ said, hey fellows, follow me, follow me, I'll make you fishers of men. You get to the end of the Gospels, and these guys are in love with Jesus Christ. They just met him before. They just saw him. They heard John the Baptist say, hey, that's a hey- here's the Lamb of God takes away the sinner world. Oh We're going to go follow him. Jesus followed me. Okay. They really didn't know him. They had little limited experience with Christ, but they believed who he was and they trusted him. They say, I'll follow him. But brother, you get to the end of the Gospels. Now they had their ups and downs, and they made some failures. But when Jesus Christ talked to Peter at the end of the Gospel of John, he says, Peter, do you love me? You love me? What'd Peter say? I love you, Lord. To feed my sheep. Either you love me or you know I love you. Feed my sheep. See what I'm saying? It started out, hey follow me. It ended up, I love you, Lord. I love you, Lord. There was a relationship established. I'll tell you this. You and I make a decision. Trust Christ. Amen. That's the start. I'm going to follow Christ. I'm going to be a disciple I'm going to submit to him. You know what you're going to find happening? Start this getting to know the Lord. You start falling in love with the Lord. I said mentioned doing funerals before. I've done a heap of funerals with good godly Christians. At their deathbed, they say, I love the Lord. He's been so good to me. You know who I was thinking of, Brother Brian? I was thinking of Chuck Coddington. Got brain cancer just before you knew it. Here he was. And I visited him the night before, I think it was the night before he passed away. I'm telling you, we talked about the Lord. I'm I'm not just trying to exalt a man that's with the Lord. I'm telling you the truth. I was there and uh he just talked about how good God's been to him How he loved the Lord. His boy Preston. His boy Preston at the funeral came to me. He says, Brother Leatherman, he said, Chuck showed me how a Christian dies He said, he showed me how a Christian dies. And he died in love with Jesus Christ. And that's what being a disciple is. It's developing a relationship. Jesus didn't say, hey, follow the church. He didn't say, follow this doctrinal statement. Those are important. He said, follow me. Me Get to know me. Learn of me. Trust me. It's a personal relationship. Uh, and then last of all, it's a call uh I could say so many other things. It's a call to service. I'll make you fishers of men. God wants Christians to be soul winners. And this is what I want to end with. It's a call to transformation. Follow me, and I will make You fishers of men. That word make means to construct, it means to fashion into something. Listen to this. I will make you fishers of men. It has this idea: I will purge some things from your life. I will add some things into your life until the finished product is produced. In other words, following Christ, the life of a disciple, means Jesus Christ Taking things out of my life, adding things into my life, molding me, breaking me, squeezing me, stretching me, bending me, like a clay and a potter's hand. Take some of this out. He adds some of this. I'll squosh this part and I'll flatten that part and I'll stretch this part until I got what I'm looking for. You know what I found out Christian life is like? Oh, being a Christian, a disciple is just a bed of roses. It's all iced tea and Marmalade and um and lemon pie the whole life. It's just wonder. That's not the way my Christian life has been You know what I find out sometimes when folks say, I'm dedicating my life to Christ, I'm following Christ, I'm submitting to him, you know what I find out God starts breaking stuff Man, God takes some stuff away. Lord, that was important to me. Yeah, but I'm gonna make you a fisherman. You can't have this and be a fisherman. Okay. I'm gonna add this. Lord, what is that? You're gonna need this. Lord, you broke my heart. I know your heart needs to be more tender. I need to do that if you're going to be Fisher's a man. And I found out that Christian life is a life of molding and breaking and squeezing and stretching and adding and taking. God molding me, making me to that person he can use, that person that is what he wants me to be. You know who I thought of when I was preparing this message kept coming to mind? Some of you know. I think of him often. Oh my stubbler. I tell you, there's a few people in my ministry I saw become a disciple of Jesus Christ like old Mike. I got a call. From a guy named Ron Brooks. Town Bowden never heard him. The phone rang back there. Hello, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Is this Pastor Lemon? Yeah. This is Ron Brooks. Hey. I don't know who he was He goes, I work with a guy named Mike Stubler. I don't know who Mike Stubler was. He said, Mike was at your wild game dinner. This was years ago. He said, Mike was at your wild game dinner. uh the other Saturday night and uh he knew he needed to get saved but he didn't. He says I work with him at a chemical factory down in Baltimore. I l work down here And uh I've been witnessing to him and the other night he came to me and said, Ron, I need to get saved. And he said, so we hopped in the car at break. They work nights And so it was like one o'clock in the morning, they went to I think it was a Sheets gas station in the parking lot. Ron opened his Bible, showed Mike how to be saved. Mike made a decision to trust Jesus Christ, his personal savior. the c in another guy's car in the parking lot at one o'clock in the morning of a Sheets restaurant. And he says, I'm gonna send him by. He lives up there, he works down here. I'm gonna send him by. I just want to give you a heads up. He's coming by. Lo and behold, that was a Thursday, Friday. Guy comes walking in. I didn't know him from Adam. He says, I'm Mike Stubler. Hey Mike, I heard about you. We got talking a little bit. He gave me his testimony. He got saved. I said you need to be baptized. Explained that. I brought him up here, showed him the baptistry, talked a little bit. He started coming out the church. Some of y'all remember this Old Mike got baptized. He comes Sunday mornings. God stirred his heart. Then he started coming Sunday nights. God stirred his heart. Then he started coming Wednesday nights Back then we would have prayer meeting. Well, no, it was men's prayer meeting. He started coming to men's prayer meeting. He'd sit there. I'd say, all right, let's pray. He says, you know, I'm really not ready for this yet. I said, all right, that's fine. So he'd just sit there and I'd pray with him and he'd just sit there. And that went for a couple weeks. He says, Mike, you want to pray? No, I'm not ready yet. Okay. And finally one week he said, I'm ready. I said, All right, you pray. I don't know what he prayed. He prayed something. But Mike made the decision, not just to trust Christ, but he made the decision, I'm going to follow Christ. I'm going to follow him. I'm telling you, that guy became a soul winner. What a riot. I could tell you so many stories And uh what I'm uh just loved God with all those we were out soul in in Mountain Lake Park and we knocked on the door, I s I was teaching 'em how and I said, All right it's Mike, it's your turn to talk. So we knocked on the door, uh I'm Mike Stubler and uh she goes, Hi, says hi. And he went through the little spiel. I'm just standing there behind praying, Lord helping Lord, please let her get saved. And finally he went through his spiel and I guess she was saved or something. I don't remember. But sh then when we were all done she looked at me and said, Well, how'd he do? He said he did pretty good. This is his first time. She knew what was happening. Hey, hey, follow me. Jesus says, follow me. I'll make you Fishers and men. I'll change your life. I'll change I'll take some stuff in your life you know it ought to be there. I'll take it out. I'll add some things you never dreamed would be possible. I'll add them to your life. I'm gonna break you, mold you. I'm going to make you into somebody that I'm going to influence this whole world. Most of all, you'll get to know me. I have a relationship with Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to make the right decisions. Lord, help us to consider our spiritual well-being. Lord, if there's some unsaved, I pray that today would be the day of deciding to trust Jesus Christ as Savior, finding new life Lord, those of us that know you as Savior, God, help us make that decision. I'm going to follow you. And I pray you would just change our lives, establish and help us to grow in our relationship. Lord, I pray you'd use us to be a light in this old dark world. In Jesus' name. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, pray for me Pray for me. I know I'm saved, but I don't know I don't know that I'm following the Lord like I should. I want to. I want to answer that call. I want to just Be a follower of Christ as the Bible presents. You'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I know there's areas. And I need to get in line. Get in behind the Lord. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, God spoke to my heart this morning. God spoke to my heart. Heart. God bless you. Hands all around. Now, what are we going to decide? Just walk away? We say, Yes, Lord. I submit to you. I'm going to let you leave me. I'm going to let you make whatever changes need to be. I'll trust you. You're in control. You lead me and direct me. There's some here this morning to say, preacher, I know someone that's not saved. I want them to be saved, and maybe if I would be a better follower, maybe they'd come to Christ. But you're thinking of someone in particular. That needs to be saved. You say, preacher, pray with me. Somebody heavy on my heart that needs Christ. Or anything like that by the uplifted hand. Heavy on my heart. Oh, they just need us to follow the Lord and let him use us. Be a witness There's some here this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved. Maybe you're a good person by all human standards. Maybe you're even a church member. Say, preacher, I'm not saved, and I need to be saved. I know it. You say, pray for me, that God will help me settle that. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me I know for sure that I'm a child of God. That's settled. By faith in Christ. Father, bless our invitation time now. A lot of hands raised. We pray you'd help us make the right decisions. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing this