Chapter four. I'm gonna try and stay behind this mic here, Dave. First Thessalonians chapter four, rapture ready church. And as I said several lessons ago, we're at this portion of Scripture where we are into the meat of this letter that Paul wrote under the inspiration of God. He wrote it to the church at Thessalonica Uh they were a great church. The church at Thessalonica, I'm just calling it for my own fun sake, uh the first Baptist Church of Thessalonica. I would love to have been a member of that church I would love to have visited at the very least and uh met the people there and uh and experienced the life in that church as it's described by Paul I have a feeling uh that we would feel pretty at home there. I would like to think that. And uh they were very aggressive in getting the gospel out. Paul says There's nowhere in this region that I can go to where folks haven't heard of the gospel because of your witness. So he he he really uh honored them there, spoke highly of them on that and various other issues, but there was a question, there was something lacking, whether he had addressed this when he was there establishing the church And they missed it or for whatever reason he never got to it. But this matter of believers, when they die What happens to them when the rapture takes place? And uh that's where he's at in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and verse number, well I'm going to begin reading there in verse number 13 And we already looked at the first several verses of this section, but I just want to keep the context together. Notice what he says. He said, But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren. And again, remember the word ignorant, he's not insulting them. He's just saying, uh, I don't want you to be without this knowledge. is all he's saying. Uh concerning them which are asleep. That you and again, the asleep was believers who had died. It's uh uh uh metaphor type thing. And uh that are asleep, that which that ye sorrow not, even as others which have no hope. Apparently they got the idea that if a believer died before the rapture, they're gone. You wouldn't never see him again. That was the concept that apparently they had in their head. Verse fifty. For this uh for fourteen, I'm sorry, for if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. For this we say unto you, by the word of the Lord, and Paul came to this this doctrinal truth from God's Word, that we uh which are that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep. Now look at verse 16. He explains, For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore, comfort one another with these words As I said, they had got this idea in their head that believers who died before the Lord came back We're gone. You never see them again. You're separated fromever. You wouldn't see them. And Paul's listens. He says, you don't have all the information you need on this. There's some more information you should have You don't have to sorrow like that. You're going to see them again. The Lord's going to return. Now, we talked about this last week at length. I just want to reiterate it here The return of the Lord happens in stages, as we understand Scripture. First you have what's addressed here is the rapture of the church. That's where we're caught up, verse number 16. Then you have the return of the Lord, it's called, or the second advent. That's where the Lord comes back to earth. And uh his feet literally touched the ground there in uh in Jerusalem. And in between that you have a seven-year period that is referred to as the tribulation period. So when he's addressing them there, he's talking about the rapture. And so that's what we're going to look at. Let's have a word of prayer. I'll briefly just get us caught up to where we're at. Father, bless our study tonight. Uh Lord, I believe this is a very, very important uh teaching in your word. You've uh emphasized it. God, we know that you bless this truth. When we get a hold of this, it has a powerful impact on our lives as Christians and our and our faith and our witness. So I pray that this fact of the rapture of the church would grip our hearts and we would be better Christians for understanding this. And we our witness would be more effective. And We have more of an influence in our sinful world with the gospel. Fill me with your spirit, I pray, Lord. Teach and speak through me is my request. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Last week we pointed out from verse number 15, first part of verse 15, that Paul anticipated the rapture in his lifetime. He says, we which are alive and remain. And we looked at that. And we also looked at the fact that he came to this doctrine. This wasn't something he imagined. It wasn't some story handed down to them. He got this from the word of the Lord. This is Bible teaching, and he's communicating it to him. Now, tonight, that was Paul's anticipation of the rapture. Tonight, I want to look at the last part of verse 15. I'll try and get through the end of this chapter. I think we can If y'all don't interrupt me much and listen, very quickly we'll get through this. But uh I want us to look at the rapture's specifications. What are some of the specifics about the rapture? We're going to use our Bibles a bit tonight, so if turn with me if you would keep your place here. We're going to come back to this a bunch. But I want you to notice in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. And I just want to begin with a statement the Bible makes about the rapture. In 1 Corinthians chapter 15, we're going to look at verse 51. And uh just uh one statement here. Verse 51-52, as we said last week, is a little snapshot of the instant of the rapture, I think, is what he's explaining here, what happens. But uh notice in verse 51, behold, I show you a what? Mystery. What is a mystery? It's it's so something that has not been revealed things. The Bible refers to a mystery. It's something that has not, it's always been true, but it has not necessarily been revealed yet. We think of a mystery as something mysterious You know, we don't know a whole lot about it. The fact of the matter is, the Bible says here, Paul in the inspiration of God says, when he begins speaking about the rapture, he says, I'm showing you a mystery He says I'm showing you something, number one, you it wasn't revealed before in Scripture, not clearly. And he says, number two, I think what he's saying is is Listen, we don't know everything about the rapture. We can't comprehend everything about the rapture when it's going to take place. God explains some of these things to us, but we need to come with this understanding that, you know. This is almost beyond nobody has ever experienced anything like what's being described here. For us to be able to say, all right, it's this, this, this, and this, uh Sometimes we can't do that. But the Bible does give us some information. So let's look at what that information is. Here we have a mystery. Let's finish reading this and we'll come back to uh 1 Thessalonians. Behold, I show you a mystery We shall not all sleep. Again, what's he mean by sleep? Die. Keep that in mind. You've got to keep thinking of that. We shall not all sleep. Not all Christians are going to die. But we shall all be changed in a moment in the twinkling of an eye at the last trump For the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we there's his anticipation, Paul thought he'd be alive when this happened, and we shall be changed Alright, so there's a mystery element to this that hadn't been taught before, and we really it's hard for us to comprehend. But let me give you, here's our rapture specifications. The first day I want to look at in 1 Thessalonians is under this specifications title is the particulars about the rapture Look at verse number 16. Are you back in 1 Thessalonians now? We're going to jump around here a little bit. Look at verse 16, chapter 4. For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, and the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Alright, here he is in one verse explaining that instant, that moment, that twinkling of an eye, what happens? It's like uh hyper it's like um uh do you ever see where they show super slow motion, you know, like a bullet going through the air? That's kind of what he's doing of the rapture. Alright? So what there's three words here I want us to notice in this. So we're gonna break this thing down. What in the world is going on here in this rapture? Well the first one, I'm not necessarily going in order as they're used in the verse, but the first one is the Archangel. Notice he says there with uh and the voice of the archangel Who in the world is the archangel? Let me give you there's different ideas out there. Let me give you what the Bible says and then my take on it. First of all, the archangel is a chief of angels. He's uh he's the he's the the foreman. He's the big he's the boss. Uh the b archangel is the one. Uh the Bible always uses the term archangel in a singular tense tense. tense. Singular. If it's used as singular, there's only how many are there? There's one. Every time you find archangel used in the Bible, the term it's always singular. One archangel, one archangel. The Jews had a tradition handed down from their scribes and all of that that there were seven archangels. and they uh pull that from various places in scripture. A lot of the early church thought there were seven archangels. I can't find seven archangels in the Bible Again, every time the word is used, it's always singular. And there's only one name. If you would, keep your place here. We're going to use our Bibles, Jude, the book right before Revelation, the second, last book of the Bible. Now Jude either has twenty-five chapters and no verses, or it has no chapters and twenty-five verses. However you want to look at it, but uh verse number nine. Jude verse number nine. Notice what the Bible says. Um Yet, Michael, the archangel, when contending with the devil, disputed about the body of Moses Durst not bring against him the devil railing accusations, but said, The Lord rebuked thee. Ah notice Michael, not one of the archangels, but Michael what The archangel. And here we're given a name. Now we're not going to take the time, but we could go through the Bible and look up this guy, Michael. This archangel Michael. He appears throughout the Old and New Testament periodically. And we find a characteristic about Michael the one and I believe only one archangel. We find that Michael is a warrior angel. He's always he's almost always involved in either conflict, some type of spiritual conflict going on, or he's protecting or guardian. So he's a sometimes he'll be referred to in different commentaries and whatnot as a guardian uh angel or as a warrior angel, but he's the boss. In Revelation, and again, we for sake of time we won't turn there, but Revelation chapter 12 and verse 7, Michael, the archangel, is leading A host of angels in war against Satan. Michael the Archangel is in charge. He's head of it. He's leading this. He is the boss. So, with that in mind, come back to 1 Thessalonians. And uh notice it says, well, I lost my spot here. Here we go. Verse 16, for the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel. Alright, the top guns involved in this This is the warrior angel leader of heaven is involved. Now, there's another word I want to notice here. And that it well actually too, in verse 16, the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a what? Shout and with the voice of a arch uh and the voice of the archangel. So there's some noise taking place here Uh I this is and I'm going to inject my take on some things. When it says the heaven with a sh the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, I don't think it's necessarily saying it's the Lord shouting. I I don't know. It's uh and the word voice, both of them are are military words that have to do with when you're about to go into battle. And uh there's a R you know, and they yell and um what other kind of yells do they do? Indians. You know. So anyway, it's that it's that type of thing. It's gearing up the truths. It's it's an advance. So that tells me this This is a big event in heaven. When the church is being raptured, there's a lot, there's a lot. This is big, big, big news in heaven. Uh the archangels involve the nest. There's a war shout going out. Uh war oop, I guess you could say is that Hoop or whoop. Whatever. Uh get on with it. And um but uh there's uh shout and all that. So this is a big thing. When the rapture takes place, it's not like everybody's up in heaven, oh huh, another day, punch in Whatever. Uh this is big. And uh this is going on. Now there's another aspect here that I want to look at. Um And uh the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and something else takes place. And the trump of God. What in the world is the trumpet God? The word trump there is translated other places in scripture, trumpet. It's just a trumpet blast. Now, again, I don't believe it's God blowing this trumpet. It's the trump of God, but it doesn't necessarily say that God's the one blowing that thing. If you get the revelation, you find angels blasting trumpets, so the seven trumpet seals, trumpet uh judgments, and so This trumpet of God is being blasted. I mean, the foundations of heaven are shook. With this trumpet of God blasting. The archangel, his voice is shouting out the command. And it says uh with a with a shout. And so this is huge, huge, huge in heaven. Now, what's taking place on earth? Planes are taking off. Trucks are heading driving down the road. Machines are working away. Uh secretary And uh this this uh yeah. Don't even get me started on that. But um uh everything down here on earth is just going around, going around, going around, it's business. Now here's my question. And I've toyed with this over the years. I've come to my own conclusion. This is my opinion. We'll find out when it happens, whether I'm right or not. But who all hears The trumpet and the shouting and hollering and this trumping going on. Who all hears that? What? I wasn't asking you I was just saying that to tell you what I no, I'm kidding. All right. I'm glad you asked. I was wanting to do that This is what I think, and you already said what I think. I believe every single believer in their innermost heart and ears will hear that that commotion if you want to call it that's not a good word but hear that incredible distinct sound and I believe we will know immediately What it is. I think whether we've been taught of the rapture or not, something, the Spirit of God within us, or whatever, we will know immediately this is it. It's time. Now we're not going to have long to sit down and think about it. All right. We're not going to say, you know, that I I think, you know It'll be, boom, outta here. Um and I'm convinced it will just be the believers that hear it. You're driving down the road, maybe you're with somebody that's unsafe, or you have an unsafe spouse or whatever, or you're in the passenger seat, whatever the situation is That trump sounds, the shout goes out, the voice of the archangel, in an instantaneous, you'll immediately know what it is, and you'll be in the presence of God. And the person unsaved aside will never hear. It'll just be poom pile of clothes. There. I mean, really. You think about it. Uh anybody ever think about that before? Uh dentures, uh, eyeglasses, hearing aids Oh his knees. I didn't think of that. Um if somebody yeah, pacemakers, all that stuff it's stuck in ya. Now I you guys are getting me off track here. I want to say something like that in Bible Institute, but I'm not going to discuss it here. If you want to discuss it, you can talk to you later. What about body part transplants of SAD and unsaved people at the rapture. Chew on that for a little while. If you want to know my theory, I'll give it to you later. But anyway, uh so, who hears this? So here it is. This is huge in heaven. On earth, it's just another day, and suddenly, boom, people are gone. Out of here. In a moment. Now, actually, I have scripture for the the thought that only believers hear that, that we do hear it, and it's only believers hear it. And it's not related, but there's it adds it It supports my thinking. And that's in John chapter ten, where Jesus says, My sheep hear my voice and they know me. That suggests to me that believers have a spiritual ear that the unsaved do not hear. And we'll be able to pick that up and we'll understand what it is. it is. Um did you have you ever been somewhere on vacation and you're in a Walmart or somewhere, no matter where you go, you sooner or later you end up in Walmart. But uh you're there and you hear somebody say something about the Lord when we were praying about that and bing catches your attention. If I know what I'm talking about? We just have that and I think that's kind of the way it's gonna be with this. So the particulars about it, we have it And the archangels shouting uh the the archangels uh shout the the uh the voice of the archangel, the shout of God, the trump of God. Believers hear that in an instantaneous. Now, there's something else here. Look over in verse 17 as far as the particulars going on here. Then, when all that takes place We which are alive and remain shall be caught up to get. Now that word phrase caught up there, you can write in the Marginal Bible rapture. It's not the the word rapture is not in the Bible, but that's what the word rapture means, to be caught up. But look where it says we're where we're going to be caught up to. Then we which are alive and remain, now the dead in Christ are going to go first. We'll look at that in a minute. We which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them the dead in Christ that have been Raptured and resurrected and raptured here, will be together with them where? In the clouds. And uh to why are we going together in the clouds? To meet the Lord where? In the air. Now I got my trustee concordance computer program out, and uh I started looking up this and the reference to the clouds is talking about the lower atmosphere, not the outer atmosphere above where the clouds are, where the air is real thin. It's a very specific part of our atmosphere. It's the lower atmosphere where the airplanes fly. Uh when where though where uh where you can pretty much see And the word air there is used in the various definitions I found was talking about the part around where the tops of the mountains are. It's a very specific part of this atmosphere. So when we're raptured up, if I understand this correctly, I mean this is happening in the twinkling of an eye. But if I understand this correctly, we are going to, when the rapture takes place, the Lord descends from heaven, and this all happened very rapidly. We are caught up, the unsaved are resurrected, we are raptured, and together the dead in Christ and the living in Christ are caught up, and we meet the Lord in the lower portions of the atmosphere This is what's being said here. Now, we don't stay there. Alright, let's read this verse again. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds. What are we doing in the clouds? We're meeting the Lord in the air. And so shall we ever be with the Lord. It's not saying we're staying there floating around in the clouds. Where do we end up? We end up in heaven, the very presence of God. And so what's happening is, and you'll see this diagram sometimes, and I don't remember the But sometimes you'll see a diagram, the Lord coming down, uh the believers coming up, rapturing, and then you'll see the arrow of the Lord, a U-turn, and he takes us back. Heaven. He meets us in the air and then escorts us, so to speak, into the very presence of God. Now this is another study, it's not addressed here in First Thessalonians But at that moment, I believe, if I understand scripture correctly, at that moment we have what's called the Married Supper of the Lamb. And that is where believers, uh uh, the church believers are united with Christ and uh The judgment seat of Christ takes place and all those types of things. And so, but we meet the Lord in the air and we're Go on. Now again, all of this has happens. In fact, Star Trek's little beamed up, that is slow motion compared to how it's going to happen to us. We are going to be pool. It would be like beam. You wouldn't be able to say beam me up. It would just be. Alright? Now, that's the particulars. Now, who are the participants? Who are the people involved in this? Come back here and uh and look in verse number 15. For this we say unto you, the word of the Lord, that we which are alive You have living people and remain until the coming of the Lord shall not prevent. That word means to go before them which are asleep. So you have s uh you have living and dead The resurrection of church-aid saints and the rapture of living, the resurrection of believers who died and the rapture of the church all takes place simultaneously. Now they go why does it say uh that we're not going to go before them, uh which they're gonna go first? I like Ryan's explanation, because they got farther to go than we do. Six foot down. That's very cute. But um I don't I don't know why they're gone first. Uh but nevertheless that's what the Bible says. Now here's what I do want to say about who's going to be raptured. First of all, it shaves people The rapture is for the church, for the body of Christ. They are raptured up. Everybody who's ever genuinely, sincerely trusted Jesus Christ, their personal Savior Boom, they're gone. I put this down, saved people. I put this next statement down. All the saved people will be raptured. Now, why is that significant? Some people teach that if you're a backslidden Christian At the rapture church, you'll be left behind. That is unscriptural. The resurrection and the rapture is all part of our salvation. It's the completion of our salvation. And every aspect of salvation is by grace. None of it has to do with my works or how I live my life, my lifestyle. So we are convinced, based on the teaching of what the Bible teaches about salvation being completely the grace of God, we're convinced that the rapture also is included in that So um uh so whether a person is living for God or not, um they are still raptured at that point Uh backslidden and right with God. Carnal Christians, spiritual Christians, all raptured at the same time. Now somebody says this. This is the argument. Well, if that's the case, then you're just encouraging people to live in sin If that's the case, then you're just saying, oh, well, you can live in sin and still be raptured out of here. You don't have a very clear understanding of the Bible's teaching of sin. It is never good for someone to live in sin. It is incredibly destructive. It is incredibly detrimental to the cause of Christ and the well-being of a believer. I've never known anybody that was better off because they backslid. I've never found anybody that was happier because they weren't, I'm talking about believers, that was happier because they weren't living for God Never seen it. Plus, you also have Hebrews chapter 12, which teaches that if a believer is living in sin, if they backslide, God intervenes and begins the process of chastisement. And God doesn't just let us live in sin as Christians. He intervenes. He chastens us. He does everything to restore that righteous living, that holy living that He demands of His children. And so I don't see, there's no way that the rapture of the carnal backsliding Christian somehow encourages living in sin. Not if you know anything about the Bible teaching on sin. So you have, I put this down, number one, saved, number two, all the saved. I put this, number three, only the saved. There are no unsaved people raptured. The moment the rapture, when that trumpet God sounds, the dead in Christ are raised first, we which are alive and remain are caught up together with them. At that moment, there are no saved people left on earth. And there are no lost people raptured off the earth. Take your Bibles and go to 2 Thessalonians. Now, this is where a lot of questions come up sometimes. In fact, uh it came up just recently. I preach, I believe the Bible teaches this, I'm convinced of it, and I think you will be here in a minute, uh that If a person hears the plan of salvation has opportunity to be saved before the rapture takes place And they reject the gospel after the rapture, they will not be able to be saved Now I'm going to give you some scripture to support that. First, 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. Look with me at verse 7 Now this was years ago written under the inspiration of God, but it's preserved for us today. For the mystery of iniquity doth already work. So in other words, even back in that day, the processes leading up to the Antichrist And uh the tribulation and all that stuff was already in place. All the processes were working. Only he now this is This is worded really awkwardly, maybe, so you've got to walk through this very carefully and pay attention to what's being said. For the mystery of iniquity doth already work Only he who now leteth will let. Now what does that mean? The word leteth means to hinder, or prevent, or to hold back. So the mystery of iniquity, the sinfulness, the sinful deterioration of the world, leading to the rise of the Antichrist and the wickedness of the tribulation period, is already in process happening. But there is somebody that hinders that process, somebody that restrains it, that holds it back. Look what he says. Now only he who let it, who's holding that back, And will let until he be taken out of the way. Bible scholars, who's the he there? The Holy Spirit of God You could write in the margin of your Bible that word he, you could identify that as the Holy Spirit of God. What this is teaching us is this. The Holy Spirit is restraining the sinful deterioration of the world. Alright? He's letting, and he will continue to letting. He's hindering, preventing, restraining, quenching, if you will, the sinful progress, deterioration of the world. Question, is the world getting more sinful? Yes. That is, now keep this in mind, that is with the Holy Spirit holding things back. The church is preaching righteousness, there's uh the influence of the Word of God and the holy presence of the Holy Spirit in the world is holding the world back from being as sinful as it would be had He not been holding it back. So let's read on. Then sh uh uh uh look, until he be taken out of the way, at some point the Holy Spirit's removed At that point, verse 8, then shall that wicked, notice it's capital W. That's speaking of the Antichrist. Then shall that wicked be revealed. When the Holy Spirit, who's hindering sin, is removed, then everybody's going to know who the Antichrist is. People have been trying to figure out who the Antichrist is for hundreds and hundreds of years. Nobody's going to know until the Holy Spirit's removed. Somebody's going to come to me after church tonight. Well, who do you think it is? I don't know who it is. People have thought it was Henry Kissinger. Remember that back in the 70s? Uh whoever your political opponent is usually gets called the Antichrist But we don't know who the Antichrist is. Is he alive? I don't know. If the rapture takes place, then obviously he is alive. He has to be to step into place But let's read on. And then shall that wicked, the Antichrist, be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy him with the brightness of his coming. That's at the end of the tribulation period. You'll see that uh some other time. Even him whose coming is after the working of Satan, that's the Antichrist, with all power and signs and lying wonders. You know what that's referring to? Miracles The Antichrist is going to perform miracles. Don't buy in to all these miracle things you see on TV. Satan can do that. And read on, and with all deceivableness of unrighteousness, man, this guy's a bad guy. I took verse 8 and 9 and 10. I put Antichrist beside that Now look at verse 10. With all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish. These are people who die and go to hell. Now look, why would they perish? Because they receive not the love of the truth that they might be saved. What's the truth there? The love of the truth. What's that referring to? It's the gospel of Jesus Christ, that they might be saved. They didn't receive the gospel so that they could be saved. Read on. And for this cause, because they did not receive the love of the truth, that they might be saved. God shall send them strong delusions. Now that word delusions there means mental wanderings. Mental error. God's going to mess with their head. Now read on. God shall send them strong delusions that they should believe what? A lie. The lie of the Antichrist. They did not receive the gospel, the love of the truth, that they might be saved. The rapture takes place, and God messes with their head And they believe a lie. Verse 12, that they might all be damned, who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness. Now, all of this takes place as a result of verse 7, the Holy Spirit being taken out of the way. The Holy Spirit is removed off this earth at the time of the rapture. The Holy Spirit indwells the believers. The believers are out of here, the Holy Spirit's out of here. Now he still has a role. I think the Holy Spirit is still active during the tribulation period. But he's not indwelling, folks, like he is now. He doesn't have a presence here, a restraining presence. Now this is what I this is what boggles my mind when I consider this If the world is as wicked as it is now, with the Spirit of God, restraining and quenching its deterioration. What in the world is it going to be like when that restraining presence is gone? When there's no more, there's nobody that says, hey, you really shouldn't show that on TV. When there's nobody that says, you know, that really shouldn't happen in public. When there's nobody that says, you know, that's an abomination, that's not right. When no matter what you do, it's okay. It's fine. Can you imagine what society is going to be like? Without the restraining presence of the Holy Spirit. Can you just imagine what television is going to be like? Without the restraining presence of the Holy Spirit? What streets are going to be like, nightclubs, parades? If it's as wicked as it is now with the Holy Spirit, what in the world is it going to be like? Listen, that fact alone, I don't want to be around for that. I want to be out of here. And so, uh, who's going to be raptured? Who's the participants in this? It's saved people. All the saved people, whether they've died in Christ or not, their bodies will be resurrected. Those of us who are alive when the rapture takes place, we'll be caught up out of here. Anybody that had an opportunity to be saved. And rejected it, said maybe they s maybe they said something like this, nah I don't believe that garbage. I know, I understand it, but I just don't believe all that philly. And the rapture takes place, they're gonna believe whatever lie the Antichrist throws at them. Whatever lie, the devil comes up. Maybe somebody says this, you know, I know I need to be saved, but you know, I'm just I'm just not ready yet. I I just want to give it some more time. And the rapture takes place. They knew the gospel. Maybe their motives were sincere. They just wanted to wait. But they put it off and they didn't receive it. The rapture takes place. They're sent strong delusions. They believe a lie, and they're damned. Isn't that awful? I got God began dealing with my heart. I knew in January of 1979 I knew I needed to be saved. My daddy had witnessed to me enough. I knew it. For five months, I fought that and fought that and fought that and fought that. Thank God the rapture didn't take place during that time. I knew it. I knew it. I was telling God, yes, I know, but I God, and I had these arguments with God My wife and I, there's a book, and I make reference to this occasionally, that their very best-selling books about ten years ago or more, uh Left Behind. You probably heard of them, Tim LaHay. Tim LaHay is basically a fundamentalist, but he messed up when he wrote that book. In those books, and I've read them, he teaches that a person if they know to be saved And they don't get saved, after the rapture they can still get saved. And he has all these people, a Pilate and different ones who heard the gospel, had a saved wife, and she was witnessing to them, nah, I don't have time for that, I don't have time for that. Sometimes the rapture takes place, and all of a sudden now he's wanting to get saved. There's a problem with that. According to 2 Thessalonians, that guy Is going to believe whatever lie the devil gets and he will never be saved. Now this is where it comes home. My mom wasn't married at the time. This was like 97, 98, somewhere around there, whenever those books came out And she was living with another lady, they were sharing an apartment. And uh so we went up, Kathy and I, I guess the boys were with us, they would have had a been, they went everywhere with us. And um we were visiting there And um my mom at this point had claimed to be Satan, I I believe she is and and was at that point, no doubt. But um Kathy we're up drinking tea later at night or something and Pathy got talking to the lady that my mom was sharing the apartment with. Unsaved, no doubt. And uh I went to bed, my mom went to bed. They sat up till like midnight or so, one o'clock Abby's gone through scripture with her. And this was the conclusion. She said and what brought the subject up was she said, I'm reading those left behind books. She says, they really make it thick. My wife said, Well, do you know you're saved? And so that's what led into it. She went through the scripture with her, went through the scripture with her, went through, and the lady would not get saved, would not get saved, would not get saved. And finally this is what ended the conversation This lady, she was in her late 50s, early 60s. She said, you know, when that rapture thing happened, they all know that this Book is true, and I'll get saved. Happy in her heart as a tears she said, It'll be too late. It'll be too late. You've got to be saved now Because when I see that, then I'll get saved. What a tragedy. Now why isn't the Lord come back? I'll tell you why. Because he's not willing that any should perish. Delays is coming, delays is coming, delays is coming, so more and more people can be saved. You're here tonight and you don't have that matter settled, I plead with you settle that matter. I don't know When the rapture will happen. Those of us here tonight that were saved, let's do all we can to win as many of as many people as we possibly can to trust. Let's not let people come through our ministries and our buses and come through our community and not have an opportunity to trust God. What a tragic Father bless our study of the coming of Christ and the rapture. Pray the reality of this would grip our hearts. Lord, help us to live every day watching, looking, ready, living for you And God, we want you to be pleased with our lives. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's some here tonight. Pastor, I know I'm saved, and I just need to live my life a little more conscious of the eminent return of Christ. I need to live my life a little more conscious of the fact the rapture could happen at any time You say, Preacher, I want to be prepared. I want to love the Lord and please him with my life. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. God bless you, hands all around. Of course we feel that way. What kind of Christian would it be We want to be ready. We want to please the Lord. Maybe there's some things we need to get in place. Some rearrangement needs to be made in our lives So that the Lord would be pleased and we would be ready. Maybe there's someone here tonight and say, preacher, I I'm not sure about my salvation I don't want to go to hell. I don't want to go to hell. I don't want to be left behind. I want to have that matter settled tonight. And you can from the Word of God. It's very simple, very clear. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I can settle that matter If my salvation is clear and settled in my heart, and by chance the rapture would take place tonight, I'd be ready. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. I really need to settle this thing. I don't want to put it off any longer About it. Father in heaven, bless now our imitation I ask, Lord, you'd have your way in our lives in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's