Move forward in our walk with him accordance in accordance uh to his will and his divine purpose in our lives. So if again if we go to John chapter sixteen, the w if you've got a red letter edition of your Bible in verses thirty two and thirty-three, you'll see that's red letter. That's our Lord uh Jesus speaking. And the Bible says, Behold, the hour cometh, the ae is now come, that ye shall be scattered, every man to his own, and shall leave me alone. And yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. Let's pray. Lord, thank you for your word. And Lord, I pray as we look into it tonight. You've brought all these folks together here tonight, and we have Bibles open. And we have hearts ready. And this is no accident that we're here. And Lord, I pray that you would meet with us in a special way. Show us what you have for us this hour and this time that we have together Guide me, let me uh yield to your spirit, let you be the preacher in this time, and pray you be with the folks downstairs. Pray you be with pastors. He brings his message uh way over yonder, and I pray that all this would be done to glorify thy name. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Now, we read in the uh in these opening verses Uh this is a familiar scene. We're all familiar with this. This is this is uh Jesus Christ uh getting ready to uh go to the cross. Um last Times that he has a chance to talk with his disciples on this earth, and he says to them, Be of good cheer. Now he knows what's coming. Jesus, though, gives the disciples encouragement. In this victory that's coming, the victory that will soon be there. So, with that in mind, let's go to the Old Testament now. Keep your place here in John chapter 16, because we're going to stay there for a main text, but I want you to go back to the book of Deuteronomy. And I I wanna go to uh Deuteronomy chapter seven Now, in the New Testament we find Jesus about to go to victory. And if you're thinking in the Old Testament terms about just getting ready, For God's people to be led into victory, you might remember that this is, after the forty years in the wilderness Getting ready to cross over Jordan. And so in Deuteronomy chapter 7, we find this case here. Moses, the great man of God, has led his people to this point, and he's been made aware that he's not going, that he's not going to go with them. But God has allowed him the chance to see the promised land, and now he's come and he's giving these words to the people of Israel, to the nation, God's chosen people. And he says in chapter seven of Deuteronomy, verse seventeen God says, if thou shalt say in thine heart, speaking to the nation of Israel, as they're about to go into Canaan, If thou shalt say in thine heart, These nations are more than I, how can I dispossess them What does he say? Verse 18, Thou shalt not be afraid of them, but shalt well remember what the Lord thy God did unto Pharaoh and unto all Egypt. the great temptations which thine eye saw, and the signs and wonders, and the mighty hand, and the stretched out arm whereby the Lord thy God brought thee out, so shall the Lord thy God do unto all the people of whom thou art afraid Now, again, Old Testament, we have folks, God's chosen people about ready to see a victory come to pass. Forty years wandering around in the desert. Seems like things are back and you know back and forth. The nation of Israel's good, then they're out of whack. But now they're about ready to break three into that break free into that victory. And what does God say to me? He says, you better remember. You should well remember what I've done for you. And if you do that, why? You're not going to be afraid. Consider the condition of the people. At this point. They're getting ready to go into Canaan. Do you guys remember from the Old Testament? What happened the last time they were in Canaan? Bad news bears, right? They sent the spies out. The spies almost all of them come back saying, no, no, no, this is terrible. There's giants and everything else. And only Joshua and Caleb are saying, no, no, no, we need to go. So they decide, no, we don't want to. And then they find out from God you're making a mistake here. So then they turn around and say, okay, we'll go, we'll go. So they go into Cana Canaan, but by this point God has already decided, no, you know, it's not you're not ready yet So they go in and to put in Garrett County terms they they get their rear ends whooped. Right? And there they go out, turn tail, and run. So this is the condition of people now. Surely they've heard from their fathers. This is what happened last time we were here, but they're about ready to go in. They're about ready to take that victory. So the condition of the people is God knows this. That there's potential for fear and maybe even failure as a result of that fear. So his response is to them, not just remember, but well remember. what I've done. Uh I did some digging. Th this the the the two words have been kind of rolling around in my mind for for a while. I like definitions. I like English definitions. God's given us His word in English and I I like to just use English definitions. So the English definition of the word remember Having in one's mind the awareness of someone or something that has been seen, known, or experienced in the past. Okay, that's what God wants them to do is to remember So, what is God actually doing? He's reminding. The word remind means to cause one to remember. He's getting Israel to remember, to recall, to bring to their mind An awareness that they already knew about. They saw God doing these things. What does God say to them? The great temptations which thine eyes saw, and the signs, and the wonders, and the mighty hand, and the stretched-out arm All those things they had seen, and God saying, remember. But not just remember, well remember. So imagine my my wife tells me go to the store and get some Get some bread and some milk, right? So I go to the store and I get the bread and the milk. She hates red cap. I love red cap. So I get the red cap, right? Now I remember that she said get milk and get bread. So I got the milk and bread or whatever it was she wanted me to get. But I get red cat milk. Now, sorta technically I've done what you know, what she asked me to do But have I well remembered what she did? No, I mean if I I know. In my mind I know, in my heart I know, my wife likes skim milk. Um And so I'm up at the counter and I even get more reminders. There's the other people there and they're getting the skim milk and I'm being reminded, you know my wife likes skim milk. Got my wife like skim milk here. I got this red cap. So what does a well remembrance do to me at that position, at that point in time? If I remember, that's one thing, but if I well remember, what do you think I'm going to do? Yeah, I'm gonna go back and change it. No matter how much I hate that milk, I'm gonna go back and change it in for the skim, right? And that's what God wants the nation of Israel to do to well remember. It's not just know about these things It's not enough. It's to apply it to your lives and say, you know what? I know that these things are done and that if I keep them in the forefront of my mind, I need to act on them the way God wants me to act on them. And what's the purpose of it all? If you see in the last verse, verse nineteen, so shall the Lord thy God do unto all the people what? Of whom thou art afraid? So this is encouragement. This is what it is. Well, remember, for the purpose of encouragement, could you know did God have control over these other nations? Could God have given them the victory regardless? Yes. But he wants them to go in victoriously, knowing full well that God is going to do these things for them and to be full of joy, knowing that God's going to give them that victory. Okay, so now, this in mind, go back to our main text tonight. You can leave Deuteronomy entirely. Go back to John chapter 17. I want to read the entire chapter. Okay, James laid down the gauntlet uh what was it Sunday night with his reading the entire chapter of Psalms. Yeah, it was five verses. But I want to read the entire chapter of John seventeen. I you know, I've never heard a a a a a message preached out of this Um and I'm not sure why. I can tell you one thing. Wearsby has called this the holy of holies in the Gospels, or even in the New Testament. It's one of the chapters in the in the entire Bible that I I love dearly. I'd love to read it over and over again. And hopefully you can pick up why it is I love this so much as we read through it. Several of you, I'm sure, are familiar with this with this chapter But I'm reminded also of the servant Moses when he saw the burning bush and God told him, Get your shoes off. You're on hot you're on holy ground. And uh so when we approach this chapter, this is the intercession of God This is the intercession of Jesus Christ, Jesus praying to God on our behalf. You know, it makes me want to take my feet up, my shoes off, not my feet This is really a very holy chapter. And so I want to approach it with that. But please listen along and I want you guys to think about this. What is the condition of Christ as he gives his prayer We know that at this point he's actually considered the work done. The work that he's about to do, he really already considered done. In fact, when he I think he considered the work done the minute he told Judas to go do what he had to do Jesus considered that work finished. He knew what he was going to do. Think about this though. He faced separation from his father. Three hours, I believe, separation from God the Father, so that he can endure what the world put on him at the cross. He faced that. He'd never had that before. This is a unique period in all history, ever will be, the son separated from the father for three hours. Christ knew that going up to it. He knew he was going to have to be separated from his father. Okay, you know kids, you've had kids yourselves, when you when you take them to school for the first time, they don't want to be away from their parents. Boy, I cry. I mean I have a a memory in my mind of uh uh just a little glimpse but people carrying me into kindergarten and I'm flailing around and everything. I didn't want to be separated from my mother And you know, the same way parents feel for their kids. I've cried with several of my kids when they get on the bus for the first time. I just go into the house and cry like a baby Because they don't want to be separated from them. God didn't want to be separated from the Son. God the Father. The Father didn't want to be separated from the Son, and the Son didn' He knew it was coming. And to me, I think that was the worst thing he had to face But chapter 17 reminds us who his mind is set on, his flock. So I'm going to read verse chapter 17, and you keep in mind the position, the condition of Jesus Christ as he's saying this. These words spake Jesus and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him, and this is the life eternal that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent. I have glorified thee on the earth. I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. And now, O Father Glorify thee thine uh glorify thou me with thine own self, with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. I have manifested thy name unto the men, which thou gavest me out of the world. Thine they were, and thou gavest them me, and they have kept thy word. Now they have known that all things whatsoever thou hast given me are of thee, for I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me. And they have received them, and have known surely that I am come out from thee, and they have believed that thou didst send me. I pray for them. I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me, for they are thine. And all mine are thine, and thine are mine, and I am glorified in them And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to thee, Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one as we are While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name. Those that thou gavest me I have kept, and none is lost but the son of perdition. That the scripture might be fulfilled. And now come I to thee, and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them thy word. And the world hath hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. I pray not that thou shouldst take them out of the world, but that thou shouldst keep them from the evil. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. As thou hast sent me into the world, even so I also send them into the world And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also might be sanctified through the truth. Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word That they all may be one, as thou Father art in me, and I in thee, and that thou also as they also may be one in us, that the world may believe that thou hast sent me And the glory which thou gavest me I have given them, that they may be one, even as we are one. I in them, and thou in me, that they may be made perfect in one and that the world may know that thou hast sent me, and hast loved them, and thou hast loved me. Father, I will that they also whom thou hast given me be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory Which thou hast given me, for thou lovest me before the foundation of the world. O righteous Father, the world hath not known thee, but I have known thee, and these have known that thou hast sent me And I have declared unto them thy name, and will declare it, and that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them and I in them. Wow, amen. What a prayer. And so we see that there's lots of content. We could take a l an awful long time. I told Brother James it would be quarter till, so we're not going to take an awful lot of time to dig into every single thing that is so wonderful about this prayer. But I do want to point out a few things. And uh if you're there's really five points that I want to make about this particular prayer. As I said, there are tons. You can dig into this. A Christian can spend his life or her life Just thinking and meditating on this intercessory prayer alone. But I want to note first of all what uh What uh, let's see, verse 9 says, I pray for them, I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me. So who is this prayer for? Intercession for believers. If you know Christ as your Savior, this prayer was for you. How do I know that? Because verse 20 tells me, neither pray I that for these alone, referring to the disciples. But for them also which shall believe on me through their word. Down through the ages comes the truth of the gospel, folks getting saved, knowing the truth of Christ. You and I, if you know Christ, you're in here, you're saved, and it's a result of that. Verse 20. So I have in my outline a statement. Believers are, and I have five points that I want us to know. Okay? Again, thinking about what God wants us to do, He wants us to remember. He wants us to well remember. First, we believers are given to Christ. We're given to Christ. We're a gift to the Son of God. Come on. I mean, you think about um think about the things that you've had in your life and some of the things that uh any gif any anything. And you're in the process of maybe cleaning out your garage and you see some old ratty thing that just needs to be tossed out. But somebody says, no, no, no, don't throw that out. That was a gift. My mother gave it to me as a gift or whatever Think about this. We are a gift to Christ. We have a special place in this world. We are a gift to Christ. So what about this? Look in verse 10 with me. All mine are thine, says Jesus, and thine are mine, and I am glorified in them. We are a gift to Christ first to glorify him. And you think to yourself, you know, well yeah, I mean I I can see how I'm a gift, I can see how I glorify Christ, but that's so and so. I don't know about him. The truth is, of course, I'm being facetious. The truth is, none of us, I mean, if we think about our own selves, how can I be a gift of Christ? How can I glorify Jesus? How can I do that? The fact is, we can't do it on our own. But Christ has given us the gift to be able to do it, and that's in our indwelling Holy Spirit. The more and more we yield to the Spirit, The more and more we glorify Christ. In fact, the Holy Spirit indwelling in us, his ministry is to glorify the Son through us So that's the gift that the Father has given the Son. Look in uh look at uh uh look in verse two. That he uh that he, referring to himself, Jesus referring to himself, should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. And again and again he refers to those believers as folks that God the Father has given to God the Son. So we're a gift. And we ought to think about that. We ought to really pay attention to that. We're a gift to Christ. And be a gift to Christ We are also eternally given. I see that in verse 2, as I just read. That he should give eternal life. He, Jesus, should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. Eternal, never-ending. Jesus has stated, He will never leave us nor forsake us. It's an eternal condition of us being a gift to the Father. So, Christians are, believers are. Given to Christ. We're a gift to Christ. Point two, believers are kept by God We're kept by God. How are we kept? What do I mean by that? Well look in verse eleven. We're kept in security. For one, we're kept in security. See what Jesus prays here. And now I am no more in the world. But these are in the world. In other words, I'm getting ready to go. But these folks have to stay here. They have work to do here. And I come to thee. Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me. Keep them. Keep them secure. Put a hedge about them. We, believers, are kept secure. But that's not the only way we're kept. I'm happy to report that we're also, by the way, kept in security, God has all power. He's omnipotent. It's his divine authority to do whatever he wants to do. That's his sovereignty. God's in control. He can assure us of security. He can assure believers security. And believe it, he has given us that eternal security. Now look though in verse 13. How else does he keep us? And now Praise the Son, and now come I to thee, and these things I speak in the world, that they might have my joy fulfilled in themselves. It was the prayer of Jesus that we would have his joy fulfilled in our own selves. I can tell you right now that uh uh uh many of you can testify. In fact, I thought him as Sandy. Sunday night, talking about the joy of recovering so quickly from her leg problem. So she's gone from a walker to a cane to nothing at all. She's talking about that with joy. Who can do that but a Christian? You know what the unsaved guy says? He's upset because it's taking so long. But Miss Sandy says, I have joy that the Lord has repaired me and healed me so quickly. How can we have that joy? How on earth can we have that joy? I'll tell you how, because the Son prayed to the Father for it When God has, you know and I know, all of us could go around and give testimony of the way God has answered some prayer for us. None of us are clean, none of us are spotless, none of us really are worthy to get anything from God special But the Son, on the other hand, Jesus Christ, is a whole different story. When he asks, you can be sure God's gonna God the Father will give it. And he says, Jesus asks that we might have his joy fulfilled in our own lives. So we're kept in his joy. Believers are given to Christ, kept by God. Point three, given God's Word. Amen to that. Uh, you know, it took me a long time I'd been around God's Word, but I'd never been given God's Word till one day in a parking lot I saw the verses I needed to know, how I could have a home in heaven. Okay? We were given God's word. Believers are given God's word. So part one of that is being saved through belief. Look at what Jesus prays for in verse 8. For I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me, and they have received them, and have known surely that I came out from thee, and they have believed that thou didst send me He's referring, he's talking about giving them words, the word of God, delivering the word of God to them, and what's the result? The first result is belief. Being brought into the family of God, becoming a child of God starts with belief. It starts with the Word of God and believing on the Word of God. So, a believer is saved through through through belief and how does that happen? From this prayer. What about what about what else is uh Given when we're given God's word, what else does that imply? I like this. We're sanctified through truth. Look in verses uh uh verse verse 17 Jesus prays, sanctify. In other words, set them apart. Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. I am set apart from the world by God's word. I'm given it, and it sanctifies me, sets me apart from all this muck. We look around us, everything's just in decay. But we're set apart. We're sanctified by God's Word. I like what Warren Waresby. I was reading some of his stuff about this about this particular chapter, and I love what he wrote. He wrote this He said the mind learns truth from God's Word. The mind learns truth from God's Word. And he says the heart loves truth through Jesus The heart loves truth through Jesus, and the body lives truth through the Spirit. Capital S. So the mind learns truth from God's word, the heart loves truth through Jesus, and the body lives truth through the Spirit. I love that. It's a great way to look at at things. So that's uh that's basically, you know, what does God's word do for us? It saves us first, and then it sanctifies us. I can't tell you how many times as I read through my my uh go through my devotions, something new comes to light. The Holy Spirit shows me from God's Word and says, this is true. This is true, this is true. And then I can apply those to my life and become more and more set apart, ready for God. So, the believers are given to Christ, they're kept by God, they're given God's word. And look at this. They're unified in Christ. Unified in Christ. So if you look back at several verses, actually, go to verse 20. Neither pray I for these alone Oh sorry no go to verse twenty Yeah twenty-two and the glory which thou gavest me I have given them that they may be What? One, even as we are one. Unified to be made one. How are we made one? What on earth does that mean? How are we made one? Well, to be made one, uh you need to all be of one mind. In fact you go through the early books in the in the uh or the early chapters in the book of Acts and you see that all the Folks who are getting saved and are on fire, they're of one accord. They're of one accord, of one accord, of one accord. They all have the same mind, the same spirit is unifying them to some goal. You know, think about this. Our little local body of believers here, unified in Christ, can do mighty things. What do we have next month? We got track month coming up. We're all signing up on the sign-up sheet to go out as a team for the goal of taking the gospel to the lost. Now how does something like that happen? How do you know how we are? I mean our families don't even get along sometimes. Boy, you know, you take two best friends, you put them along enough together, they'll they'll be enemies before too long. How are we so unified I'll tell you how we're unified because Christ asked the Father to get us unified, to make us as one. Now we know that God the Father is a spirit, there's no body So when he says as we are one, referring to Jesus and God the Father, how can they be of one in spirit Just as all of us are one in spirit. There's a, of course, another situation where we can be one in the body, and that's husband and wife, one flesh. But it's interesting to look at the fact that Christ and the bride of Christ, the believers, the church are also one in spirit. So we're made one. We are unified in Christ. And not just for these folks back then. Look what Jesus prayed for. Specifically in verse 20, neither pray I for these alone. In other words, for the disciples that are sitting with me right now. I'm not just praying for them. What does he say? But for them also which shall believe on me through their word. Through all ages, during the entire church age, we all are unified in Christ. Now, why would we be unified in Christ? Verse 23 really has the answer to that: I in them, and thou in me that they may be made perfect in one. You know, when your car isn't running right, you wouldn't describe it as being perfect. And when your car isn't running right, there's at least one part in there that's banging the way it shouldn't be banging or clanging the way it shouldn't be clanging. But God wants us, Jesus prays for us to be unified so that we will be made perfect, so that we'll be a nice honed working machine for His glory. And what for? We see again in verse 21 and verse 23. Why does Jesus ask for this? Why? Verse 21 says, That the world may believe that thou hast sent me. Verse 23. And that the world may know that thou hast sent me. Look what he says: I in them and thou in me, that they may be made perfect in one, and that the world may know that thou hast sent me. It is so critical that we remain unified If anyone is to believe that God has sent Christ, we must be unified. And Christ has prayed this prayer for us to be unified. What do you suppose it would be the case if we all went down and okay pastor's on the bus and and uh all the deacons are on the bus and and uh and all the uh everybody's on the bus and we're all we got all these buses By the way, the buses are terrific the buses outside are another terrific example of a unified body working together for a common theme, which is to glorify Christ through taking the gospel. But We all go down, this is just for example, and a fight breaks out between Brother Mark and Pastor. They don't like each other's haircuts. And they're Decking each other and then you know then I get on board and uh brother Ed gets on board and everybody's picking sides and and we get to where it is we're supposed to deliver gospel tracts we all come falling out of the bus hauling around at each other, you know Do you think anybody is going to believe anything we have to say? Of course not. And Jesus knew that. knew that we needed to be unified together as He and the Father are unified so that we can accomplish His will, which is to make sure that the world believes that God sent Christ Take the gospel. That's why we're unified. So believers are, I'm running way out of time. Believers are given to Christ, kept by God, given God's word, unified in Christ. And boy, if you don't get any encouragement out of anything else, get it out of this. We're blessed with hope. Look at verse 24. Father, I will In other words, this is what I want, that they also whom thou hast given me, believers, be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory. Where are we gonna go? Where are believers gonna go when this when this world has had its way with us, when it's done, when it's all over for us, and our body is patterned and it doesn't want any more, and we end up Not breathing anymore. Where are we going to go? Jesus has asked the Father that when we're not down here, We will be with him where he is to behold his glory. We are blessed with that hope. Man. Sometimes it's gotten me to a point sometimes where I think to myself, kind of like Paul says, you know, I'm caught in a straight betwixt two things. You know, here I have, I know I got this mission I got to do, but man, I want out of here. This is crazy And believe me, there have been times and I've been uh I remember one time specifically I was on a on a bus in Morgantown and I overheard some college girls talking, and uh I wanted out of here too. I don't want anything, you know, there's a part of me that just doesn't want anything to do with this world anymore. I just want to go where my Savior is And I know that from this prayer, that Christ has guaranteed that when I'm not here doing my job, I will be with him. Because the Son has asked the Father for this, I know that it would be the case. But look what else he's got. Verse 26 says, And I have declared unto them thy name and will declare it and that thou love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them and I in them. We get to abide in God's love. Man. So we are blessed with the hope of not only knowing that when we get to the when we make it to the pearly gates, We're going to get to behold the face of our Savior. I think then we'll realize how much more we could have done But man alive, what a hope that is. And then not only that, but every day of our lives here we get to abide in God's love. So, what does this all come back to? So we have believers are given to Christ, kept by God, given God's word, unified in Christ, and blessed with hope. From this one prayer, we have all these things. But here's the catch. The word, God's word, reminds us. It causes us to bring to remembrance this prayer. What are we supposed to do with it? What was Israel supposed to do when God said, when I remind you, what should they do? Well remember. And the same thing should be true with us. You know, I think of uh I think of uh the so-called prodigal son And uh actually let me just read it. And I think this is sort of fitting. Because I think so many of us kind of act like this. You know, and I'm not going to say we all act like the crazy one that gets away. If I go to Luke 15 and chapters 28 or chapter uh 15 verse 28, the son, we all are familiar with the story of the prodigal son. One takes off, spends all of his inheritance on riotous living. And then uh he ends up eating corn cobs that the pigs won't even eat and says to himself, you know, if I was even just a servant with my father, I'd be living better than this, so I'm gonna head on back. And he did The father sees them coming off and they're coming off in the distance and gets everything prepared for him, wants to have a feast. And the son has always been there. Look, I can identify with that son. who's always been there. And the sun, verse 28, the sun, the sun that always was around, he was angry. And would not go in, in other words, not go into the feast. Therefore came his father out and entreated him, asked him, and he answered, saying, and he answering said To his father, Lo, these many years do I serve thee, neither transgressed I at any time thy commandment, and yet thou never gavest me a kid that I might make merry with my friends But as soon as this thy son was come, which hath devoured thy living with harlots, thou hast killed for him the fatted calf. And he, the father, said unto him, Son, thou art ever with me, and all that I have is thine. It was meat. It was right, in other words, that we should make merry and be glad, for this thy brother was dead, and is alive again, was lost, and is found. What was the father doing in verse 31? Son, thou art ever with me, and all I have is thine. He was reminding his son that his son always had him by his side. And no matter how bad it appeared to the son, he needed to keep in mind, he needed to remember and well remember what his real position, his real condition with his father was Look what his father says. All that I have is thine. By this one prayer that the Son asked of the Father. When he's getting ready to face the most terrible situation, but he's also about ready to ensure the biggest victory that ever stormed this planet. The greatest victory, these words I no doubt still reverberate in the universe. They're still bouncing around This prayer was given to us to remember what the Father has done for us and what the Son has done for us. So what about it? I'm just going to close. We're a little bit behind. I think about this. I don't even know, by the way, whether that son really applied what the father had asked him. But I would say to all of us, to myself included. Are we in a position maybe of fear, or maybe we're going to be possibly facing failure because of our fear? Are we in a position where maybe there's some kind of heartache or affliction? Something that's got us down. Are we in that position? Are we coming back up against something? Maybe you you know, maybe everything in the in your else in your life is great, but You're scared to death because it's the first time you ever signed the book to go out um passing out tracts, and you're scared to death what that's going to do. Maybe that's your affliction. Maybe it's something way, way worse. I don't know what it is But whatever it is, listen, tonight, tonight, God has reminded all of us, myself included This great prayer that's given to us, that we are a gift of Christ, that we're kept by God, we're always secure. We should have his joy, that we're given his word, that we should all be unified, that we are unified, and that we're blessed with this hope of eternal glory. He's reminding us of that so that this whatever this thing is that we're facing, whatever it is, it's not really so bad. Just go into Canaan and take it. Just go in, knowing that the victory's already been done. The victory's won. It's won for us. Will we well remember? Will we? Let's pray. Father in heaven, God, we we come to you now and we thank you for opening your word to us. We thank you for the Holy Spirit that's certainly been involved here. Gone around into all of our hearts and shown us areas in our lives where maybe we are afflicted, where maybe we're having some troubles, where maybe we're doubting or having fear. God, we thank you for reminding us, for causing us to remember what you've done for us. And Lord, we pray that this would be well remembered in our lives, that we would take what we know to be true. You've given us your word. We know it's true. We would take what we know to be true And Lord, that we ought to be able to apply it and to live victoriously, knowing certainly that everything that you've done for us, you've set up for us for the good of us and for the glorification of you, in the name of your Son Jesus Christ. My father, I thank you for giving me the opportunity to bring this message. And I'm just wondering, right now in this group, I'm not very good at giving uh invitations. But Lord, I pray your spirit help me to ask the right kind of question. I wonder if there's anybody here that that uh maybe would say, would be willing to raise their hand and say, you know what? I acknowledge, Lord, that you have reminded me of something. I acknowledge that, and I want to well remember it. I want to put what you're teaching me, what you've shown me, into an application, a very specific spot in my life, wherever it might be, whatever how s however small that affliction might be, I wonder if anybody would be willing to admit to God, yes, I'm ready and I'm willing To go ahead and well remember, not just remember what you've done, but well remember it. Anybody like that by a show of hands? Amen Man, hands all around. I Lord, I I pray, Lord, as we uh how about everybody just stand to their feet and and uh uh keep your heads bowed and eyes closed and I don't know uh how this has touched you, but if you need to come and and do uh service at the altar, if you need to just make a few uh uh commitments to God, if you need to seal the deal So to speak. I just ask that you would do that. Do do business with God tonight. We don't have a uh piano, but I can continue to stand here and make noise while you guys uh Uh think about this and and maybe there's some uh things on your heart. Maybe you need to pray for someone else. Maybe you haven't been the neighbor you need to be. I don't know what it is. There's something maybe coming down the road, you see it coming, it's going to be an affliction for you And you just want to put it into practice now, you want to say, I want to well remember. Just seal the deal. Just pray and ask God to just make that thing happen. Give you the courage that you need. General