If you would turn there with me. And it's been a good day, hasn't it? Good day. God's blessed today. I love Sundays. I just love it. and um everything this evening, the testimonies, the hymn history, all of it. It's just a wonderful time. It's funny Brian was saying about his voice and that range. You're not going to believe this. Tomorrow morning I'm leaving I have to go out the s uh to Louisville. Uh there's a big preacher's meeting and Brothers uh Hummel is having me go out and represent Beacon of Truth to set up a display there. So I'm gonna be out there tomorrow, Tuesday, and come back and leave early Wednesday be back here So pray for me. But uh did I mention this? I don't think I did. Uh he texted me last week. Did I tell you about this? He texted me last week, Byron Fox did, and he says, um, I'd like for you to sing at Southwide Baptist Preachers Fellowship on Tuesday night I did exactly what you just did. I laughed out loud and I text back and said, Me? I thought he texted the wrong person. And he said, yeah, you, Pastor Leatherman. So I text back, I said, you just made me literally L-O-L. I laughed. I said, you're making a terrible mistake. He goes, no, no. He says, I want you to. So there's gonna be a couple hundred preachers there, a thousand people. Your pastor is singing on Tuesday night. At Southwide Baptist Fellowship. Tune in, Shawnee Baptist Church. You can hear it on the internet. And um might be in the career. Now let me tell you the rest of the story. I said, are you serious? I said, Brother Fox, you're making a horrible mistake. And uh he goes, No, there's going to be 25 other group people up there with you. And many of them are professional singers highly trained. He says, there's no way in the world you're going to mess it up. They're going to drown you out. So he wants to have a preacher's ensemble and he has me in there. Oh boy. James chapter 1. Let me begin reading in verse 21. We're preaching our way through the book of James. This has been a challenge to me, and it's interesting. Tonight's message ties right in with this morning's message. I didn't do that deliberately. But uh I just believe it's the Lord's direction. And so verse 21 of James chapter 1, wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness And receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves For if any be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glance. For he beholdeth himself and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, and continueth therein He, being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the word, this man shall be blessed in his deed. The mirror of God's Word. And so let's pray. I'll share a few thoughts with you. Father, it has been a good day. I'm very grateful for your blessings on our church. Lord, you're very gracious and you're very merciful to us, and we give you all the glory, God, and we want you to please keep your hand a blessing upon us God help us to keep growing. God help us to walk in the Spirit. We want you to use us to bring other people to Christ. We really do, Lord. And so we give ourselves anew this evening to you as we begin a new week. We ask that you would fill us with your Spirit. Give us direction from your word. And help us, Lord, to be the people you intend for us to be. I yield myself to you, Lord, present my body anew. And I ask that you would please, with all my heart, I ask you'd fill me with your spirit and speak through me In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I highly recommend, I highly recommend that Christians practice marking in their Bible. And uh in fact I have a whole lesson I teach on that, uh, on methods of Bible study and just some principles and practices that I think I think it's a very, very helpful habit to get into to mark your Bibles. For instance, I think it's good when there's a verse that God particularly uses to speak to my heart or a verse that is very significant, maybe theologically or some way, or it's a challenge, it's good to underline that verse. I think that's a good thing to do. Underline verses in their Bible. Sometimes maybe highlighting a particular w word. I went through the book of Proverbs and I highlighted every time the word wisdom and I'd used a different highlighter for every time the word foolish And every time the word simple is used, or scornful, the wise, the foolish, and the scornful. And these are words, and you'd be amazed how they show up. So highlighting verses and um Underscoring, writing outlines in the margin of your Bible can be very, very helpful. Taking notes, maybe a statement that's made about a passage, take a note and jot it down uh something about it. Maybe the definition of a word that you're not real clear what the definition is and the preacher gives the definition of a word, you can jot that there for future reference. explanations, maybe of a confusing passage, or we talked about this morning, uh sometimes a an apparent contradiction. And a preacher can explain that and you say, oh yeah, that makes sense and mark that down for future reference. So what I'm saying is I really recommend marking our Bibles. But here's the danger. Sometimes we mark our Bibles and yet we never allow the Bible to leave a mark on us. You follow what I'm saying? Oh boy, we'll read it. We'll look at it. That's interesting. Boy, that's a great message. Boy, that's fascinating. I learned something. And then we walk away and it never has an impact on us. There's no change made on our lives. The fact of the matter is, all of us as Christians, we are either progressing in our Christian development or we're regressing. In other words, I'm either growing spiritually or I'm withering. There's no plateau that we get to and say, all right, here I am I reach this, I've done enough, I've learned enough, I understand enough, I'm doing enough for the Lord. If we get to that mindset and we cease to go forward, we cease to grow, we immediately start regressing And there's no plateau that we reach it. And it's interesting to me, it's amazing to me how quickly we can wither spiritually if we don't keep pressing forward. I've seen it happen. I've experienced I hate to say it, I've experienced it in my own life. If I get a little negligent, some area in my Christian life, some Christian habit, I get a little negligent Man, it's amazing how quickly suddenly thought, man, wait a minute, where am I? And Connie mentioned that. Get away from reading that Bible or whatever. And uh it's amazing how quickly uh we can wither away. I thought about remember when Jesus came out and he saw the fig tree and it had leaves on and he was looking for fruit and there was no fruit and what did he do to the fig tree? He cursed it And uh he's teaching a lesson. It's all part of what he's doing, he's teaching a lesson, and the fascinating thing is you read down through there, the next morning the disciples come out and they go by that fig tree And Peter, of all people, took note, and he says this: he took note how quickly the tree had withered. And when God's blessing was removed from that tree, when that tree was not producing, growing, developing, being productive God took his blessing off the tree, cursed it so to speak, how quickly that thing withered away. And when you and I, when we cease to go forward, we cease to grow and develop in our Christian life and press on how quickly we can wither. Now a key component in our spiritual growth is simply this. And you hear it here so often. Key component for me to grow spiritually and be strong and healthy spiritually is allowing the Word of God to influence me. On a regular, continual basis. And that's what he's talking about here in James chapter 1. He says, be ye doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. Now we preached on this A couple weeks ago, a week or so ago, we touched on this. But I want to look at verse number three, or verse twenty-three. For if any man be a hearer of the word And not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass. Now, when it says his natural face in a glass, The word glass layer is simply an a uh an old reference to a mirror, what we would call a mirror today. And so two thoughts, two points, and uh I want to share real quickly. Number one, he gives us two categories of saints. Now remember, he's talking to saved people here. We noted that several messages. This is a book to save people. And he puts them into two categories in their relationship to the Word of God. Those who hear the Word of God and don't do it. And those who hear the Word of God and what? Do it. Those who hear and do not do, those who hear and do it. Uh Romans chapter two and verse thirteen makes the same separation. We won't take time to turn there. And he says the same thing there, that the hearing of the law and the doing of the law. And in that passage he's pointing out that doing the law, even if we could do the law, it wouldn't save us, wouldn't make us righteous But he categorized the same thing, those that simply hear and those that hear and do. Now let's consider those who hear but do not do. The word hear there in this verse means this, to simply listen to. Doesn't really pay attention, not really uh giving any consideration to what's going on. I'm simply uh I'm just listening to it. Do you ever have that? Do you ever have music in the background It's just playing and you hear it there, but you're not really paying attention what the song is or anything like that. I like to have when I'm home studying, I like to have FBN, I'll turn it on. I'll just turn it kind of down in the quiet in the back while I'm studying or reading different things And I and I'm listening to it, but I'm not really paying attention. And that's the idea, that word here. And this is the idea that a person reads the Bible maybe or they go to church and they uh hear a sunny school lesson or they hear a Bible message, but they really made no application to their own lives. They just listened to it. Really doesn't have much or anything to do with me. Um the Bible reading and the Bible preaching to them is simply just uh information being taken in, really no uh no application. The fact of the matter is God had given us this book, the Bible, not to just inform us, but he has given us this book to transform us. God wants to change Dennis Letterman into the person he wants him to be, and he does that by using his word. How many folks here say, yep, I am exactly all that everything that God wants in me, I've attained, I am the ultimate Christian in my Christian life. Anybody there yet? No, me neither. And what God wants them to do is take the Word of God and use His Word to transform me, change me, help me grow until I'm at the point. But if all I do is just listen to the information and I don't uh apply it to my life, I'm not going to grow. Take your Bible, not far away, turn to 1 Peter 2 Next book after James in your Bible as you work your way back, 1 Peter and chapter 2, and notice with me verse number 2. Here's one of those verses good to underline in your Bible. a good verse to to mark in one way or another. 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse number 2. Notice what it says. As newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word that ye may what Grow thereby. Why do we give that baby its milk? So that it does what? So that it grows So that it develops. In fact, the word grow there means to increase in strength, to develop, to mature. And the reason God has given us his word, not just so that we get some information, oh that's the rapture, oh that's fascinating. uh ecli um eschatology. Oh what a fascinating subject. And the Antichrist. I wonder who it is. And um uh the tribulation that'll be so awful And uh all this stuff, and all we are is just fascinated by the facts, and it never really affects how we live. I've often said, hey, we are a fundamental church You understand that? By that we simply mean we believe the fundamentals of the Word of God. What the Bible teach to boil it down, we believe this. If the Bible says it, then it's so Now, to be a fundamentalist, you have all these fundamental doctrines lined up. We have them in our doctrinal statement, on our Constitution, we uh we have them on our website. And we're not ashamed of it. We don't hide what our doctrine is. But just having a fundamental doctoral statement does not make me a fundamentalist. To be a true fundamentalist means not only do I have know what that doctrinal statement is, but it affects the way I live Not only do I know the facts about Jesus Christ coming again, but I seek to live every day in light of the fact that Jesus is coming back someday. And that's what he's addressing. He says there's a category of Christians that they hear the Word of God, but they don't apply it to their lives. It has no effect. There's no transformation taking place. There's no spiritual growth going on. As I was studying this, I thought about a fellow uh that was in Bible college and uh I really didn't know him that well. We knew each other. I was down there five years, so I got to know people uh somewhat. But um uh and he was a good guy Shaved, no doubt about it. I think he loved the Lord to some extent. And uh, but this guy, I'm telling you, we'd go to church services. And he would have, literally, he would have I mean I'm not exact if I ever tell the truth, I'll point it out. This is true. And uh he would come to church, he'd have his Bible, he'd have his Greek New Testament, he had his theological dictionary, I mean he had four or five different books he would bring with him to church. And the preacher was preaching and he'd reference something. He'd have that book out. He'd be there and he'd be looking it all up. And this guy, he'd everywhere you went, he was doing, man, he studied that thing out. Listen, I'm all for studying scriptures. But in the five years that I was down there as a student, not one time did I ever see him go out on visitation. Not one time did I ever see him working on a bus route or helping out in some way or teaching a class or helping at the at the uh uh gospel mission for the homeless and the uh uh drunks and all of that. Not one time did I see him at the altar counseling, never in the choir, never anywhere doing anything And yet he had all this knowledge, and boy, he could tell you the Greek tense of this, that, and the other, and everything else. He could tell you what the uh the image that Daniel saw, what all that represented, what the fingernails stand for, and the eyebrows he could tell you about the dirt under the image's toenails. I mean he had that thing holding up But he never went downtown and told anybody about Lord Jesus that I ever saw. I don't know that I ever saw him with gospel tracts and hand a gospel tract to anybody. See, it's one thing to hear, it's one thing to get the information, it's another thing to allow that information, that truth, to affect how I live and transform my life. You see what I'm trying to say And he says, there are those that are hearers of the word, but they're not doers. That's the one category. They hear, but they don't apply it. Then the other category are those who hear the Word of God and they do it. They respond to that truth. That truth bears fruit in their life. It has an effect on them. It uh transforms them. They respond to what is revealed and they act upon what they've been instructed. I'm afraid. I hate to say this, but I'm afraid. There are a lot of people that end up in hell who knew all the in who had all the information about the gospel. But never made any application of the gospel. They never responded and trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. In fact, we need it all the time. We're out visiting. Oh yeah, I know I'm a sinner. Yeah, I know Jesus died for me. I know there's hell Have you ever trusted in the Savior? Well, no. And so we know the information. We have that information, but they never apply it Uh uh the Bible, I think it's 1 Thessalonians talks about angels at the return of Christ taking vengeance on them that obey not the gospel. How do I obey the gospel? It simply means Jesus said, Ye must be born again. By obeying the gospel means I get the information I'm a sinner. Jesus died for my sins in my place. He suffered hell for me. He rose again. If I will accept him as my own personal savior, put my faith and trust in him, that is the obeying, making that decision. It's one thing to have the information It's another thing to act upon it. And that's what he's saying here. Some people act upon it. How many folks here you're glad that when you heard the gospel, you accepted Jesus as your Savior? Amen. That's acting on it. That's hearing and then doing what needs to be done. Now let's take it another step. How many Christians are there? That once we're saved, the Lord forgives us. He gives us eternal life. I'm secure. I have a home in heaven that's secured. And then God, from His Word, teaches me and shows me how I'm to live, how I'm to serve, what a Christian does and does not do, and then we revert back and we hear it and we learn it, but we never respond And we never act upon that. We know we should be. I hear it all the time, and no doubt I'm guilty myself. We say make statements like that. I know I should be doing that. Anybody ever make that statement I know I shouldn't be involved in it. I know this ought to be. We've got the information, but we don't act on it. And so he puts people in two categories, those who hear and do not do, they don't apply it, then you have those who hear and they respond. And I say, well that's what God says. I'm going to trust God, I'm going to do what he says If that's what God instructs me as a Christian to do, well then I'm going to have faith in him, I'm going to trust him, I'm going to do what he says. So those are the two categories. Then the comparison. And I want to develop this little in another later message, but the comparison of scriptures, come back to verse 23 there again in James chapter 1. Everybody doing all right? Alright, you look good For the most part. Few exceptions here and there, but look at verse 23 of James 1. For if any man be a hearer of the word and not a doer, All right, there's that first category. He says, this is what he's like. That word like there means this is what he is a copy of. He's making a comparison here. He's illustrating the foolishness of neglecting to do what God tells us to do. He goes, all right, here's a person, they know what God says, they're here, they've heard it, they've listened to it, but they're not doing it. This is what they're like. They are a copy of this And he's illustrating, and he gives kind of a foolish illustration. Look what he says. He is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass. He's referencing looking into a mirror. This is what the guy's doing. He's looking in the mirror. Not bad. And um look what it says. For he beholdeth himself. And then goeth uh uh beholdeth himself, and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was He's saying how foolish is that? You look in the mirror and you see your now this doesn't apply to me, but you see your hair is out of place And it's all sticking up and crazy, and you look at it, and you go down, you get doing stuff, and you forgot to comb your hair, and you go out the door, and you walk away and forget it that the hair is a mess. Would that not be silly? And he looks and uh maybe he had um crispy cream donuts after assembling a bunch of scriptures. By the way, we have a very serious mystery. For the last two years, seriously, the last two years when we've done uh fingerprints, two dozen crispy cream donuts have mysteriously appeared in the kitchen. This is the truth. We cannot figure out who brings them or how they get there. We last year we did a massive investigation, didn't we, Betty? I mean we made phone calls, we did everything. And we cannot figure out where those Krispy Kreme don't it happened again this year. We're in there. I had uh I bought some off of uh Mandy and or Jade I guess and others were there and we're working away and we look and lo and behold there's two whole new Two dozen Krispy Kreme donuts. Now it's kind of a mystery. Some people suggest that it's miraculous That maybe angels have dropping down Krispy Kreme donuts. Now suppose a person is in there working and they eat some Krispy Kreme donuts and they get that white Krispy Kreme stuff all over them And they look in the mirror and they say, well, I just ate that drunk. And they look and lo and behold, they've got crispy cream stuff all over their face. And they say, oh, I've got to clean that up. And they go off and they forget all about and they're walking around with that crispy cream stuff all over their face. How many people agree with me? That'd be silly. That'd be silly. You look in there and there it is and you don't do anything about it. He said that's the way People are that know what the Bible says, know what God tells them to do, and uh but they don't pay an attention to it. They don't apply it. I'm gonna make a statement, don't get mad at me, just bear with me. Women have a strange attraction to mirrors Am I right or wrong? You men don't say anything. You're scared to death to say what. I want to prove my point. How many ladies right now in your purse you have a mirror? Come on, be honest. Raise your hand. How many ladies? Hold up high. You've got a mirror in your purse right now. I was going to have you stand. Alright, look around. Hold them up high there. Look around. How many ladies have a mirror? Alright, put your hand down. How many of you men have a purse in your wallet? A person in your wallet. How many men have a mirror in your wallet? See that? Women are strangely attracted to mirrors. And um but uh I don't know what that means by anything. But I tell you this, men are also attracted to mirrors. You have a man walk down a street and there's a mirror window there, guess where he's gonna look every time. Right or wrong. He wants to see what uh what he looks like. So uh he makes this comparison of the scriptures to a mirror. Now let me say this, and I'm wind down with this. But a mirror on the wall, you have a mirror hanging there. I look in that mirror, and what that mirror reveals to me is how I appear. It tells me how I appear. Um, 1998, I think it was, my wife and I went on a second honeymoon. And we went up to the Pocano Mountains. We reserved a honeymoon suite at one of the honeymoon lodges in the Pocono's up in Pennsylvania. We got it for a whole week. And um it was a pretty amazing. And uh and all this stuff. And what they had part of the package was, and I've told this a long time ago, but part of the package was every evening at a certain hour, they had this very, very fancy meal for all the uh uh um uh clients what would you call the people all the guests They had uh they had this huge banquet, I mean it was large, fifteen hundred feet uh banquet hall, and chandeliers and fancy uh tables set ups and they'd have two, three forts. I don't know what to do with all of 'em and and they they even had cloth napkins. Good, night talk about fancy. And uh I mean that place was decked out And the waiters uh were in tuxedos, and so we took our fanciest uh uh suits and Kathy had her fancy dresses. I mean we were decked out And it was high class. I mean, it was fancier than going to J. C. Penney. I mean, it was something. And uh we'd walk in there, and that whole place was all the walls were mirrors And so we'd come walking in and that we and you had the same seat every night. They were and in the morning for breakfast and they knew what you wanted, they knew I wanted coffee without cream and it was ready and waiting and e evening's come, iced tea, sweet tea, was it ready and waiting? And they come in and say, welcome, Mr. Leatherman, welcome, Mrs. Leatherman. We'd walk in there and I'm decked out in my sharpest suit and she's decked out in her prettiest dress. We walk in there and those mirrors are there and guess what I'm looking at? I'm looking at those mirrors. And from fifty yards away, I look pretty good. You know, I'm walking around. And you know, and and um uh and the we sat right along the wall, and the closer we got, the less impressed I became. By the time we sat down, I could see the hair in my ear and uh there's a pimple on the side of my nose. I thought, good night, I want to sit back over there far away. I look better And what that mirror did, it simply showed what I was outwardly. When I was a teenager, like many have, uh I struggled with acne real bad. And uh you know there's nothing worse than being a teenager and having a pimple. Oh good heavens. And so they had this stuff, I don't know if they still do now. I forget what But you could put it on there and it would cover up. It's like makeup sort of. You put on there and it would cover up the the acne. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And you put that stuff on there? What's it called? Clear cell. Really? And uh so I'd have to I'd look in the mirror, be yikes. So I'd get that clear cell out. I'd put that stuff on there. Boy, I look pretty good. Now, here's my point I'm trying to make. That physical mirror showed me what I appeared like, but it did not show me what I really was. I look I didn't look like I had any acne, but they were there. That mirror showed me what I appeared like. So a physical mirror, the mirror on the wall reveals how I appear, but the mirror of God's word Reveals what I am. And it tells me what my uh what I am as a person. Um sometimes Sometimes I'll look at myself, I'll evaluate myself, look at myself, and I get discouraged. And I think, man, a lot. How could God ever use me? I get I get down. It gets me down. I look and see my own failures, my falls. And then I get looking in God's Word, the mirror of God's Word, and you know what I see? I see that I'm in Christ. The Bible tells me I have the righteousness of Christ, that I am forgiven and cleansed from all unrighteousness. And the Bible reveals me what I really am, not what I think I am, and maybe not what I appear. Boy, he's a great man. And I look at myself, I ain't no great man. I look at the word of God and I see I am in Christ. I'm justified I'm fully forgiven. You follow what I'm saying? The Bible reveals to me, it's a mirror, shows me what a real now on the other side of that coin, sometimes I think too highly of myself. And we'll have a good day at church and maybe some people get saved or something we do and I'll walk and I'll walk in the house at home and I'll think, boy, I'm really something. And then I'll read my Bible and I see what Jesus said, without me you can do nothing. I see where Paul said, oh wretched man that I am. I see where Paul said, I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless not I, but Christ liveth in me life, which I now live in a flesh, I live by a faith, Son of God. And the Bible has to show me, wait a minute, this is what you really are. And when we look into the mirror of God's word, we see what we really are. And so what we need to do, now here's the point. He says some people look in the Word of God and they see what they really are, and there needs to be some changes. There needs to be some transformation. And they walk away. They see it in God's word, what they really are, not what they appear, but what they really are. And they walk away and they never let the word of God transform them. They never respond to what they've been shown. And they go off, and they're no better for it. And he says, what we need to do is when we see the Word of God, when it's taught or we read it, and God shows us where we're at and what we are Then we need to respond to that and let the Lord deal with us. If we really want to know, if I really want to know what kind of Christian I am, Then God will show me in his word. If I want really want to know what do I need to do as a Christian, how do I need to live? What do I need? God will show me from his word. Now Satan will do everything he can to keep us. From his word. Satan will do everything he can to get us focused on others, get us focused on everything else except the mirror of God's Word. And so I hope God would use this challenge tonight And in this coming week, in the coming months, we'll get into the Word of God on a daily basis. And we'll say, God, show me what I am. God, show me what I need to do. Show me what I need to avoid. Lord, lead me and direct me as a Christian. And I want to be a doer of your word and not simply a hearer or a listener. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you would bless us and help us, as Christians, to be doers of your word. Challenge us, Lord. Help us to be disciplined. In the mornings or at some point at least during the day, look into your word and let you Teach us and show us and then let us be doers. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, like I mentioned a moment ago, that we so often say, there's some areas of my life I know That I ought to be doing this, or I know that I ought not to be doing that. And you say, preacher, I don't want to just be a hearer anymore. I want to be doer of what I know God tells me to do I want to be a doer of the word. And as God shows me from his word areas of my life that need adjustment, I want God to help me. To respond to do. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? I don't want to just be a hearer. I want to be a doer. God bless you. Hands all around. Now I tell you what I'd recommend Before we go into this coming week, let's find a place on altar and say, Lord, help me to be a doer. I want to. Speak to me from my word your word. Show me what you have for me to do. And then give me the grace I need to respond to that. And do what you say. Father, bless our invitation, I ask now in Jesus' name. Let's stand together our heads about eyes are closed