I said James chapter three, I meant James chapter five. Would turn there with me. Thank you, ladies. Very good. Now we begin reading in verse number thirteen, James chapter five. And verse number 13. And I want you to help me when I read down through here, when I get to a word, I'll kind of stall a little bit, and you help me with the word and come down. I think you'll catch on what I'm trying to do here James chapter 5 and verse number 13. Everybody there? How many folks are glad you're saved? Say amen. Amen. Amen. How many folks are glad winter's over? No more snow. Yeah. Amen. My dad said when do well I think it was my dad asked Derek, When do you guys have summer up here? He said, Oh about a week or two in July. That's an old one. Verse thirteen. Alright, now pay attention and you'll figure out what's going on here. Is any among you afflicted? Let him Is any merry? Let him sing songs. Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church and let them over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the Of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise them up, and if you have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. Confess your faults one to another and for one another, that you may be healed. The effectual fervent Of a righteous man availeth much. Elias was a man subject to light passions as we are, and he earnestly that it might not rain, and it rained not on the earth by the space of three years and six months. And he again and the earth and the heaven gave rain and the earth brought forth her fruit. Anyone want to guess what this passage of Scripture is dealing with? Prayer, of course. We've been preaching on it all down through here, and over and over and over he mentions this matter of prayer. I would say, just from this passage, just disregarding other passages of scripture, just from what we're looking at here Prayer is pretty important in the Christian light. Would you agree with me of that? Prayer is vitally important. How many people here say, you know, prayer is something that I really need to work on. I really need to stay focused at. Really uh have to uh give discipline myself and stay at it. Anyone here can I get a witness? My hands are raised I say this often when we're talking about prayer. I have probably as many, if not more, books on prayer than any other subject in my library, sermons on prayer. We sing songs about prayer tonight But we always struggle with doing what? Praying. Praying consistently. Now if something goes bad, we're ready to pray. Doctor gives a bad report, we're all all about prayer. Uh lose the job, pray. Uh but the Lord, the Bible instructs us, the Lord instructs us through the Bible, I should say Is that prayer ought to be just part of our everyday life? Ought to be such a part of our life that um uh it just saturates us. So we're looking at prayer now We started last week, I think, and I'm not even going to finish my message. I just want to give another thought on there, simply because of the importance of it. In verse number 15, he makes this statement, and the prayer of faith. Shall save, um, sprayer faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise them up, and if you have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. Now, my intention was to go on and deal with this matter of saving the sick and the Lord raising them up and all of that. But I want to just Still zero in a little bit more on this prayer of faith. This prayer of faith. So let's pray together and ask the Lord to bless us. Father in heaven, I thank you for the word of God. Just uh the tremendous privilege of prayer. We're so grateful for that, Lord. And uh I hate to say it, but we we neglect it so much. I do. And what a resource we have And so maybe again tonight you could use this passage along with some others to stir our hearts and to challenge us and help us. Really get a hold of the possibilities of prayer and the power of prayer. And Lord, just Holy Spirit, work, open our eyes to see this. strengthen our faith to really uh get a hold of this and make it a part of our lives. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Let me ask you a question. Does prayer make a difference? Absolutely. In fact, according to the Bible, prayer is one of the most powerful things, resources we have available to us. Prayer is an amazing thing, but it must be rooted in faith. Now that gets us to our passage. If we remember last week, and we're still working on the first point of the message, the prerequisite of faith in this matter of prayer. And if you remember, we pointed out here, he he has some fantastic promises here. And he points out, he does notice what he doesn't say. The Bible doesn't say, and prayer shall save the sick But he says the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and if he and um and uh and the Lord shall raise them up, if committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. So he qualifies this He puts a prerequisite on his promise is that we have to pray, but not just pray, but the prayer of faith. And we talked last week about the importance of faith. In this matter of prayer. I put we and we touched on this last week. I put down uh faith is a priority in prayer. There's a lot of other factors to getting our prayers answered. If you remember we said that our heart has to be pure. The Bible is very, very clear, makes some very clear statements that if we regard iniquity in our heart, the Lord will not hear us. It is our sins, our iniquities, have plugged up God's ears, he will not hear us. God is still a holy God And our sin affects our relationship with them. And sin, and when we hold on to it, our heart and life, we regard it, we're unwilling to confess it and forsake it, it becomes an interference in our prayer. So pure heart. Then we said fellowship, believe it or not, with our spouse. Peter tells us that, 1 Peter 3, verse 7. He's addressing husbands, but I think the principle applies to both ways, husband and wife. I think it spills over even into the church family. If I am out of fellowship with my spouse, my wife, if I'm out of fellowship with a church brother, sister in Christ fellow church member, then that's going to hinder my prayers. How can I say I love God who I don't see if I don't love my brother who I do see And so I need to be in tune and in fellowship with others. And then we pointed out we need to pray according to the will of God. And uh 1 John chapter 5 says that it's possible to ask for things that are contrary to the will of God. Some stuff, there are some things I don't have to pray and ask God whether I should do them or not. Right? God's very very clear. And so there's some things I don't have I should not come and ask God for. If the Bible forbids it uh I ought not to be praying for it. So uh but nevertheless all these different requirements we find that prayer uh or faith Must be in place. I can have a pure heart, I can be getting along with my spouse, I can be asking the will of God, but if I don't have faith That prayer is a dead prayer. It's dead in the water. Jesus said repeatedly throughout the Gospels, believe and prayer. Ask and believe. What did he say in the first chapter of James? He says, If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask God who giveth all men liberally and braideth not, it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith. And so, faith is vitally necessary. We ask, what's the one thing I want God to do? What is if you were Just by yourself and uh I say to you, write down the one thing you are asking God to do above everything else. Now, no doubt we all have scores of things we would like for God to do. No doubt we have many, many things we need from the Lord, and there's no doubt. But if there is one thing I had the opportunity to ask God for one thing. What would it be? We gotta believe. We got must have faith. So we pointed out that faith is a priority. Now let me give you some new thoughts here this evening, new as far as the message. Number two This prerequisite of faith. Faith not only must be a priority of my prayer life, I've got to believe that God is, and He's a reward of those that diligently seek Him, but I must, my faith must also be pointed. Pointed. What do we mean by that? It's not simply praying that changes things, but it is praying to the Lord. The fact is, uh oh I was remembering studying this and uh dad might remember this better than I do, but uh I I believe if I remember correctly and his parents, my grandparents in the home in the living room. I remember over the one door they had, they had a little plaque up there. It was kind of an antique type thing, if I remember correctly, it said this, prayer changes things. Do you remember seeing that up there Um I remember. Just say yes. Yeah, everything. And uh but I remember uh I d pretty distinctively remember a little plaque up there said prayer changes things. How many people believe that's true? Prayer changes things, sure. Uh, I want to uh modify it a little bit. I think that in and of itself is not necessarily correct. Prayer doesn't necessarily change things. I'd put it this way, and I'm being picky, but I'm trying to illustrate something, trying to point something out. Prayer changes things. I'd put it this way: God changes things through prayer. Follow what I'm saying? Just praying for the sake of praying isn't going to change anything. Just saying prayers, people say prayers all the time. But my prayer must be pointed. Now there's two things I think my faith, uh prayers of faith must be pointed. Two things they need to be pointed at. Number one, I put this down, they must be pointed to Christ. They must be pointed to Christ. We never forget, and we've been talking about this on Wednesday nights on the Sermon on the Mound, where the Lord gives what people refer to as the Lord's Prayer. I call it more of a model prayer But the thing we point out with, and the Lord shows in the beginning of that prayer, our prayers are addressed to God. And when you and I come and pray, we are not just Throwing words out there. We're not just throwing requests out into the sky. We are addressing God Almighty. We are addressing a very real living being. God Himself. And so when we pray, we opened the service here a little bit ago. We did the memory verse, and Brother Grant prayed. He is talking to God And our faith must be pointed. It must be directed. My faith is in God. My faith is not in my ability to pray. My faith is in God's ability and willingness to hear my prayer and answer it. You follow what I'm saying? The prayer of faith Faith must be uh a priority in my prayer life. I begin with faith, and it must be pointed. It is faith in God without soul winning. And I've used this uh illustration a number of times, without soul winning. Um been a several years ago, knocking on doors throughout the week and um lady answered a door and got talking to her and if I remember correctly she lived over in t uh Loch Lynn And uh so we got talking to her a little bit and I started going through uh the plan of salvation. I asked her, I said, do you know for sure if you died right now you'd go to heaven? She said, uh, yes, I'm sure, I know I'd go to heaven And so I said, that's unusual. I don't hear people say, well, what gives you that assurance? What gives you confidence that your sins are going to be on your way to heaven? She goes, Oh, I have faith I said, you have faith, that's wonderful. I said, faith in what? She's well I just have faith. I said, well that's That's good. And the Bible talks about it's faith. I believe all men have faith, but our faith needs to be something. What is your faith in? What are you placing your faith in? What are you trusting and depending on? She goes, Well, I have faith in my faith. That's not in anything. Faith must be directed to Almighty God. My faith, if I'm going to have prayers that are going to be effective, and you notice the amazing promise he says here The prayer of faith shall save the sick. The Lord shall raise them up. If he have committed sins, they'll be forgiven them. That's a phenomenal promise. So just having faith in my faith is not going to make this effective. My faith must be in God. My faith is not, and we've been studying this on Wednesday nights that I said, my faith is not in my ability to say wonderful prayers. It's not in my oratorical abilities. To say prayers. It's not in the great words I use in my prayers. It's not even in the passion of my prayers. And I think we ought to be earnest in our prayers, but it is God. That makes a difference. It is God that changes lives. It is God that meets needs. It is God that gives wisdom. It is God that heals the sick. God does that. And so our faith must be pointed. So I put it this way: faith is pointed to Christ, but I put another thought down under that. Our faith must be pointed to specific requests. Specific request. I emphasize this. I try to practice this in my life. If I'm going to come and pray to God, I'm going to ask God for something, or I'm going to lift the knee up to the Lord, I want to be very specific on what I want God to do. I believe that faith is very specific. If we say something like this, Lord, just bless all the missionaries. Now, of course, we want all the missionaries blessed. But faith in God comes to God and say, God, this is what I'd really like for you to do for Brother Matt Prime down in Petersburg, West Virginia, with the very first service they had today. And Lord, we'd like for you to meet that need. We'd like for you to send some visitors that. We'd like you to fill them with your Holy Spirit, give them power as he preaches that very first sermon Being very specific. That is faith. Believe in God. By the way, I got a text from Brother Prime this afternoon. They had 78 people in their very first service this morning. 30 adults and twelve children were from the community. The rest were folks, his folks that were in there helping them out. Isn't that fantastic? Now faith comes to God and is specific in its request. This is what I would like for you to do. My wife and I have a couple we're praying for right now very earnestly. And we have a very specific request we're asking God to do for that couple. We have several other requests in our daily prayer time, and we're very, very specific on what we asked the Lord to do. Some means we have, some things we'd like to see God do. We try to be very, very specific. I want to suggest to you a weak faith is very general in its requests. A poor, uh, anemic faith doesn't ask for anything specific. But a faith that believes God, that God can and that God will answer prayer, is not afraid to say, come, come and say, God, I would like for you to do this, this, this, and this. God, I need this and this and this and this. And being very specific. The bad thing about being general in our prayers, we don't know when God answers them How do you know? God bless all the people in the whole world. Well, how do you measure that? When you come and say, God, we'd like to see somebody saved this coming Sunday on baby day. Lord, I'm just asking you To do a work and bring somebody in that doesn't know Christ and hear the gospel and trust Christ as Savior. Lord, I pray that we have so many people come out Thursday night and help us go out visiting and talk to people about Christ. That's faith being pointed to a very specific request. So I want to challenge you now. As your pastor, as a brother in Christ, I want to challenge you and all of us. As we go into this coming week and we pray and we have our daily prayer time, we have our requests, let's be very specific. Let's not be afraid. To ask God for very specific things. I know some people think they think, you know, if I ask God for that, he won't answer that. He's not going to do that. You know what that is? That's unbelief. Faith says, you know, God could do that. And God, if it's his will, he can and will do that. And faith believes God is not afraid to ask for very specific things. By the way, this is in my notes, but I'm going to throw this out there. Faith, uh asking faith is pointed to very specific requests, but let me tack this on to it, and is not afraid to ask for great things from God. Faith is not timid in asking God to do great, great things. Sometimes I think, well, if I asked for too big, God wouldn't do it. We would never say this, but God couldn't do something like that. I'm telling you, what is impossible with man is possible with God I like there's a passage back in Psalms. I don't have the reference right on the tip of my tongue. I want to say Psalms 88 back in that area. It says this. God is speaking to Israel. He says, open thy mouth wide. And I will fill it. I preached a message years ago. How to get a mouthful from God. You know what? Sometimes I wonder if our answers are small because our prayers are small. What do you want God to do? What would you like God to do? Now I'm not talking about these yardbirds on TV that make these ridiculous promises that God never made, but I am saying this. God can do amazing things You read your Bible. How many people think Moses' eyes bugged out when God split that river, that uh that Red Sea in half? Good heavens. Now the Bible doesn't say that, but uh um and Charleston Heston didn't do that, but uh one of Moses did. You look at some of the stuff God did in the Bible with in the response to prayer, and then you look at our little pitiful prayers. Uh how many people believe God could turn this nation around? Absolutely. Good night, the whole city of Nineveh got saved because a carnal backslidden preacher got right with God, went in there and said forty words. And God turned that whole nation that whole city around, million plus people. Don't tell me God can't send revival. So let's have faith in God. Let's Pray. Let's pray to God. Pray to Jesus. Not my great prayer, not my fantastic oratorical abilities. It's God that can do this. But I'm going to bring specific requests to God And I'm going to believe that God can and is able to do things abundantly above anything that I could either ask or think. And so, our hey, listen, sometimes, listen, I'm not prepared to give all the miracles over to the charismatics. Right? It's not us that does the miracle. It's God that does it. And I'm afraid sometimes we're so scared of these fantastic, sensational, phony things they talk about that we're afraid to ask God for something great and something amazing. Let's ask them. Let our prayers be specific and let them be great. So, faith, number one, in my prayer life, he says, the prayer of faith. Number one, faith must be a priority. I'm going to come to God in prayer. If my prayer is going to make any difference at all, I've got to have good, strong faith. I've got to believe that God is, and that He is a rewarder of them that diligently are. I've got to believe that God answers prayer, that God does answer prayer. Number two, my faith must be pointed. Let me give you my third thought for just tonight, and it's this faith must be persistent. Persistent. Faith refuses to give up. Faith refuses to let go. Faith says, God is, God is able, and I am not going to let go until God's will be done. Um let me give you some verses. You got uh I saw a bunch of Bibles here. Listen, we brought our Bibles, we might as well use them, huh? Let's do that. Get a pen out if you would. Get your Bible And turn with me to Psalms chapter 40. We're going to be in Psalms for a few, and then we're coming back to the New Testament a little bit. Psalms chapter 40. And I want you to turn these. I have them written in my notes as I wrote them out and I thought, I'll just quote them. I thought, nah, let's look 'em up and get them out and Uh maybe you might want to underline and underscore some of these. Psalms chapter 40. By the way, Psalms chapter 40 is a fantastic chapter. I love this chapter. I memorized the first part many, many years ago after short shortly after I got saved. Psalms chapter 40, look at verse number one. Is everybody there to find it? Alright. Look at this. I waited Patiently. This patient being patient, is that something that happens quickly or takes a while? Takes a while. He's talking about Extended period of time here. I waited patiently for the Lord. How many people have a hard time waiting patiently? I hate to wait patiently. I always wait impatiently David says, I waited patiently for the Lord. Look at this. And he inclined unto me and heard my cry. What was David doing? He was praying. His pray. But in his prayer, he waited patiently for the Lord. Lord, I need you to do this for me. Oh, God didn't do it, so he ain't answering that prayer. Let's see, you know what I found out? God, I'm trying to think. God has never, I don't think, operated on my schedule. You know, God always operates on his schedule. You know I found out God's smarter than I am. Anybody ever anybody learned that? Everybody says, yeah, we know God's smarter than you are. I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. Come over to chapter 88, Psalms. Psalms eighty eight. I was thinking about brother Paul Signs today, Charlotte. And uh had his Bible. I used his Bible on um on uh the for the funeral. And I'm telling you what, that thing was just wore out, Charlotte. He had duct tape holding that thing together, really, he did And uh what a neat I thought of that when everybody's turning their pages. Psalms eighty-eight, say preacher, don't have us use our Bibles so much, we'll wear it out That's all right. A wore out Bible is usually held by somebody's whose life uh a bible that's falling apart is usually used by somebody's whose life is not falling apart. Did you ever hear that? Psalms 88, verse 1. O Lord God of my salvation, I have cried day and night before thee. Let my prayer come before thee. Incline thine ear unto my cry. What impression do you get when he says, I have cried day and night before thee? What's that sound like he's doing? He's praying on and over and over and over and over. I mean he is just persistent in this thing God, I am going to pray about this, I'm going to lift this request, and I am not going to stop. Every day I'm going to pray to you. Every night I'm going to pray to you. The next day I'm going to pray to you. The next night I'm going to pray to you. You know what produces that sort of persistence in prayer? Great faith in God. I trust God. I believe God. I'm depending on God. And I'm not going to quit. I'm not going to let go of this. Come over to 116, Psalms 116, a few more chapters over. Psalms 116 and verse 2. I'm talking to some folks, you've been asking God to do something. Save somebody, turn something around, meet some need for a long time. I'm telling you. A pr faith in God is persistent. Look at Psalms 116, verse number two. Look at this Because he hath inclined his ear unto me, all right, God listened, God heard this person's prayer, therefore will I call upon him how long? As long as I live, I am not going to quit praying till there is breath in my lungs. I am not going to quit praying. I'm going to pray. I'm going to practice Now I don't know what it was they were asking for, but I put in the margin my Bible, because God has already answered prayer, that's a good reason to keep on praying. I look, I like what Lester all said. He said, I didn't I God hasn't answered all my prayers, but he's answered enough of them to keep me praying. And that's what he's saying here. Persistent. Faith in God. I'm not going to quit. I'm going to keep praying. I'm going to keep praying. I'm going to keep praying. Com back to New Testament Luke Chapter 11 Luke chapter eleven. I like the gospel of Luke Luke chapter eleven, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and verse number five. Luke 11, verse number 5. And he, Jesus, said unto them, Which of you shall have a friend? And shall go to him at midnight and say unto him, Friend, lend me three loaves, for a friend of mine is in his journey, has come to me, and I have nothing to set before him. And he from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not. The door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I cannot rise and give thee. I say unto you, though he will not rise and give him, because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will rise and give him as many as he needeth. That word importunity means he's he's desperate. He's he's at the end of himself. He doesn't have it, and he just stays at it and stays at it and stays at it. Um if if you're in the middle of the night and uh you hear a knocking on your door, you look out and it's Ed Davis in your driveway and you say, We're in bed, just ignore him, he'll go away. And uh but he keeps knocking and knocking, he just stays there and knocks and knocks and knocks, and finally you're gonna get up and say, Oh good priest! And you'll go out because of his importunity. Right? Now look what it says. And I say unto you, ask, and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and him that knocketh, it shall be opened. Why do you think the Lord said, ask, seek, and knock? Why didn't he just say, uh, and I say unto you, pray? And your prayers will be answered. For everyone that prays, they'll be answered. Why didn't he just say that? Why does he say ask and it shall be unit? Seek and ye shall uh uh ye will follow fine knock and it shall be why did he say that? I think he's trying to impress upon them the persistence. Just keep asking and asking and asking and asking. How many of your kids how many of you when your kids were small drove you nuts? You went to Walmart or somewhere and they kept asking, I want a new baseball, I want a new baseball No, I want a new baseball, I want a new baseb no, you're gonna get a spanking. I want a new baseball. Okay, get a baseball. Now it didn't play out exactly that way. But that's what the Lord said. He said, and you just if you have faith in God, you know why that kid keeps asking, keeps asking, keeps asking? Because they believe that if they ask long enough, Dad's going to give in and give it to them They have faith that that's gonna break. And give it to them. Ask, ask, ask, see, seek, see, knock, knock, knock. Faith is persistent. Persistent. Come over to chapter 18. I'm trying to over-emphasize this. Luke 18. I like this story. Verse 1 of chapter 18 is classic. That last part of verse 1 ought to be underscored in your Bible He, Jesus, spake a parable unto them, Luke 18, 1, to this end, that men ought always to pray and not to Not to faint, not to get tired, not to quit, not to let go. Just keep on praying. Then he gives this pretty neat illustration. There was in the city a judge which feared not God, neither regarded man. And there was a widow in that city, and she came to him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary. And he, the judge, would not for a while. But afterward he said within himself Though I fear not God, nor regard man, yet this widow troubleth me. I will avenge her lest by her continual coming she weary me This widow is wearing this guy out. He is just finally, he says, all right, all right, already enough. I put in the margin of my Bible beside that verse, persistence. And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith, shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them? I tell you, he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith on earth. Do you see the connection? Faith and persistence. I believe God answers prayer. God has promised in his word he will answer prayer. God has called me to pray. And I'm going to keep praying. I'm going to keep praying. I'm going to keep praying. In Acts chapter 2, and for sake of time, I need to wind this down. In Acts chapter 2, verse 42, it says this, and they, the disciples, the newly saved disciples. Continued steadfastly. That means unrelentingly, without quitting. What do they continue steadfastly in? Verse 42, Acts 2 says this: in the apostles' doctrine. They held to their doctrines. They did not sacrifice them. In fellowship, they were stuck with each other. I mean they were loyal to each other. They continued steadfastly in their fellowship with one another. They weren't skipping out in church and all that. They were there In breaking of bread, they were faithful Lord's Supper. And then the last one says, and in what? Prayers. That early church had the power of God upon them. That early church saw God do amazing things. And one of the characteristics was that they were persistent in their prayers, unrelenting in their prayers. They would not quit. 1 Thessalonians 5. 17 puts it this way: pray without what? Ceasing. Don't you quit. You keep praying, you keep praying, you keep praying. Until God does one of two things. Until God either answers and gives you what you're asking for, or God changes your desire. He did that for Paul. God would take away the thorn. We'll talk about this later. Thorn in his flesh. Finally, God, he prayed and prayed, prayed. Finally, God says, No, I'm not going to do it. So he changed his request. We are too timid in our prayers. I put this down. We are too temporal in our prayers. Impatient praying is short-sighted and it is weak faith. Just pray a little bit. Well, I went to that altar once and asked God to save my brother, and God didn't do it. That's weak faith. That's timid prayers. You get a hold of God and you pray and you pray and like you uh Jacob, you don't let go of that angel. I'm not letting go, I'm not letting go, I'm not letting go. George Mueller said this. The great fault of the children of God is that they do not continue in prayer. Now if anybody knows George Mueller, would you agree with me? He ought to know what he's talking about when it comes to prayer. Right? Anybody recognize George Mueller, great man of God, prayed for the um the uh boys' homes, the the orphanage there in London. Never advertised one need Just brought everything to God in prayer, and they had thousands were fed just in answer to prayer. He said the great fault of the children of God is they do not continue in prayer, they do not go on praying, they do not persevere in prayer. So here's our challenge tonight, myself included, let's determine we're going to pray, we're going to pray in faith. And we are going to pray, and we are going to pray, and we are going to pray, and we are not going to quit praying until God gives clear direction in either answering that prayer or makes it very, very clear that his will is something else. My wife and I, again, we have something, a couple things we've been praying for for years, right, Kathy? Been praying for years, every night God, we need you to do this. God, this is what we want you to do. Praying and praying and praying. Roger Sims was just gotten out of the Army. This was back years ago. How many people remember back years ago the guys get out of the army, they hitchhike home. Remember that? They'd be in uniform. Every people would stop. Robert Sims was hitchhiking his way home on May 7th Back in the early 1900s, mid-1900s. He had a heavy suitcase. He was tired. He was anxious to get out of his army uniform once and for all. He was done. Put the hitch, put his thumb out. And a sleek black Cadillac came by and he thought they're not going to stop for me. And lo and behold That fancy new black Cadillac pulled over on the side and he hopped in. Said, fellow behind the wheel said, Are you going home for keeps? He said, I sure am He says, are you going to Chicago? He says, not quite that far. He says, well, I'm going to Chicago. I can drop you off on the way. They said, that's fine. The fellow in behind the Cadillac, behind the wheel in the Cadillac, said, I'm a businessman in Chicago. My name is Hanover. So after they drove for a long while, they talked about just about everything. Roger Sims was a Christian, and he was a faithful Christian, and he was a witness for the Lord. And as they got about 30 minutes from where he was going to be dropped off, he became impressed that I need to witness to this man, Hanover fellow, behind the wheel. He's a little intimidated and he struggled a little bit. So finally as it his his destination was coming up, finally it's the the story goes he cleared his throat. And he said this, Mr. Hanover, I would like to talk to you about something very important. And for the next thirty minutes till he got to his destination, he shared with Mr. Hanover the plan of salvation, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. He was certain that this wealthy businessman would just reject it and uh be upset with them. And sure enough When he got done going through it, he invited Mr. Hanover to trust Christ. He rapidly, quickly, just abruptly pulled over on the side of the road, and he thought, this is it. He's kicking me out of the car. And he said, Mr. Hanover put his head on the wheel and began to sob and sob and sob. And there in his car along the interstate, Mr. Hanover trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as his Savior. When he dropped Roger off, he made this statement to him. He said, this is the greatest thing that has ever happened to me Five years went by. Roger Sims got married. Shortly after this event, hit a two-year-old boy, and he started a business of his own. Because of his business, he had to take a trip to Chicago. When Mr. Hanover had dropped him out of the car five years earlier, he had given him his business card. He said, if you ever get to Chicago, pay me a visit. He stuck it in his wallet, forgot about it. Well here, Rogers in Chicago. He got rooting through his wallet and he found that little business card. He said, I've got a little time. I'll go check on my friend Mr. Hanover. He went to the Hanover Enterprises. There's a receptionist there. He said, I'd like to see Mr. Hanover. She said, that's impossible She said, but you could see Mrs. Hanover. He says, okay. So they let him in in the office, and he was a little confused. Here's Mrs. Hanover sitting behind the desk and obviously of great authority in the business. He said she was a keen-eyed woman in her 50s. She extended her hand and said, Did you know my husband? And Roger, a little timid, said, yes. I was hitchhiking home after the war. And she said, can you tell me when that was? He says, I'll never forget it. It was May 7th. She goes, Mrs. Hanover, I need to tell you, when your husband was driving me, I told him how to be saved. He said he pulled over on the side of the road and he was weeping profusely and he bowed his head and trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. As soon as he said that, his intention was to share the gospel with her, as soon as he said that, his wife began sobbing and sobbing and sobbing. He said she was actually, the sobs were shaking her body. Finally she got a grip on herself, and she said, Roger Sims, for years. . . I prayed that my husband would be saved. She said, the night that you Got a ride with my husband, he dropped you off. He she said several miles down the road, he was in a terrible accident, and he was killed. She said, All these years I prayed for God to save my husband. I thought God did not answer my prayers. I stopped living for God after his accident. And she goes, here you are five years later, and you are telling me that God answered my prayers, and I did not even know it. Isn't that something? Prayed and prayed and prayed. I'm telling you, God answers prayer. And we must not quit and we must not give up. What if that dear woman had early on quit praying for her husband's salvation? God knew what he was doing. God knew where that preacher, that young uh Christian soldier boy needed to be, on what night he needed to be there. And God had all of that. What I'm trying to say is this, and what I'm trying to illustrate by that long story is this. When we pray, we've got to have faith in God. And we must not quit, we must not quit, we must not quit. I have no doubt I'm talking to some Christians. We got folks our church been saved a long time. Many of you. And there's some things you've been asking God for for years. And humanly speaking, it looks like there's no way that's ever going to happen. But I'm here to tell you there's a God in heaven that answers prayer, and we got to believe in him, and we must not quit, we must not quit, we must not quit. Amen or not. Amen. So let's finish out this Lord's day. And before we go to the Lord's table, let's seek the Lord again and let's commit ourselves to pray. To seek the Lord and not give up. Father in heaven, I pray you take these simple little thoughts. Lord, I'm Wish I could do a better job in conveying the earnestness and the effectiveness of prayer. But I pray you'd stir our hearts and stir my heart and our church. That we would be a people of great faith, a people of prayer, and we would not quit. We would stay at it, stay at it, stay at it Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many people would say, Preacher, I'm the one with that one request, that overwhelming request that I'm asking God to do? And it seems like sometimes my prayers are ineffective. But tonight maybe God stirred your heart and you'll say, I'm going to believe God, I'm going to trust Him, and I'm going to pray, and I'm going to keep on praying until God stops me. Is there any like that tonight, preacher? That's me. You're talking about me tonight. God bless you, hands all around. Some of us have great needs for a long, long time, great requests for a long, long time. Some of us have great requests. We're afraid to bring them to God. We think they're too big. Oh no, no. Let's bring them to God. Keep bringing them. One last question. Is there someone here tonight that's not saved? God wants to hear that prayer of a sinner's prayer. He's looking to that. He's waiting to hear that. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need to get this, my salvation settled. Any at all? And you know, we're home folk here for the most part tonight. So, Father, I pray you'd hear our prayers, you'd stir us, revive our prayer life, and establish it in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.