Back to Psalms chapter 37 with me if you would. Psalms thirty-seven. It's good to be back in the pulpit. We had a great revival meeting this week with uh Dr. Barons and uh our missions team showed up last Saturday night, landed. Sunday we kicked off the revival and uh God used Brother Barons in a tremendous way this past week. And uh if you miss The messages, I think we have them recorded. You can listen to them, but uh uh you can get a copy of it and listen to it. But the altars were packed and we praise the Lord for it. Um I was mentioning in Sunday school talking about Brother Byron Fox coming up and next month. He's going to be with us at the end of September. And I said he is our nicest evangelist, the happiest evangelist we have And I said Brother Barons is our grouchiest evangelist we have come through. But not really, I was just kidding. But let me read you a little something here before we get started about two Middle Eastern mothers We were sitting in a cafe and they were chatting with each other over a plate of tabouli and a pint of goat's milk. The older of the two women, uh mothers, pulled out a little uh photo album. And out of her handbag, and she starts flipping through the photos and they start reminiscing. The oldest m uh mother says to the younger mother, she goes, This is my oldest son, Mujabar. He would have been twenty-four years old now. The other lady says cheerfully, Yes, I remember him as a baby. Mother confides he's a martyr now. The other mother said oh that's so sad. She said, this is my second son, Khalid. He would have been twenty-one. Yes, I remember him, said the other mother very happily. He had such curly hair when he was born. First mother said yes he's a martyr too. Oh gracious me, said the second m mother. This is my third son, my baby, my beautiful Ahmad. He would have been eighteen years old. Yes, said the other friend. I remember when he first started school. The first mother said with tears in her eyes, he is a martyr also. After a pause and deep sigh, the second Muslim mother looks Wistfully at the photographs and trying to come up with the right words says they blow up so fast, don't they? And um yeah We'll scratch that one off the tape and not reprogram. I thought that was hilarious. How many people like that? Raise your hand. How many people didn't like it? Raise your hand. The like it's have it, so all right, let's get down to now that I ruined the whole service Psalm 37. I would like for us to read together, if you would, read with me in unison, verse number 25. Psalm 37, verse 25. Will you read it with me? Been young, and now am old. Yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. I want to speak this morning on the faith of an old man. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, thank you for the word of God and for the promises here. I ask Lord that you would take some truths that are given in this passage and you would apply them to our hearts. God, we need you. We want to know you. We want to please you with our lives. I don't believe folks would be in church This morning, God, if we didn't feel that way. So I yield myself to you now, Lord, anew. I pray, God, with all my heart, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Take my body and use it as a tool in your hand to build the church of God and to strengthen our faith. Open our hearts and minds, and we ask these things in Jesus' name. This is a psalm was written, penned, I should say, by King David. I think most of us, not all of us, are familiar with With King David, a great man of God. He penned this, Psalm 37, these forty-some verses. Uh what late in life, he was uh old man when he had Written these words down. David had experienced a uh tremendous blessings of God. If you read the life of David, you find that he had some blessings from God that very few people had ever experienced. David had, on the other hand, experienced chastisement from God. In ways most people have not experienced some deep, hard chastisement from God How many people understand what I'm talking about when I talk about a spiritual mountain peak? You know what I'm talking about? Just a tremendous experience, the presence of God, and uh just rejoicing. I suggest to you, David had been on some spiritual mountain peaks that very few people have ever accomplished, ever climbed to. But again, on the other hand, David had been through some deep, deep, dark valleys that very few people had been through. He had tremendous victories. He had tremendous failures. Now he's an old man. All of that's behind him. And under the inspiration of God, he pens down Psalms chapter 37 And we get to verse number 35 that we read together a moment ago. And David, again, under the inspiration of God, writes: I have been young, and now I'm old. And yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken. I feel like in this verse, David is giving to us his conclusion After all the experiences of life, after all these years of walking with God, of being able to please God in many ways, of failing God in many ways. He comes to this conclusion, and let me put it, if you would, let me put it in my words this morning. I think David here is saying, This is the conclusion. God is faithful. After all I've been through, the good times, the bad times, the mountain peaks, the valleys, I've learned one thing, and that is this: God can be trusted. God is faithful. I can trust God with my life. I've been with God on the mountaintops, and I've seen God bless and work in ways few people have seen I've been with God through the deep dark valleys, and I've sensed the presence of God in ways few people have sensed. And he says, my conclusion is this. God is faithful. You can trust God with your life. You can trust God with your needs You can trust God with your future. I'm an old man. God's been faithful to me. And you can trust him. You can commit your life to him. God is faithful. I do not think now This is just my very limited perspective for a relatively short period of time. But I do not think that I have seen in my lifetime as many Christians Struggling with trusting God as there are today. It seems like we live in a day and age when God's people The people who've been saved, who know the Lord, have such a difficult time just trusting God. Just having confidence in him. Just simply having faith in him. We give the young people a hard time. I thank God for young people in church here this morning. That's a good thing. I thank God for young people who trust God. But I tell you, it seems like we live in a day and age where young people have a hard time just trusting God with their life. Have a hard time just letting go and letting the Lord have his way. On the other hand, it seems like we have a lot of adults have a hard time trusting God. Just having faith in him, trusting him to work things out, to lead and direct me, let his will be done in my life. Young and old. Folks in and out of the ministry. I tell you what grieves my heart, and Lord knows we're far from uh the ideal or the model in any way, shape, or form, but it grieves my heart to see Christians, God's people, abandoning the principles of Scripture and embracing the values of the world. And uh we learned something on this mission trip, and I'll share a little more in depth this evening. But we found out that using fleshly means to try and accomplish spiritual goals is not unique just to America. It's around the world. Not trusting God. Why do we struggle with that? Why do we have such such such a hard time just saying, Lord, you know, I trust. Show me what to do. I'll obey you. Why is that so difficult for us? David deals with that through Psalm 37 here. I would encourage you. I have tried in the last three weeks, I've tried to read this chapter every day. This chapter has stirred my heart. And I believe David is giving to us here how we can get to the point where we can just peacefully And confidently have faith in God throughout this chapter. Now, I'll say this before we get into the steps that I notice that stand out in my mind as I look at this. Before we look at them, let me make this statement. Getting to the point where David is at in verse 25, where he comes to this conclusion, yes, God can be trusted. Yes, God is faithful. Getting to that point, there are some steps involved that we're going to look at, as I said, but we need to understand it takes time. Mature, strong faith in God does not happen overnight. It takes growth. It takes Exercise. It takes it requires being tested and tried. Can I suggest to you, mature, strong faith sometimes needs to fall flat on its face before it really appreciates the strength and faithfulness of God. So keep in mind, this is not a magic formula. You're not going to be able to, uh maybe you're a new Christian or wherever you're at in your Christian life and You're not going to say, all right, step one, step two, step three, boom, I'm in verse twenty five. It don't happen that way. It's going to take time. But there are some steps. There are some things that he tells us that we can and should do For us to get to the point where we are absolutely confident and assured that God is faithful, God will meet my needs, I don't have to worry And there's this peaceful, confident faith that settles down on us. So let me share a few that uh, as I said, stand out in my mind. The first thing I notice, and I encourage you to maybe jot some of these thoughts down here. The first thing we need to do is we need to, number one, this is very deep, very profound, stop fretting. Stop fretting. Now look at verse number one of Psalm 37 with me, if you would. Psalm uh verse 1 Fret not thyself because of evildoers. Neither be thou envioinst the workers of iniquity. Why not? For they shall soon be cut down like the grass and wither as the green herb. I circled in my Bible the first three words of verse one. Fret not thyself. Come down, if you would, with me to verse number 7. And we're going to look at the second half, second part of verse 7. Pick up with me here as I read. Fret not thyself Because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. I circled in my Bible those three words, fret not thyself. And I drew a line from verse 1, the phrase, down To verse 7, connecting the two. So in verse 1, he tells us, fret not thyself. In verse 7, he repeats himself again and he says, fret not thyself. Then we come down to verse number nine. For evildoers, or I'm sorry, verse number eight. Cease from anger and forsake wrath. Look at this Fret not thyself in any wise to do evil. For evildoers shall be cut off, but those that wait upon the Lord, they shall inherit the earth David said in verse 25, I'm an old man. I used to be young, now I'm old. He said, I learned a few things in life. He said, I learned that God is faithful and you can trust him. Now, how do I do that? He said, first of all, he starts out the whole chapter, verse number one, first three words. Stop fretting. He repeats himself in verse 7, fret not thyself. Again in verse 8, fret. Stop fretting. You say, brother man, I don't Maybe you're from West Virginia and you say I don't know what fretting means. I'm from Maryland and I didn't know what fretting meant, to be honest. Honest with you. So I did what every good preacher does. I studied it. And I found out that the word free I really do like people from West Virginia, believe it or not. I married a person from West Virginia The word fray simply means this, and I'd suggest you jot this maybe to margin your Bible for when you come back and read this again to refresh your your understanding. Understanding. It means this, and there's several ideas behind it. Most basic meaning of the word fret means to get worked up. To get worked up. How many people know what I'm talking about when I say getting worked up? Yeah. Can I get a witness? Yeah. We've been there, right We get worked up about things. He says, don't do that. Uh-uh. Stop it It comes from the word, get this, the word fret. Now keep that in mind, getting worked up. It comes from the word to set something on fire. It has the idea of a almost like a wildfire type thing where it's getting out of hand. Now, probably there's hardly anybody here That's ever done this. But by chance, would there happen to be anybody here that got worked up and it just kind of got out of hand? Anybody know what I'm talking about at all? We have about eight honest people in the auditoriums He says, don't do that. It also includes, now this, if you're if you haven't been honest yet, you're going to have to win this one. It also includes the idea of worrying. Not only is he saying, don't get worked up. But he's saying this. Don't even let it become a worry. Don't let it disturb the peace of God in your heart and life. Don't stop fretting. Stop getting worked up. You could say it this way: just remain calm. I um occasionally uh uh one of my boys or something and I will watch us on TV. Do you ever see that Survivor show? Uh they drop them off in the middle of nowhere and somehow he has to survive. I always wondered who's taking the pictures, you know, if he's there by himself, how are all these pictures getting taken? And um I saw a Motel 6 sign in the back one time there when they glanced No, I'm kidding. But these survivor guys are on there, and I thought, you know, I might ought to watch this. Someday I may be stranded in the middle of the Yukon territory of Alaska, you know, and I'll have to know what to do And so I watched it with great interest. But they made this statement, and I thought of this when I was studying this word. They said, when people get stranded out like that, somewhere like that, they said your biggest enemy Is panic. They said, whatever you do, remain calm. Don't get worked up. You've got to be able to think clearly You've got to be able to deal with the situations, but if you panic and you get worked up and you start fretting, then you're a goner. Can I suggest to you that's true in the Christian life It is impossible to have faith in God and fret simultaneously. I can't do it at the same time. If I am fretting, I'm not trusting God. And so David says, I'm an old man. He says, You know what I've learned? I've learned that when I fret, it does no good. Doesn't change a thing. In fact, if you study these, what he says about it here, and I'm just condensing a little bit, he says, when I fret, when we start fretting, not only does it not do any good, it makes matters worse. I want to suggest to you that when we fret, and notice what he's dealing with here, fret not by yourself. Look at verse 1. Because of evildoers. You say, Brother Leatherman, they're doing wrong. We gotta do something. He says, calm down, calm down. I want to suggest to you that fretting pleases the devil and displeases God. It all worked out and worried sick. And the devil's just Can't do any good for God. His testimony is horrendous. God's grieved. Stop treading! Now look here. Look with me. You got your Bibles there? Look at verse 1. Fret not thyself. Look at verse 7. Fret not thyself. Look at verse 8. Fret not thyself. Who is it? Now I want you to talk to me on this And this is not a trick question anyway. Who is it that's causing me to fret? Who is it? Myself. Fret not thyself. He says you're doing it to yourself. Oh, those evildoers out there, they just get me all worked up. No, no, no. You're getting you all worked up. Oh, these carnal Christians and this, and it just drives me crazy. They're not driving you crazy. You're driving you crazy. Don't let yourself become that way. You've got to exercise self-control. You've got to be able to discipline your spirit and your thinking to the point where I am not going to let that upset me I must not allow myself to react to others. I heard a message years ago and it stuck in my mind. And the message was this: act, don't react. And the whole idea was just keep yourself calm, establish your pattern of thinking and behavior on the Word of God, and regardless of what happens around you, don't react to it. You just keep Steadily being, thinking, doing, as God commands us to think and be and do. Does that make sense? Fret not thyself. Don't react to things. I came across a quote this week, and I don't even remember where I got it, but boy, it's stuck in my mind. When everyone else is doing wrong, God is still doing right. It's very simple. But let's not forget that Everyone else around me is just doing wrong and disobeying God and living in sin. Don't forget, God's still doing right God's still the same. And so don't react to things. Now how do we do that? How do I stop fretting I jotted two thoughts down. One is just focus on the Lord. Keep your eyes on Jesus. Our problem is we get our eyes on someone else. Boy, Right? We get our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what I found out? He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. He goes about doing good. He's never failed us. I've had so many people say, yeah, Christians, I knew that, Christian. I like to ask, has Jesus ever failed you? No. It's funny, we were at the Bear uh booth this week working it and I thoroughly enjoyed that. And uh a fellow came up and he was looking at our banner and it had Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church And our little logo there. And underneath it says, like we try to put on a lot of our stuff, looking unto Jesus. And the guy looks at me and says, What in the world does that mean? I said it means we simply keep our eyes on Jesus. We trust Him to lead us and direct us. And we're not going to let this world mess us up. Fret not thyself. Stay focused on Jesus Second way we can stop fretting is just stand firm on God's Word. Find these promises in God's Word. Brother Barron's had a tremendous message on the promises of God's word. of God. Get these promises and just hold on to them and refuse to let go. Regardless of what it looks like, God has promised me this. I am going to hold on to God's word. He cannot fail. He cannot lie. I'm trusting God. I won't take time to turn there, but a great passage to read that ties into what I'm saying here is in 1 Samuel 27 Verses 1 and 2 in particular, David is fleeing from King Saul. How many people remember the story, that part of David's life where Saul was so jealous of him, he felt threatened by David, and he was just out to destroy him. And David's fleeing here and there. And some of the greatest psalms that are going to encourage your heart were written by David during that period of time under the inspiration of God. He recorded them down. And boy, I'll tell you, we get some tremendously encouraging promises from God as a result of David being pursued like a dog by King Saul. But in 1 Samuel 27, David gets to a point where he takes his eyes off of the Lord Jesus. And he begins fretting. He gets worked up. He gets worried And I'm putting the story in my own words just for sake of time, but he says this. The Bible says something to this effect. David said in his own heart Now question, what does it mean? When the Bible says somebody's saying this in their own heart, what's it mean? They're starting to lean on their own understanding. He's not looking to the promises of God. He gets thinking in his head. And he thought in his heart, and he says, listen to this. He says, I shall one day die by the hand of Saul. I know what I'll do. I'll go to the Philistines and live with them. And then I'll be safe. Question, does God want his people in association with the heathen? Absolutely not. David started fretting. He got worked up. I've got to do something. I'm going to die someday by Saul. I've got to do something. And one of the darkest times of David's life is the following weeks and months when he goes over. In fact, David got so low a little bit later, he started talking about taking his own life And the people around him started talking about killing David. Why? Because he threatened Now here was David's problem. Now this is easy for me to stand here 5,000 years later, look back and say, oh, this is But let me point out where his mistake was, and maybe we can learn from it. And I'd like to think that perhaps this portion of Psalm 37 was a lesson David learned during this time. But here was his problem. He started leaning on his own understanding. He got worked up. He got fretted. And he forgot that God had promised that David would someday be what? He would someday be king. That was God's promise. Last I checked, dead people can't be kings. Right? I don't know of any dead people who are kings. So David said some God said, David, you're going to be king someday. It's a I promise it. By Almighty God, he promises you're going to be king. king someday. David gets thinking, I'm gonna die. David was wrong. He wasn't gonna die. Die by the hand of Saul. Now, it doesn't mean he wasn't going to have some rough time. That's obvious. But he wasn't going to die. Someday David was going to be king. That was God's promise. Now he's an old man. He'd been all through all of that. He fretted. He failed. He didn't trust God. He got worked up, made some terrible decisions, paid a heavy price. But now that's years behind him. He says, you know what I've learned? It's an old man. I learned, don't get worked up about stuff Just trust God. Don't fret. Second thing he tells us we should do as this old man, this faith of an old man I notice he says in verse 3, 4, 5, and 6, he says, first he says, stop fretting. Second of all, he says, and this is again very basic: trust God and do right. Don't get worked up. Just trust God and do what's right. Look at verse 3. I love this. I've got it underlined in blue pen, in red pen. I've got it circled, highlighted, starred. Trust in the Lord and do good. If you don't get anything else out of the Bible, just doing that will get you through life. Trust in the Lord and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land. Verily thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thy heart. Commit thy way unto the Lord. Trust also in him. He'll bring it to pass. Don't get worked up. Just trust God. Do what He says. He'll take care of you. He'll answer your prayer. He'll meet your needs. God promises us, boy, if you don't get anything else, please get this. God promises us that if we will simply trust Him If we will follow his leadership, if we simply do what he tells us to do, God will take care of us. He will answer our prayers. He will use us for his glory. Just trust him and do what he says. It's nothing more complicated than that. There's three key words here in this few verses I just read now. I got them circled. I circled the word trust, I circled the word delight, and I circled the word commit. Now, sometimes it's good. We hear a word a lot and we know what it means, but sometimes it's good just to stop and look it up again. And get a fresh perspective on that word. And so I did that with the word trust. And we use that word all the time. It's a good Christian spiritual word, trust. Well, what exactly does it mean? The word trust means to have confidence in. I said recently about another person, I've got confidence in that man. What do I mean by that? What does that mean? I've got confidence in him. Means I Trust him. I believe he'll do the best thing. What's right. He'll do what's right. I have confidence in him. God says, why don't you have confidence in him in me. Why don't you believe me that I'll do what's best for you? Why do you keep taking things into your own hands? Why do you keep running the show the way you think it should be? Why don't you have confidence in me? Why don't you trust me He says, trust God and do right. The word trust means to rely upon. And here's an interesting definition. I was going through different uh Hebrew dictionaries, different things, finding meanings, and I thought this was an interesting definition. It has the idea, as one guy said, it has the idea of taking the trust off, the confidence off of myself and putting it on the Lord. In other words, it's almost this idea, having no confidence in myself and complete confidence in God. Now we try to walk a tight rope, trusting God and trusting myself, don't we? Lord, I trust you, but I'm holding on here a little bit That's not the idea here. You just put all your confidence in God. Just trust Him. Then the second word here, delay. I like this. Well you could preach a whole series on that, just that word. Delight thyself also Lord. The word delight means to find happiness in To find happiness in the Lord. Sometimes these little ice cream stands. I have a love-hate relationship with ice cream stands. I love 'em, but I hate 'em. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? And um now that ruined my whole train of thought. Ice cream just threw everything But sometimes they'll call they're called a delight. Anybody ever see that? Ice cream delight or what what dairy delight. Ooh, I like it. It's a delight. Well God says, why don't you need a delight in me? It means find your happiness in me. Now you're going to maybe chafe at this a little bit. You may disagree with me, but I want to challenge you to think it through a little bit. Actually, I decide what I delight in and what I don't I very much decide what makes me happy and what doesn't. And some people decide the things of the world are going to make them happy And some people decide, you know, the Lord Himself is going to be my happiness. And that word delight there actually has the idea of total enjoyment. Almost to the idea of amusement part fun. God says, man, I just want you to find your entertainment, your enjoyment, your everything in me. Delight. Here's the thing. You say something, boy, you know, I just delight in that person. They're such a delight to me. Um what are we saying? I think it's this. I think the light in something is means, you know, we have things in common. The things they like, I like. And the way they see things is how I see things. And you know, we always like people that agree with us. They're the smartest people in the world, the ones that agree with us And I think sometimes, why don't we delight in the Lord? Why don't we delight in the things of God? Why is reading the Bible so boring? And why is it such a drudgery to go to church? You know why I think? I think it's because maybe we don't have very much in common with God. We don't see things the way God sees it. We don't like the things God likes. Maybe that's the problem. So he says, listen, don't get worked up. I was young, now I'm old, I've learned some things. I learned one, fretting isn't going to help a thing. Just stop it. He says, as long as you just trust God, do right. By that I mean put your confidence in him, delight in him, find joy in the Lord. The third word, there were it means to commit. And this was, this is, this is, listen, I'm a child of the 60s and 70s. This is really groovy. This is cool. This hip. This is um far out. How many people brings back memories. I looked it up. Commit! I know what that means. I look it up. Guess what the definition was? To roll up. I said, hello? That's a wrong book. Get another one. To roll up. I thought, what in the world? I started reading commentaries and looking at other things. This is the idea I got It means to take myself, my life, my problems, my situations, my future, and I roll it over on God. Yours, God. I take my life. Oh, I don't know where my life what's my life gonna Oh, my bills. Why don't you commit it to him? Alright, God, you take care of that. That's what he says. That's the whole idea. To roll upon, to lose myself and my burdens and my problems to God. I don't carry them anymore. You know, over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over, Israel kept trying to take things into their own hands. Right or wrong? Drove Moses crazy. We get on Moses for having such a temper, but think about the folks he had to deal with. And Israel kept saying, oh, we're gonna do it this way. No, we're gonna go, yeah, yeah, uh And they messed up, and they messed up, and they messed up, and they messed up simply because they would not trust God and do what God says. They always had to somehow do things their way David said, I'm an old man, I was young, and I learned doing it your way ain't gonna work. You want to make all the decisions, you want to direct your life, you want to be what you think you should be, and you don't you don't want to trust me, fine. How's that working out for you? How's that going? Happy? Fulfilled? Making a difference in the world? David said, no. I've learned just trust God and do what's right. I love, I love, I love, I love Proverbs 3, verse 5 and 6. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, lean not into thine own understanding, in all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. You know what that verse is saying? Trust God, do what's right, he'll take care of you. That's basically it. So what's David say? Let me ask you this. How many folks here believe God loves you? Say amen. Let's try that again. How many folks here believe God loves you? Say amen. We believe that with all our hearts. Let me ask you a question. Could anybody ever talk you out of believing that God loves you? Absolutely not. I know God loves me. Let me ask you this question. How many people here are sure that God would never do you wrong? Say amen. You are absolutely positive God would never do me wrong. Nobody in this world, the devil in hell, cannot convince me that God would ever do me wrong. Let me ask this question. Why don't you trust him? Why are you doing it your way? If God loves you, would never do you wrong, then why don't you obey him? Why don't when he says do it this way, I want to do it this way? If he loves me, would never do me wrong. Looks to me like I'd want to do what he said. And trust him. David says, I was a young man, now I'm old. I've learned some things about God. I learned you can He's faithful. So don't get worked up. Just trust him and do what he says. And there's one last thing, real quickly Verse number seven. I love this part. First few verses, first few words of verse seven. Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for it. I put three things down. One, stop fretting. Number two, trust God and do right. Number three, relax and be patient. Just relax and be patient. The word rest there, what do you think of when you think of the word rest? You think of what I get when I go and hear Brother Letterman preach. Some of y'all are exper are tremendous illustrations right now. What do you think of when you hear the word rest? What comes to your mind? I put this down. To be silent and still. Right? You're resting. That's all rest right now. Some of you aren't resting, you're laughing. It means to settle myself down, to quiet myself and relax. Now let me throw this quote. Now you may disagree with me, but this is what the you may disagree with me in the general word means, but this is what it means here. It does not mean to sleep It means to rest, but still consciously aware. God says, I want you to rest, but I don't want you to go to sleep. Alright? Just relax. Be patient. It's used in Psalm 4 verse 4. We were going to turn there, but we're not going to. It's used in Psalms 4 and verse 4 and it has this idea. Just take your sands off the situation. In Psalms 131 and verse 2, it means it has this idea. It's used there. It has this idea of being just being contented. Satisfied. What you need? Nothing. Then he says, rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. I love this. I don't know if anybody else is enjoying this message. I am. I like this. The word that phrase wait patiently has this idea. To wait when you want to run. It that word patient there has the idea of a restraint holding back. Wait patiently. Do you ever um S some of you guys go to the horse races and gamble. Um I hope not. But you ever see those horses when they're in the gate? Man, they're just right? What are they doing? They're waiting, they're not very patient, but uh they're waiting. And that's what God says. He says, Listen, when you want to run, just be still. It has the idea of enduring something when I want to engage it. You follow what I'm saying? Situation is bad. Situation is just and uh I want to just come out swinging. You know what I'm saying? And God says, hold it. Just wait patiently. Don't engage them, just endure it. That's the idea behind here. It has the idea of restraining myself when I want to react. You know what I found? I don't know if you all are like this, but I found myself, I get the idea, we gotta do something. Anyone know what I'm talking about? I gotta do something. God says No, you don't. Just relax. Uh wait. Give it some time. James chapter one. I tried shortly after I got saved, my first year in Bible college when I was going to Bible college in Philly, I tried memorizing the book of James. I got about first chapter down, a little bit into the second chapter. But uh the first few verses there in James chapter one, it says, uh bless uh it says count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh what? Patience. Patience, according to that verse, is the result of going through difficulties. Patience is a result of going through trials. And how I handle that trial will determine whether I come out the other end with patience or not. If I count it all joy when I fall into diverse temptations, knowing this that this trying of my faith will produce patience, if I have that attitude, then I'll come out a much more patient person. You know who I found is more patient with children? People that raised a whole slew of them. Rather than those that don't have any. Right? I've often said the best parents in the world are those that don't have any kids. They know how to do everything. I mean they've got it all. But if I was a parent, that's what I'd do Patience is a result of trusting God through trials. You say, brother, Brother Barron's preached on this also. But you say, brother, I need patience. I'm going to pray and ask God to give me patience. Brother, you better put your armor on. Huh? Because there's only one way to get it. Well, actually, let me take that back. That's one way to get it. But Galatians 5. 22, I got some encouragement for you. We can get patience without having to go through the trial sometimes Galatians 5. 22 tells me that patience is a fruit of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit can supernaturally give me patience. If I'll just relax, let the Spirit of God fill me, it'll produce patience. So that tells me if I'm impatient, It means one of two things, perhaps both. I am either inexperienced, and I know for sure I'm not filled with the Holy Spirit. Right? Because if I'm filled with the Holy Spirit, it's going to produce patience. David's an old man. He says I learned something. I used to be young, now I'm old. I've learned that you can trust God. I've been on some great mountaintops. I've been through some dark valleys. Through it all, God has been faithful. I've learned I could trust him. I like this. David learned that there was no situation that he ever got himself into that God could not get him out of. There's not a hole you and I can dig ourselves that's so deep God can't get us out of it. Cross the board. Now it might not just happen overnight, but if we'll quit fretting, if we'll trust him, do what he says, relax and be patient. God can get us out of whatever situation we've gotten ourselves into. He'll answer our prayers, he'll provide for us. Years ago a fellow was learning how to fly. He's getting his pilot's license, and his instructor told him To put his plane into a steep, extended dive. Let me tell you, let me let him tell you what happened. He said, I was totally unprepared for what was about to happen The steep extended dive. After a brief time, the engine stalled, and the plane began to plunge out of control. He said it soon became evident that the instructor was not going to help me at all. He said, after a few seconds, which seemed like eternity, my mind began to function again, and I quickly corrected the situation. He said, I immediately turned to the instructor and began to vent my fearful frustrations on him. And then he very calmly said to me, There is no position that you can get this airplane into that I cannot get you out of If you want to learn to fly, go up there and do this again. God says to you and I. David says, I'm an old man. As young, young, old. I've learned something about God. There's not a situation that you can get yourself into that God can't you get you out of it. There's not a problem you face that God is unable to meet. If you'll just relax, trust him, do what he says. God will take care. Now you go back out there and you live your life. Now you go back out to the workplace, you go back to your home, you go back to the community And you quit fretting. Trust me. Do what I say. Be patient. And I'll answer your prayers. I'll meet your needs And I'll use you for my glory. Isn't that good? Faith of an old man. Father, bless us now. Help us. Lord, I'm talking to some of us this morning. We feel like we're in a deep extended dive. Foot plane crash. Seems like everything's going down all around us. I pray, Lord, you'd help us just to trust you, do what you say, relax, and let you turn things around Let you take our situation and accomplish your will and your and our good out of it