And we are just going by word by word almost through here at these six uh characteristics that Peter is giving to these believers who have been intensely persecuted. We talked about Uh Solomon Ginsburg, was that do I have the name correct? Ginsburg. And how he suffered. These believers, uh very, very similar. They uh been uh suffered severely for their faith, and Peter's writing to them to encourage them and challenge them, instruct them. And he gives these six characteristics that they need to be sure that are present in their life and they maintain these. And we've been looking at these. 1 Peter chapter 3. I'm going to read verses 8 and 9 together because they all run together there, the the context there 1 Peter chapter 3 verse 8. Oh, by the way, as pastors, sometimes people come in during the week and say, Preacher, I've got to talk to you. And sometimes it's strange things they want to talk about. And a guy came by and said, French, can I talk to you? I said, sure, come on in. I said, what's going on? He says, I have a fear of tsunamis. I said, what? Tsunamis? A fear of tsunamis. I said, well that's not rational. We're in live in the mountains. There knows danger of tsunamis. I said, well how does it how does it happen? He said, he said, it comes in waves It just this fear of tsunamis just comes in waves. So I prayed with him and sent him on his way. Now some people know that didn't really happen, all right? Just want you to know that. First Peter chapter 3, look at verse number 8. Here's these li six characteristics. Peter is writing to these believers They're being persecuted, and he's challenging them. Verse 8 he says, finally, be ye all of one mind, having compassion one of another Love his brethren, be pitiful, be courteous, not rendering evil for evil or railing for railing, but contrary-wise Blessing, knowing that ye are thereunto called, that ye should inherit a blessing. So think about the characteristics he's listing here, and think about the situation that the believers are finding themselves in. They're being persecuted. They're being hounded. They're being accused of things unjustly And he says, listen, you make sure you keep these things true about you. And tonight we want to look at the one at pitiful. Be pitiful Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us, Father. Lord, we just pray that the short time we have that you'd speak to our hearts and help us Lord, I've been challenged and convicted by this list, and I believe I speak for many, if not most of us, Lord. We would sincerely want these to be true in our lives. We want to do these things, exhibit these characteristics throughout the week. So fill me with your spirit, Lord. I pray your presence would be here to challenge and help, convict, encourage us in this matter. Fill me, Lord. Speak through me. is my prayer in Jesus' name. Amen. He says to these believers here, he says, be pitiful. Now the previous ones that we've already looked at, be of one mind, be unified, unity We said, but the way we have one mind is if we all have the mind of Christ, then will we all be of one mind? And so we talked about that, and then we noted uh having compassion one of another And then we noted love is brethren, be pitiful. And now tonight we look at be pitiful. Now what does it mean to be pitiful? Now I don't know about you, but um when I uh first read that, first started studying that word pitiful, the first definition that came to my mind is uh not how it's used here. And that is like somebody, man, he's a pitiful person. Any anybody ever think that, you know, man, he's sorry He's a miserable He's a pitiful excuse for a man. Anybody ever hear that? That's what I thought. I said, be pitiful. What? Be uh pathetic, be miserable, contemptible, sorry. That's not what he's saying here. Now, this word is used very rarely in Scripture. I got looking it up how it's used. In fact, the English word pitiful is only used one other time. We're going to look at it in a little bit in the book of James. And the word that it's translated from, the word that we get our word pitiful from, is only used one other time in the book of Ephesians. And so it's not a real common word in the New Testament. As I said, it does not mean the negative sense that we think of it, somebody being pathetic, but here's the literal definition of the word. And um it it's a little different. It means this, to have sensitive bowels That's what the word literally means. To have sensitive barrels. Not barrels, bowels. Now my wife and I were talking about that. There's a lot of things you could say about that. But to have sensitive vowels You say, preacher, what in the world is that about? Take your Bible, if you would. Now keep your place here, but turn over to the book of Ephesians with me. Now, in the book of Ephesians, we have a word that comes from the same word that we have this word pitiful here, to have sensitive vowels. Now, this is going to make sense here in just a few minutes. Ephesians chapter number four and verse number thirty-one There is a word in these verses here that comes from the same word that we get our word pitiful, and I think it will help us understand what Peter is saying. Look at verse number 31 Of Ephesians chapter 4, he says, Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. Now let me ask you a question. How many of those things listed there are we to put away from us? All of them. I don't know about you, but that word all is pretty exclusive. There's no exceptions. So that list there, we as believers need to be sure we put them away. Let all bitterness and wrath and clamor be put away from you. Now look at verse 32. And be ye kind one to another. What's that next word? Tender hearted. That word, tender hearted, comes from The same word as the word pitiful in 1 Peter 3 and verse 8. Be tender-hearted. Tender-hearted. It means to have sensitive bowels. In the ancient world, and we've mentioned this over the years in various messages, in the ancient world, they believed that the seat of our emotions was actually in our bowels. In our intestines we're the seat of our emotions. Now we today we would say the the seat of our emotions is where In our heart. And actually, the Lord references that when he says, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy might. But Peter is using What would have been a common phrase or a common expression when he says, be pitiful, be tender-boweled? Emotions. In society then they viewed their emotions as being seated in our intestines. In fact, uh it wouldn't be uncommon for a young man that falls in love with a young lady to say something like this, I love you with all my intestines. I don't know about you, but that doesn't quite have the ring. I don't I just thought of this. Maybe they gave necklaces out with the not a heart, but intestines there and have their thing on there We're getting silly tonight, aren't we? But that's the idea behind this. What he's saying is, be pitiful. He's saying what Ephesians tells us here, be very tender, be very sensitive. Hearted is how we would say it. Have a tender heart. It means this. This is what the meaning of the word is. Get this. Now, this here will challenge us To be easily moved emotionally by another's distress or trials. Do you get that? Come across somebody or someone I know, a brother or sister in Christ, or maybe somebody that's been an antagonist to me. And they're going through a trial, and they're going through a difficulty, they're grieving, or they're having a uh going through some afflictions. He's telling us, you and I as believers, that we are to be tender-hearted. towards them. That we are to be easily affected emotionally by their situation, by their circumstance. In Romans, I believe it is, Paul put it this way, weep with them that what? Weep. Be pitiful. Stir their hearts. Um it has this idea to be easily to be easily moved to compassion. for another person in need or another person who is hurting to be moved to compassion. I don't know if you saw it in the news recently, but uh within the last couple, three weeks, within the last month, there would have had a video, I believe it was in New York City, of a I believe it was a Japanese lady, a lady of Asian descent. There was a Sunday morning and she was going to church And they had a security camera of a a hotel, I guess, wherever that church was meeting, but you could see in the video where this dear lady was an elderly uh uh Japanese or Chinese lady, she was Asian, she was elderly, she was on her way to church, the way I understood it, and some big old fellow, just out of nowhere, came up and he punched her in the face. And knocked her down. You could see on the video him kicking her as she's laying on the ground. He bend down and punched her. I don't know if anybody saw that video. It was horrific. And all that he was doing to her, as horrific as that was, you know what bothered me? Is there was two men Standing at the door, holding the door open, and just watched it Nobody stepped in. Nobody came over, pushed the guy off of her. They stood there and watched. In fact, the guy stepped back and closed the door. I guess he was afraid he was going to come after him. You know what that is? That is the opposite of being pitiful, of being tender-hearted. Easily moved to compassion for somebody who is hurting Or somebody is going through a trial or a difficulty. Peter is writing to these New Testament believers. They've been persecuted. Some of them have been tortured They've lost their jobs. Many of them, like Solomon Ginsburg, had been beaten by their families, Jewish families, for being followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. And Peter is writing to them and saying, listen, you maintain a compassion and a tender heart towards people who are hurting. I don't know about you, but I would imagine these dear believers were hurting pretty much themselves, but they have been through The real danger when you and I are hurting, when you and I are broken, when you and I are sorrowing or grieving, the real danger of becoming self-centered. We want everybody to know how badly I'm hurting. We want everybody to feel sorry for me. We want everybody to have compassion on me. And he's telling them: listen, in the midst of your persecution, don't lose your heart for others. Don't lose that tenderness towards what others are struggling with and suffering. Take your Bible, if you would, turn with me to James chapter number five. This is another place that word pitiful was used, the English word pitiful, and in James chapter number five. We notice here that this tenderheartedness, this sensitive vowels This emotionally, being moved emotionally by another's distress or trials is a characteristic of our Lord. Look with me at chapter 5 and verse 11. Of James. He says, Behold, we count them happy which endure. You've heard of the patience of Job, and have seen the end of the Lord. Now look at this next statement. I underline this next statement in my Bible. That the Lord is very what? The Lord is very pitiful and of what? Tender mercy. Tender mercy. That verse is telling me that our Lord is easily moved emotionally By our hurts and our pains and our sorrows and our trials. And Peter is writing to the believer and saying, You be just like our Lord. You follow our Lord's example. Would you come back again? I know we're going to a lot of verses. By the way, that's not a bad thing. Let's go to Luke chapter number 7 with me, if you would. And here we have a tremendous example of our Lord being tender-hearted, being pitiful. Luke chapter 7 and verse number 11. Notice in verse 11, Luke chapter 7, it says this, and it came to pass the day after that he, Jesus, went into a city called Nain. And many of his disciples went with him and much people. And when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there was a dead man carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow. And much people of the city was with her. Now look at verse 13. Again, I underline that phrase in my Bible. And when the Lord saw her, he what Had compassion on her. You know what? He was tender-hearted. His emotions were easily stirred by this heartache and the sorrow of this dear widow Who'd lost her son? Notice what he says. He says, the Lord saw her and had compassion on her, and he said unto her, Weep not. And he came and touched the beer. And they that bare him stood still. And he said, Young man, I say unto thee, arise. He that was dead sat up and began to speak. And he delivered him to his mother. Isn't that something? Wouldn't you have liked to have been there and seen that? You know what I would like? I would like to have heard the compassion in the voice of our Lord. We've not Weep not in compassion. Now you and I cannot touch the beer and the body of a dead young boy and raise him back to life. We can't do that, right? And by the way, neither can these guys on TV. We can't do that. But I'll tell you what we can do. We can imitate our Lord's compassion for somebody who's hurting. Amen? You see, the Christian life is a balance The Christian life is a balance between doctrine and emotion Sometimes a church will be all emotion. They'll say, oh, we just come here and we'll have an experience. And their Christianity and their their uh their Christianity is all emotion. And then there's the other side of the coin is some churches, some bodies of believers, all they are is doctrine. I knew of a church down in Tennessee when I was in Bible time. Straight as an arrow doctrinally. I mean militant for the doctrines of Scripture and the Bible. I'll tell you, I went in there, and it was as cold and hard-hearted and no compassion. At all. It was just a doctrinal freezer. We jokingly later, I was talking to Brother Holmster, the director, I jokingly said, that's the first church of the deep freeze. But there needs to be a balance between them. Should we should be should we defend our doctrine? Yes or no? Absolutely. We ought to be militant in defending and standing on the fundamental doctrines of the faith. But at the same time, we need to be pitiful. We need to be tender-hearted. We need to be compassionate. And that's what Peter's writing to them. I have two thoughts real quickly, two challenges tonight. Number one, I'll give you this, and I know what time it is Number one, here's the first challenge. I must not allow myself to become hard-hearted. I must not let that happen. Say, what do you mean by hard-hearted? This is what I mean. I must not allow myself to become uncaring. Or indifferent to the hurts and needs of others. All through the Old Testament, God, the Lord Jehovah, rebuked the children of Israel for being hard-hearted. The term the Lord would use over and over is they became stiff-necked. They became very cold, indifferent, not just to the things of God, but to be cold and indifferent to the needs of others. To the hurts and pains of the people around them. And the Lord rebuked them sharply. If you haven't noticed, you and I live in a very sinful world. That is probably the understatement of the day. We live in a very hard world, a very cold, a very angry, unkind world. Anyone notice that? We live in a world that uh I put a list down here that is angry, unkind, unforgiving, dishonest, selfish, and violent. And I'll tell you, there's a danger if all I can all I feed my mind and my soul, if all I do is feed my mind and my soul, the garbage that is being Broadcast on the news and in the media, the real danger of becoming hard-hearted and cold. And insensitive to the needs of others. And in the midst of a world that is so unkind, in the midst of a world that is so cold and so selfish. God, through the Peter, is telling you and I and challenging us, don't let your heart get hard. We look at our country and we're hurt and disappointed and we see what people are doing to a country that we love. And if we're not careful, we'll allow bitterness to re uh uh take root and we'll we'll get h cold and hard. And we'll begin to hate our enemies. But the Lord tells us to what? Love our enemies. Do good to them that despitefully use us. Bless them that curse you. That's being pitiful. That's being tender-hearted. And so the challenge is to not allow my heart to get hard. These dear believers, Peter's writing to, they've been lied about, they've been mistreated, they've been abused, beaten. Some of them had family members that were murdered. And he said, Do not allow yourself to become hard hearted. I think self-love and pride is the greatest cause of hard, uncaring Christians. I read one little article, and the fellow made this statement. I don't want to agree with him I don't want to agree with this statement, but this is what he said. He said the hardest, most hard-hearted, uncaring people. Are in the churches that claim to be Christian. I don't know about you, that statement bothers me That bothers me. When I read that I thought these things ought not so to be. That ought not to be that way Peter wrote and said, be pitiful, tender-hearted, easily. If you get sunburned and that skin is tender, and boy, just the slightest touch. That's the idea of a heart that's you come across somebody's hurting. Oh hurts. It hurts. James, I believe, when he was talking about Solomon Ginsburg, there was a few statements, and you could hear the emotion in James' voice. Anybody notice that? Enderhart Pitiful. My second challenge is this. Number one, I must not allow myself to become hardhearted. The second charge challenge and the last Tonight, as I need to develop and maintain a tender heart. I need to do that on purpose. For some people, some people are more naturally tenderhearted. For whatever reason, their personality, maybe their upbringing, they tend to be more tenderhearted. Others perhaps are a little more stoic Not so emotional, not so they don't respond that way. God says we need to develop an emotional aspect to our Christianity. Say, well, we're independent fundamental Baptists. We don't get very emotional. I tell you what, there's no such thing as biblical Christianity that does not affect the emotions. And it's not biblical Christianity. There is no biblical Christianity that ignores or neglects the doctrines. But biblical Christianity that ignores or neglects the emotions is just as unscriptural. Being pitiful, being tender-hearted is an emotional response. And I need to develop and maintain that type of emotional response to the needs of others. Now I keep my emotions under control and I don't let my emotions dictate my actions, but I need those emotions. Now here's my question. How do you just turn emotions on and turn them off? How do I just all of a sudden become emotional? That's easier said than done. Just experience that emotion. I put down, this was my ideas. I put down how to develop and then maintain This biblical emotion of being tender-hearted, being pitiful. I put number one, this is my answer to every issue in Christian Christian life, die to self. I think our problem is we see someone and we don't care about what they're going through. We don't we don't give we don't have any response, emotional response to what they're going through, because we're so in love with ourselves. We don't say this, but this is how we respond. Doesn't affect me. Well, God bless them. That's their problem. We gotta die to self. I put this down, number two, and again these are easier to list off than they are to work in, but number two I thought I need to repent of sin, even small, what appear to be insignificant sins. Because iniquity abounded, the love of many waxed cold. When you and I allow sin in our heart and life, when you and allow us, you and I tolerate sin, even what we say, well, it's not that big a deal, I'm telling you, it saps the life of out of any com in compassion in our heart and soul. Number three, I put this down. Submit to the Lord. Lord, I'll submit myself to you. Lord, help me to see people the way you see them. Help me to love people the way you love people. Help me to care about people the way you care about people. I tell you that one event where that dear lady's walking out of the city with the body of her only son dead. Jesus sees her and it says he was moved with compassion. He came over to her. I don't know about you. That challenges me. I challenge you. Lord, I want to submit to you. I want you to live that through me. I put this down, number four, be filled with the Holy Spirit. I think compassion is a fruit of the Holy Spirit. Paul said in Romans: the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Spirit. Maybe some of us tonight need to kneel at an old altar and say, Lord, shed your love abroad in my heart. Love others through me. Be pitiful to others through me. I yield myself to me. Fill me with your spirit. And you love them through me. Last one I put down was this. Study the life and the heart of the Lord Jesus Christ. We encourage reading our Bibles all the time, but let's let's go beyond just reading it. Let's look and see where what is the heart of Christ? What can I learn about the compassion of my God and have that lived out in me? Are you with me? You with me? We're going to meet people this week. I'm telling you. We're going to meet people this week. We're going to interact at the market or somewhere at work. Maybe in our home. That are on the verge of losing it. That are on the verge of giving up Let's ask God to use us to be pitiful and to be tender-hearted to people we come across. That person standing in front of you at the market. They may have just found out their spouse left them. They're abandoned. All hope is gone. Let's be kind to them. Let's be gracious. Amen? You know what I am naturally? I count how many things they got in their basket, see if they're in the right line or not. You know why you're laughing? Because you do the same thing. Maybe we ought to say, Lord, help me be gracious. Help me be tenderhearted I read a story about An elderly father, his son was in the army and he had committed some what was termed as gross crimes against the army. And he was being court-martialed In fact, he was court-martial. In fact, he was sentenced to be executed, uh, to be shot, executed Well the father was his only son. The father was elderly, and he came and he made an appeal to the military court system that they would pardon his son. This is his only son Well, the appeal made its way up the chain of command. Eventually, lo and behold, it made it to the desk of Abraham Lincoln. And the head of his army at that time wrote a memo to Abraham Lincoln and said, Do not pardon this man. If you do, we will lose the ability to maintain discipline within our army. The father came in and met with Abraham Lincoln And he made his appeal and he said, please pardon my son, it's my only son. And Abraham Lincoln took that memo from the head of his army and he handed it to the father. And the historian that recorded this said you could see the shadow of disappointment fall over the countenance of that father. And as he turned to walk out, Abraham Lincoln was moved with compassion. His heart was touched. And he said, Father, he tore the memo up and he wrote an order, an executive order. This man is not to be shot until I give the order. And he showed it to the Father. The Father said, Well, I had hope for a pardon. He said, you may change your mind at any time. You could give the order to shoot my son. Abraham Lincoln said, I give you my word. That that order will never come from me. Your son will not be shot. I read that, and I thought, God help us as Christians to be tender-hearted. Have compassion and pity. Somebody treats us unkindly. Somebody says something rude. Have a heart of compassion. Think there's something maybe going on. Something hurting inside them. You follow what I think he's saying here. Be pitiful. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I asked her, Lord, that you would help us. To be tender-hearted to people around us. Help us, Lord, to be pitiful, to be easily stirred emotionally. by those that are around us and express our love and concern for them. I wonder how many this evening, you like me Would say I sure could use more compassion in my Christian life. I could sure be a whole lot more tender hearted when I am. Is there any like that, Peter? That's something I certainly could need in my life. I tell you, God can do that for us. We've got to die to self. We need to get the sin out and submit to him. Let the Spirit fill us and love others through us. Walk with God. Father, I ask you bless us as we go into this new week. Help us, Lord, to be pitiful. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. As the invitation