So I and uh but Galatians chapter five and I would ask I don't say this often, I used to a lot more than I do anymore, but um If we could just kind of keep during the preaching time in particular, and maybe going in and out of the service, kind of keep that unless it's emergency, uh if you can wait till after the service, I am I I've just been doing this a long time and I'm of the opinion that when the Bible's being preached, whoever it is, that's the most important thing going on in the world at that moment I mean I I know they had a big meeting this week down in Washington with leaders of Europe and trying to bring peace to uh Ukraine and all that, and that was a big meeting But maybe I'm naive, but I just think when you're preaching the Word of God, souls are at stake. Uh that's more important than anything going on anywhere else in the world. And so if we can keep distractions to a minimum uh and uh so people can uh the Lord can work on hearts without the devil having an opportunity to distract Uh that would be very, very helpful. And so unless it's a mer now if it's an emergency, then you do what you got to do. But uh if not we would appreciate help there. Galatians chapter 5. We're looking at verse number 22 and 23 Where the Bible says the fruit, but the fruit of the Spirit, speaking of the Holy Spirit, is love, joy, Peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance Against such, there is no law. There's no law in all of Scripture that forbids these fruit, this fruit from being lived out in our lives And so tonight we're going to look at the fruit of goodness. The fruit of goodness. Let's pray. Father, I ask now you'd bless our time in your word. We thank you, Lord, for Jesus, as was just sung Who uh can save our soul and those of us who trust him, he has saved our soul. We praise you for that. Lord, I thank you that your Holy Spirit has taken up residence. And those of us, in the bodies of those of us who know you as Savior. What an amazing thing. Father, we praise you for that. We rejoice in it. Help us to grasp What this verse is teaching us, this passage is teaching us about the presence of your Holy Spirit in our hearts, our bodies. I pray, Lord, that the Holy Spirit would fill me tonight as I try and speak and teach on this one word. I pray you would speak through me. You would be our teacher. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew at this hour for this message. Pray again that you would fill me and that you would speak through me. And Lord, my prayer for myself and for every member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is that we would on a regular daily basis be filled with your Spirit. And that your Holy Spirit would bear this fruit in our lives. It would be evident that you are filling us and giving us this fruit. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We pointed this out several times and I'm hoping at the end of this series that we can have this passage down very, very clear in our minds. In fact, I got thinking this afternoon when I was reading over it I got thinking this would be a great passage to memorize. Maybe some folk already have this memorized. But to have the fruit of the Holy Spirit. And if you remember, we pointed out a number of times, and I want to just touch on it again tonight is that there's nine characteristics of the fruit of the Holy Spirit listed here. And if you look at them carefully, you can break them down into three sets of three. The first three is love, joy, and peace, and I kind of categorize the set of three as compassion. So the three first set of three Is love, joy, and peace. And I categorize that as compassion. And I believe what the Holy Spirit bears in our life as we looked at those three is he gives us compassion for others. Uh love, joy, and peace. And then the next three, long suffering, goodness, and faith, are put down as our conduct. How that prote that compassion produces in us uh Uh we're long-suffering. We b we uh bear long with others, and in goodness we'll look at tonight. And then faith, faith in God. And then the last three, faith, meekness, and temperance is our character. It's what we are, how he makes us And so we have these three sets of three. Now here's something that as I was studying this, and I think I probably knew this to some extent, but never I didn't re didn't really uh categorize it in my mind this way or or s quite see it this way before. But if we go all the way back and I don't we spend a good bit of time On a previous message, so I don't want to go back there. But if we go all the way back to Genesis, the beginning of Genesis, we're told very clearly that God created man in the image of God That were created in the image of God. Now, a lot of debate has gone into what it means by being in the image of God. What is he talking about? One thing we know he's not talking about, he's not talking about our appearance. We don't look like God Alright? God is a spirit. He doesn't have physical body. And so uh it doesn't mean that what I'm com the conclusion I come to is we said Is that when he created us in his image, it means he created us with his characteristics. Now I am become convinced that this fruit of the Spirit These are the characteristics of Jesus Christ. When it says that we were created in the image of God, what he was saying is we were created in the image of Christ. The Bible talks about being in the image of Christ a number of times throughout, particularly New Testament. And so we're created in the image of Christ. We naturally were had love. We were naturally had the joy of the Lord. We naturally had this goodness. We naturally, he was part of our makeup. It was what we were. Then sin entered in and that fruit died That fruit withered and fell to the ground. And then the works of the flesh that we see earlier in the chapter, they took over of our sinful nature. And we see that works of the flesh begin to manifest itself almost immediately. Cain kills Abel. Polygamy comes in almost immediately, division and wrath and sedition, and it just goes downhill. And then Jesus Christ came, he died for our sins to remove it and cleanse us from all sin. And then we're given the Holy Spirit And we're told that the Holy Spirit is the one of the ministries of the Holy Spirit is to change my nature. If any man be in Christ, a new creature, and to change me into the image of Christ. In other words, the Holy Spirit wants to produce in my life these characteristics of Jesus Christ that we had initially before the fall. Alright? Everybody follow what I'm saying? And so as I yield to the Holy Spirit, and as the Holy Spirit fills me, he begins to mold me and conform me into the image of Christ, become more and more like Jesus Christ. And these nine characteristics, this fruit, this nine characteristics of this fruit, is the image of Christ being portrayed in my life. Now, here's the thing. None of us are going to reach the point where we're perfectly in the image of Christ. If you meet somebody that tells you they are sinless and they are perfect in the image of Christ, Ask their spouse if that's true, if they agree with that. I would venture to say they won't. Not until we see Christ, 1 John tells us, and then we'll see him as he is, and we will be what? We'll be like him, and we will be perfectly like Jesus Christ. Not necessarily in appearance, but in these characteristics. So in my mind, I I rehearsed all of that for this reason. In my mind, that makes this fruit profoundly significant in my heart and mind as a believer. This is what God is trying to mold me into. This is how God is God is trying to mold me into having these characteristics through the Holy Spirit bearing this out in my life. Now tonight we want to look at the sixth fruit. Normally, when I preach, I like to have my message kind of organized a little bit. I like to have three points and a poem and a tear-jerking story. You know, I just like I think it's easier to preach, it's easier to comprehend the truth, and it's easier to carry with us home. We have points and and uh and uh that way. Now having said that, tonight it's kind of just a um uh shotgun. Thoughts on this matter of goodness. Goodness. Notice what he says. The fruit of the Spirit. He starts out with love, and that's the foundational fruit, I'm convinced. All these other fruit Come out of that. It's listed first on purpose, at least in my mind, I'm convinced of that. To have love, and out of that love that the Holy Spirit produces in me, there's joy There's peace in my heart with others. There's long suffering. Last two weeks ago we noted the fruit of gentleness. And now tonight, this matter of goodness. Goodness. Now I want to remind you, remind all of us, that this fruit Is the fruit of the Holy Spirit. It's not something I'm working up. It's not something I'm producing. It is something that the Holy Spirit does. Now, here's a little review question. All right, let me ask this first. How many folks here tonight you're saved? You know it. Say amen. Amen. So that's the vast majority, if not all of us, we know the Lord is Savior. That means within every one of our bodies dwells what? The Holy Spirit of God. He's in every one of us. He's there right now. Almighty God in my body. The Holy Spirit is here right now in me. And you. And the little ones, everyone that knows Christ, He's in us right now. This is the fruit of the Holy Spirit. That means that this goodness that we're going to consider Isn't something I have to go somewhere to get. It's not something I can go to a seminar and learn how to have this goodness or Some method or some techniques I am implement in my Christian life. I do this a certain way, do that a certain way, then I No, no, no. It's already there. It's latent within me And all I gotta do is get out of the way. All I got to do is cooperate with the Holy Spirit, and He will produce this goodness That he's talking about, we're going to look at. He'll produce that in my life. It's already there. You say, well, preacher, as we go through, you say, oh, I could I could never be that. No, you and I, in ourselves we have no goodness of our own. Romans 3 tells that. There's nothing good. I have no goodness. I can't work up some goodness. My whole nature is corrupt But in the person of the Holy Spirit of God, He is has this goodness. The Holy Spirit is good. And he dwells within me. And so if I cooperate with him, then he can bear this fruit in my life, along with the other eight fruits that are listed here. And we've been emphasizing that. I read, I saw the title of the sermon, I was kind of uh rooting around a little bit and looking for um tear-jerking illustrations, and I Didn't find any, but um I saw the title of one sermon a guy had preached on this passage, and he and the title of his sermon was this, and I never read it Because the title, I wrote it off as soon as I saw the title. He said, developing the, uh he called it developing the fruit of the Holy Spirit. And immediately I said he's wrong. I didn't look at the message, but according to the title, I cannot develop the fruit of the Holy Spirit. I can't do that. I don't have the ability. I don't have I have no goodness in myself to be able to produce, develop this fruit of goodness. I can't do that. Only the Holy Spirit can do that. And so all I do is the Holy Spirit develops it. I simply cooperate with him. I just put him in the driver's seat. I just get myself out of the way, do what he says, follow his leadership, and the Holy Spirit develops this. Now it's a lot easier said than done, right? It's easy to say, well, just get out of the way and the Holy Spirit will do this. Here's the problem. My old sinful nature doesn't want to get out of the way. My old sinful nature likes sitting on the throne of my life. Can I get a witness? And so dying to self and putting aside my own self-will and my own sinful ambitions is a lot easier said than done. But nevertheless, we can and we need to, and when we do, then the Holy Spirit has free reign, and he can produce this fruit in my life. So goodness, goodness, dwells within every single one of us in the person of the Holy Spirit, the potential to have this goodness. Now, what in the world is this goodness? I got looking it, looking in the Bible. I found that the word goodness is used four times. It only appears four times in the New Testament. Goodness. In Romans chapter 15, now if you would come with me to Romans 15 And let's look at what this says about this matter of goodness. We're trying to determine what is he talking about when he says the fruit of the Spirit is goodness. Now we have our idea There are some concepts that we know what they mean, but they're hard to articulate, correct? How do you explain to somebody what love is? How do you explain to somebody what goodness is? Now we kind of have a sense, but to define the concept of it sometimes is challenging. Let's look and see what the Bible says about it. Romans chapter 14, and notice or chapter 15, notice with me verse number 14. He says, and I myself also, this is Paul writing under the inspiration of God to these Roman believers, I myself also am persuaded of you, my brethren. Look at this. That ye also are full of what? Goodness. These Roman believers, he says, I'm convinced you are filled, you are full. of goodness. You have this fruit of the Holy Spirit being borne out in your life. It's evident. I see it. Now, notice what he ties it in with, and maybe this helps us understand what he's talking about. He says, You also are full of goodness. Look at this, filled with all what Knowledge, able also to what? Admonish one another. So here we find that this fruit of goodness As Paul observed it in the life of the Roman believers, is associated with knowledge and with admonition. Admonish also. Alright, so what does he mean by knowledge? The word knowledge there simply means intelligence. It has the idea of having understanding how things work and what the situation is Another way of looking at that word is with discernment. So when the Holy Spirit bears this fruit of goodness in me, along with it There is some intelligence. There's discernment taking place. Not everything that's called good is good. Right or wrong. I can very innocently and yet very ign Treat somebody or do something for my children or somebody a friend or whatever, a stranger, do something that in my ignorance, I, in my innocence, I consider it good, but in reality it's not good for them. Follow? Somebody's alongside the road. I need help. And I could, in my innocence, say, man, they really need help. I got an extra $500 here. I'll give them $500. Now would you agree with me? That's a on the surface that looks like a good thing. Now here's the situation. Maybe I need some discernment. They may go down to the crack house, buy $500 worth of crack And I'm doing something for them that is not good for them. You follow what I'm saying? Now I'm not trying to discourage generosity and almsgiving. There's a place for that. We need to do that. But The point is, when the Holy Spirit produces this goodness in me, it's not ignorant. There's some discernment taking place on determining what is really good for this person. What really is good and what is not. Not everything is actually good. Um What the world says is good for someone might not necessarily be good for them, biblically And so what I have to do, and this Holy Spirit bears this goodness in my life, it is always going to line up to what God says is good, and it's not going to be necessarily what the world says is good. Everybody with me. And so it's with intelligence, it's with knowledge, it's with discernment. The Holy Spirit, along with this goodness, he gives me discernment. I sort this through. I'm able to figure out, wait a minute, that's not really good for them. Say, well, I want to treat my kids good. I'll let them ride the lawnmower out on Interstate 68. Ah, ignorance. Right? My son wants to play with the chainsaw, you know. I just want to be a good parent. Let him play with the chainsaw. Your intentions may be well. You may be very innocent in your desire, but that is not intelligent So here we find that this goodness that the Holy Spirit produces in my life, and we're going to look at the meaning of the word here in a moment, but it's associated with discernment, with intelligence, with having some knowledge. Then look what else it's associated with. He says, you're full of goodness, filled with all knowledge. Now look, Abel also. To admonish one another. Now, what does it mean to admonish someone? It means to warn them, it means to correct them It's a owing compassion. It's not, you know, harshly correcting somebody, but it's out of a The other fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, long time, very patient, very lovingly, I come and I correct, I admonish someone. They're going down a wrong road. They're doing something that's not best for their well-being. They're doing something that is harmful. They're doing something that hinders their walk with God. And I use my head, I have some intelligence, I know what God says, and I see what's happening, and goodness This fruit that the Holy Spirit bears in my life prompts me, motivates me to come and admonish them. To talk to him, confront him, say, hey, listen, you're going down the wrong road. This isn't the best thing for you. Part of preaching, now study what Paul says to Timothy, part of preaching is admonishment. Challenging and confronting God's people, the body of Christ, and saying, listen, we need to do right. It's an admonishment. I wouldn't give a nickel to a preacher who doesn't preach against sin. I wouldn't give a nickel to a preacher that doesn't preach that book as it is to men as they are, as my friend Andy Bloom used to say. And so part of this goodness, and we'll get to what it means here in just a moment, but part of this goodness includes being discernment. And may include admonishing. Sometimes the best thing I can do for someone is stop and say, hey, wait a minute. Think about what you're doing. Think about what direction you're going. Think about that. Listen, let me warn you. And word monument has the idea of warning. And so the Holy Spirit bears within us this fruit of goodness that's associated with discernment, knowledge, and admonishment Then the next time it's mentioned is here in Galatians 5. 22, which we're looking at. Come over. The third time it's mentioned is Ephesians chapter 5. Come with me very quickly there. Ephesians chapter 5 And this word goodness is used the third time in the New Testament. Galatians chapter, or uh Ephesians chapter 5 And verse number nine. He's basically repeating what he says to the church at Galatia. The churches at Galatia. He says, for the fruit of the Spirit, not the fruit of the Christian, the fruit that the Holy Spirit produces in my life. The fruit of the Spirit is all goodness and righteousness and truth, proving what is acceptable unto the Lord So here I find that this fruit of goodness involves involves And we'll see this in a bit, but it involves helping other people do what is acceptable to the Lord. I tell you, here's what I'm trying to get at. The best thing, the best friend in the world is going to help their friend live for God. If you got a friend that you always have to fuss with them and you always uh have tension, you always have uh conflict over doing right or not, that friend is not your friend. And if when I'm filled with the fruit of the when I'm filled with the Spirit, he bears this fruit of goodness, I'm going to be a friend that helps people do what's acceptable to the Lord. I'm going to try and help people do what's acceptable, Lord. I tell you, the happiest preacher in the world, the sincere, genuine, happiest preacher in the world is the one where the people of his church are living for God. are living and running their living their lives, their home, they're witnessing, they're doing what in a ways that are acceptable to the Lord. And by the way, the happiest church is the pastor that is living and doing according what's acceptable to the Lord. Are you with me? So we're trying to determine this concept of goodness. What is it? Well, it's associated with intelligence. It's associated with admonishment. It's associated with doing what's acceptable to the Lord. One more, very quickly, 2 Thessalonians chapter 1. And notice verse number 11. He brings it up, and this gives us a little insight. 2 Thessalonians. Chapter 1, verse 11. Notice what he says. He says, Wherefore also we pray always for you that our God would count you worthy of this calling And fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness and the work of faith with power. In other words, we're told here That this fruit of this goodness, it is, now get this: it is the goodness of God being lived out in my life. You get that? It's the goodness of God. Is God good? Yes or no? Yes. The source of this goodness is God. It's produced in the believer by the Holy Spirit. We have none of ourselves. This isn't something we can work up. In fact, I want to suggest to you this goodness that's a fruit of the Holy Spirit, an unsaved person can never You'll never see this in the life of an unsaved person. Now, can an unsaved person do good things? Sure. But not what he's talking about here. This is of God. This is the goodness of God. The whole purpose of is for the well-being of others. Now we pick that up as we look at this. It's for others. Help others. Admonish others. Know what's best for others. God puts it in us for others so they can live acceptable to the Lord. So here's the word. I'll give this and then I want to start shutting it down. The word goodness is has more to do with uh is everybody with me so far? All right. I want to make sure everybody's on board. This this fruit of goodness has more to do with the condition of my heart, then it has to do with my actions In other words, it's the condition, the Holy Spirit, the fruit of the goodness, He restructures my heart. So that the so the goodness of God can be borne out in my life. It's more that than it is something, well do this and do that and Don't do this and do that, and then you'll have no no no. It's it's a fundamental restructuring of my of my being And where this goodness is just born out in my life, the goodness of God. The word itself means to be good. And the emphasis on it is to be beneficial, to benefit others, with virtue and integrity. It's a godlike quality. Here's something interesting. You may have heard this before. I've heard this back since shortly after I got saved. I've heard preachers mention this on occasion. The English word God, G-O-D, the English word, comes from and is almost identical to the word good. In fact, the word God, the English word God, comes from the word that we get our English word good. And the whole idea is this: God is good. I got looking up in my concordance all the places in the Bible where it says God is good. And over and over and over and over and over, the Bible declares that God is good. In his very nature, it's what he is. He can't be anything other than good. And that goodness, the Holy Spirit, restructures my life so that God's goodness can be borne out in my life. Not what the world says is good, not what my flesh can produce, but what God is. It's a godlike quality. Again, it has more to do with the condition of my heart and mind, and that causes me To put aside my comfort, my desires, and do what is best for others. It's a great poem, and I don't have it in front of me here, but it Uh uh it's a tremendous moment. Uh and I think it's a song, Others, Lord, yes others. Let this my motto be. And that's the goodness. God changes my heart, He changes my mind and my spirit. So that my whole motive, my whole purpose, the zeal of my life is to try and help others. Help them be what God intends to be. Help them to know what God's will is and live out God's will. To be a benefit, a support, a help there, to do what is best for others. Not necessarily do what others want, but to do what is best for their spiritual well-being and their physical well-being. It is a holy zeal. To help others do what's right. To help others be better off. To help others be what God wants them to be. Somebody put it this way, I like this. It's a deep inner motive. To be kind, to be a blessing, to encourage and admonish and strengthen others spiritually. Not to drag down. I've often thought this and I've prayed this over the years. I pray that when I interact, here's one of my prayers for preaching, is when I'm done, or when I'm done interacting with somebody And I fail on this a lot, but I sure would like for them to walk away. Their faith in God is stronger than what it was before I interacted with them. That I help them, that I encourage them, that I strengthen their faith in God and and uh and uh and God Can the Holy Spirit can fill me and my actions, my motive is for them to understand the love of God and the will of God for their life and experience the blessings of God on their life. It is a complete focus off of myself and onto the good and well-being of others. Philippians chapter 2, verse 4 says, looking And let every man look uh on the needs of others. And uh I completely slaughtered that verse. I know that verse. Um Philippians two four, let me read it to you here real quick. Um where's Philippians? Exodus, let's see. Something here. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. That's the fruit of the Spirit. That's this goodness. I'm not focused on be mine what Uh I say this often. Somebody walks in the back door and says, All right, all right, church, bless me. That is not the fruit of the Holy Spirit. Through the Holy Spirit in this matter of goodness walks in and says, God use me to help others. I see somebody sitting there by themselves. I'm going to sit down, maybe pray with them, help them, be a friend. Somebody that's maybe they're not dressed in independent fundamental Baptist attire. Rather than snub my nose and say, ugh, what are they doing here? But rather say, there's somebody, maybe God, you could use me to help them, to know you, and love you, and experience your blessing. You with me? That's the idea of the Holy Spirit putting that in my heart. Say, preacher, I'm not naturally that way. I know, that's the point. The Holy Spirit does that. The Holy Spirit does that A holy zeal to help others. The Bible says in Acts 10. 38 that Jesus went about doing what? Good. Healing all that were oppressed of the devil. I tell you, if anybody had the fruit of goodness in their life, it was the Lord Jesus Christ. Everywhere he went, he was helping. Sometimes he was admonishing. But it was always with discernment, it was always wise in line with the will of God. But he his whole motive He said, I came, this is a powerful statement. If we could get a hold of this and try and emulate this in our life, he said, I came not to be ministered unto But to minister and to give my life a ransom for many, that is the goodness that he's talking about. That the Holy Spirit bears in my mind, a motive, a desire, not for people to serve me, but to serve. And to give and help. The fruit of goodness, the fruit of goodness. The Holy Spirit restructuring my heart to be motivated and zealous. to put self aside and do what is biblically best for others in a compassionate way, in a Christ-like way. Allowing God to love and bless others through me. Through me. Through me. Here's our problem. Most of the time we're so focused on whether I'm being blessed. And that's the flesh. And the Holy Spirit takes over, and we die to self, we mortify the deeds and works of the flesh, and the Holy Spirit takes over, then it's not whether I'm being blessed or not. It's whether God is using me to be a blessing. Goodness. And with this, here's a good quote. I like this. I kind of came up with it. I say that in all humility. Goodness, a holy heart, a holy heart that is committed to help others determine and do God's will for their life. A holy desire, a holy zeal, help and be a blessing for others It's interesting. We stand before the judgment seat of Christ. The one thing I'm sure we all would like to hear, we want to hear desperately We want to hear Jesus say, Well done, thou good, good, and faithful servant. The one that let the Holy Spirit bless and work and be good to others through us. Amen? Let's pray. Father, I pray you take these thoughts. And I pray that I as an individual, I pray for everyone here, every member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist, and us as a body of believers. That we would have that fruit of goodness restructure, the Holy Spirit restructure our hearts and lives, that we could bear that fruit of goodness to our community, to our families. To one another, to our neighbors. Heads back How many would say, Preacher, this old flesh gets in my way? I want the free of the Holy Spirit, but this old flesh, there's a conflict, there's a fuss there And you say, Preacher, pray with me, that God will enable me, God will help me to die to sell, put this old flesh, mortify it, and let the Holy Spirit bear this fruit in me. Any like that, any like that I wonder if some would say, Preacher, I find myself just so worried about whether I'm being blessed or not, and I'm whether getting what I want. And I need to put that aside and start letting God use me to be a blessing. And help us. Any like that? Probably along the same lines of what I just asked. We need that. Father, bless our invitation now as we get ready for the Lord's Supper. In Jesus' name. Amen.