1 Samuel chapter 24, I want to begin reading as I said in verse 18. If you would follow along down through verse 23 And Gad came that day to David and said unto him, Go up and rear an altar unto the Lord in the threshing floor of Aranah the Jebusite. And David, according to the saying of Gad, went up as the Lord commanded. And Aranah looked and saw the king and his servants coming on toward him. And Arana went out and bowed himself before the king on his face to the ground. And Aranah said, Wherefore is my lord the king come to his servant? And David said, to buy the threshing floor of thee, to build an altar unto the Lord, that the plague may be stayed from the people. And Auranah said unto David, Let my lord the king take and offer up what seemeth good unto him. Behold, here be oxen for burnt offering, and threshing instruments, and other instruments of the oxen for wood. And all these things, now I like this statement, I underline this in my Bible, all these things did Arana as a king give unto the king. And Aranah said to the king, The Lord thy God accept thee. Arana. Now, if you would, come over, keep your place there, because like I said, we're going to look at both of these, but come to 1 Chronicles. Chapter number 21, and I want to begin reading in verse 18. This is a same event, different account. Then the angel of the Lord commanded Gad to say to David that David should go up and set up an altar unto the Lord in the threshing floor of who? Ornan? The Jebusite. And David went up at the saying of Gad, which he spake in the name of the Lord. And Ornan turned back and saw the angel and his four sons with him, hid themselves. Now, Ornan was threshing wheat. And David came to Ornan, and Ornan looked and saw David and went out of the threshing floor and bowed himself to David with his face to the ground. And David said to Ornan, Grant me the place of this threshingful Lord, that I may build an altar therein unto the Lord. Thou shalt grant it me for the full price, that the plague may be stayed from the people. And Ornan said unto David, Take it uh Take it to thee, and let my lord the king do that which is good in his eyes. Lo, I give thee the oxen also for burnt offering, and the threshing instruments for wood And the wheat for a meat offering. I give it all. And King David said to Ornan, Nay, but I will verily buy it at the full price, for I will not take that which is thine uh for the Lord to offer burnt offerings without cost. Ornan uh in ch in 1 Chronicles 21, uh Arona in 2 Samuel 24. Let's pray together and then we'll look at this and see what the Bible's saying here. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, we come to you tonight and we thank you for the Word of God I pray now that you would teach us from these passages how we can be stronger in our faith and walk closer to you and be the people you intend for us to be. Lord, I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. And I pray that your Holy Spirit would be our teacher, you'd be the preacher, and we would, our hearts and minds would be open to your will for us. And so bless now and have your way tonight in Jesus' name I pray. Amen We have David here, just the context of our passages. David, as you recall from our previous messages, had decided to sinfully number the people. That had awful consequences. And God gave David, remember he gave him these three choices of what the consequences would be By the way, it's very rare that God would give somebody an opportunity to choose what the consequence is. I don't know about you, but the times I've done things stupid, I haven't had much say on what the consequences of my stupid actions were. Pretty much God just decides that for us. But in this case, for whatever reason, God gave David some options. David chose to let God decide, and God gave what appears, anyway, to be the the least um uh uh agonizing of the three, and he sends the angel with this plague, and it ends up being 70,000 people dying. Would you agree with me? That is tragedy One man's actions cost 70,000 people their lives. And so David has confessed his sin. We looked at that last week. In fact, he does twice. He comes to God and he thoroughly confesses his sin to God and he completely takes responsibility for his actions. He doesn't blame anybody. He doesn't justify anything. He doesn't excuse any of his actions. He accepts responsibility. He accepts res uh uh he confesses with God that it is bad And God stops the plague. The angel stops. And the plague stops here at this fella in 1 Samuel. His name is given as Arona. Arona. In Chronicles, 1 Chronicles, he's given the name, he's named Orna. Now the question comes up: is there a mistake in the Bible? Some would say obviously the Bible has contradictions. God gives one name here, another name there. Fact of the matter is, the Bible is filled with folks who often go by two different names and sometimes two different spellings of the same name. Ornan, we're going to notice here, Ornan in in the Corinthian, in the Chronicle account is his name in in Samuel, it's uh Arana, uh, was a non-Jew. He was a Jebusite who was, we're going to see here in a little bit. I'm going to talk about that here in a little bit. But what we believe is the case here is one was his what how it would have been in the Hebrew language And the other name, perhaps, was from his Canaanite language, or the spellings would be different from the two different languages. And so there's really no contradiction here. And let me just throw this out. When somebody suggests there's a contradiction in the Bible, and there are some, if you look at just the service, it looks apparent You mark it down, there is a reasonable and logical explanation for every one of them without fail And so don't buy into this when somebody tries to come up with something of contradictions and mistakes and those types of things. So David has confessed his sin. He's accepted personal responsibility for his actions. He accepts responsibility for all the consequences. Now notice, if you would, come back to Samuel, the Samuel account. 2 Samuel, and in verse number 18, God gives some instructions to David. He says that he is to rear an altar, verse 18, unto the Lord. And he tells him what to do. Put this altar up. And he tells them where God wants this altar to be. Now, this is where, in my mind, it gets a little interesting. He says, rear an altar unto the Lord. He doesn't leave it up to David where to do that He says, in the threshing floor of Arana the Jebusite So it has a very particular place in mind for this altar. Now we'll talk in a next message, Lord will, in a little bit about what this altar is all about and the sacrifice, why That is. But let me just say this. I think what God is doing, God is having David build this altar just as an assurance to David that his sin has been forgiven and the judgment is over. The judgment's been fulfilled. I think that's what this altar is about in offering up these sacrifices. And we'll talk about that later. But I want us to notice, first of all, I've got two thoughts tonight. First of all, the significance of this threshing floor. His threshing floor. He tells them Belgian altar on the threshing floor of uh of uh Arana. Now We know the significance of the place, the Mount Moriah. We talked about that before. That's where Abraham offered up Isaac, remember, and God intervenes. And it gives them a ramp. So we've looked at the significance of Mount Moriah. That's where the temple is eventually built. And that's where the millennial temple is going to be. But what about a threshing floor? Actually, if you pay attention when you read through your Bible, threshing floors and threshing of wheat and grain is very common all through the Bible. They're mentioned in the Old Testament, New Testament. There's references to what takes place on the threshing floor, Old Testament and New Testament. Very, very common in Bible times. In fact I'm told that just about every farmer, and remember they were an agricultural economy, so they're living off the land. They didn't have industry like we have today And I'm told and led, I understand, that about every farm had their own threshing floor If it was small farms, the one fellow I was reading about was suggesting that smaller farms that would maybe come together, several small farmers would come together and they would build a threshing floor like a co-op type thing. But most of them had their own. So everybody's familiar with threshing floors. There was many of them in this community where this was taking place. But why would he tell them to build on a threshing floor? Well, what is a threshing floor? Threshing floor is a large level area. It would clear out an area. It needed to be level, flat. They would try to get it on top of a hill, somewhere where it was raised up above, where there would be a breeze, a fairly consistent breeze, or wind blowing What they would do is when they found an area where they were going to build a threshing floor, they would find a level area, maybe elevated somewhat. They would bring in flat rocks And they would implant these rocks into the ground and make somewhat of a floor, threshing floor, but they wanted a hard floor. They wanted something solid as a floor. Sometimes they'd be very large. Do you remember when David was moving the Ark of the Covenant into Jerusalem? And rather than carrying it the way the Bible God instructed them on the polls, he put it on a what? A cart, a new cart, just like the Philistines that did when they sent it back. And the Bible says that when it got to the threshing floor, the oxen stumbled. The reason those oxen stumbled were when you came up to the threshing floor, it would sometimes be raised a little bit. And these oxen would pull a heavy object over the grain that's spread out on this threshing floor, these stones that have these flat stones that have been implanted, and they were put tight together and filled in. And there would get ruts around the outside where these oxen or donkeys or horses in some cases would be pulling a heavy object over top of the grain. And so in David's case with the ark, they came by and they hit these ruts and the oxen stumbled and uh the ark moved and uh Uz Uzzah lost his life So these thressing floors are very, very common. Elevated, flat, hard surface They would harvest the wheat, the grains, whatever it may be. They would harvest this grain, and they would lay it out on this threshing floor. And as I referenced, then they would have an oxen or a donkey or a horse, and they would pull some heavy object. It may be a log, a heavy log, it may be a big board Sometimes a uh a roller type thing. And they would go round and round over top of the screen, and what they're doing is they're crushing the grain and they're uh uh separating the husk that's around the grain or the hull or the chaff as it's called and they're separating the two And so this threshing floor is where this took place. After they had sufficiently crushed this grain and separated the two, then they would come in and they would have these type of forks And they would pitch the grain up in the air. And with a breeze coming along, what would that do? They're pitching the grain in the air. What would the breeze do? It would blow the chaff away. And it's a act it's a it's a process of separating the wheat from the chaff The grain that has value, that has nutrition, that is desirable from the chaff that is worthless, that is useless, and of no good, no value whatsoever And so that's what the threshing floors were to separate, to crush and separate the grain from the chap. And so, uh, what was what's the significance of that? I believe it has I think it has significance of the threshing floor For instance, this place here, the threshing floor of Arana, is the exact place that the temple was built The temple of God, Solomon's temple, was built on a threshing floor. It's right exactly here on Aranah's threshing floor. That has some significance. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me. Now keep your place here. Come with me to Psalms chapter 1. Threshing floors are significant in Scripture. They're an object lesson, they're an illustration of several biblical truths I don't think it's coincidence that God said put an altar on the threshing floor of Arana, a place where the chaff is separated from the wheat. Where that which is worthless and undesirable is separated from that which is of value and helpful. Notice Psalm chapter 1 And notice what the Bible says. It says, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. And he shall be like a tree Planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in a season, his leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Now notice his reference here in the next couple verses But the ungodly are not so, the ungodly are not so, but are like the what? Chaff, which the wind driveth away. Look at verse 5. Therefore, the ungodly shall not stand in judgment, nor sinners in the seat, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous For the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous, but the way of the ungodly shall perish. You catch the reference to the threshing floor The chaff, the ungodly are not so, but are like the chaff which the wind driveth away. What is the point he's trying to make? The difference between the godly and the ungodly, and he's using this threshing floor analogy, this chaff analogy, to point out what do you think he's trying to say The ungodly are going to be separated from the godly in judgment. And they're going to be driven away. They're cast out. And so the threshing floor is a picture, is used of God numerous times as an illustration of God's judgment On the ungodly and the separation of the two in that judgment. If you would, turn with me another passage. Come with me to Matthew chapter 3. John the Baptist gets in on this illustration of the threshing floor. John chapter 3, or I'm sorry, not John, Matthew chapter 3. And verse number 11 and 12. John the Baptist refers to this threshing floor. And notice what he says. Verse 11, Matthew chapter 3. I, John speaking to the crowds, I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance. But he that cometh after me is mightier than I Whose shoes I am not worthy to bear. Who's he referencing? Jesus Christ. He's the forerunner. He shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire. Now look at this. Whose fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly purge his floor and gather his wheat unto the gardener But he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire. Now, John the Baptist introduces another instrument that is used on the threshing floor, and that is what they call the fan, or sometimes they call it a widowing fan. If there isn't a breeze, if there's not much of a wind blowing, and they have to get this wheat processed, they would bring out, they would have these big fans and they'd throw it up And they'd do these fans, and it would blow the chaff away. Same, same, uh, same effect. And John is referencing that to to the nation of Israel, and this is what he's using it to illustrate, to point out. There is coming judgment. There's coming judgment. And so the threshing floor was very, very significant. The threshing floor is a picture throughout scripture, and Malachi references this. Isaiah references this. Numerous times Jesus made reference to this when Peter, he says, Peter, Satan hath desired to sift you, but I've prayed for you. All through the Bible, these threshing floors and the process is referenced, and almost every time it references this: there is judgment coming. There is judgment coming. And so when God told David through the prophet Gad to put an altar on the threshing floor A picture an illustration of the judgment of God what he was saying, I think this is what he was pointing out. Indirectly he was saying, listen The judgment's been fulfilled. This sacrifice is a testimony that the judgment for your sin is over. I've accepted it. This sacrifice will cover it. You follow follow my thinking here? Hebrews tells us that the blood of bulls and goats could cover the judgment of God for a period of time, but only the blood of Jesus Christ can eliminate and and cleanse us from our sin and completely remove the judgment. So the threshing floor was more than just a haphazard place the Lord just, you know, randomly picked out It's a very significant place, a very significant picture of God's judgment on David being fulfilled with a sacrifice taking place on a threshing floor. And so I thought that was interesting that the threshing floor was God's judgment on David's sin, and the altar was God's satisfaction. With David's confession, his repentance, and then carried it out in the sacrifice there. So the significance of the threshing floor. The second thing I want us to notice, if you would, come back to our text here in uh 2 Samuel, but also I want to look in Chronicles again. We have what I'm calling, first of all, the significance of the threshing forward. Number two, the dignity of Arana. Is dignity. I like Arana. The more I study this guy, the more I like him. Notice if you would, dare, in verse number 20. And Arana, I'm in 2 Samuel 24, Aranah looked and saw the king and his servants coming toward on toward him. And Arana went out and bowed himself before the king on his face upon the ground. And Arana said, Wherefore is my lord the king come to his servant? David said, To buy the threshing floor of thee, to build an altar unto the Lord, that the plague may be stayed from the people. And Aranah said unto David, Let my Lord the king take and offer up what seemeth good unto thee Behold, here be oxen for burnt sacrifice, threshing instruments, and other instruments of the oxen for wood. Look at this statement. And these things did Arana as a king Give unto the king. And Arana said unto the king, The Lord thy God accept thee. I like Arana What do we know about Arana? We know this. He's never mentioned any time before this event, and he's never mentioned again in the Bible after this event. Now he's mentioned the two times, as I said, with the two different names here in 2 Samuel and then in 1 Chronicles. But other than what we're told here, we know nothing more about this fella He wrote no books of the Bible, as far as I can tell, other than what his statements here, we have no speeches by him, no sermons by him, no prophecies by him. He's doesn't uh and this is a little bit of a question, but as far as I understand, he was never a king, never a ruler. What I understand from passage of scripture here, this guy was just a farmer that was a pretty dignified man. Pretty dignified man. The Bible says he was a Jebusite up there in verse number Uh eighteen. Well in verse sixteen he's referenced he's referred to as Aaron of the Jebusite. Uh in verse eighteen he's re referred to as Aaron of the Jebusite In Chronicles, Unah, the Jebusite, the Jebusite, the Jebusite. Now who in the world are the Jebusites? Well, they're not part of Israel. The Jebusite was a tribe of the Canaanites. Jebusites were native in the land of Canaan. When Joshua brought the Jews up out of Egypt, crossed the Jordan River, invaded the land, Jebusites were there. The Jebusites were pagans, ungodly. The description of their worship and their lifestyles when Israel arrives in the Promised Land is uh is horrendous. Their lifestyle, was wicked, wicked, ungodly. Arana was a Jebusite They were a tribe of the nation of the Canaanites. Now, back uh I think it's chapter 5, I don't have the reference. Remember when David uh became king One of the first things he did was he took the city, it was called at the time the city of Zion. It was become Jerusalem. And he drove out the Jebusites so that he could occupy this city, which was very central in the nation of Israel, very centrally located, perfect location. for to be a capital of this country of Israel. And so David drove the Jebusites out of Jerusalem. And he occupied that area. Arana was most likely there in that city. In fact, he's living there now. This is a number of years later. We're talking 40 years later. But Aronah was a Jebusite, and he is still in the city of Jerusalem. Josephus says Josephus was a Jewish historian. He says that Aranah was spared when David drove out the Jebusites. He was spared because he had showed kindness to David and showed respect to the Hebrews. And David, for whatever reason, took an affinity to him, took a liking to him, and spared his life. Let him keep the land. And somehow, through their interaction over all these years, there was an affection, there was a respect between these two men. That's what Josephus says, this Jewish historian. This is what I got out of it. There was something about David that attracted Arana to him and to his God. It is believed several historians say that Aranah had converted from his paganism to the worship of the true and living God, a Jehovah. He had abandoned and converted from their worship of idols and wicked, perverse, imaginary gods, and he came to know and worship the true and living God. Now I'd like to believe that's true, and I have a feeling that probably is the case, but there's one statement in verse number 23 that puts a question mark in my mind whether Arana ever actually converted over. I know he respected David. I know he had tremendous respect for the God of David and David's worship of Jehovah Whether he actually converted over and turned to Jehovah as the true and living God, I can't say. But look at verse 23, the very last statement of verse 23, and that's where a little question mark comes up in my mind He says, and Aranah said unto the king, The Lord, what's the next word, thy God accept thee. You follow where I have a question mark there? He doesn't say, the Lord God, except thee And he doesn't say the Lord our God accept thee. He says what? The Lord thy God. I'd like to believe Arona got saved. I believe David was somewhat of a soul winner. I believe David was a tremendous witness for the most part for his God. He of course had his failures And I like to believe that David's testimony and his the presence of God in David's life affected Aranah to the point where he had trusted Jehovah to be his true and living God. Whether he actually did that or not, I do not know, but I know this. He had tremendous respect for David and respect for the true and living God. You know, you and I, we ought to conduct ourselves in such a way, we ought to be men and women of integrity. Our faith ought to be such that even people who don't get saved still respect our love and worship and service for the true God. We ought to have that testimony. Whether they accept it or not, we of course we would like them to. And David, in spite of these two major failures that we spent a long time studying because we want to learn from it For the most part, David had a good testimony and had a profound impact on the people surrounding him. And I think Aranah was one of those. Now I get looking at the account here of Arana. And I like this guy. I hope he's in heaven. I'd like to meet him. I notice a few observations about him, if you would. For the first one, you've got to come over to 1 Chronicles. And the first one is this, and I really like this about him. Number one, I put this down, he wasn't lazy. How many people like people who aren't lazy? I like people who aren't lazy. Arana was not lazy, or in the Chronicle account, Ornan was not a lazy man. Look with me if you would at verse 20 in 1 Chronicles Chapter 21 verse and then verse 20. Ornan turned back and saw the angel's four sons and hid themselves. Now look at the last statement. Now Ornan was threshing wheat Now they're in the midst of a plague. People are dying by the thousands on a daily basis Now, I don't know about you, but uh uh I would think a lot of people would be holed up in quarantine. Right? We know a little bit about that. Are you okay, Brian? Okay, alright. Alright, very good. Let us know if you need some help there or anything Would you agree with me if every day the news report was 5,000 people died today? Would you be a little concerned about going out? I don't know. But in the midst of this plague, in the midst of this pestilence, three days of pestilence, Ornan's out there threshing wheat. Uh I think of any kind any I think a lot of people could have said, you know, I think I'll hold off threshing wheat until we see how this thing plays out, see what happens here We saw that during our escapade the last three years. A lot of people used co- COVID as an excuse to not go to work Now if you're sick, don't go to work. I understand that. I'm not saying that. But I'm saying it seemed like for a while there just everything oh you we can't do this because of COVID. You can't do that because of COVID. I was preaching up in Connecticut a year or so ago, I think it was last spring And uh we went out to eat after the meeting and I handed the guy a gospel track and the manager who was in a pizza shop, the manager comes out, oh we can't take them because of COVID. And take a gospel tract. They could give us pizza and they took our money, but they couldn't take a gospel tract. He could have used what's going on as an excuse to not work. But he wasn't looking for excuses. I like what Proverbs 22, verse 13 says. Listen to this. The slothful man saith, There's a lion without, I shall be slain in the streets. The lazy man says, oh, he's looking for excuses to not work. Not ornam, not uh Arana. He's not looking for excuses to get out of work He's out there threshing wheat. Proverbs 26, verse 13, almost identical quote, says, The slothful man saith, There's a lion in the way, a lion in the streets. I can't go to work, I can't get out there. Something bad might happen. I like Arana because he wasn't lazy. He's out threshing wheat when he could have had a lot of excuses to not do it. Number two, I put this down. He was aware of his surroundings. Notice again here in Chronicles verse 20, it says Ornan turned back and saw the angel. And uh his four sons with him, and they hid themselves. Now he's out threshing wheat in the midst of all this, and he knows what's going on, he's aware of what's going on But he sees, and I don't know how this exactly played out, but he sees this death angel. He sees it coming And when it becomes an immediate threat to him, then him and his boys, they say, hey, listen, fellas, we better find a cave or somewhere to get to. But he was aware of his surroundings. Sometimes Christians don't pay close attention to what's going on around them. Jesus rebuked the Pharisees. He says, you can tell the signs of the weather, but you don't know the signs of the times. Red at night, sailors Red in the morning, say or take warning. Oh, we know all about the red the the morning and night and the then the sun sets, but we don't know a thing about what God's doing around us. I think we as Christians we ought to pay attention We ought to be alert to what's going on. Now we don't get off track, but old uh Arana, he was aware of his surroundings. Come back to Samuel, 2 Samuel And uh verse number 20 in 2 Samuel 24, and Aaron looked and saw the king and his servants coming towards him So he was aware of his danger, and then he was aware of David. He saw an opportunity here. The king's coming. That's the king And he's coming up to our farm. He's coming up to our threshing floor. And he goes out and sees them. So he's aware of his surroundings. He wasn't lazy. Number three, I put this down. He recognized and respected authority. He recognized and respected authority. Look in 2 Samuel here. Look at the second part of verse 20. And Aaron went out and bowed himself before the king on his face upon the ground And Aurora said, Wherefore is my Lord the King come to his what? His servant? Man, what an attitude David, as I said before, had earned Arana's respect. And when he sees the king coming He absolutely displays tremendous honor and tremendous respect. In fact, he goes out and bows himself on the ground before the Lord, before David. The word servant there in verse 21 has this idea, placing myself at another's disposal. When he referred to himself as David's servant, he's saying, David, whatever you need, whatever you want from me, I am completely at your disposal. Man, what a tremendous respect. This is the king. So he showed tremendous respect. Number four, I put this down, he was generous. Notice what he does, verse 23. Um no, verse 22. And Arar said unto David, let my Lord the king, now look what he offers him. Take and offer up what seemeth good unto thee. I can see him doing this. David's there, he's falling before David. David explains to him what he's doing. He gets up and he says, David, take whatever you need. I can I can just see him spreading his hands out. David, all this. Whatever you're needed serious. Then he then he gets specific. He says, um He says, Take my let my lord the king take and offer what seemeth good unto him. Behold, here be oxen for burnt sacrifice, threshing instruments, and other instruments of the oxen for wood. What was he offering him? Everything. Let me ask you a question. If he gives David the threshing floor And he gives David all his oxen to be slaughtered and offered up as a sacrifice. And he gives David all the yoke and all the the uh the heavy instruments that they're pulling behind And David's going to use that for fire on the altar, and the oxen are going to be the sacrifice on the altar, and he has the threshing floor to build the altar. What does Aranah have left Nothing. This is his whole livelihood. His fields are going to go to waste unless he hires somebody else to do this. Auronah made a phenomenal sacrifice of himself to David. Wasn't necessary. David didn't ask him to give it to him. In fact, David refuses it. We'll see later. Man, what amazing guy. The generosity of this fellow. What he offered was his entire livelihood. And what I think is neat is this, is that God noted his generosity and honored him by including it in the Word of God. God didn't have to record all this God didn't have to record all this about Arona. He's just somebody we never heard of before, we never hear of again, but he's just a guy. That respected David very likely worshiped David's God and just gave Alfred everything he had. God loveth a cheerful giver God takes notice when we are generous. Remember when Jesus was watching the temple and they were putting their offerings in the box as they entered the temple? And he saw all these people putting in large amounts, these rich folk putting large amounts, and later on you get the idea they were making a big show Putting these big hundred dollar bills or whatever, a thousand dollars, they're putting all this money in. And Jesus is watching them, he's paying attention, he knows their hearts, and he sees this dear little widow come by And what does she put in the box? One little mite, one little mite, a penny in our in our economy, it'd be a penny. She drops it in there. I can imagine the Pharisees, the scribes, these self-righteous lawyers, pfft, well, why even bother? But not Jesus. And he turned and said, see that dear widow there? She put a little mate in, just a little penny. That was everything she had. She emptied her purse. She emptied her bank. She loved God so much. She just gave it all to him. She's trusting God to meet her needs. Now I'm not suggesting that you and I go out and empty our bank accounts into the offering Now, if God tells you to do that, that's between you and God. But I'm not suggesting that, but I am saying this. God pays attention to those who are generous. God honors those who are generous. And Arana, we never hear from him before, we never hear from him again, about him again. Really didn't have to be all this recorded in here. Could have just said David went and bought it from him, which is what ends up happening. But God took four or five verses here And highlighted this man. How many people would consider it a great honor to have four or five verses in the eternal word of God and of an account of you doing something for the Lord? Wow! For all eternity, this man's remembered for what he did. I'm telling you, God pays attention. God honors. I love Hebrews chapter 6, and let me just read it to you. I'll find it here real quick. Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 10. And I quote this often to folks when they do something for the Lord. I try to, in a letter of thanking someone for something, listen to Hebrews 6, verse 10. For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love, which ye have showed toward his name, in that ye have ministered unto the saints and do minister. God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love. And God paid attention to what Aranah did. God recorded what Arana did, and God honored him for this tremendous Generosity on his his part. Dying to self. And uh God honored him. And then last of all, I'll end with this. And this one statement here is what prompted this whole study on Arana. Verse number 23. All these things did Arana, the next three words, as a king give unto the king. He was an honorable man. I put it this way, he was a common farmer with a dignified attitude. Now some commentators, I believe, I think they're mistaken. Some commentators suggest that Arana was actually a king of the Jebusites Living there in the city of Jerusalem. I think if that was the case, he would have been referred to as a king of the Jebusites. Notice it says that he did this as or like a king. Not a king, but he had the attitude of a king. He had the character of a king. He had the dignity of a king. And though what I believe he was just a common farmer, hardworking, honest, generous farmer He acted on the same level as a king would act in interacting with David. Man, isn't that I think there ought to be, I hope you don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But I think there ought to be a little bit of dignity about God's people. We're children of the king. And we ought to behave ourselves that way, and we ought to talk that way. I'm not saying uppity and hotshot and highfalutin. I'm not talking about that at all. He was just a farmer. But brother, he had something about him made you think of a king And this guy's acting like a king acts. This guy's got the dignity and honor of a king. I like that about Arana. This old pagan convert, I hope he was a convert. I'd like to believe that. But boy, he sure is a good example for us today, isn't he? Hardworking, generous, respectful, dignified, just uh just a neat guy And so what can we learn from him? Uh I think we ought to be hard work I think Christian I think the Christian on the job ought to be the hardest working guy on the job I think if a Christian works eight hours, if a Christian gets paid for eight hours, he ought to work eight hours. Put a full day's work in for a full day's pay That's called hardworking, not being lazy. We ought to be generous. Somebody has a need, we ought to help them. We ought to give what we can. And we ought to be respectful to those in authority. Dave and his family were down at D. C. last week for the Capital Connection. And you know they go in and visit, I've been there many times. You go in and visit politicians who I don't agree with one thing they do. We are as polar opposites as you can get. But we go in there, they hold a position, you need to treat them with honor Treat him with respect because of the position. And Arana was very, very respectful to David. And I think he generally respected him. But he acted that way. And Christians, we ought to be that way. We ought to be respectful. Don't call names and and and act like that. But be respectful. I respectfully disagree. And um and then be digging. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to help us. Learn from this Old Testament character that we know little or nothing about than what you told us here in these four or five verses And Lord, maybe we could step up our Christian witness and our walk with you. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, and this is between you and God really, but I wonder if us could uh work on not being lazy. And not looking for excuses to get out of something, but just applying ourselves, even when we could come up with an excuse. I wonder if some of us maybe ought to be a little more aware. Just pay attention to needs around us and what's going on around us. Some of us may be a little more generous, a little more respectful, a little more dignified. I don't know how God may have spoken to your heart, but We're going to give an invitation here. And maybe you'd want to respond. Father, bless now our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name.