Second Peter two, verse number thirteen. I just want to take the first phrase there. I've been of course we've been studying this now, working our way through I was working over this over on vacation just doing some studying and stuff. And verse 13, there's a little phrase there right in the beginning of the verse that I kept coming back to It says, now he's exposing these false teachers, these apostates. They had wrong teaching, they're bringing it in. And speaking of them, he says, and shall receive The reward of unrighteousness. The reward of unrighteousness. What is the reward of unrighteousness. He says these apostates are going to receive that. So let's pray and we'll look at this. Father, I ask you to bless our study tonight And I pray you'd use your word to challenge us and help us to grow in our faith, be strong in what we know to be true. Help us, Lord, to contend earnestly for the faith that you've once delivered to us, the Word of God. Help us, Lord, to be humble Help us to be grateful, but Lord, help us to stand true for what is for the truth of the Word of God. So I ask that you would fill me with your spirit tonight. I ask you to speak through me and have your way. Give me the thoughts to say. Guide my thinking, my speaking, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Peter, as I said, and as we're aware of this by now, he's exposing These false teachers that have crept in. Now here's the interesting thing, and I've never in a thousand years planned it this way, just kind of follow the Lord's leadership, but our series in Sunday school that we're studying, the book of Jude And now we're into 2 Peter chapter 2. Those two, the book of Jude and 2 Peter chapter 2, are almost verbatim. I mean they just are teaching the same thing. They're both dealing with the same issue. And that was these apostates, these false teachers. Look there at verse 1. He says, but there shall be, but there were false prophets also among the people, speaking back in the Old Testament times, even as there shall be false teachers among you And then he goes on and talks here. So he's addressing these false teachers. These are not people who have been emphasizing this. These are not folks who are ignorant of the truth. It's possible for someone to have false doctrine not because they reject true doctrine, but because they don't know true doctrine, they've been taught wrong. You follow what I'm saying? And it's an innocent, I don't I don't mean ignorant in a derogatory way, they just not haven't been taught. And so that's not what he's addressing. These are folks that know the truth, they know what the Bible says, and they reject it And they say no. And so he's he's addressing uh and he's exposing these false these false teachers, these apostates. He exposes their tactics. We already looked at that in verse 2 and 3. They come in sneaky. Ps. They look like legit, but they're not. They're very deceptive. He says that he talks about their judgment, verse 4 through 9. They're going to be judged very severely. I tell you, and I've said this before, I'll say it again, God takes doctrine very seriously. God takes uh God expects the church to hold to the truth of the Word of God. And I tell you, when I hear of churches that are downplaying doctrine and say we're not going to emphasize doctrine. We're just going to uh we're just going to sing kumbaya and talk about Jesus and we're not going to get into specific doctrine. They're making a grave, grave mistake And they're grieving the Lord, they're disobeying the Bible and doing that. And so Peter's exposing that. And then he discusses their character, verse 10 through 17. And they're awful people. They're just awful And he describes them. We've been looking at that. Now he comes here in verse 13, and he says they are going to receive the reward of unrighteousness. The reward of unrighteousness God rewards righteousness. Right? We live righteous lives. If we do right And how we talk and how we live, our interaction with one another, our personal life, our public life. If we do right, if we live a righteous life, God rewards that Now he doesn't reward it in the way the world would anticipate rewarding. Nowhere in the Bible does it say if you do right, you're going to be a millionaire. Right? We can't claim that. Well if you have enough faith, you'll uh now God may bless you with a million dollars. Praise the Lord. I'm uh I'm all for our church folk being a million dollars as long as you tithe. Um, you know. But there's nothing wrong with that, but that's not necessarily the blessings of God. More money, bigger houses, nicer cars. But God does reward righteousness. If we do right, God takes note of that and he rewards that. I believe that. He rewards it here and now. Take your Bible, if you would, come to Hebrews. Chapter 1 and verse 9. He says, Well what are the rewards of righteousness? If I do right, if I'm a I'm a a young person in school or in my neighborhood and I do right, everybody else is doing wrong, they're lying, rocking and rolling and carrying on. uh fornicate and all that when I do right what's my reward? Uh look at Hebrews chapter nine or chapter one and verse number nine Speaking of the Lord Jesus, by application, it applies to you and I. Verse 9, Hebrews 1, Thou hast loved righteousness. And hated iniquity. What's iniquity? Sin. Disobedience. Unrighteousness. So he says, listen, if you'll love doing right, if you'll love righteousness Be honest and pure and clean and do right. Be humble. He says, if you love righteousness, that thou hast loved righteousness, hate iniquity. Therefore, God, even thy God, look at this Hath anointed thee with the oil of what? Gladness. Gladness. You know what happens when we do right? God gives us gladness. God gives us joy and peace in our heart and mind, gladness. People who live righteous lives have God given gladness in their life Oh, you might not have a lot of money. Your body may be broken in hell. You may not have be the most popular person in town. But I tell you, if we do right, we'll have the joy of the Lord in our heart and life. Have gladness in our heart and life. I tell you, a poor person that does live righteously is happier than a rich man living unrighteously. I guarantee it. Oh, they might have oh they might have more pleasures. But the gladness, the oil of gladness, peace and joy regardless of circumstances, doing right, doing right. Take your Bible, if you would, turn to Proverbs chapter 11. Proverbs talks a lot about righteousness and unrighteousness and the effects of it. We could do a year-long study just on righteousness in Proverbs. Look at Proverbs chapter 11 And verse number five. Proverbs 11, verse 5. Notice what it says. He says, the righteousness Of the perfect. Now we pointed this out this morning. The perfect, that doesn't mean sinless, right? The perfect, what do we say? The perfect person, according to when it's speaking about mankind, is what? Complete or mature. So the righteousness of the perfect, the mature believer, the complete believer that's doing right, the righteous of the perfect shall direct his way. Righteousness will get direction from God. God will lead us. You say, preacher, I don't know what to do. Do right. Do what's right. God will lead you. God will direct you. You say, well, wherever I end up if I do right, you'll end up in the middle of God's will. You're on the job, and the boss, the foreman, or somebody wants you to do something wrong, and you say, Preacher, if I do right, if I don't do what he says and I do right, I might lose your job. You know what? God will take care of you. I'm convinced of that And God will lead you and direct you through doing right. Just do right, do right. God directs us by doing right, doing right. Look at verse 6. The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them. I tell you what, people could avoid a lot of heartache and trouble if they just do right. People mess up their lives more by doing wrong than by doing right God will deliver us. I'm convinced. Now please don't misunderstand, and I hope you listened to my message this morning. But I'm telling you, I think there's a lot, I think there'd be more room in our hospital beds if people did right than did wrong Huh? R drunken wrecks and fights and carrying on and cancer, smoking and drinking and Uh smoking and drinking and chewing and dating girls that doing do. Um You follow what I'm saying? Doing right is better than doing wrong. And God delivers us from a lot of heartache, a lot of trouble if we just do right. If we just do right I like what Bob Jones Sr. said. He said, do right till the stars fall. If no one else is doing right, you do right. Do right. And God will bless you and God will direct you and God will deliver you from a lot of heartache. I'm telling you young people, you could save and there's there's us old folks here can testify this, you could save yourself a lot of heartache if you just determine to do what's right. Can I get a witness? Anybody, any older folks here say, boy, I wish I'd go back and do that over again, do that right. I wish I'd go back, do that right. Huh So God rewards righteousness, doing right. With gladness, he gives us peace and joy in our hearts, knowing I've done right. Knowing I'm pleasing God, that fulfillment is there, that sense of purpose in my life, knowing I'm doing right, the confidence that comes with that Doing right. God directing me in my life and God delivering me from heartaches and troubles. Come over to chapter 21 and verse 12. I'm sorry, 21 and verse 21. We're talking about God rewarding righteousness. Verse 21, it says, of Proverbs 21, it says, He that followeth after righteousness and mercy findeth life, righteousness, and what? Honor, honor. I tell you, it is honorable to do right. There's nothing honorable about lying. Nobody says, oh, well, I just admire this person. He's such a liar. Am I right or wrong? There's no honor in that. In cheating and stealing, committing adultery. There's no honor in that. There's shame and reproach. A liar gets caught, there's shame. Somebody's stealing and they get caught, there's shame associated with that. But brother, you do right. You do right. People will respect that. They might not like everything about you. They may give you a hard time. But I'm telling you, like I said this morning, do right, and God will reward that with respect and honor. Absolutely. Absolutely. So there is God rewards the righteous here in this life. I mean here and now. God will bless us. You say, uh I thought he'd give me a lot of money if I do right now. He might not. But it'll give you joy and gladness. It'll direct you in your life. It'll protect you from a lot of heartache. Doesn't mean you won't have heartache, but they'll protect you from a lot that's not necessary You'll have respect and doing right here and now. And then God rewards righteousness at the judgment seat of Christ. I want us to remember, don't ever, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we must never forget there's a day coming And it may not be too far off when every last one of us are going to stand before the judgment seat of Jesus Christ. And we're going to give account of how we lived our Christian life. And I tell you, as Christians, if we do right, if we do, as Christians, if we do what this book here tells us to do, we stand before the judgment seat of Christ, we could hear Jesus say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. And that's something. And crowns of reward. God rewards the righteous. And so God rewards righteousness. But back in Peter, he says they will receive the reward of unrighteousness. Unrighteousness. Um in the long run it pays to do right. Might seem like I'm missing out here and now. If I do right now, I'm gonna miss out on some time. I'm telling you, in the long run, it pays to do right. I put this down. Righteousness is an investment in my own spiritual well-being. It's investment. Putting up for my future spiritual well-being. Doing right now. Doing right. I've been uh thinking of this a lot the last year or so. I want the tomorrow, Dennis Leatherman. To be grateful for what the today Dennis Leatherman does. Follow what I'm saying? I want to be able to look back at my actions. I want to be able to, in the future, look back at my actions today and say, boy, I'm glad I did that. Follow what I'm saying? Doing right is investing in my tomorrow. The well-being my well-being tomorrow. Doing right. Doing right. And so the reward of righteousness, by the way, I need to point this out, salvation is not a reward of righteousness Salvation is not a reward. God doesn't say, well, if I live right and I do right, then God will save me. Wrong. Our righteousness, our own righteousness as far as salvation is concerned, is nothing but filthy rags in the eyes of God. Doing right never saved the soul. Now we ought to do right, and we have rewards for that, but that's not what saves our soul. Salvation is not a reward of righteousness, salvation is a gift of God's grace. And by faith I call on the Lord and trust them. I understand there was, was it a lady or a man trust the Lord this afternoon Pastor Man was it? A young man trust the Lord this afternoon. That young man, called in the Lord Jesus Christ, God gave him the gift of salvation when he put his faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Wasn't how he lives his life, it wasn't his righteousness. It was a gift of God. You follow me? That's what salvation is. Don't misunderstand. We don't get saved by doing right. We get saved by trusting Christ. And when we trust Christ, then he gives us the righteousness of Christ that makes me acceptable to God. But while I live that life as a Christian, I need to do right. I need to do right. I need to do right, and God blesses that So the reward of righteousness, God rewards righteousness. However, God also rewards unrighteousness. That's what Peter's saying. The reward of unrighteous. If you come back there to Peter, he says, but uh and they and shall receive the reward of righteousness. That word reward there It means this, the dues that are paid for work. We have a number of people in our church that have employees. You're an employer. We have a number of employers in our church And that employee works for the week. They put their time in, they do what you've hired them to do. When payday comes, they get the dues that they are are have been promised for the work they did. That's what the word reward there is. Unrighteousness, there are dues, there are wages, there are payments that come with unrighteousness. The rewards, the dues paid for living an unrighteous life. What comes to that? The word unrighteousness means what you think it would, just doing wrong. Has the idea of actions and attitudes that are contrary to the character of God. Actions and attitudes that are contrary to the standards of a holy God We've been created in his image. God created us to live our lives a certain way. We are designed Mentally, spiritually, emotionally, physically, we are designed to live our lives in accordance and in uh and to reflect the godliness and the holiness and the character of God. And when we step outside that and we fail to live that way, we fail to live and have actions and attitudes that that reflect the character of our God And we live outside of that. We step away from that. That is unrighteousness. It means to disregard the Word of God. I'm going to live my life. Disregard what the Bible says. That's unrighteousness. I've had this might be hard to believe, but not a lot, but I've had over the years, I've had people on occasion say to me literally say this to me. They say, I don't care what the Bible says. You know what that is? It's unrighteousness. It's disregarding the word of God, disregarding the will of God. It's rejecting what God says, I'm going to live my life my way. I'm going to do what I want. I don't care what God says, I'm going to do what I want. I tell you, that's unrighteousness. And Peter says that there is a reward for that. Just like God rewards righteousness, he rewards unrighteousness. It's a disregard for the Word of God, a disregard for the will of God. It's a rebellion against God's word and God's will. Say, preacher, I'm not rebelling against God, I'm just not doing what he says. Hello. That is rebellion One thing is clear all through Scripture: God judges sin. God judges unrighteousness. I think it's good for us to be reminded. I think it's good for maybe Christians across the board to be reminded there are consequences for disregarding God's word. There are consequences for rebelling against the will of God. Say, well, I don't care. I'm not interested. I want to do what I'm going to do what I want. I'm going to do things my way. There's consequences to that. Now, hey, we are free. God has given us a free will. We can choose to behave however we want. You want to live unrighteous? Brother, you've got that opportunity. You can choose to do that. But you and I, we may choose to live unrighteous, but we cannot choose the rewards of unrighteousness. God says, all right, you're free to live that way, but here's what the results are. This is how it plays out. You do that. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to Galatians chapter number six. Now, this is all in the context of apostates that are coming in. And they're introducing to the church teachings that are contrary to Scripture. And oh, they sound good and they're they're they can really Put on a speech, but it's not scriptural, it's wrong. And they're injecting in, as we were looking in Sunday school this morning, they're bringing into the church ungodly living. Ungodly. Hey, listen, wrong doctrine always leads to wrong living. You mark it down. A church starts leaving the doctrine of scripture and there it won't be long until they're worldly and sinful in so many ways. And there's consequence of that. Galatians chapter 6. Look with me if you would at verse number 7. By the way, if you underscore verses in your Bible, this would be a good passage to underscore in your Bible. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. He that soweth to his flesh, that sinful nature, he that soweth to his flesh, shall the flesh reap corruption. And he that soweth to the Spirit, in other words, that sows to what the Holy Spirit teaches us from his word, he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. You stick your finger in the fire, you're going to get burned. You live unrighteous, you do unrighteousness, there's gonna be a reward. Don't mock God. You're not gonna fool God. What what is what about for a saved person? Now he's in Peter he's talking to these unsaved. These are apostates. But I got, I want to just give a few thoughts about when a saved person lives unrighteously. I'm trying to bring it home. Apply to you and I. How many folks here tonight? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. What if you and I Do unrighteous. We disobey the Bible. What's the reward for you and I as a believer? Well, there's several things. I put down shame and guilt. I don't know about you, but sin bothers me bothered me more after I got saved than it did before I got saved. Man, before that I'm this is literally true. If I ever say stuff that's true, I'll try to highlight it This is true. That Monday I got saved during the day. We were out partying, carrying on. I'm telling you, it's shameful. Didn't bother me one bit. I take God's name, use God's name in the most filthy ways you can imagine. On that Monday, before I got saved, never bothered me a bit. That night I got saved. That next day it took me about two, three days to clean my mouth up. Now I didn't clean it up, God did. That next day, some words came off my lips, and I tell you, I felt so ashamed. I felt so guilty that I said that 24 hours time, less than 24-hour period of time. Completely changed. I tell you, when a Christian does unrighteousness, we have the Holy Spirit inside us, and when we grieve that Holy Spirit, he convicts us. And there's shame and guilt. You know who I thought of? I thought of David and Bathsheba. What a great man of God. And he gets exposed. He committed adultery, murdered her husband. He covered it up for two years, covered it up, covered it up, covered it up. Finally, Nathan the prophet comes and boom! Scandal, nationwide scandal, everybody knows. You are read Psalms, I think it's 32, a couple of the Psalms that David wrote during that period, the shame and the guilt. That David experienced because of his unrighteousness. It's a man after God's own heart. A Christian does unrighteous. One of the rewards of that unrighteousness for a Christian is shame. guilt and reproach. I put this down. Sometimes it's loss and ruin. Christian can ruin their life. I thought about the prodigal son. How many people familiar prodigal son? Sure. And he runs off, he gets the reward, and he runs off to a far country, and he wastes his life in a riotous living. And he ends up where? Pig pen, the hog pen. He's eating the husk, he's eating the food that he's giving to the hogs. Now I worked on a farm for four years. We had some hogs. And he's so hungry, he's eating that. That's what unrighteousness did to his life. You know all these all these liquor comp advertisements and all this rock and roll and and whatever the music is now all that they promote that promote that But they never take you to the backside and where people are coming out of that and what their lives are like coming out of that garbage. They never show you the pig pen of liquor. They never show you the pig pen of fornication. They never show you the pig pen of living lives like that. And the ruin for a Christian of unrighteousness. And praise the Lord, the prodigal son came to himself, went home, and how did Daddy respond? Open arms. Oh son, come back. My son has come home. Kill the fatted calf. Put a ring on, get him new clothes. But if you'll study that very carefully, and we don't have time tonight, but if you'll study that very carefully, that boy never got his inheritance back It was gone. He squandered it. He came back home and he's living under daddy's roof and he's eating daddy's food. I don't know how old he was, 20, 30 years old maybe. And he has nothing. He's squandered at all. Now he's back in daddy's home. He's received. Daddy loves him. Everybody's happy. But he has none of that is left. And I tell you, it's possible for you and I as Christians to squander our testimony and squander our Christian life. We get before the judgment seat of Christ, we have nothing. We have nothing And so for a Christian, living under the reward of unrighteousness is shame and guilt and reproach, is loss and ruin. Psalm 66, 18 tells us that if I regard iniquity, unrighteousness, iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear my prayers. You can go out. You can choose to do wrong. You can choose to do unrighteous. But I'm telling you, God says, I'm not going to hear your prayer as long as you're living that way. You're holding that sin, that wickedness in your heart, your prayers are Nothing. Lord won't hear me. Isaiah says our iniquities have separated us from God that he will not hear. God said, it's not that I can hear, I can, but I won't because of sin in your life. Unanswered prayer. Chastisement of God, Hebrews chapter 12. Boy, every Christian ought to study Hebrews chapter 12. Whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. I tell you, God, I hear this so often. Well I don't so much anymore. I did the first five, ten years I was here in Oakland. I just got hammered from the people in the community, other churches. Oh, you believe in once saved, always saved. I said, yeah. It's Bible, hello. I didn't say it that way. I mean Well then you believe that God gives you a license to sin. No, we don't. God never gives anybody a license to sin. Now, if a Christian lives unrighteous, if a Christian does wrong, God doesn't take their salvation away from them, but he sure enough chastens them. And I tell you, God's chastening can be pretty rough. Can I get a witness? In fact, he uses it, I wish we had time, but he used the word scourgeth, every son whom he loves. Scourging. I tell you what, anybody here ever been to the woodshed? Man, that can be rough, right or wrong. My mom had a little wooden spoon. Woo! I tell you, God's wooden spoon. Woo! We do wrong. We live unrighteous. God says, all right, it's time to time to deal with this. He doesn't send us to hell, thank God, once we trusted Christ, but brother, he's not going to let us get away with living in righteousness. He's going to deal with it. He's going to chasten us. Amen or not. Chastisement. And then sometimes Christian persists, and I'm going to live in sin, I'm going to do unrighteous, I'm going to do unrighteous. I don't care what God says, I'll trust Him as my Savior, I'll accept Him. But living right, it can bring premature death. James says there's a sin unto death It's possible for a Christian living unrighteous and God chastens and God deals with it and deals with it and stiffen their neck and harden their heart and say, nope, I'm going to do without. It's possible God would say, alright, just come on home. You're going to act that way down there on planet Earth? You just come on home. You get on up here. Before you shame my name anymore, before you do any more damage, I'll bring you on home. I thought about Samson. Huh? Samson squandered the power of God. God gave it to him, and he squandered it. Flirting around with Philistine women and fornicating and carrying on, joking around. God gave him the power of God upon him. And he's horsing around riddles with the enemies of God's people, joking with them, dating the women, enemies of God's people. Not dating them and sleeping with them. Finally, God said, that's enough. So there's rewards of unrighteousness for believers. Now there's a reward for righteousness. We do right. God will direct us. We have peace and joy of God in our life, fulfillment, confidence, purpose. Get to heaven. There's crowns available there. But we do unrighteousness, and there's rewards for that also. Now, what about the rewards of unrighteousness for the unsaved? Now that's who Peter's talking about, these apostates. Well, for the unsaved, living in unrighteousness, rejecting the Word of God, the gospel, living how what Ephesians, turn with me quickly, and I'm ending with this. Ephesians chapter 2 And notice with me if you would, verse 12. He makes some tragic statement here, sad, sad statement about the unsaved. And he's talking about these Ephesians before they were saved. And he says, at that time, verse 12, that at that time, look at this, you were without Christ. What's that mean? They were what? They were unsaved. Being aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel, strangers from the covenant of promise. Now look at this. Having no hope And without God in the world. I tell you, a person without Jesus Christ has no hope. There's no hope outside Jesus Christ. Without God in the world. Anybody ever think this way? How in the world do the unsaved get through life without the Lord? Anybody ever wonder that? How in the world? The reward of unrighteousness for an unsaved person who refuses to trust Christ, refuses, the reward for that is no hope. Without Christ, God's not present in their life. They don't have the help and blessing, peace of God in their life. Turmoil. Restlessness, unhappiness for the unsaved. And then that's for here and now and then eternity For the unsaved. The reward of unrighteousness is eternal separation from God. For the wages of sin is death. That re word reward means wages. The reward of unrighteousness, the wages of unrighteousness. Romans tells us is death. That's not necessarily physical death he's talking about there. It's spiritual death, which is separation from God. Revelation chapter 20, verse 15, whoever is not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. The reward of unrighteousness, the reward of rejecting the Word of God and the will of God for an unbeliever is eternal and is horrendous. There's a reward for the saved if we live unrighteous. There's a reward for that. Now it's not lose our salvation, thank God. Thank God. Brother, we lose a lot of other things. For the unsaved, the loss, if we die in unrighteousness, for the unsaved die in righteousness, separated from God all eternity, lake of fire. I don't know about you, but that stirs my heart to be a soul winner. Huh? That stirs my heart to try and reach unsaved people, get missions. People sometimes will say visit or whatever, they'll say, Man, Mountain Lake, they sure man, it's just so winning missions, getting getting people saved, getting mission. Yeah I read about a man This past week I read about a fellow that had a pet leopard. How many people would like to have a pet leopard? You're sick. They're awesome. You would? Well listen to this guy. You all want one? All right, let me tell you about it. And apparently this true story. Had a pet leopard raised it up from a little cub or pup Kitten. Cat. So he had this little pet leopard, raised it up. It was just part of the family. And it would he'd eat there and it would come and sleep in his bed and grew up, got big leopard. And it was just friendly as tame as could be. Said one day he was sitting there eating something and the leopard was curled up on the sofa beside him. He was just kind of petting it, and the leopard got licking his hand. You know, anybody here of a cat licks your hand? That's the nastiest thing ever. And it's licking his hand. And that leopard had razor-sharp teeth. And they said that as that cat licked his hand, it inadvertently one of those sharp teeth cut his hand. Started bleeding. And that leopard kept licking and got a taste of that blood And they said that that blood on the tongue of that leopard brought back its natural instinct to kill. Before that man knew it, that leopard turned on him, killed him, tore him up. I say that for this reason. If we're not careful, we'll look at our little pet sin like that pet leopard. Oh, we got it under control. Nobody knows. It's fine, I can handle this, it's just I got it under control. I'm telling you, sin is sin is sin. You can think you've got it under control, and you think you can mock God all you want with your sin, but I'm here to tell you there is a reward for unrighteousness. One day that sin is going to turn on you, and it'll turn on me. And we as the children of God, as the people of God, we ought to hate sin. We ought to avoid unrighteousness with every ounce of our being and say, I want to do right, I want to do right, I want to be right, I want to please my God. Let's pray. Father, I ask dear Lord that you would help us to understand the reward of righteousness and the reward of unrighteousness. And I pray we would choose righteousness. And God, I don't know. You know the hearts of all of us. Lord, you behold evil and good are before your eyes. Nothing in our heart and soul and mind is hid from you, Lord. I pray you'd help each of us to choose righteousness in our thinking, our actions, our attitudes. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, now this is between you and God. You don't need me to deal with this, but he'd say, preacher, pray with me. There are some areas of unrighteousness in my life. The Holy Spirit of God is touching right now. Now, what it is, it's between you and God. But you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I I I I can't play with this. I can't hide it. I can't tolerate anymore. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. Again, it's between you and God. The Holy Spirit is very good at pointing this stuff out God bless you hands all around, hands all around. Now what I would say is let's come to this old altar and say, Lord, here I am Maybe you're doing right. You say, preacher, I think I'm doing right. Why don't you come and say, God, I want to stay this way. I want to commit myself to live a righteous life. Regardless of what anybody else is doing, I'm going to do right. I'm going to do right How about it? Father, bless our imitation now's We pray in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together heads of