You ready, 1 Kings? Hello. Yeah. 1 Kings 13 and verse 18. Let's review a little bit. He said unto me, He, that's an old preacher man, said unto him, a young preacher man. The old preacher said to the young preacher, The old preacher said, I am a prophet also as thou art, and an angel spake unto me by the word of the Lord, saying, Bring him back with thee into thy house, that he may eat bread and drink water. But the old man, he lied. But he lied unto him. The old preacher lied. To the young man. And we made a number of um observations early on in the sermon getting us ready for the the text. That mature believers, we love mature believers, but mature believers must continue to guard their testimony. Can mature believers fail spiritually? Can there be spiritual failure in mature believers? Yes. That's why mature believers must stay in the Word of God, must stay in the church house, must stay in the prayer closet. Amen to all these things, must continue with soul winning. As long as you're alive, you're to be in advance for the Lord. Don't stop. Don't stop. And so the passage here, Solomon is dead. Rehoboam is trying to establish his kingdom. And Rehoboam says, how am I Want to rule. Old people said, ease the burden. Young people said, Oh, increase the burden. He went with the young people, and the kingdom was divided. Ten tribes went with a very wicked king named Jeroboam. Rehoboam retained two tribes. Jeroboam, how wicked was he? Well, he instituted mandatory false religion. And there was an old preacher in town. The old prophet lived there among the ten tribes. And point number one of the sermon today was the lethargy that marked the old man's service. Point number one, the lethargy that marked The old man's service. The old man was lethargic. He was silent. He did not raise his voice against false religion. Pastor, you've got to preach the truth and you have to expose the error. Error hates the truth. All truth is God's truth. Amen. And preachers must declare the truth, and it points out the error, and false religion will take you straight to hell. There's one way to get to heaven. It's only through Jesus Christ. There is no other way. All the man-made religion in the world will not give you a 1% chance of going to heaven No, no. There's one way to heaven. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. That's what Jesus said. And so the old man, he's the preacher, but he's settled down. He's inactive. He's silent. He's thrown in the towel. Why are you so inactive, old man of God? Are you tired? All of us get tired. You know, I was in 16 cities last week. I'm praising God that for four straight days I'm staying in one town. Hallelujah. You can get tired. Oh man, you're tired, but why did you quit? Nothing wrong with resting. I've learned this. I've learned that most of God's work gets done by very tired people. It's tired people that keep marching on anyway to get the job done. They are MIH people. What does that mean? Make it happen. M-I-H people. Got to make it happen. But the old man, he's not making it happen. Maybe he wants everybody like him. Oh, these citywide crusades that we have. I get this phone begins to explode once we start hitting every door with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And they somehow find out my name and they get my email. Keep that propaganda off of my doorstep and other things that I will not recite to you. People get very angry about gospel tracts. I've learned that. Protesters at our God Bless America rallies. What's God Bless America rally about? It's about America, it's about the gospel. Well, Brother Fox, who is the star? One reporter asked me this. Who is the star of these God bless America rallies? I said, Well, I'm uncomfortable with your wording. The star of this crusade is not this thousand-voice choir. The star of this crusade is not these 77 pastors that are working together. The star is certainly not me. The story of the crusade is Jesus. This meeting is all about Jesus. About his death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus. And when we start doing that, when we start getting active, boy, the enemies come out. They threaten. I've had weapons drawn on me. That's not a funny feeling, man. When somebody shoots right over your head and then aims at you, that's not a funny feeling. There's people very angry at any preacher who really takes a stand and any soul winner. There's people very angry, very angry And they're just angry with God and they're angry with the truth. And they just need to be born again. And maybe this old man, he's just he's tired of people being upset with him, he's tired of people not liking him. And uh is your goal in life to get everybody in the world to like you? I hope that's not your goal. Now, you don't go and try to make enemies Let's see how many people I can tick off today. That's not the right attitude. You try not to make enemies. When we went soul winning today, we tried to make friends, but we also tried not to make enemies And you want to be friendly and kind. All that. But this this old man, I don't know, he's tired, he wants to be liked by everybody, but either way, he had become lethargic. And when you're filled with the Holy Ghost, you cannot remain lethargic. Amen. So now we get to the second point. Number one, the lethargy that marked his service. Number two, the animosity That seared his spirit. I want you to think with me about the animosity that seared this old man's spirit. Look at the end of verse 18. But he lied unto him. The old man, the old preacher man lied to the young preacher man. Why? Because of his pride. Because of his pride, he had failed at proclaiming the truth. And the young man, the young preacher, had come to town. He had confronted King Jeroboam with the truth, with the The message from the Lord, the king's arms right up, God restored his arm and his mercy. And the old preacher's boys had seen it. And the old preacher's boys came running home and said, Dad, you should have seen what took place over there at the worship center. We saw a young preacher come in and confront the king about the false religion. And dad, their dad was the preacher, the old preacher. Dad, you should have seen it. Dad, God is alive. We want our kids to know God's real. Amen. Well, these boys were stunned. And so the old preacher he feels condemned He's cut to the quick, and his pride raises up inside of him. He knows it's a failure. Let me tell you something pride shuts the door on fellowship with God. If you want to know God, humble yourself. Amen. Humility gets the Lord's attention. And so he comes up with this scheme. This old man comes up with a scheme of, listen to the word, of retaliation. Who does that young preacher boy think he is coming over here and preaching in my territory? Who does that young preacher think he is? And he decides to retaliate. Look at it. I'm a prophet also. Verse 18: I'm a prophet also as thou art. And an angel spake unto me by the word of the Lord Saying, bring him back with thee into thine house, and he may eat bread and drink water, but he lied unto him. His spirit is wounded, and he decides to retaliate. Hey boys, my sons, where is that young preacher boy? Well, Daddy got back on his animal and he started Going toward home, he said that he wasn't allowed to eat anything. He said God told him not to eat anything, don't drink anything. That's what he said God had told him. And so after Dad, after he confronted Jeroboam, he got back on his animal, he went back toward home. And he's out there somewhere, Daddy. He's out on his animal going back toward home. Boys, saddle up my beast, and we'll go find him. He comes up with this scheme to retaliate. I've been preaching full time as a minister for the Lord, ordained, licensed, all that for 37 years. In 37 years, I've never one time seen it work out properly when a Christian decided to retaliate. Don't retaliate. So someone's wounded your spirit. Someone's hurt your feelings. And you feel like it would just be wonderful to just. Retaliate. It's not the right thing to do. Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord. I will repay. Leave it in the Lord's hands. Everybody's got critics. Back to those God bless America rallies. Our citywide crusade efforts Well I I did a preacher's meeting and I they asked me specifically to tell a little bit about the crusade. I I thought about it. Afterwards I'm back there at the C D table, I'm packing things up, I'm moving on to the next location And a preacher comes and tells me just how awful and how wrong the God bless America rallies are. I said to him, I said, sir There is nothing that you can say to me that you could talk me out of doing these God bless America rallies I said, sir, I have got a mandate from God to spread the gospel far and wide. And that's what these meetings are all about. These are soul-winning meetings. These are evangelistic gospel meetings. I said, so Pastor, there's nothing you can say that could talk me out of it. I continue to put things away and all that. And he kept palabbering on. I don't want to be unkind at all. I got in my car and a another preacher friend of mine was riding with me. He said, What did that guy say to you? I said he said the crusades were all wrong. He said, well, what else did he say? I said, I don't know. He said, man, he talked to you like 15 or 20 minutes. I said, yes, but I tuned him out. You know, I knew what he was telling me was not the right thing. I did not want to be ugly back. Don't be ugly back. And don't let your spirit get wounded by that. Another guy came to me and said, I'll tell you something, Brother Fox, what I'm about to tell you is going to hurt you to the bone. I said, I don't think so. He said, no, no, this is going to hurt you bad. I said, sir, before you tell me whatever you want, if it's some criticism that I need, I'm going to say thank you. I want constructive criticism. Amen. I said, but if you're just trying to hurt my Uh my feelings and just trying, because sticks and stone may break my bones, but words will never hurt me. No, that's not true. Words can hurt And the man was just, he just wanted to hurt me. And so what did I do? I just dismissed it. You just dismiss this kind of criticism. You don't let yourself get wounded by it. One of these Bible colleges gave me an honorary doctor. I've gotten two honorary doctors from Bible colleges, you know? So after the first one, I went back to my hotel room. Man, I mean, at there at that college, they gave me an honorary doctorate, and I got to drink real Cokes, not Diet Cokes, man. I was eating peanuts and MMs and man we we I had a great time. I got back to my hotel room and a friend of mine wrote me an email and says, so now you're trying to impress everybody with your honorary doctorate, Dr. Fox. I wrote him back. I said, my heart is clean in that. I'm not trying to impress anybody. And I went on to bed. Next day he wrote me and said, I'm sorry I said something so ridiculous to you. You know, people will sometimes even accidentally say something, hurt your feelings. Please do not fall for this retaliation thing. Forget it. Forget all the compliments. Forget all the destructive criticism and march on for God. But this old man, he gets his feelings hurt, and his pride comes up. His spirit is seared and he determines to retaliate, and we come to point number three, the final point. Number three, number one, the lethargy that marked his service. Number two, the animosity that seared his spirit, and then finally, number three. The tragedy that halted the old man's success. All of the old man's success comes to an end this particular day. Stops. The success of his ministry. It all ends. Comes to a screeching halt Pastor, you've been our preacher for 27 years. You've been serving the Lord a lot longer than that. Until our pastor goes to heaven, we want him to continue serving God and have success, effectiveness in his ministry. But this man loses his effectiveness. His success comes to a halt. What weapon does a young man use against the young man? What weapon? He uses tongue. It says in verse 18, he said unto him. He said, I'm a prophet also. Okay So he's implying some divine authority. I'm a prophet also. Look at your Bible as thou art. And an angel spake unto me. Oh my old man, you're making all this up. It didn't happen. Saying, bring him back within thy house that he may eat bread and drink water. Now, God Almighty had told the young preacher, go confront the king, get back on your animal, do not eat, and do not drink. The young people in this room, to this point in the sermon, the young people in this room are saying, Brother Fox, letting the old people have it. It's turned for the young man now. Oh yeah. What does the young man do? The young man listens to the old man. Let me ask you a question. Should, should the young man have been able to believe the old man? He should have But wait a minute. The old man's telling the preacher boy something exactly contrary to what God has said What happens? The young boy, oh, oh preacher man, senior prophet O man of God, so God told you that it would be okay for me to come to your house and eat. Old man says, that's exactly right. You must be tired, you must be hungry, must be thirsty. Come on. God told me it's okay. God had not told the old man that But the young man believed it. We that have some years on us, we must be very careful. The young people are listening. And we need to be credible and we need to be careful with what we say. Never be careless with what you're saying. But the old man, he's careless. In fact, he's flat out lying. The young man believes. And the young man says, okay, preacher man, old man, old preacher man, old man of God, I'll go to your house. He goes over there. He eats, he drinks. And then you read the passage, the young man gets back on his animal and is going home. What happens? A big old lion comes. Lion, L-I-O-N. A lion meets the young preacher boy, and the lion kills the preacher boy. Is God serious about obedience? God's serious. God had told young preacher boy, here's what I want you to do. And the young preacher boy who, man, he started out so well. He had courage. It takes courage to go rebuke a king. He did it But then he was simple minded. Then he was gullible. You ever been gullible? I have. I can tell you about a 1972 Chevy Nova that I bought that was a piece of junk. In fact, when I drove it to see to my dad, I said, look what I bought. He goes, uh that guy saw you coming, son. Yeah, I had two happy days with that car. The day I bought it, the day I sold it, you know what I'm saying? Got rid of that piece of junk. All of us have been gullible. Please with the things of God, do not be gullible. And the things that we have God's clear direction on. Do not believe it. A professor? Professor said, now I'm going to tell you about how many fallbed over the last billions and billions. Oh, come on. I'm not falling for that. True cosmogenies found in the Bible. God created the heavens and the earth. All these lies being told to our young people. Young people don't believe it. Refuse to believe that. Young people, do not park your brain. I believe in the priesthood of the believer. Every believer is going to give an account themselves to God. Individual responsibility, soul liberty. God gave that. And so, young people, I implore you. Don't follow a little old man. Follow God. Listen to wise men, but always evaluate by the word of God. So the boy loses his life. What happens to the old preacher? The old preacher hears about it. Old preacher, oh no. You mean that young preacher board ate with me? You mean a lion killed him? And he comes up, as far as I'm concerned, it's another scheme. Oh, bring his body back. We'll put him in my tomb. I believe the old preacher's a coward. He's still trying to save face So now let's have some application. Let's have some application. Number one, I repeat, in application, God is serious about obedience And all God's people said, Amen. God does not take it lightly when we disobey his plain instructions. Forsake not the assembling of yourselves together. That's what the word says. There's a lot of people in the world trying to tell us, oh, it's not that essential. Jesus believed the church was so essential he died for it. Amen. And he's told us to sing. So we're singing nine times in the Bible. It says, God has put a new song in our hearts. Now we're interested in everybody's health. We don't want to be cavalier, but friends If we didn't get to praise God, our teeth would just blow out, man. We want to praise God and sing in this choir. God bless you. Number one, God is serious about obedience. Number two Aim to finish well. I don't know what success the old man had had, but his success ended this day. My father-in-law, I was his assistant for twelve years And for t I heard him preach over a thousand times. He is my favorite preacher to hear in all the world. I love Lee Robertson, I love Curtis Hudson, all the remarkable preachers. Joe Arthur who's coming is a wonderful preacher. I heard my father-in-law preach over a thousand times. I went soul with him and saw people saved. He taught me so much. Two and a half years ago I preached his funeral. He preached until three weeks before he died. He preached until he could no longer stand and hardly even breathe I was preaching in Ohio and I got word that he was being moved to hospice. And I told that dear pastor, I said, I've got to go. My first ministry is to my family. And my wife's dad is dying. I've got to go. I preached the last service I could stay at the meeting that I drove through the night. And I got to my father-in-law. And we had some of our final conversations. He's dying of congestive heart failure. Can barely breathe. It's a byron. Diamond Springs Baptist church needs a pastor. And I'm a pastor That's one of the last things he told me. You see, he was filling in for a church that didn't have a pastor. He's 78 years old. And he is trying to find a preacher for that church. And six hours from when we had that conversation, he was with the Lord. He was still dying with a burden. He still wanted to see the work of God go forward Don't you want to die right? Don't you want to end your race still serving God? Would you stand with with heads bowed? I want our pianist to find the song Take My Life and Let It Be. Concentrated Lord to Thee. I wonder if there's some senior men that want to just come down here and start praying on the altar. The music's on the, yeah, come on, come on, men. Come on and renew some commitments to God. Yes, if you can't get on your knees, just come and stand. And I wonder if there's some young men that want to just come and say, oh God, help me not to be gullible. But help me follow you, Lord. Rather spolling a man, follow God. And study the word so well that you know the word so well that when error is presented, that we don't fall for the error.