First Peter chapter two, we're looking at this priesthood, verse five of 1 Peter 2, Peter writing, he says, You're also lively stones or build up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood To offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. And again, down in verse 9. He says, You're a chosen generation, a royal priesthood. Now we got looking at the role of the priest and offering up sacrifices to God. The Old Testament, they offered up physical sacrifice Oxen, lambs, sheep, goats, meal, uh, grain, different things, various sacrifices. They were physical in nature. They all pointed to the Lord Jesus Christ. When Jesus Christ offered himself on the cross as our sacrifice, was buried and rose again. That fulfilled all that Old Testament ceremonies and all those sacrifices that were pictures, types of the coming Messiah. Now, as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ Paul says that all of us are priests, not a certain tribe of Judah the Levites. Now it's all believers are priests. We don't come to a physical temple. We don't want to offer up physical sacrifices. But we come to the very throne of God. We have unhindered access to the very presence and throne of God And he says that we have these spiritual sacrifices we offer up. Now we've been looking at these. They're not listed here. In fact, the way the way I found out what these spiritual sacrifices were, I just went looking through the New Testament. And tried to find, you know, what are these sacrifices? There may be others than I come up with more. Uh but I came I noticed seven of them And we've been looking at these, and uh, if you remember, we noted first the one uh I suggested was from Romans twelve as we offer up our bodies as a living sacrifice And then we notice, second of all, in Hebrews 13, we offer up our praise. Sometimes praising the Lord doesn't come easy, but we make a sacrifice. We offer it to the Lord for what He's done for us. And then we suggested that another set of these spiritual sacrifices was our good works. Not to be saved, but because we're saved. We do good to help folks. We got that from Hebrews 13, 16. than our generosity. Again, from verse 16 of Hebrews 13, communicating to others, helping others. We do that. God's been so good to us And sometimes it costs us and we give it till it hurts to help others, but it's a sacrifice we offer up to the Lord because of all he's done for us. Then last week we looked at the sacrifice of soul winning And then this evening I want to look at this uh the the sixth one that I have listed here. And I didn't initially intend for this to be a little series like this, but it kind of worked out And uh so tonight uh we are going to look at the sacrifice of our love. The sacrifice of our love. Sometimes loving someone is a sacrifice And it costs us. But that's one of the off the sacrifices we offer up to the Lord. Let's pray, and I'll share my thoughts on this here. Father in heaven We come to you this evening, very grateful hearts for those that have sacrificed for our country, and Lord, just the fascinating history of how our land came about But now, Lord, here we are, and uh we're your children, and uh part of your family. You've done so much for us, Lord And now, as our high priest, we want to fulfill our role as individual priests before God and offer up these sacrifices that are well pleasing to you So I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray that you would calm my heart and mind, clear my mind, help me be fully yielded to you, Lord, and present my body. Now your Holy Spirit can fill me and use my tongue, my mind, my body to communicate the message you have for each of us. Help us to be responsive. Submissive to your word and your will, myself included. I ask these things now in Jesus' name. Amen. If you would take your Bibles, turn to Ephesians chapter number is where I get this idea of the sacrifice of our love. Ephesians chapter 5. And I want us to look at verses 1 and 2. Ephesians 5, verse 1 and 2. Now it doesn't say expressly that this is a sacrifice, but I think you'll see how I come to my conclusion here when you look at this. Ephesians 5, and look at verse number 1. Be ye therefore followers of God as dear children. Now look at the next verse. And walk in what? Walk in love. Now here's our pattern. As Christ also hath loved us. Now look, this is where I get it. And hath given himself for us. An offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling savor. He's saying, just like Jesus Christ in love for us offered himself. We are to offer our love. We're to pat follow that pattern, that example, and love others as Christ has loved us. I put it this way. In the same way that Christ in love gave himself for us an offering sacrifice, we are to sacrificially love others. Sacrificially love others. Um I don't know if you ever gave that much give it much thought and um I probably uh should be better at this than what I am. I'm not much of an English scholar as far as the English language is concerned. I study words all the time But I noticed this that the word love itself is an is a verb. So somebody helped me out tonight, maybe some of you teachers or folks. What is a verb? What kind of word is a verb? It's an action word. It's describing some sort of action, something that is taking place. It is uh uh an action where it describes some activity that is going on. Now keep your place here in Ephesians. Come back with me to uh 1 Corinthians chapter 13 First Corinthians chapter thirteen. I don't know how you speak, I don't know how anybody can preach on Christian love and not at some point reference First Corinthians thirteen. It's the greatest the greatest literature on love in all of history, and it's found in God's Word, of course And I think God is uh uh uh is uh exceptionally qualified to teach us about love because He is love So we want to know what love is. Let's go to God. See what he says. Look at 1 Corinthians chapter 13. Now I'm going to come down to verse number 4 and just look at a section here. I read this at just about every wedding I do. And notice verse 4. It says, charity. Now, charity is unconditional love in action. It's being displayed. Love being displayed. Now look what it says: charity does what? Suffereth long, is kind, charity envieth not, charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up. Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Then he kind of concludes that section. He says, Charity never faileth. He goes on, he talks about knowledge and tongues. Those will fail, and but charity never does. Now, I read that for this reason. Did you notice the words that God uses to describe charity? Every one of them are verbs. They're all actions, all something you do. Love, biblical scriptural love is an action. It's something done. Write this down, would you? Love is a decision. Biblical love is a decision. It is not an emotion. Now it can produce emotions. And we can get emotional and have feel have feelings. What's it called? What's it uh when a young person gets uh gets enamored with a young lady or a young man? Um what's the word I want? Um Invatuated. Oh, you know what that is? That's an emotional. Oh, she's the most wonderful thing in the world. Then the next girl comes along. Oh, she's the most wonderful. That is not love. Biblical love is an action. These are all action words here. These are all activity taking place. If I love someone, this is how I will behave. This is how it will manifest itself. Take your Bibles, if you would, and come over to John chapter 15 and verse number 13. John chapter fifteen and verse number thirteen. Some of y'all know what this verse says. Uh love is uh my first thought is this, very brief, is this this love is an action. It is activity. My second thought is this: love in its very essence is sacrifice. Love, you want to boil love down, it is actually a sacrifice Look at John chapter 15 and verse number 13. Greater love hath no man than this, then what? Man lay down his life for his friends. That sounds like sacrifice to me, doesn't it? I'm going to lay down my life. I love you, and I'm going to put my life on the line for your well-being. I put this down. Love is sacrifice, and by that I mean this. Love is putting someone else above myself. Greater loveth no man than this. The man lay down his life for his friends. Here's somebody I love, and there's a threat to them, threat to their life, I put myself in the way. I say, I love you, therefore I will value your life over my life. Your life is more important, more valuable, more uh desirable than my life is to me. As sacrifice. That's sacrifice. Um love is to place uh putting a higher value than myself on someone else It is putting someone else before myself, putting them there. Man, the greatest description of Of the act of love and the sacrifice of love, one of them at least, John 3:16. For God so loved the world that he what? He gave himself, gave his own, forgot so the word gave his only begotten son. Jesus Christ left the riches of heaven. And became poor so that you and I, who were spiritually poor, could be rich in Christ. I tell you, Romans 5. 8 means more to me all the time, I think. But God commendeth his love toward us. That word commend us has the idea of proved it to us. He's proved his love to us. God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet Sinners, Christ died for us. You know, some people for a good man would be willing to give their life. Here's a good man, and uh let's just for lack of a better illustration, here's a good man, and uh he needs a heart transplant or he's gonna die. You say, you know, this this man's a good man. I'll sacrifice my life. I'll give my heart so that he can live. Some would dare to do that. But God commended us lovely not while we were yet sinners, not good people, sinful people. And he gave his life for us. That is love. And Ephesians 5 tells us that in that same way that Jesus Christ offered himself up in our place, loved us. We were more important to him, and he was willing to suffer hell in our place and uh take our sin upon himself. This blows my mind that Jesus Christ took responsibility for my sin. And considered me of value, enough value that he would give of himself for me. What a wonderful love, what an amazing thing, what an uncomprehendable love that is. Now come back to Ephesians with me. Chapter 5. Be ye therefore followers of God as dear children. That word followers has the idea. Oh, well, let me back up a little bit. I want us to look at that word therefore. Anytime the word therefore, you've heard me say this. Anytime the word therefore is there, you want to look and see what it's there for, right And the word therefore has the idea, because of what was previously said, because of what we established as truth, then these following things should be true. So we have to come back here. Let's come back to chapter 4 and verse 29. What a. What a tremendous passage this is. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good to the use of edifying. Boy, that that strikes home a little bit That it may minister grace to the hearers. And then he goes on, and grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby years fueled unto the day of redemption. Then he says, Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice, all of it. Then verse 32, here it is. And be ye what? Kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. Then verse 1 of chapter 5. Be ye therefore Because God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven you, be ye therefore a follower of the Lord. That phrase, follower of the Lord, has this idea: follow God's pattern. The the example that God has given. I remember one time when the boys were small, I don't remember which one the boys, but we were walking somewhere in the snow across the parking lot here. Probably go back and get the uh the in the snow to get the lawnmower. No, not the lawnmower. Um snowblower. We're walking back there. And um uh the boys were trying to help me and I forget like like I said, I forget which one it was, but I happen to look back. You know what they were doing? They were stepping in my footprints in the snow. You know, it was kind of like I'm trying to walk in my footprints. That's kind of the idea of that word be followers of God. The way he did this, this pattern he has established for you and I. In forgiving us for Christ's sake, he says, therefore, be followers of God. Be followers of God. Follow that pattern. Follow that example. God's pattern of kindness. God's pattern of tender-heartedness. God's pattern of forgiveness. Follow that. Step in those steps he took. Go in that direction. Follow that pattern. Be therefore followers of God as dear children. Walk in love as Christ also Hath loved uh as Christ also hath loved us and has given himself for an offering and a sacrifice. Sacrifice of love. Love is an action, love is a sacrifice Now, I I think you'll agree with me on this. Um it's easy to love people who love you back. Right? Oh, she's such a blessing. I just love her to death. Oh, he's a wonderful friend. I just love that guy. You know, the older I get, I find myself telling people I love him more and more than when I was younger. Anybody Get that way. I just appreciate people. Say, oh, they're so nice to me. I just love them. That's not a sacrifice. That's probably more of a philato love, a brotherly love. Boy, there's, oh, she's so nice to me, I just love her. Um, what God's talking about here is loving people who aren't always very lovely. Huh? Then that's a sacrifice. God, you mean I need to love him? Well, offer up spirit. Now ladies, don't look at your husbands at that point, alright? That's not the point. Yeah. Come back with me, Bud. Now stay here. We're going to look at a few words here. Come back to Matthew chapter 5. Sermon on the Mound, I find myself going back to Proverbs and the Sermon on the Mound over and over and over. I tell you, if this whole world would just live by the I'm not talking about for salvation, but just live by the principles of the Sermon on the Mound, what a place this would be. Look at Matthew chapter 5, and towards the end of the chapter, we were at the beginning, this morning's message. But I want to read verse number 43, and I'm going to read down through the end of that chapter, and I want you to think about our subject: the sacrifice of love. Jesus said in verse 43, Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. Oh, I can't stand him. He's such a, she's such a jerk, I can't stand that gal. That's what the world says. That's how the world operates, right? That's their mentality. But look what the Lord says. But I say unto you, Ah, this gets rough now. Love your who Enemies. Look at this. Bless them that what? Curse you. Do good to them that hate you. What? Pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. Why? That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven. Now he's not saying you do this to be saved. I don't think I'm reading too much into it here. I think it's saying pretty much the same thing Ephesians 5, 1 and 2 says: follow the pattern of your heavenly Father. File the penance. Anybody, you know, I don't want to get too personal. Anybody here before you got saved ever take good taking God's name in vain? I know I did. I hate to say it, but I did before I got saved. Man, I had no intention. I had no love for God whatsoever. But you know what? He loved me. I did despitefully to the name of God and the cause of Christ. But he did good to me. And he says, And he says there in verse 45, that you may be the children of your father in heaven. And I think what he's saying here is that you may manifest the characteristics of your father in heaven. This sacrificial love. For he maketh the sun to rise on the evil and the good. Here's where he's saying, follow this pattern, this example. Be followers of God. And sendeth rain on the just, on the unjust. Look at this. For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? What's the answer to that question? None. What's the big deal? That's no sacrifice. There's nothing, no investment in loving those that love you. What reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same? The old wicked world does that. And if you salute your brethren only, show respect to only your brethren, what more do you than the others? Do not even the publicans do this? And then he makes this statement here that could be misunderstood, but be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father in heaven is perfect. Now he doesn't mean sinless. We ought to try to be sinless. But he's saying, be complete. Follow this example of your Heavenly Father to your greatest potential. Be perfect. Be complete in this as give your all to it. Even if God loves us completely and fully. So he says we're to be followers of God, follow his pattern. That's what Jesus is telling us here. How many people agree with me? There are some people that are very difficult to love. There are some unlovely people in the world. Now, by the way, I'd venture to say most, if not all of us, we've been a little unlovely in our own selves. It's been some tough for people to love us sometimes. Right? Not James, but others has been. James is just the ideal husband there, perfect. Incredible. But loving people sometimes is a sacrifice. Say, you know, for Christ's sake, I'm going to love that person. Now that doesn't mean I approve or give a stamp of approval in everything they do. But it does mean I care for them. They are valuable to me. In fact, to the point where, can you imagine this, Christ? You have somebody you say, man, that guy is such a mess. I'm going to love him Can you imagine loving them to the point where I'm going to suffer hell for them if I could? For some some hateful, spiteful person? That's what Christ did. He says, now pattern that. Boy, that's a sacrifice. God, this cost me something. This is going to hurt. Man, Lord, you did that for me. I want to be a follower of you. I want to be as a child as my father in heaven. And I want to follow that pattern and offer that sacrifice up. Now, are you back at Ephesians? Look in verse 2. Verse 1, be therefore followers of God, follow his parent as dear children. Sounds like what Jesus said there in the Sermon on the Mount. And walk in love. Now that word walk caught my attention. Walk in love. That word walk has this idea to progress through life. To b progress through life, to conduct myself this way, walk in love. In other words, I think what he's saying here is Loving my enemy and loving doing good to someone that's despite hateful to me, and love and uh loving those that hate me Isn't just a sporadic thing I do or just something every now and then I get worked up at a revival meeting or preacher preached on this. I gotta be loving. That's not what he's talking about then What he's saying is this should become a characteristic of our life. Walk in love, progress through life. With this as a characteristic of your life, I wonder how many of us people would say, man, that person there is loving. And they they love people. They love me. They love even people that are unloving. How many of us would have that said about us? That's what he says. Walk in love. Progress throughout your life. This should be one of the chief characteristics of the Christian life: sacrificial love. I said often Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church folk ought to be the kindest people in this whole area. Now we're not in competition with anybody, but we ought to be. Can I add this to it? We ought to be the most loving people in the area because God has loved us so much. The most forgiving, because God has been so forgiving to us. The sacrifice of love. The sacrifice of love. So he says, walk, progress throughout life in this love. And then he says, in this love. And again, I don't know why. I got looking up these words, and that word in caught my attention. Walk in love. And that word in there has this idea completely committed to. I'm not doing this just timidly. I'm committing myself to love the unloved, they be kind to the unkind, to do good to them that are despiteful Because of what Christ has done for me. And I'm going to take all these actions, not to bring glory for myself, not to exalt myself. It's a sacrifice, a spiritual sacrifice to God, because of all he's done for me. Lord, you've been so loving to me, so forgiving of me. I'm going to do that for others, for your glory, for your sake. Complete commitment to this. And then the word love is the word agape. I think we're familiar with that. Agape love. Unconditional. Well, I'll love them, but I wonder what I'm getting out of this. Doesn't matter. We've already got everything out of it. We've already got the benefits of Christ loving us. We're not loving others because we get something out of it. We're loving others because God has loved us so much. I'm passing it on. However God loves you, this I guess you could sum it up this way. However God loves you, love others. That same way. However, God has forgiven you, then forgive others that same way. However, kind God has been to you, then be that way to others. We say, yeah, but they're not kind and they're not loving and they're not nice. Well, that's where the sacrifice comes in. Because God did that for us. Tonight's the first evening of a new week. The Lord's Day, first day of the week. We're going to go through this week. We're going to rub shoulders. We're going to butt heads maybe with some people this week. We're going to be a little grouchy sometimes. But let's just walk in, completely committed to unconditional love And not for ourselves, not for our benefit, not for our glory, but just because God has done all this for us, say, Lord, I'm going to offer that up to you. And regardless of how the people respond, regardless of what they do back, I was just thought of, and I've mentioned this before, but we moved here in September, on September 16th of 1993. That was a Thursday. We unpacked Friday and Saturday and preached my first sermon as pastor here on Sunday, the 19th of September, 1993. Monday I went out knocking on doors. I just want to meet people. I took the whole afternoon, probably four or five hours, just going through Mountain Lake Park. I didn't know anybody. I didn't know where anything was. And um I was over uh it was sometime that week I was over in Loch Lynn. I could still take you to the house, and I don't know if they still live there or not. But I knocked on the door Lady came and I said, I'm past I'm Pastor Leatherman, the new pastor at Mountain Lake Independent. I got about that much out of my mouth. I mean she said things that would make a sailor bluff, bluff, blush. And I mean she laid into me up one side, down the other. She didn't know me from Adam. I'm a new resident in this community And I'm being treated this way. I'm a pastor, and she's disrespecting me. I'll tell you it got under my skin. Now I know none of y'all would ever be this way. But man, she's laying in and slam. I mean didn't close the door. Slam. I never got a word, another word out. And I'll be honest, I hate to say it, but the old the old Denny Rose's old head up. And I walked out and I was so mad. And I thought, uh, and I'm thinking all this stuff I got to the end of the walkway out to the sidewalk there, and man, the Spirit of God convicted me. I thought that was that's that's the old life. And um I just had to bow my head and say, Lord, I had a wrong attitude there. I need to love that dear lady. The Lord reminded me that if somebody cusses you out and persecutes you for his namesake, you should rejoice, because great is your reward in heaven And I learned a lesson. I asked the Lord to help me. Not responding kind. Help me to love people regardless of how they treat me Regardless of what they say to me. Now I don't know who she is. I don't know that I I know I've knocked on that door again, but I've never had that experience there again. But let's just love people. Amen. If that person in front of you at Walmart has eleven items in the ten item lane. That gets under my skin too, but Just say, God bless them. I hope God blesses them and it all goes good for them. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. To follow in your footsteps, Lord, to be followers of God as dear children, and that we can walk in love even as Christ loved us and gave himself for us. Teach us, Lord, enable us to do that. We need your Holy Spirit. I pray, Lord, that your love would be shed abroad in our hearts this coming week, all week. Just commit ourselves. I'm going to love people. And help them and try and be a blessing, regardless. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many people are with me? That's why I want to do that. I'm going to commit myself this week to be loving to people and be gracious. Any like that uplift at hand? How about it And let's pray that God does a work. Let's pray while we're praying. Let's pray for that teen rally too. That God does a great work down there. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James playing the imitation