Our as we go into our Bible time week and uh I appreci I appreciate Brother Austin. And just quiet behind the scenes, doing all kinds of work around here and playing the piano. Music has been a blessing. So thank you Austin. 2 Peter chapter number 1, we've begun our study of this second letter that Peter wrote under the inspiration of God And again, it's to the same crowd he wrote 1 Peter. These are Christians that have paid a heavy price for their faith. We were talking before the Bible time worker meeting. I think it was Hannah and I and Steve were talking And we read these biographies of these great missionaries like this year is Mary Slesser and different ones, and what they went through and what they endured To to get the gospel to people who needed the gospel. The rejection, the the imprisonment a lot of times. And we get griping about our little things, you know, and we get all upset and worked up about something And compared to what our forefathers and these great men and women ahead of us went through, our little pet our little things we get worked up about are nothing. But what he's writing, what Peter, the people Peter is writing to, have paid a heavy, heavy price for their faith And we've talked about that before. And he's continuing this letter to these folks scattered around. And I want to pick up here in verse number five, and I just want to look at one little phrase. In verse number 5, verse 5 begins a series of, he gives them an instruction of a series of things that need that they need to do, they need to put in place. And the very first one he mentions here in verse 5, he says, besides all this, Everything he said up to this point about the precious promises and all these things, he says, besides this, giving all diligence, I mean all out, gung-ho, giving all diligence. Add to your faith. Add to your faith. Before he mentions any other discipline of the Christian life, before he mentions any others. He says, add to your faith. I want to talk just quickly about the importance of faith. Importance of faith. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now as we just pause for a few moments, look in your word. I pray you'd speak to our hearts. God, I yield myself to you again this evening. I present my body anew for you to take and use and speak through me. I yield my will to you. I pray you'd fill me with your Spirit and you'd challenge us and prepare us for the week ahead. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Biblical Christianity, and by when I say biblical Christianity, I guess a more dis more accurate word would be discipleship. Being a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. I ask this often. How many folks here you're saved to know it? Say amen. Now this is a question I ask a lot, and I ask myself this How many of us here tonight would consider ourselves not just a believer in Christ, not just saved, but we would consider ourselves a disciple of Jesus? We're seeking to follow him. We're seeking to yield our s our lives to his instruction. How many people, you say I'd like to consider myself a disciple of Christ? Sure. That's the end goal of what salvation is And here's what I'm trying to say is discipleship, being a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ is a long-term relationship. Christianity is a long-term relationship. Now I hope I'm not being too crude on this. I don't mean to be. But Christianity and being a disciple of Christ is not a one-night stand. It's long term. And that's what Peter is addressing these believers here. They've been through it. They paid the price. And he's saying, listen, this is long term. Biblical Christianity is not a one-night stand, it's a lifelong commitment, much like marriage. I'm committing myself to the Lord Jesus Christ on August 25th, 1985, down in Chattanooga, Tennessee, on a Sunday night similar to this, minus the Bible time ingredient. Preacher preached the Sunday night message. I could not tell you for the life of me what he preached, but I know God got a hold of my heart as a believer. I was studying to be a schoolteacher. In Bible College, Tennessee Temple University, and God got a hold of my heart. And I'm I know it's that old older. I couldn't stay in my seat. I couldn't I went to that altar. I said, God, everything I have, everything I am, every minute of my future, I dedicate to the Lord Jesus Christ. I want my life to be yours. I want it to no longer me. It's you, Lord. And I'll tell you, I'm just, I'm no different than any of you guys. I'm just a guy. But I wanted my life to be the Lord's. And that's not a one-night stand. That's not for a week or two. It's not for a month or two. It's for life. And here I am 40 years later. That was 1985. Where are we at on that? 38 years later. And God's still God's still working. It's lifelong. It's a lifelong commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. And God's faithful on his end. And so Peter's writing to them and he's challenging them in this matter to not give up. You stay at it. This is long term. This isn't overnight. Biblical discipleship isn't just a long-term relationship, but God intends for it to be a fruitful relationship. God wants to use us to make a difference in people's lives. And not just economically. You know, if we can help people economically, praise the Lord, we'll do that. Our deacons are Very good. Folks have needs. They help. We have a deacon's fund. We try to help people make get through economically. Um try to help people be uh you know in various ways. But when the Bible talks about being a fruitful relationship and we talk about making a difference in people's lives, we mean making a difference for eternity. Where they spend eternity and help them live for the Lord. Once they get saved, help them live for the Lord so they stand before Jesus Christ. And they can hear Jesus say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. I want to hear that for myself. And I think our church feels this way. We want to hear that for all members of our church. We want to hear the Lord just say to all the members of our church, Well done. So Peter's challenging them. This relationship you have with Jesus Christ is not just overnight. It's not just for a brief period of time. It's lifelong. It's long term. It's a marathon. And he says it needs to be fruitful. Your life needs to make a difference. God saves us to bear fruit. Now, what does he mean by fruit? I put a few things down. I think because of my life, my behavior, because of my influence on other people's lives, people glorify God. And here's a question we need to ask ourselves along those lines. Is there anybody in this world that is living to the glory of God, is glorifying God, because of what they see in Christ in me? Because they've seen Christ in me. You follow what I'm trying to say? Is there anybody out there that thinks God is an awesome God because they see what he did in my life? In your life. That's fruit. It's have an effect on other people so that they have a positive and an accurate biblical view of God. Bearing fruit. We're saved to a long-term relationship, a fruitful relationship. Bearing fruit for the Christian is seeing people come to Christ because of my witness. Now we should never you want I think we all understand this we should never compare ourselves to other people. Amen. There's people in this church here that I consider them more far more effective soul winners than I am They win people the Lord. Over the years, we have a number of people like that. So I'm not going to compare myself to them, but I do want to see people come to Christ or at least Be aware of the fact they need Christ because of my witness. That's bearing fruit. That's bearing fruit So people bring in glory to God because of what God's done and doing in my life, because of how I behave, because of my influence, my actions, my attitude, my words. It influences others to think highly of our God. It influences others to desire to come to Christ, to come to Christ, and influence others to do right I want, you know, we bring different preachers through here, and I consider some of the preachers that have been behind this pulpit the last 30 years I consider some of the greatest preachers in the independent Baptist movement in our country have been and preached behind this pulpit. And sometimes a preacher will come in and we'll have somebody come in and when they leave I feel like I need to be more patriotic. I need to be a better citizen. Chuck Harding does that to me. Um I don't know if any member uh Chuck Cofty. Anybody remember what a patriot he was. Man, he'd leave. I feel like I love America. You know And then we have others come through and I feel like I ought to be nicer. You know? I just they're so nice. And I leave and I thought, man, I need to be nicer. And all of them, some more than others, they leave, and I feel like I ought to be a better Christian. I want to be a better Christian because of them. And there's people in this church that influence me. I get around them and I want to be nicer. I want to work harder. Convicts me I want to work harder. Every time around Mark, I think I need to work harder. And um you know and uh so fruit My actions, my influence affecting other people in a positive way, a spiritually positive way, in eternity, affecting them for eternity. And Peter's writing to them, and he says, listen, if you would, take your Bible and turn with me to John chapter 15. John chapter 15. And a couple of verses here. He talks about this bearing fruit. In John chapter 15 Now keep your place there in Peter, we're going to come back one more thing, and just just a few things I want to say John chapter 15, verse 1. Notice what he says. Jesus speaking here. He says, I am the true vine, and my father is the husbandman. So he's using this plant, this fruit-bearing plant illustration. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. And every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth what? More fruit. You say, man, preacher, I started living for God. I started trying to do right. I submitted my will to the Lord. And it seems like things got tougher. You know what God's doing? He's purging you. Purging me so that I can bear more fruit. That it may bring forth more fruit. Now are ye clean through the words which I have spoken. Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself except it abide in the vine, no more can ye except ye abide in me. I am the vine, ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth what? Much fruit. For without me you can do nothing. God's saying here that if we're we're to walk with him, stay close to him, abide with him, keep my will at bay, yielded to his will. And then he'll, through me, he will bear fruit. And other people will be affected. Come over to verse number 8. Look what he says. Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit. So shall ye be my disciples. He wants us to bear fruit. He wants our church to have a positive spiritual influence in this world. Look at verse 16. This is a great verse. By the way, this verse is not talking about salvation, it's talking about service. You have not chosen me, but I've chosen you, and ordained you that you should go and bring forth what? Fruit. And that your fruit should remain. That whatsoever you shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you. And he ties in answered prayer, the power of prayer, into the idea of bearing fruit. And so the Christian life is a long-term Relationship, lifelong relationship to the Lord. It's a designed to be a fruitful relationship with Jesus Christ. And if you come back to Peter, he's giving this list of I'm calling disciplines. He gives this list of things that we're to put in place in our life so that we can bear fruit. Come down to verse number 8 there in chapter 1 of 2 Peter. Now, verse 5, 6, and 7, he gives this list of things. He says, add to your faith virtue. To virtue, knowledge. Knowledge, temperance. Temperance, patience. Patience, godliness. Godliness, brotherly kindness. Brotherly kindness, charity. And we're going to look at each one of those. But then verse 80 says this, For if these things that he just listed, if these things be in you and abound, they make you that ye shall be neither barren nor what? Barr. Unfruitful. It says you put these things in place, you're going to bear fruit. You're going to have an influence. You're going to make a difference. But he that lacketh these things is blind, cannot see a far-off And uh had forgotten that he was purged from his own sins. So a list of disciplines if I'm going to be a fruit-bearing believer. Now, here's my message. Notice the very first thing on the list. Add to your faith. That's the beginning point. Um, faith Faith is the beginning point in the Christian life. Now, I'm not saying anything we've not heard before, right? How many people here understand we're saved by faith, uh, by God's grace through faith? Yeah, it's our faith in Christ that saves us. It's not our baptism. It's not our good works, it's not our working in Bible time, it's not me doing this or doing that or not doing this or not doing that. That's not what saves me, it's my faith in Christ, period. So that's the beginning point of the Christian life. Can I say this? Faith is a beginning point of our Christian fruit, fruit-bearing Faith, every aspect of my Christian life begins with and is built upon my faith in Christ. If my faith is absent or out of alignment, then this list of things is not going to work. He says, add to your faith. The faith is in place. That's the foundation, so to speak. That's the cornerstone. No, Christ is the cornerstone. But that's the groundwork. Upon my which my virtue and my knowledge. In other words, if I don't have faith in Christ and I'm adding to my life virtue, it's not going to accomplish the fruit bearing that God intends for it to be Do you know there are unsaved people that live very virtuous lives? Yeah, I think of a lady who worked in hospice. She was a better Christian than most Baptists I know, and she wasn't even a Christian. She was trusting her works. I talked to her at length. She's trusting her works. Her her Eucharist and her last uh she's trusting in the sacraments But I'm telling you, that lady was a virtuous woman. Good heavens. So without faith, my virtue is going to in eternity not going to do me any good. You follow what I'm saying? I can know all the Bible. Without faith, I can add to my faith virtue. I emerge to my virtue knowledge. I can memorize the whole Bible. But if I don't have faith in Christ, it's not going to do me any good. Do you know there's people in hell that have John 3. 16 memorized? And so faith is the beginning point. That's the groundwork. If my faith is out of whack, if my faith is in my church or my works, then all these other things are going to be out of alignment. They're going to be skewed. Now, what does it mean to have faith? He said, add to your faith. What does it mean to have faith? It means simply to trust someone or something. It means to rely upon someone or something. It means to lean on someone for support. And he says, add to your faith this confidence you have in Christ, this reliance you've placed in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. You're trusting him, you're looking to him, leaning on him for support. He says, all right, when you take that, then you build on that. Now let me leave a little challenge for our workers this week. Come into whatever your responsibility is in Bible time or in this church as a whole, come into that on the basis of faith Not my skills, not my abilities, not my talents, not what a tremendous storyteller I am, or not a tremendous busworker, or tremendous singer. Don't begin with that Begin with, hey, uh without Christ, I can't do anything. I'm coming in trusting Christ to use me. See what I'm getting at here? It's it's not it's not me, it's not you. And I I and many of you have the same thing, but I appreciate sometimes people come out and say, Oh preacher, you're a good preacher. I'm not a good preacher, it's Christ doing it through me. You follow what I'm saying? It's just trusting Christ. Trusting God. We have phenomenal teachers in us, but I know it's Christ that have enabled them to do that And so when you come into it, he says, add to your faith. That faith has to be in place. I'm trusting God. I'm leaning on God. I'm depending on Christ to use me as I give myself to serve Him. My hands are his hands. My lips are his lips. My mind is his mind. And he can work in my mind and speak through my lips and use my hands. To bear fruit for Christ, affect others for Christ. Faith. Add to your faith. As a Christian, to have faith, it means I'm trusting Jesus Christ to save my soul. But it doesn't end there. I'm trusting Jesus Christ to forgive my sins. Let me ask you a question. Let's just be a little personal here tonight. How many people, since you got saved, you've sinned? Anybody here since you got sin? Some of you are sinning right now. You're not raising your hand. If any man says he has no sin, he's calling God a liar. He's talking to believers when he says that, by the way. How many people here, let's just be a little personal, how many people here, and I I'm talking from experience, how many people here ever sin And since you've been saved, and afterward you thought, I don't know if God can forgive me. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Man, can God forgive me for that? That's not bad. God, could you f I don't know. I'm here to tell you, forgiveness is received by faith. Well something I learned in the studying the life of David, something that struck me, is when David sinned, and Nathan approached him and said, Thou art the man, David said, I have sinned. And Nathan communicated to David that God would forgive him. When he confessed his sin, God would forgive him. And something I learned from David there was David never argued or debated or doubted the fact that God forgave him. He received it and accepted it by faith. And that was a horrendous sin he committed. But when he was assured of God that he was forgiven, it was settled. No longer a factor, no longer issue. I'm forgiven. And so living by faith isn't just the salvation of my soul. But it's the continuation of my relationship, my fellowship with God, as I confess my sin and I accept by faith when I confess it that God does completely and fully and finally forgive it And I can get up and go on. Amen? That's faith. I'm believing what God says. I'm trusting that what He says about it. Faith means I'm trusting Jesus Christ to direct my steps. I love Proverbs 3 and 5 and 6. I doubt a week goes by where I don't quote that to myself 10, 20 times a week. Uh blu um no uh uh trust in the Lord with all thine heart and what Lean not unto thine owner saying, in all thy ways acknowledge him, who shall direct thy past. You know what that's faith. So Lord, I don't know I just trust you, Lord. I just trust you to lead me through this. I'll just trust you. You're going to direct my steps. I've got to stay close. I've got to abide. Like John said, I've got to abide with Christ. I've got to stay close to Him. Keep that daily walk. Keep that heart pure and clean But then God leads me. God leads me and directs me. It means I'm trusting Jesus Christ to supply my needs. Philippians 4. 19, my God shall supply all your needs according to his riches in Christ Jesus. God will meet our needs. I tell you, I know this is, I guess I should maybe be ashamed of this a little bit, but I tell you, I worry sometimes in the church here, and God's been good. But sometimes we had deacons meet me the other night, and I look at the finances and I thought, oh boy Lord, we mean and um but we have assurance of God that He will meet our needs Amen. If we honor him, I tell you, this church gives to faith promise. And brother Ed and I have talked a lot about this. You got financial needs, and I don't we don't have fine we're not in a tight financially, please don't misunderstand But I tell you, when things get a little squeezy financially, one of the good things to do is take on a new missionary. God honors that. God blesses that. And that's trusting God. That's faith. Faith. God, you'll take care of me. I know you will. I know you will. How many people here, you know that's true, but you still worry? I'm worried about some of y'all that didn't raise your hand right now. Sometimes I get where I'm not worried, and then I get worrying, watch why I'm not worried. I ought to be worried about this. Faith. And then faith is strengthening me through trials. We go through some valleys. We go through some scary stuff. And faith in Proverbs 20, or Psalm 27, 14 says, wait on the Lord, be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thy heart. I'm a little personal here, if you'll forgive me, but my son is in Alaska right now, and he's up there by himself. He's a hundred and sixty-five miles from the nearest person. Right now, he's up there working on something. And I'll tell ya, I get worried. Every morning I send a little message, Sam, you still alive? It's a four-hour difference, so I sometimes I don't get a message back. Like tonight it wasn't until five o'clock that says, yep, still kicking From 6 o'clock this morning when I got up till 5 o'clock tonight, I'm scared to death. Oh Lord, please don't let any grizzlies eat them. Lord helping me alive. But you know what I need to learn? I need to learn to have faith God will see them through. God will take care. God will take care of that. Faith. Add to your faith. The importance of faith. Importance of faith. Romans 1017 says, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. Faith is taking God at his word and acting accordingly. Hebrews 11, verse 6 says, without faith it's impossible to please God. It pleases God. This blesses my heart. It pleases God when we trust Him. We come to God and say, God, I'm trusting you. God, He likes that. God, uh Lord, I'm just trusting in you. That pleases him. That pleases him. The importance of faith. He said, add to your faith, and he gives us a list of about seven, eight things we need to do. And we'll look at each one. But we've got to start with faith. A difference will be made in the hearts and lives of young people this week if we'll come into this in total faith, trusting God to do what God can and what only God can do in their lives. And we do our part. We'll love them. We'll teach them. We'll sing. We'll have fun. We'll laugh. We'll preach to them. But we have faith that God is going to do a work in their lives. And save souls and change lives. There's no spiritual growth without faith in God. There's no spiritual fruit without faith in God. And there's no longevity without faith in God. Importance of faith. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask that you would take these few thoughts, Lord, and just kind of talk a little bit tonight. But never let us, God help us never to underestimate how important it is just to trust you. I pray, Holy Spirit, you convict us where we're leaning on our own understanding. And God, convict us we're we're lacking in our faith. Just like you did the disciples. You rebuke them. God, I pray you would deal with us where we're lacking in our faith and help us to trust you. Help us to have faith. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many people like me would say, Preacher, my faith needs to be stronger. I need God to help me be stronger. Sure, hands all around. You have not because you asked not. Maybe we just need to come and say, God teach me to trust you. It might mean we got to go through some storms, but it's worth it. It's worth it. Father, bless our invitation tonight. Prepare us for a great week ahead in Jesus' name.