I uh brother Matt uh his wife are down in the teens. He told the teens he came up and he says, I've never heard so many corny jokes in my life. I said, stick around What's the best time to go to the dentist? At two thirty. Tell you what, it's you gotta get pretty early to pull the wool over that guy's eyes, I'll tell you right there. What did the beach say to the wave? Long tide, no sea Alright, I told you they were bad. Uh here's one. What did the mama cow say to the baby cow? It's pasture bedtime. Sorry, that's the best I got. Psalm let's see, I turn my mic on. Psalm chapter number nine, verse seventeen. Let me just read it again. Bible says The wicked shall be turned into hell. And listen to the last phrase of this verse. And all the nations that what Forget God. All the nations that forget God turn into hell. All nations that forget God. I want to talk this morning a little bit about the nation that forgets God. The nation that forgets God. Let's pray together. Father, I'm so grateful for the incredible privilege you gave us to be born in this country. And the friends we have, I think of the billions around the world that live in abject poverty and oppression and hardness. And you in your compassion and for whatever purposes your providence had, you allowed us to be here. And live this life. Lord, above that, I thank you for the message of the gospel that came to us, that we could believe and be saved. Not only live in a tremendous country, but have a home in heaven, sins forgiven. Lord, your goodness to us and your mercy and grace is so overwhelming. We owe you so much, Lord. I pray you would show us that, the great responsibility that comes with great privilege and blessing. So Lord, I yield myself, my will, I present my body. Please, Lord, stir us, revive us, speak through me, and challenge us as a church. And God, maybe through us, our community and our country could be impacted by the Word of God. So please bless now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. I love the book of Psalms Just a little trivia about Psalms. Psalms has 150 chapters. How many people knew that? Alright, few. Psalms has 2,461 verses. It has, this is meaningless information, probably some of this. It has 43,743 words. You say, preacher, how do you know? Did you count that? No, I Googled it. Twenty years ago, I would have never dreamed I'd make this statement from the pulpit. I Googled it. I wouldn't have even known what I was talking about. The Book of Psalms is the longest book in the Bible. 150 chapters, 2,461 verses, 43,743 words. And you can read through the book of Psalms in four hours and 28 minutes. I love the book of Psalms. It is a collection. The Book of Psalms is not necessarily a history record. It's not giving how to organize a church or the organization of a church. It is a collection primarily of songs and prayers. The book of Psalms was for Israel, for most of their existence was their hymn book It is the only, the Book of Psalms is the only divinely inspired hymn book in existence. Now, I love the hymn book. I tell you, we're gonna and I'm not trying to comment on what other people do, but I'm telling you right now, we're gonna keep using the hymn book in our church. I think it's a good thing. I think these hymns are blessed of God in a great way. Plus, if anybody comes in and disturbs us, we can throw our hymn books at them and protect ourselves. But Psalms is the only divinely inspired hymn book in existence. It's the only some some or some uh denominations and religious groups use prayer books. Um we don't. But the Book of Psalms is the only divinely inspired prayer book Sometimes I've prayed some of these psalms. I've got on my knees, opened the Psalms, and I've prayed that prayer. Lord, have mercy on me. God hear me in my trouble. God, rip open the necks of my enemies. I didn't pray those. But the Book of Psalms is a tremendous book. Generally, the book of Psalms, if you have a study Bible, or you know, most Bibles, mine doesn't have this, but most Bibles will take the book of Psalms and they will have it divided into five books. Um book one is usually is uh chapter one through forty-one. Uh book two, forty-three through seventy-two, and all down through there and As long as the book of Psalms has been in existence, as far as we know, it has been divided into five books. And the Jewish uh back in the Jewish day and Old Testament is divided into five books, as far as we can go back and tell I do not know what the significance of that is. I don't know whether that's something God divinely ordained or it's just something they categorized it with. I don't know. I don't know that it's even that significant. But I do know this. The book of Psalms is one of the most beloved books of the Bible. There is something about the book of Psalms. I'm reading through it in my devotions now. And I'm telling you, it is just a spiritual feast to read from the book of Psalms. Our God is an amazing God. And the fact that God knows me, the fact that this God that exists, that's here now, we can't see him, we can't feel him, but his presence is here. He sees us. He's paying attention to us. He's created, spoke everything into existence, this immense, incomprehensible God. That he pays attention to me, and that in the morning, when I open up his word, God speaks to me and addresses what's going on in my life. I don't know about you, but that's an amazing thing. Who am I? Who am I that the God of the universe would pay any attention And speak to me through his word. And I tell you, there's something about the book of Psalms where God speaks to our hearts. All of uh don't misunderstand me, all of Scripture is given by inspiration of God. We believe that. God is the author of Scripture I believe every single word of the Bible we can benefit from. There's a teaching there, there's help for us, there's spiritual nourishment for us. But you come to the book of Psalms and there's something about that book that addresses our hearts It seems like about every time I open up the book of Psalms, I am reading about, it's addressing things that are going on in my heart. Struggles that I'm having, issues that I'm dealing with in my heart and mind. And here off the pages of this the book of Psalms, David, through the pen of David and Moses and others God is addressing me. The Book of Psalms is an amazing, amazing book. It especially speaks to the heart. It seems like it especially deals with life, the daily realities of life. It brings comfort. I want to recommend to you a daily time of reading the book of Psalms. If you have never read through the book of Psalms, I want to urge you to do that. Now, I hope, as a, and I'm speaking to believers now this morning, I hope that as a believer, as a saved man or woman That you are spending some time every day in God's Word. I hope and I would highly recommend that you have a systematic Plan of reading the scripture rather than just willy-nilly open it up and read somewhere. You can get something out of it, but uh uh it it could mess you up. It's like the one guy said, I'm just gonna open my Bible and read. And he opened his Bible, put his finger there, read it, and it said, Judas went out and hung himself. He said, yikes. I'll try again. He just kind of did it. And it said, go thou and do likewise. Yikes, that can't be right. I'll do it again. He flipped around. Shh. It said, What thou doest do quickly So I hope you have some sort of pattern plan to your scripture reading. You don't read the newspaper, you don't just willy-nilly open it up and read a chapter. You don't have no idea what it's talking about. You go through systematically and that's the way we do the Bible. So we're I hope you're reading your Bible every day. I hope you have a systematic plan for reading through it. At some point you ought to start reading it from Genesis to Revelation. You ought to read all of it. But I would encourage you, into your regularly scheduled daily Bible reading, work in a time of reading the book of Psalms It is a powerful, powerful book in the Bible. And again, all the Bible is inspired. I'm not discrediting that. We come to Psalm chapter 9, which I read a week or two ago in my devotions, and we find at the beginning of the chapter, you notice there the little heading, it tells us that it was penned by David We don't understand completely the other statements there. It says to the chief musician upon that word there, Mufleban. To be honest with you, I've looked up probably 20 different commentaries and different Bible scholars, and what I've found that they have no clue what that means. Whether it's a musical instrument, whether it's a method of of playing this, whether it's some guy, we don't know, and it it's probably not significant But we do find it is written, it was penned by David, that God used David to record this down. And what God did was is God used David's heart, God used David's experience, David's perspective. He used that in recording this and then inspiring and preserving it for us today. I love David. I look forward to the day in heaven. Where I get to meet David. Won't that be an amazing thing? Hi, I'm Dennis Leatherman. I'm David, former king of Israel Phew. What an amazing man he was. We're studying him on Wednesday nights, and um uh I'm telling you, you ought to come out Wednesday nights. Not because I'm a great Bible teacher, but I'm telling you the subject is phenomenal. We're studying David and Goliath. And I really like to use Matt as an illustration of Goliath. I tell you one thing, don't smart off to that guy. And David's a fascinating man. David, David knew what it was like to experience the blessings of God. David knew what it was like to experience. Now I hope I can communicate what I'm thinking in my mind. But David knew what it was like to experience, to be filled with the joy of God. What would that be like? To be filled. You read some of the Psalms, and he is absolutely overflowing with praise and glory and the joy of God. We live in a day your average person is miserable, right or wrong? I mean just absolutely miserable. And then here you have David is just You find times where he is just absolutely filled with the blessings and joy of God. However, having said that, David knew what it was like to be absolutely miserable. You read Psalm, I think it's Psalm 32, one of the Psalms there in the 30s, where he is describing what it was like to live under the conviction of God under the chastening hand of God. And he says things like this, and I'm not quoting exactly, he says things like this, my bones were dried up within me. I was in turmoil and despair all day long. I mean, David paints some dark pictures, some dark valleys he went through. And he knew, listen, he knew what it was like to fail God completely And the consequences of that. And he records that. He shares his heart with us. So he he you you read Psalms and Penn by David and man, you experience the mountaintops of God's blessings. And then you also see the dark, dark valleys of God's chastening. He knew what it was like to experience life's trials. He knew what it's like to be victorious in his Christian life, and he knew what it was like to be defeated in his Christian life. David's amazing man. I look forward to the day. And you know, maybe you know, we got thousand years in the millennium, and I was thinking if he would, I'd take him down to Denny's, you know, and we'd get us lunch and just talk for a little bit. I hope there's something better than Denny's than Millennium. But uh It's pretty good though We don't know what the circumstances are behind Psalm 9. We can't figure it out. We don't know what the situation was going through when God inspired him to write this. We do know he was dealing with some enemies, which that was most of his life. He mentions that several places in there. But I was reading this in my dotions, as I mentioned the other day, and I got to verse 17 and I stopped. And I saw this. The wicked shall be turned into hell. And all the nations that forget God. That is a very solemn warning. Let me bring it home. That is a very solemn warning to the United States of America. A nation that forgets God. Forget God. This is one of the most solemn, strongest warnings in all of Scripture. And it is addressed among other nations, it's addressed to the United States of America, no doubt about it. Its application is United States of America. Now don't misunderstand me, I love America. You're not you're not going to be around me very long. You're not going to be around here very long. You're going to get the idea we love America. In fact, you just drive down the street this time of year. You can tell we love America. I wish we had more flags, I'd put them up I love America. Um there is an anti American sediment Mentality in our country today. And in fact, I want to say there is a rising segment of Um people in America that are not only anti American, they absolutely hate America. Within our country, within our borders. In Hollywood, in the media, anti-American. So, well we have to be biased. I'm fine with bias. It's the hatred for our country That I see. In our capital, there is an anti-American, there is a hatred for this country You know, I ask myself, why do these people hate America so much? Are we worse than the Muslim countries in the Middle East? Are we worse than other countries around the world? What is it about us? What is it about this nation that they are so angry about, that they are so bitter about? I believe this anti-American sentiment oh by the way, I noticed that all these people that hate America, I don't see any of them leaving America. They're all here enjoying our freedoms, they're all here enjoying our prosperity, they're all here enjoying our life our lifestyle, our standard of living. In fact there's still more people trying to get in the country than there are getting out. We're talking about putting walls up, not to keep people in like the Great Wall and it like the uh Berlin Wall, keep people in. We're doing it just trying to protect ourselves. It's not to keep people in. There's still more people coming wanting to be here than there are Levin. But this mentality, this anti-American hatred, this anti-American mentality, I'm telling you, it is undermining our security as a nation. If we raise up a generation that hates its own country, are those are those is that generation going to be willing to die for their country? Are they going to be willing to put themselves on the line to defend their country? We're undermining our own security Can a nation, can a kingdom divided against itself stand? No. No I love America. I love our heritage. I love what we initially were established for. And let the liberals say what they want. The facts remain, America was started. as a desire for freedom of religion. There was others involved, but that was the primary purpose for people coming here. I did a study years ago on my family. I did a What do you call it? Um family tree on my family. It's more like a bush, but um And I found out something that is very fulfilling for me. I found out that my seventh great grandfather My great great great great great great great grandfather, Jacob Liedermann, fled Europe Over religious persecution. Mennonite. Fled Europe, came to New Jersey. I don't know why he'd want to go to New Jersey, but uh Yeah, it's better than Europe. And establish that. And my seventh great grandfather fled Europe over religious persecution. You know what's a real possibility? And I don't mean to be overly dark, but you know it's a real possibility my offspring may face religious persecution. The cycle cu the circle comes around, doesn't it? Now I said all that, say this, I love America, I love our heritage, I love what we were established for, I love I love the Christian influence. I put a few things down here, and I'm getting to my message here in a bit, but I put this down. I love America for the quality of life that God has blessed us with. There's folks in here that have traveled around the world a little bit. I tell you, we got it pretty good. We got it pretty good. I was thinking as I was preparing this and thinking these things through. Been in the Dominican Republic a few times. I stayed in Brother Josh Weston. We low and love We miss Brother Josh, he's with the Lord now, but his wife Joy. I stayed in their home a number of times. And in where they're at in Santa Domingo, they've got a nice little community. But I'm telling you, get out. I was out visiting with them And it is hard for you and I to comprehend the level of poverty that your average Dominican lives in. It is it is almost incomprehensible as in their homes. We visited uh we visited a deaf and blind man. Deaf and blind. How do you communicate? Josh knows sign language, his wife Joy. Josh came across this guy visiting in the slums. Now you think slums of America are bad. You go to slums of Dominican Republic. uncomprehensible, raw silly, just awful. And he was able to, through signing with his hands The gospel to this fellow, and the fellow believed on the Lord and called on the Lord in his own way and trusted Christ as personal Savior. And the indescribable poverty that this man lives in, but yet the joy of the Lord that is in the heart and life of this guy puts me to shame. Every service he's there. He has to walk blind up through this ghetto. And Josh Pixville did somebody else now picked him up in the van and would take him to church and he was there every day. He said one day he was making his way up to get in the van. and there was a manhole cover there, uh an opening. He didn't see it. He fell down into it. Injured himself badly. They pulled him out. He didn't go home. He went up to the bus stop and went to church. And I think of how good God has been to us here in America. And the standard of living. I'm telling you the the poorest person that's sitting in this building right now is richer than the huge majority of the rest of the world. I love America's God's. God has been so good to us. The standard of living is so amazing. The average American enjoys a life that only the elite in other countries enjoy. I love America because the equality of liberties We perhaps we are perhaps the freest nation in all the world. Now you can criticize us for all we want. I'm not suggesting America is perfect. We're far from perfect. There will only be one perfect country, and that's going to be Israel in the millennial reign. Under the Lord Jesus Christ. But I'm telling you, we have phenomenal freedoms. I'm telling you, that First Amendment is profound. That we have the freedom of speech. We can say what we want. American and a Russian were talking, and the Russian said, You have freedom of speech in America, we have freedom of speech in Russia. And the Americans said, yes you do, but we have freedom of we have freedom after speech that you don't have. You can say what you want, but you're going to pay a price for it. I just read, I just, I think it was this morning, I read an article, a fella in Canada was thrown in jail, I think, for two years because he gave a gospel tract out at a gay pride parade. That's not freedom. We are perhaps the freest country in the world. The First Amendment is we are free to say what we want. We're free after we say it. I tell you what, this is me. I'm just, I'm telling you, this is just me. But I thank God for that second amendment. Phoo! I'm no, I'm being over. I hope I'm I hope you bear with me. It was Fourth of July coming up. But I'm telling you, if we lose that Second Amendment, First Amendment's not far behind it. It's not far. You know how many countries in the world that the citizens of the country have the absolute freedom to defend themselves? keep a gun by the bed and defend their family and defend their home from intruders. Do you know how few countries have that freedom? We're one of only a few. I was in New Zealand the last several years, been going back and forth this past year, uh, and and listen, uh this these shootings are absolutely horrendous And there's ways to stop that. But I was down in New Zealand and one of the shootings was up and it was in the news and they all came to me, do you have a gun in your house? I said, well yeah I got a shotgun. Do you have any else? I said, well I got a rifle. They said, do you have anything else? I said, well it's none of your business I said, well what do you do with it? I said, what do you think you'd do with a gun? I said, but I have it. Do you have one in your room? Yeah. I'm saying that if any of you are thinking about breaking in my house, I'm just telling you right now Free to defend myself and my country. All I'm trying to say is this, I love America. I love America for the Quality of life, God has blessed us with. I love America for the equality of liberty liberties. And by the way, in theory, it doesn't play out because we got humans doing it, but in theory, the richest man and the poorest man have equal rights in the court Now it doesn't always play out that way. I'm not defending that, but I'm saying that is the plan. It's designed to be that way. And I think probably most of the time it works out I love America, I put this down for the quality of love of our nation. Do you know that America is the most generous nation on the planet? Followed closely by Israel. LA Times, not a conservative publication by any stretch of the imagination. We're talking about an anti-seniment, anti-American sediment, LA Times has it. But listen to what they said. They made a they wrote an article on the generosity of America. And this is what the LA Times said They said the USA consistently ranks as the most generous nation in the world. If there is a tsunami, if there is an earthquake, if there is some natural disaster anywhere in the world, want to take a guess who is the first ones on the scene to help those people. It's always Americans. I'm bear with me, I'm just venting a little bit. But I'll tell you what, I never see a Muslim group showing up. to help out. Excuse me. They may get in a little token at some point. But it's Americans there. The LA Times, an anti-American publication for the most part, says USA consistently ranks as the most generous nation in the world. And they said they were followed by Ireland, Israel, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom, and all of those combined only give half of what America gives in charity around the world. Now what do you think that is? Do you think that is a result of the atheist influence on our land? Do you think that is a result of the Hollywood perverts of the land? You know what produced that mentality? Do you know what produced that generous, that loving compassion for others You know what did that? It's that old book setting on that pulpit right there, and its influence on this nation. It is the Christian basis of this nation. I know it is. That produced a nation even now in our condition that is so generous. So I'm trying to say this. I'm trying to make a case for the fact that I love the land that God has allowed me to be born and raised in. I love this country for a number of reasons. But I'm reading in my devotions. I come to Psalm 19, verse 17. And I have to pause. The wicked shall be turned into hell. And all nations that what? Forget God. Forget God. What does it mean to forget God? The idea here does not mean to cease to remember. Oh, we forgot there's even a God. We forgot all about it. That's not the idea here. When God says through the pen of David, That the wicked are going to be turned into hell, and all nations that forget God, the idea behind that is this: to neglect God. I like this definition. I don't like it, but I mean it's uh I think it captures what's being said here was this idea to put out of my mind Or it's translated several places this way, to forsake. The wicked shall be turned into hell And all nations that walk away from God, that put him out of their mind, forsake them. We don't want God in our schools. We don't want God in our courthouses. We're going to push the Bible out of our public discourse. Forgetting God. Forgetting God. The wicked shall be turned into hell, and all nations that forget God. It has this idea of not taking God's word seriously, of not taking salvation seriously. What he warns nations of doing is also a very strong warning to individual people. We could say this and be scripturally accurate. The wicked shall be turned into hell and all people. That forget God. I don't want to hear about that preaching. Don't come around here with those gospel tracts. I'm tired of you always talking to me about being saved. Forgetting God, forgetting God, forgetting God. Forgetting God may possibly be one of the most terrible sins that a man can commit. Push God away, to neglect it, to forsake, walk away from it. To forget God does not mean that I do not recognize God's existence. It is very possible for a person to say, yes, I know there's a God. God exists. But I don't want him in my life. He's not telling me what to do. He's not telling me how to live my life. He's not telling me what's right and wrong. I'll make that decision. Forgetting God. Forgetting God. Forgetting God. Um I've I'm convinced, uh we were Brother Matt and I were talking yesterday, we went out to dinner and We were talking and we got talking about somehow a fellow he was witnessing to was an atheist. And I made this statement. I said, I don't believe there's any genuine atheists. I think they say that. They try and convince themselves there is no God. They come up with very elaborate arguments to try and believe that there is no God. But I'm telling you, down in their heart and soul, they know there's a God. I am absolutely convinced of that. In fact, Romans chapter 1 or chapter 2 tells us that it's in their conscience. How in the world can you look at the night sky? Have you seen that moon the last couple nights? How in the world do you look at that night sky and say, oh, this just somehow happened My wife and I were reading an article and I showed her, apparently down in Peru or somewhere down there, Chile or one of those countries down there, they have found, they didn't know they were there until they started flying airplanes And they found these these um designs that were put into the ground. Did you ever see that? One's a big hummingbird. Did you ever see that? I mean just massive Just walking along, you just see these rocks and stuff. You didn't put it together. But when you look at from above, one's a big ant, another's a uh a a hummingbird, and the other one's a spider or something. And from 10,000 feet up you look down, you can see it's perfectly plan. And you know? You know what their conclusion is? Aliens! Martians That and listen, we were reading the article. There is no way in the world that could have just happened. Something intelligent put that design there. And you know what boggles my mind is over that pattern of rocks that looks like a hummingbird, a real hummingbird flies over. And they say, oh, that just happened. That just that was just coincidence and chaos. But this here, aliens had to have done it. That couldn't have just happened. Hello. So Forgetting God does not necessarily mean that I don't believe God exists or I deny God's existence. I think everybody knows that. We see it in creation. We understand it in our own conscience But forgetting God means pushing him aside, saying, No, no. I'll not trust your son as my Savior. I'll not believe your word. I put down patriots can forget God. You know, you can love America and yet forget God. We must never, ever, ever equate patriotism with spirituality. I love America, but that does not make me a good Christian There are people who love America, I have no doubt about it, that are living in absolute sin, that have pushed God from their life and have forgotten God We have on the doors of our courthouse, the Supreme Court, it's been in the news lately, the Supreme Court, on the doors, when those judges sit on their seat, they're looking out on the back doors. You know what they're looking at? The Ten Commandments. You know what we've done? Just neglected that. Just ignored that. You know, the Bible gives a solution for murders The Bible says if a man takes another man's life, his life should be taken. It's called capital punishment. It's scriptural And we push God out. Oh, I love America, but God, you're not telling us what to do. We love our country, we love our freedoms, we love our prosperity, we enjoy all of it. But God, we don't want you to be any part of this. And God says that nation cast into hell. It's possible to be a patriot and love God. We must never equate patriotism with spirituality. We must never equate patriotism with Christianity. Now I do not believe for one second There's a conflict between loving my Savior and being a godly, spirit-filled Christian and loving my nation. There's no conflict in that at all. But simply loving my nation does not make me any kind of Christian. And it's possible you have Patriot and push God of our lives and forget God. I put this down, boy, this one. Preachers can forget God. A French fellow and I had his name and I didn't write it down. He said, America is great because America is good. And he said, I found the secret to, and I'm putting this in my own words, I should have written it down, but he said, I found the secret to America's goodness. Its pulpits are aflame with the Word of God. It was happening. You're hard pressed to find the Word of God in a pulpit today I like what our I like what um uh uh Bill um Bob Jones Sr. said He said, There's nothing wrong with America that six months of red-hot preaching on hell from every pulpit on our land wouldn't solve. And when America starts pre stop when American pulpits stop preaching against sin, when American pulpits stop preaching the gospel, when American pulpits stop warning about hell When Americans' pulpits stop preaching the Word of God, we are forgetting God. We are forgetting God. And I lay the blame of America's spiritual condition on the pulpits of this land. We've gotten away from the Word of God. And God help Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church from every Sunday school class From every song that's sung, from every bus route, from every sermon that's preached, that the word of God goes forth, because that is what this nation needs. That's what this world needs. It's possible for a preacher to be unsaved and neglect the Word of God and push away and forsake the Savior. I read Oliver, I was reading a sermon by Oliver B. Green this week, and he made this statement. He said, the dirtiest preacher this side of hell is the one who compromises the gospel. And I say, Amen. Patriots can forget God. Preachers can forget God. Individual people can forget God. Push back and ignore. I've seen it over the years. I've been doing this for a little while, since 1985, actually before that, but that's when I consider my start in the ministry on a full-time basis. I've seen it so many times where I preach my heart out and I plead with people to be saved, and there's unsaved people in the audience. And the Spirit of God is bringing conviction, and we give the invitation, and we plead with folks, come! I've seen it in this building. And they hold on to that pew. I'll not go forward. I'll not respond. You know what that is? Forgetting God. No, God, no. We had a fellow, it's been a number of years ago. He came with his girlfriend. He's lost. I'd met him. He's a nice enough fellow, but he was he needed Christ I preached my heart out. He came for about a month. I'd preach my heart out and and uh uh and uh you know when you have some lost folks in church, he gives you something to shoot at. You know? So I'm preaching the gospel. I'm praying God get a hold of this guy. He was here about four or five times and I gave the invitation. He was standing there. And he was in the pew, his girlfriend was on on the outside of the pew, and uh he was here and we're standing, the music's playing, people are at the altar, and I was watching him, and he's like this He told no one. And finally he starts to step out. And he's trying to squeeze past his girlfriend. He gets out. You know what she did? She grabbed his arm and pulled him back Never did come forward. Went out and visited him. I know, I know I need to be saved, preacher, I know. I couldn't lead him. The Lord saved my life About six months later, tragic accident. He was killed, went out in eternity. Forgetting God. No! Wicked shall be turned into hell. All nations, all patriots, all preachers, all individual people that forget God, that push them away, say, no, turn into hell. There's not a preacher worth his salt that likes preaching about hell. There's not a preacher worth his salt that defines it enjoyable to talk about hell Listen, I like to joke around, I like to horse around, but there's one subject I'll never horse around or joke around about. That is the reality of a place called hell. There is nothing funny about it, there is nothing light about it There's nothing enjoyable about it. There's not a preacher worth his salt that thinks, that enjoys preaching on hell. By the way, there's not a preacher worth his salt that neglects preaching on hell either. I have zero respect for a man who claims to be a preacher of the Word of God and never mentions hell, never warns people about hell, never preaches on the reality of hell. Everybody believes in heaven. I'm telling you, hell is just as real as heaven. Jesus spoke of hell. Jesus spoke of a literal place burning with fire, with outer darkness, and no escape. Jesus! More than any other preacher in the Bible, Jesus preached on hell. More than he talked about heaven, he warned of hell. There's not a preacher worth his salt that doesn't preach and warn people of sin and the consequences of sin and the reality of a place called hell. And America needs to be reminded there is a hell. All nations that forget God will be turned into it. Mike Stubler. We love Mike Stubbler. We missed him. We were talking about him yesterday. I got some pictures. I was looking at him. That goofball. I think people remember the time he set up here with that turkey. That big turkey, Bonnie, who's his girlfriend. He was going out to uh uh the Paul's Betty's not here. Uh he was going out to the Paul's, they invited him to come out for Thanksgiving turkey uh Thanksgiving turkey Thanksgiving meal and he said, I've got a girlfriend, can I bring her along? They said, Yeah, sure, it'd be great. We'd like to meet her. Oh good. What's her name? Bonnie? Yeah, we can't wait. He comes walking in with this big old turkey stuff. Like I wanted to start an RU program, an addictions program here, tremendous program. I talked to Mike about it and he said, yep, he'd commit himself. We're going to send him out to Chicago to get training Come back and start an addictions program. Before we ever even got the plans gone, he had a severe sinus headache. He went to the emergency room here in Oakland and they said, We need to do some tests. This isn't your sinuses They did whatever scan they do. They said, you've got a massive tumor on your brain We need to get you to Morgantown. They flew them up immediately. They did emergency surgery. And I forget the name of the cancer. Some of you would know it is, but it's the fastest growing, most deadly cancer there is. They did two surgeries and did everything they could and eventually Mike succumbed. He's in heaven now. I look forward to meeting King David and Mike. Maybe the three of us will go to Denny's. That would be great. What would you think of the doctor that saw that tumor and bite spray? I would be afraid that he'd upset Mike and he'd just say, Mike, you're fine Oh, you're fine. Everything's good. Don't worry about it. Oh, wouldn't it? No, no, no. It's just imagination. Don't worry about it. How many people would respect that? I'd say that guy's a low-down, dirty doctor, ought to be fired, and never practice medicine again. Amen or not. I got a call this week, Tuesday, Diane Smith's son, Brandon, taking an emergency room I looked and has massive tumor on his brain. They did surgery Wednesday. They got 90% of it. He's still recovering. They don't know if it's malignant or not. What if he'd have gone in there and that doctor would have said, oh, Brandon, you're fine. Just go on home. You'll get over it. That'd be a dirty, lousy doctor. And what I'm trying to say is this, any preacher, that lost folks are under the sound of his voice, and he don't warn them about hell, and he don't tell them about a savior from hell, that guy is a dirty, lousy preacher and ought to be run out of the pulpit. Nations that forget hell, people that forget God are cast into hell. No preacher worth his soul neglects that. So what do we need? America needs to remember God. We need to get back and say, yes, you are the God. You are the final authority. You decide what is right and wrong, not us. You direct us how to live our lives. And it's called humbling ourselves before the Lord. And I believe we as Christians, what this country needs is not more money. It's not a bigger military, and I'm all for big militaries. But what this country needs is a bunch of Christians that will humble themselves before God, get ourselves thoroughly right with God, then go out with our Bibles in hand. And spread the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, warn of people about hell, point them to the Savior, and urge them to trust Christ. And that is exactly what this nation needs. Because the wicked will be turned into hell and all nations that forget God. Father, I pray you'd have mercy on our land. I think I'm speaking for no doubt most of the folks here this morning. Lord, we love our country. But we are so burdened. We are so concerned. Lord, we are scared for what our country faces. We ask you to send a revival and let it begin in us. Help us get thoroughly right with you, God. Then give us boldness. To share and preach the word of God like it ought to be done. And God, if there is anybody, anybody under the sound of my voice that does not know for sure that they're going to heaven, God, I plead that your Holy Spirit bring great conviction. And they would trust you and settle that and not entertain doubts. But get that settled. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many this morning say, preacher, I'm saved, I know I'm saved, there's no doubt about it But I need revival in my heart. I need revival in my walk with God. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me. Humble myself before him and that I would be right with my God. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preach or pray with me. God bless you. Hands all around. Now let me just say this right now. That's what an old-fashioned altar is for. Humble ourselves before God and say, God, help me, move, stir me. There's someone here, say, Preacher, I know someone that's not saved and my heart's so burdened for them. I can't imagine thinking of them going to hell. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'd be a good witness. My friend, my loved one, be saved. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Lord, preacher, my I'm so burdened for him. God bless you. And again, that's what the altar is for to pray. Is there someone this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved? I'll just be honest. I don't know for sure. There's questions there. I plead with you, with everything in me, I plead with you. If you have any doubts, that's not settled. Get that settled. Get that settled. We can help you. We can show you in the Bible how to do that. Is there any like that uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure. I'm concerned. Any at all? Anybody? Now, Father, revive us. Bless our invitation. Help us to be responsive to your spirits working in our heart. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer is playing the invitation.