Emuel chapter twelve. We've been looking at this and I and I really parked here on this whole sorid affair with Bathsheba and the murder of her husband, the death of other soldiers, David's cover-up of the sin, and then the exposure by Nathan And then David's response. And there's just so many truths here that I believe are very relevant to our Christian life. There's just so many lessons and principles through this. on dealing with sin, on recovering from it, consequences. And I'm telling you, we need to just, we need to be real And accept the fact and understand the fact that we're going to have to deal with sin our entire lives. Until the rapture takes place, it's a very real issue in the Christian life Conquering it, avoiding it, having victory over it, recovering from it. That's Christian living. And so, like I said, there's so many lessons here. Why don't we begin reading in verse 15? This is Just to get back into the context here, this is David has acknowledged his sin. He said, Nathan Capram, he said, I have sinned. We went and looked at Psalm 51, his confession, his prayer. of repentance there. Now we're coming back, picking up the story, where it left off. And verse 15 it says, And Nathan departed unto his house. His job there was done. God used him and accomplished its purpose. And the Lord struck the child that Uriah's wife bare unto David, and it was very sick. David therefore besought God for the child. And David fasted and went in and lay all night upon the earth. And the elders of his house arose and went to him to raise him up from the earth, but he would not. Neither did he eat bread with them. And it came to pass on the seventh day that the child died. The servants of David feared to tell him that the child was dead, for they said, Behold, while the child was yet alive, we spake unto him, and he would not hearken to our voice. How will he then vex himself if we tell him that the child is dead? But when David saw that his servants whispered, David perceived that the child was dead. Therefore, David said unto his servants, Is the child dead? And they said, He's dead. Then David arose from the earth and washed and anointed himself and changed his apparel. And came into the house of the Lord and worshiped. Then he came to his own house. And when he required, they set bread before him and he did eat. Then said his servants unto him, What thing is this that thou hast done? Thou didst fast and weep for the child while it was alive. But when the child was dead, thou didst rise and eat bread. And he said, explains his actions here. While the child was yet alive, I fasted and wept, for I said, Who can tell whether God will be gracious to me that the child may live? But now he is dead. Wherefore should I fast? Can I bring him back again? And the answer to that question is what? No, he can't bring him back. I shall go to him But he shall not return to me. I'm entitled The Message, The Heavenly Home Of departed infants, the heavenly home of departed infants. Let's pray as we look at this passage. Father in heaven, we come to you tonight. Lord, this whole passage here and the events that we've been looking at strike home. They touch our hearts. And we pray that you would, your Holy Spirit would take the lessons that are to be learned from this passage. And help us to see those lessons and help us to understand how these apply to us and help us respond in faith. And I pray our faith in you would be stronger, our understanding of living for you and the spiritual warfare we're in would be clearer, that we'd understand that a little better. And that we would um just be the people you want us to be. So fill me with your spirit is my great prayer again now for this message. I pray you'd speak through me. I yield myself to you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Been pastoring here for a little over twenty-eight years, been a mystery for about thirty-seven, thirty-eight years now. Oh uh 37 And um I've been asked a lot of questions about heaven. People have a lot of questions about heaven. Um anybody here ever, you're going to go on vacation to someplace you've never been? And you get on the computer and you Google it up and you try and find out all you can about the place you're going to. Anybody ever do that? And you just want to know what it's like and you know who's there and what are the options and all that? That's kind of the way we are with heaven. What's it going to be like? We look in the Bible and we try and find out things about heaven. I've been asked various questions. I I just listed a few here. I'm not going to try and answer these because we're trying to get to a point here. We want to look at this passage. But folks have asked me this question. Will we know each other in heaven? Anybody ever wonder that? Are we going to know other people in heaven? Well I like what Curtis Hudson answered, said to that. He goes, well, we know each other here, and we're not going to be dumber in heaven than we are here. He said, so yeah, we'll know each other. The Bible says we'll know as we are known. Remember when uh mo uh Moses and Elijah showed uh at the Mount of Transfiguration and they recognized them And so we'll know. I'm confident we'll know each other in heaven. Here's another question I would ask. Do people in heaven know what's happening here on earth? Now be honest with you, that's a pretty good question. I think they do to some extent. But they have a I know this. If they do, and it's possible To some extent, they have a whole different perspective on what's happening here on earth than what we do. We're seeing it from the human level. They're seeing it from God's perspective. Now, in Luke, he says that there's rejoicing in the presence of the angels over one sinner that repents. And the only other beings in heaven beside the angels are believers. Are God's people that are already there. So some extent they at least know when people get saved down here and they kick up dust over that. They get excited about that. Another question is, here's one. Will we be married in heaven? Now I think there's two motives for asking that, two different motives. Some ask it hoping that they will be. And then others ask for other reasons, other anticipations. Well, I can tell you this very emphatically: there will not be marriage in heaven. Jesus made that very, very clear. The purpose for marriage will have been fulfilled once our time here on earth is accomplished. And um somebody told me one time, they said, Well if I if I can't have my wife in heaven, uh I'm gonna be disappointed. I guarantee you, whatever whatever the circumstances are, you're not gonna be disappointed in heaven. Whatever it is, it's going to be better than what it is here. Whatever relationship we have, it won't be it will be better than here. So there's no disappointments in heaven. So mark that down. Here's one. I've been asked, are we going to eat in heaven? Yes. There's a married supper of the Lamb. Jesus had glorified body. He ate. There's no reason to think we won't. So I get all these questions. Now here's one question that Is a little bit heart-wrenching. And that is this. Do babies that die, do they go to heaven? That's a strong question, and David answers that for us in this passage. And that's what we're going to, I want to go through the passage, but I'm shooting for that last phrase there in verse 23 is what we're going to end with, and we're I think we'll be able to answer that question David has failed, and his failure has cost him dearly. His life, we're going to see as we continue the study of David's life in this event will fade into the the distance as we move on in our study. But we're going to notice that David's life is never the same. After this valley that he's just now coming out of, he's still in it, but he's making his way out of it. His life will never be the same. Now, I'd like to believe that David's a stronger, stronger in his faith as a result of it. I think he has a deeper understanding of the Lord's grace and mercy. than he does before. Some of his great psalms that he wrote were after this event. And deeply heart-touching psalms were uh written after this time period. But his life itself is never the same, particularly his home life. Probably, I think, in my mind anyway, the most painful consequence of David's failure. It's how it affected his family and his children, particularly. It's how it affected his children. And that's a heart-wrenching thing, and that's what we're going to see here in the coming studies. I want you to notice, if you would, verse 15, 16, and 17. I notice David's intercession before his child's death. Now we read the whole thing. We know the child dies. God told him it was going to. God says, you know, I blotted out your sin, but your child's going to die as a consequence. And we looked at that before, maybe some of the reasons for that But David's intercession before the child dies, verse 15, Nathan departed. And the Lord struck the child that Uriah's wife bare unto him, unto David, and it was very sick. The child is very sick. I think one of the, and so David prays. And notice it says there, therefore, David besought God for the child. He's standing before God on behalf of his very, very sick child, very small child, very sick. I think one of the most important things a parent can do for their child is to pray for their child. I think that's one of the most important things to pray and not just pray for your child. Oh, God bless my kids. We're not talking about that. We're talking about praying earnestly. For the well-being of our children. And not just their physical health, but we need to pray for the well-being of their spiritual well-being. Praying earnestly for our children. And David begins immediately to pray for this child And by the way, just praying for my child, I also, along with that, and I hope you'll get this, I need to live the lifestyle that I want my child to live. I need to be the person that I want my child to be. How many times have dads maybe or moms said, listen, don't uh you just do what I say, don't do what I do. I tell you, you know there's a word for that You know what's called hypocrisy. And you want to raise hypocrites, then be a hypocrite. And so We need to pray and pray earnestly for the children, and that's my point here, but I also want to emphasize the fact that we need to live what we're praying Now not perfect, but we need that they need to see Christ in us. They need to see Christ in us. When I thought when I read that phrase there, it said, and David therefore besought God for the child Can you think of anyone else in the Bible that it's made very, very clear that they prayed for their child? Can you think of anyone else in the Bible? Hannah prayed for a child, and she prayed, I mean, that God would give her one, but somebody that stood before God on behalf of their children, and he said this, lest they may have sinned in their heart. Job. Job prayed earnestly, and the Bible makes that very, very clear. It points it out. Job offered sacrifices and prayed. Job was very, very concerned for the spiritual well-being of his young children. And of course, he lived it. The Bible says, you know, he was a just man. And so David is praying for his child. He failed terribly. And that failure brought terrific consequences. But David prays. David prays. Notice, I thought this was interesting. Notice at verse 14. This is Nathan speaking to David. Speaking the word of God to David. He's speaking on behalf of God. He says, Howbeit, by this deed thou hast given great occasion to the enemies of the Lord to blasphemy. Now look what he says about the child. The child also that is born unto thee, what's the third last word, that next word there, shall surely die. Would you agree with me? That's pretty definite. He doesn't say maybe. He doesn't say it might die. It could die. It probably will die. In fact, he uses two very definite words, shall surely die. God says, what's going to happen to this baby? It's going to die. I mean, flat out. There's no wiggle room. There's no exceptions. There's no qualifications here. The child will surely die. And then it says, David therefore besought God for the child. God made it clear to David, this child's going to die, and David began praying. David began praying. David knew that the child was going to die, but, and we're going to see this here, he thought maybe God will have mercy. Maybe. Look over at verse 22. When he's explaining what his actions, we'll come back to this. While the child was yet alive, I fasted and wept, for I said, Who can tell? Who knows? Who can tell whether God will be what? Gracious to me and the child may live. I noticed three things about David's prayer for the child here. Now, God told him it's going to die. He's thinking, I'm going to pray. Maybe. Who knows? Maybe God will be gracious and spare the child. First thing I notice about his prayer in verse 16, he got alone with God. Look at verse 16. For David therefore besought God for the child. David fasted, and look it says, and went in. And lay all night upon the earth. That word went in, that little phrase went in, has this idea to withdraw himself from everybody else into an inner place. He went to an inner place. He went to a private place, a place where he was alone. There wasn't any other else. He retreated. to an inner place. Can anybody think of some instruction we've been given in the Word of God about our prayer life and about Going in somewhere to pray. In our closet. In Matthew chapter 6, verse 6, Jesus said that we're to go into our closet and pray alone in secret And he says, the God that heareth in secret shall answer thee openly. David is doing exactly what Jesus Christ later on instructs his disciples to do. He's getting alone with God. He's going into his closet, so to speak. And he's going to pray for this child, because who knows? Maybe God will be gracious to me. Question, is there anything wrong with sharing prayer requests? No. We do it all the time. It says bear one another's burdens. Paul had prayer requests, he shared prayer requests with the churches he wrote to. He said, Pray for me. The Word of God may have free course Gave in numerous uh prayer requests. Pray I'll be delivered from the beasts at Ephesus. He had had one place. So there's nothing wrong with sharing prayer requests, but what I'm saying is I think sometimes in certain situations it's best to keep it to ourselves. Sometimes in certain situations it's best just to pray alone. Sometimes I wonder, especially in an age of social media, people get out and they just share everything about their whole lives and every burden and everything and every little situation they're going through. And I just, David didn't do that. He didn't get on social media and say, oh, pray for me. He got alone with God. And I think sometimes the most powerful prayers are when we crawl in a hole or we crawl in a closet and we fall on our face before God. And we plead with God to hear us and help us. Now again, there's nothing wrong. In fact, we're instructed to share our prayers, and Jesus said, you know, if two or three together agree on one thing, that he'll hear But in certain situations, I think, such as this, David got alone. He didn't bring in Nathan. Nathan, come and pray with me. Didn't do that. I don't see called any family his wives or anything. He just got alone with God. Anybody here ever have a situation, that's maybe a little personal question, but you ever have situation where you just needed to be alone with God about it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I just need to be alone with God All these many years, 28 going on, 29 years, I don't know how many times, situations something. In the middle of the week, this place is dark and I'm the only one around. And I tell you, this old altar here by myself has been a precious place. Just to get alone with God. Just to get alone with God. And so that's what David does. He doesn't announce to everybody, he doesn't advertise his prayer request, his burden. He just gets, goes within. He falls on his face before God. So number one, his prayer I noticed he got alone. Number two, he got serious. Look at verse 17. Well, it says last part of verse 16, he lay all night upon the earth. I tell you, if somebody's laying on their face praying to God all night on the earth, they're pretty serious about that prayer, right? That's their mean business. Then verse 17, and the elders of his house arose and went to him. He's back in this room, whatever it was, this quote-unquote closet. And David's back in there. We need to go in and check on him. And so the elders of his house went into him, and these are the people that helped with his household and stuff, went into him, and to raise him up from the earth. But what's the next phrase say? He would not. I can just kind of see him pushing them off. Leave me alone. Leave me alone. He's serious about it. Neither did he eat bread with them. He's fasting and praying. He refuses to be distracted. He refuses any personal indulgence. People fast for a lot of different reasons. The Bible is pretty clear on there. And sometimes people, well, if I don't eat, then God will do this for me. And if I skip this meal and if I go so many days without eating, then God will give me what I want. I don't think that's the idea behind fasting and praying. Now this is my take on it. Take it or leave it. My take on it is where I get so burdened and so earnest in my prayers. That eating is not even a factor in my thinking. I'm so focused, I'm so consumed with bringing this burn for God and getting a hold of God That eating isn't even interest. That's what I think it is with David here. I don't think he's bargaining with God. Well, God, I won't eat. I'm going to pray for seven for twelve hours, and I won't eat 14 meals, and then God will answer my prayer. I don't think fasting is not bargaining with God Prayer and fasting is prayer that produces fasting. You follow my thinking here? And so David pushes them off. I'm not interested in food. I'm not concerned about sleeping. I don't want to be with others. I need to get a hold of God. And he's credibly burdened for his child. One thing consumed David's heart and mind, and that was, God, spare my child. I tell you, we get praying like that, we might see things happen and get a hold of God. So number one, he got alone with God. Number two, he got serious with God. And then I put it this way, he got settled. in his prayers. Look at verse 18, ver the first part. And it came to pass on what on which day? How long has he been praying? Seven days. He's a week he's been in this closet. This is a week. He's refused to be distracted for a whole week. He has put away his social life. He's fasting. He's blown his face before God praying within a lone place, a place by himself. He got settled. David, here's what I think. David knew he was praying against a decree that God had made. God said, This child shall surely die. And David knew he was praying against that pronouncement. Now, would you agree with me? That's pretty formidable God says this is surely going to happen. And I come and fast and pray, and God, please don't let that happen. Don't do what you said you're going to do. Don't let happen what you said is going to happen. Is that do we find that anywhere else in the Bible where God says something is going to happen and people responded in a certain way, and then God did not do what he said he was going to do? Do we have that anywhere in the Bible? Yeah, Nineveh. Jonah finally shows up after his little escapades in whale bellies and stuff. And he shows up and he makes a very emphatic statement. Yet 40 days and Nineveh shall perish. Pretty emphatic, right? Pretty clear. Question, did Nineveh perish? No. They humbled themselves. And God showed mercy and didn't do what he pronounced he would do. In fact, God was so merciful it made Jonah mad of all things. And actually, if we had the time, we could go through various kings in the Old Testament, Ahab being one of them, where God pronounced judgment, and they humbled themselves. And God withdrew the judgment in his mercy in response to the individuals humbling themselves before God. So this is what David is thinking. And this is what David is praying, and this is what David is hoping for, really, according to verse 22. Who knows? Maybe God will be gracious to me. And so his prayers, his prayers, David is not giving up until God did something. So either God healed the child or God withdrew David's prayer request. Paul in 2 Corinthians chapter 12 did the exact same thing Paul had a thorn in the flesh. And the Bible says that Paul telling the church at Corinth, they are under inspiration, he says, I besought the Lord three times. That he would remove this thorn, this physical pain, whatever it was. And when he says he besought the Lord three times, it was three periods of earnest. Determine prayer. And God said what? No. God says, no My strength is sufficient for you. You're going to keep that. You're going to live the rest of your life with that physical ailment, that pain, and I'm going to strengthen you. And I'm going to show my glory, my strength through your weakness. So Paul's praying that his physical condition changes. What ended up changing? His attitude about it. What he say, most gladly therefore will I what? Glory in my infirmity He says, but before he says, most earnestly, I plead that you take it away. And God says, no, not. And David says, okay, then I will glory in my infirmity. God changed not the condition, but not the condition of his body, but the condition of his attitude, his perspective. And so David is praying here, praying against the pronouncement of God, saying, who knows, maybe God will be gracious. So David prays, and then if you would notice verse number 18: it came to pass after the seventh day that the child died. David's prayer answered? No. Nope. God says, no. I'm not going to do that. I notice David's, that's my second point, David's actions after the child's death. His intercession before the child dies, he prays, pleads alone, and earnestly with God. God says no. The child dies. Then David's actions after the child's death. First thing I notice about his actions after the child's death in verse number 20, the first part of verse 20, he accepts the will of God. Look at verse 20. It says, Then David arose from the earth. That's where the fellows come and say, they're talking, oh we can't tell David. David sees them whispering, he says, The child's dead, right? And they said, Yeah, he's dead. David gets up, cleans himself, verse 20. Then David arose from the earth, washed, anointed himself. He'd been a week in this closet. Cleans up, changes his apparel, puts some clean clothes on, takes a bath, whatever. And he came into the house of the Lord and worshiped. First part of verse 20, I notice he accepts the will of God. He doesn't, when he finds out that his prayer was not answered the way he wanted, that God said no, the child's going to die, and the child dies, he doesn't throw a tantrum Even get all mad at God and says, oh, God hates me, and start throwing stuff around and getting mad and getting bitter, I'm never going back to the house of God again. You don't see any of that. This is a man after God's own heart. And you know people who have a heart for God Don't get angry at God when they don't get their way. You know what it's called? Growing up. Right? You don't get your way. You don't throw a tantrum get all mad and get bitter. Would you agree with me? We've got a whole generation that needs to grow up. Can I say this? We've got a whole generation of Christians that need to grow up. I didn't get my way Get mad and get bitter and angry, start slamming doors and throwing shoes and kicking dogs Actually, what David does here, I believe, is he shows the same attitude Jesus showed when he prayed to not have to go to the cross. Remember that? The Garden of Gethsemane? Said, Lord, if it be possible. Lord, if it be possible. Sounds like David saying, who knows? Maybe God will be gracious. Lord, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Who knows? Maybe God will be gracious and he won't take my child. Nevertheless, what did he say? Not my will, but thy will be done. And I think when David finds out the child's dead, he gets up, washes his face, cleans up, puts new clothes on, puts a little clone on a little bit, cleans up, goes gets him something to eat. They're like, what in the world? Because this is God's will. This is God's will. Wouldn't it be something? Wouldn't it be something if you and I can get to the point in our Christian life? When we don't get what we want, we could simply say, all right, it's God's will. Just accept that? Wouldn't that be something? That's what David did. He accepted this as the will of God. Sometimes it takes great faith to accept reality You follow my thinking? Just to accept reality. All right, this is the way it is. God has allowed it. This obviously is God's will. That's reality. I'm going to accept it. By faith, I'm going to accept it. And to be able to go on with life without anger and without bitterness, that takes great faith sometimes. I wonder how many of us have ever gotten a situation in our life where something reality set in about something and we wanted it to be different so bad. And God says, no, this is the way it is. And God in his wisdom and his grace and his plan for our lives is nope, this is the way it is for you. I wonder how many of us be able to say, all right, God knows best, God is wise, this is reality, I'm going to accept it, I'm going to go live for God. That's what David does. Man, he'd been in the valley. He's brought this on himself and he says, all right. And he accepts reality Accepts this as the will of God. Then I find this interesting very quickly. He worshiped at the house of God. Look what it says here. Now this is astounding. He came into the house of the Lord and worshiped I tell you, that little phrase worshiped, that little word worship is has weird meanings in some circles. A lot of, even within Bible-believing circles, maybe, there's a lot of unbiblical Understanding of what worship is. Some people view worship as going through rituals and ceremonies. We're going to church and we're going to worship God. And we're going to cross our hearts and hope to die and do all these different things, you know, and worshiping God Um, even Christians, and and I've said this often over the years, and I've done it deliberately. Now I'm not going to fuss with anybody about this in the least bit, but I never did call our church services worship services Now that's fine, and people do, and maybe I inadvertently have referred to it as a worship service, but in my mind, worship is more than just an hour and 15 minutes, some cases hour and a half service Where we go and sing songs and listen to the preacher go on and on and, you know, give our offerings and then go out. What do we do? Do we stop worshiping when we walk out the back door? To me, worship is an attitude. Worship is an expression of my acknowledgement of God's sovereignty over my life and a submission to that sovereignty by trusting him, that authority, trusting him, and doing what he says. Here's the Leatherman definition of worship. The word itself means to bow down before someone or something. I mean a physical posture. That's what the word itself means. But the definition is much more than that. Here's my definition: to humbly submit. To the supreme authority of God by trusting Him and obeying Him. Now, should we do that when we assemble together for a service? Yes. But we ought to do it on Monday afternoon at the workplace also. And on Saturday night wherever we find ourselves. We ought to recognize and submit to the supreme authority of God over my life and submit to that humbly by trusting Him and obeying Him. And I get that from two particular passages of Scripture. Well, this is one of them, two others. The other is in Genesis 22, when God told Abraham to take his son, his only son whom he loved, Isaac, and go up on the mount and offer him up for a sacrifice. Question, did God have authority to tell Abraham to do that? Yes And the Bible says that Abraham worshiped God in that setting. Woo! Abraham, and if you read it carefully, it's one of the most amazing events in Scripture in my mind, one of, and Abraham without hesitation, without argument, without negotiation. He worships God. God, you have authority to require this of me. And I submit to that authority. I trust you. I'm going to do exactly what you say. That is worship. Worship. And the other one I get is in Job Where God takes everything away, He has, takes everything He has away from Him, unexplained, no explanation whatsoever, no heads up, no warning, boom, gone And the Bible says that Job worshiped God. Wow. Did God have the authority to take everything from Job? Yes or no? Yes, absolutely. And Job recognized that. In fact, remember he told his wife, the Lord take it, the Lord give it. The Lord taketh away. That's worship. God has God, you have every right, you have all the authority there is. You have the authority to take all this from me. I'm going to trust you. I'm going to submit to that and I'm going to trust you and I'm going to do what you tell me to do. That's what David does. Prayed and prayed and prayed against hope that God maybe be gracious and merciful and spare his child. God says no. It's part of the consequences. It's not going to happen. Your child's going to die So David gets up, accepts the reality of the situation. This is God's will, and he worships God, God's authority, and he submits to that. He went on and lived his life. Look at verse 20, the last part of verse 20. Then he came down into his own house, and when he required, they set bread before him, and he did eat. He got back up and he went on with his life. He understood the wisdom and will of God. He accepted the consequences of his actions. I would like to think I would hope I've not been too guilty of this, but I've seen it, where people disobey God and they do something that God Instructs not to. And then there's consequences, and they get mad at God for the consequences of their own actions. Why is God doing this to me? Well, the fact of the matter is it's simply a consequence of some decision, stupid, sinful decisions you made. And then get angry at God for it. David doesn't do that. He accepts the fact that there are consequences to my actions, and I'm going to live with it. I'm going to trust God. And God gives him grace. We'll see that in coming studies. And last of all This is what I wanted to get to tonight, is David's announcements after his child's death. Here's a great question we started off with. What happens to babies that die? Killed Narrat. September 11, the towers crashed down on a child care facility on the bottom floors of the Twin Towers. Babies killed What happens? Where do they go? What happens to them? Millions aborted in their mother's wombs? You know life begins at conception, right? What about where what happens to all of these? Where do babies go when they die? Where do children that die in the womb? I think that's a legitimate question. I think it's a very emotional, can be very strong emotional question, the answer to that. I think it's an important question. I know that John Calvin was wrong in what he said. In his commentary on Deuteronomy chapter 13, he said this. Listen carefully. We may rest assured that God would never have suffered any infants to be slain except those who were already damned and predestined for eternal death Did you catch that? He said God wouldn't let a child die unless they're already determined to go to hell. What he's basically saying is that every child that dies goes to hell. I had a professor in Philadelphia College of the Bible, this question came up. They asked, what about babies that die? What happens to them? The professor said, he said, they are in the hands of a holy, good, and loving God. Now that's a good answer, but I don't think it goes far enough. They are in the hands of a good, holy, and loving God. By the way The most hardened unbeliever that dies in their sins is in the hands of a holy and good and loving God. Right? So that's a fine answer as far as it goes. That's true as far as it goes, but it doesn't address the question Does the baby go to heaven or does the baby go to hell or does he go like the Catholics turned into some sort of limbo? Well, the Bible doesn't give a lot of information about it, but the information we're given is very clear. I'll just say this and I'll tell you why. A baby, when it dies, goes immediately into the presence of God. We have several reasons we say that. Notice here in verse number 23, he's explaining his actions to the folks in his household. And he says, But now he is dead, the child is dead. Wherefore should I fast? Can I bring him back again? The answer to that is obviously no. Now look what he says. I shall go to him But he shall not return to me. What's the second word in his statement? I. You agree with me? That sounds like he's pretty confident where this child is. Wherever that child is, I shall go to him. Now, wherever David is going, when David dies, that's where the child is. Question, where did David go when he died? In paradise, but eventually into heaven So, and there's no doubt about that. For anybody to suggest that David was an unsaved man, to use New Testament terminology, anybody suggest that David was an unsaved man is ludicrous All through the Bible it presents him as a man who knew God, was accepted by God, by God's grace. So David's very, very confident. I shall go to him. Wherever I go when I die, that's where the baby's going to be. I shall go to him. Again, when David, wherever David's going when he dies, is where the baby is. David's going to heaven. That's where the baby is. Now, again, the Bible doesn't give a lot of information about the death of a child, but the information we're given is very, very clear. Now take your Bible if you would. Keep your place. I'm winding down. Trust me. I saw my shadow today. Matthew 19. Would you turn there real quickly with me? I want to look at two passages in the Gospels. One is Matthew 19. And you've got to pay attention to what the Lord is saying here. Matthew 19 and verse number 13 is where I want to start reading. Matthew 19, verse 13. Matthew nineteen verse thirteen Then there were brought unto him what kind of children? Little children You study that carefully, get your good New Testament dictionary, you find out it's talking about infants, little babies, not 11-year-olds, not 12-year-olds, not 8-year-olds, not 14-year-olds, Babies Little toddlers. Then there were brought unto him little children that he should put his hands on them and pray. And the disciples rebuked them. But Jesus said, look at this. Now pay attention to the wording. Suffer, or allow, permit the little children, and forbid them not. To come unto me. Look at his last statement. Probe such is the what? Oh. Isn't that interesting he says it that way? These are the kids that touch the kingdom of heaven. And he laid his hands on them and departed this. And he makes that statement various places in the Gospels. In fact, he says one time, he says, you have to have the faith of a child to come. Come over. Now this one may require a little more explaining. John chapter 9. He gives a little statement here that I think sheds some light on those who are incapable of comprehending the gospel. John chapter nine. Now I won't begin reading in thir verse thirty nine and He's killed this guy, this blind guy, and the Pharisees are all worked up. And as it usually turns out, Jesus ends up rebuking the Pharisees for their pride and self-righteousness. And verse 39, John 9, he says, Jesus said, For judgment am I come into this world, that they which see might not see. Now, question: Is he talking about physical sight here? No. He's talking about what? Spiritual understanding. They see, they understand it. He says that I come to this world that they which see not might see, that those don't understand, they don't comprehend the things of God. And that they which see might be made blind. Those that think they got it all figured out, I'm going to throw them for a loop. That's the Leatherman version. And some of the Pharisees, verse 40, which heard him, which were with him, heard these words, and said unto him, Are we blind also? Well, that's who he was talking about. And he said unto them, look at this. If ye were blind, if you didn't comprehend, if you weren't able to understand the truth Ye would have what? No sin. But now you say, oh, we see, therefore your sin remaineth. You understand the truth, you're able to comprehend it You're able to realize it and you're held accountable for that. I put this down. God does not condemn people for things they are unable to do. In fact, if you study, he talks about Old Testament cities that if the things had been done in them that were done in Jerusalem and Capernaum, they would have repented, and you're going to receive the greater judgment. And the principle is a limited opportunity brings lesser judgment. The greater the opportunity, the greater the judgment. No opportunity, no judgment. I'm submitting to you that a little infant that has no ability to comprehend the truth. Goes immediately to heaven. They are not held accountable for something they cannot do. They cannot do. And that goes for children in the womb. Can I say this? And I believe that goes for severely handicapped that do not have the mental ability to comprehend and grasp the truth And they cannot be held accountable for something they cannot do. They cannot do. Question Do you and I have the ability to comprehend God's instructions for us? Yes. That means we are what? Accountable. Accountable. Therefore, we need to be saved. Amen. But as a saved person, not to keep my salvation, but to please God and to fulfill the purpose of my life, I've got to trust Him and obey Him. And if I don't, there's horrific consequences, as we see in David. Did David know it was wrong to commit adultery at Bathsheba? Absolutely. Murder her husband? Yes. Lie? Yes. Covered up? Yes. He knew all that. And he was held accountable and there was consequence. So let's trust the Lord. Maybe you've been praying for something earnest and it's a good thing. And maybe in our mind we think this is the best thing. Why would God not do this? I learned a long time ago, God knows a whole lot more than I do. And sometimes what I think, why would God not do this? God has reasons that I can't understand. And I need to just trust Him. So pray and pray and pray and pray until God either changes the situation or changes my attitude about it. And then just accept reality and go on. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from this very pointed passage here in this tremendous experience in David's life. Lord, I don't know how your Holy Spirit might take these truths here and these lessons and apply to our lives, but Lord, we do want to worship you. We want to recognize that you are God and we are not. And we want to trust you and follow your instructions. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. And again, I don't know how the Lord may have used this, but you'd say, preacher, God spoke to my heart tonight. And God challenged me in areas in my Christian life that need attention, and maybe my prayer life, maybe my acceptance of things that cannot change. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. God did speak to my heart. Is there any like that tonight? Up the thing and God bless you. Hands all around. How about we just bring it to the Lord? Do what David did and say, Lord, I'll just trust you. I'm going to pray and ask, and whatever you say, I accept that. And I'll worship you. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.