Forth between these two verses and specifically one word that has absolutely fascinated me, sort of gripped me every time. I've read the book of James. Maybe it's it's it because it's found in such a small little passage here, this word, maybe you've made the mistake of just kind of reading over it. I know I have. But recently God's pressed upon my heart this particular word, this particular couple verses, and I'd like to share that burden with you tonight. James chapter one 1 verse 8 is all we're going to look at tonight. I'll quote briefly another verse that it goes in conjunction with that. James chapter 1. Verse 8. Make sure you're there. We'll personalize it just a little bit. Momentarily, I'll explain that. James chapter 1, verse number 8. Here's the Apostle James writes, A double-minded man. is unstable in all his ways. I told you I like to Think of it personally, and this may sound a little awkward, you might not be accustomed to doing this. I'd like you to substitute your name rather than man. Periodically I was challenged to do this in Bible college to just simply put your name in there. Again, it's not going to sound quite right, but it it the Bible ought to speak We know that. We get that. But uh James chapter one, a double-minded unlike you to put your name in there. Let's read that together. We'll do this audibly out loud. All right, everybody together. James 1, verse 8, filling in your name to make it personal. Here James writes together. A double-minded brett is unstable in all his ways. You know, I know it does sound kind of funny, doesn't it? But you know, there's only one other place This word and the the topic tonight that I really like to hone in on is double-mindedness. Double-mindedness. You know, this word only appears one other time in all the Word of God. I know I looked, whether Greek, Hebrew, it doesn't matter. This word appears only one other time. It's found, interestingly enough, in later in the book of James, James chapter 4, verse 8. You're welcome to turn there or just simply listen. The Bible says a very familiar verse, draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. And purify your hearts. Here is the word, ye double-minded. I'd like to challenge you folks tonight About the dangers of double-mindedness. Lord, we thank you for your word. I thank you that it brings comfort at times when we need it, and also brings conviction when we need it as well. I pray tonight that we would open up our hearts, our lives as they already are open unto you And be honest with you, honest with ourselves, honest with other people. We realize there's a portion of double-mindedness that pertains to our outward testimony. So I pray that your folks would be spirit-filled listeners. I would be a spirit-filled preacher. Lord, help me to preach with clarity and get these thoughts across this burden that you've laid on my heart. In Christ's name I ask. Amen. A double-minded man is unstable in all of his ways. It ought to sort of bring to your mind a little bit of a picture. I'll mention this a little bit later. But has anyone ever actually played with a top? A a uh a little the top, you know, with a string? And what you do, you it's actually quite a crafty toy. Quite difficult to maneuver. I bought one from Nicaragua as a little keepsake and I was planning to use it for display when we thought maybe God was leading that. And man, I tried this thing out and the per the individual tried to explain in Spanish, so that was kind of a problem to begin with. But I could not get this thing to work and man I I've tried and tried and tried. But uh it's sort of like when you actually do manage to get a top working, you spin it and you actually throw it upside down and then it spins and spirals into control uh it's got some centrifugal force that keeps it in motion. Fascinating toy that dates back I don't know how many years, probably 1800s or so. the uh a t a very, very old toy, but it's got an interesting Bible principle that I see in James 1. 8, and that is this. That uh as a uh top may have some spiraling centrifugal force that keeps it in motion, eventually that friction between where it makes contact between the top and the surface upon which it's spinning, uh slows it down slowly but surely, eventually after that centrifugal force lessens and lessens and it excretes in thermal energy and so forth the scientific thought behind it, it begins to lose that momentum. You begin to watch as it kind of j jives a little bit, you know. will tell you like uh oh this isn't good. James is giving us a picture here, I think. He says a double minded man, woman Christian, he's talking to believers, we know that from the context, that he says a double-minded man, a double-minded Christian, is may have it may look good right away, but eventually it's going to spiral out of control. Uh there's a uh disease, and maybe you know it by its shorter name, it's called bipolar manic depressive disorder. Of course, we've shortened that to uh to just simply bipolar disease. Do you know psychologists and scientists are still trying to figure out what exactly causes it, but all of the symptoms of bipolar disease are very well documented. It's said about an individual diagnosed with bipolar disease, and we're getting to the double-mindedness in just a moment. It's said about this individual that's diagnosed with this, that they act in two seemingly opposite fashions. One time there are elevated periods of excitement while other times they are depressed and in a low of life that they can't seem to go. There was one man, this is a real case. That said about his wife who was diagnosed with an extreme form of bipolar disease that he it was like she acted like two completely different people. Uh husbands you're probably thinking that that's always true about the w no, I'm only teeth. Uh I won't even go there, okay? Jen's not around. Alright, I'm safe. Okay. Nobody tell her, but um the i the this uh the sad truth is that this man never knew which side of his wife he was going to get in. And it got serious. He never knew uh and he said at times the way he described it, his wife can be the most caring, loving person, putting everybody else before her, and then turn around in the very same day and yell, scream, get red in the face. throw things at him, literally curse him to his face. He said, because that she would do this, had a habit of doing this, he found it difficult to get close to his wife Yeah, I know what you're thinking. That's that's terrible. I I think the same thing that is absolutely terrible. How uh uh could you imagine somebody you cared about that much like a husband or a wife? that it was like that or a friend or a mom or a brother or a sister. But I unfortunately in the spiritual aspect, you and I sometimes, if we're not careful, we can live a bipolar spiritual life. The sad truth about that, James is pointing out, is that you will spiral out of control, and that God finds it difficult to get close to you. Why else did the Bible say James said, draw nigh to God? You want a close walk with him? He concludes that verse. He says, listen, you've got to get rid of this double-mindedness. This is a problem. In my opinion, this ranks in one of the number one detriments to our closeness, our intimacy that maybe you have found that you lack. Maybe you once had this double-mindedness that just seems to creep in. Maybe God tonight, maybe yourself, you'd be willing to diagnose yourself. with a case of spiritual bipolar disease. I don't know uh if that may be you tonight. Uh maybe it might be for a minor degree. Maybe in a lot of ways you know You've been kind kind of living two separate lives, maybe uh putting on on the outside, and then something completely different. That is a very dangerous I'm not saying this because I'm trying to be mean or ugly, but I'm trying to challenge you with what James challenged early Christians with w which w what God's challenged me with is that I cannot be something different on the outside than I am on the inside. That's a discrepancy. I can't be in this situation this way and in another situation another way. That is detrimental to your Christian health, just like it would in your psyche or your psychology. So we're going to examine, we're going to first of all define what is double-mindedness. We're going to look at the dangers of double-mindedness. And then I think we'd be amiss to uh delve into the deliverance that we can get from double-mindedness. But first, I think a good place to start is a double-minded man is unstable in all of his ways. Interesting word picture, but defining double-mindedness, what exactly does it mean? It only appears twice in all the Word of God? New Testament and Old Testament. It's a very interesting word, but double-mindedness in the Greek is di sukos. You recognize a compound word there. Diesukas. The first part is die. Dimeans too, that's quite elementary. Dine theism is the belief in two gods Dioxide is a molecule that has two atoms of oxygen. You get the idea? A dilemma or dilemma is a given situation with two possible alternatives. Dye. That means two in its basic form. But how about such this word here where again we're defining what it means? It's found in the English words like psychology. Maybe uh psychic, psychotherapy, psycho, like um never mind. Uh that you you get the idea though that It was psychology, we kind of get that idea what that word means. But when you put these two together, it's not suggesting the idea, and this gets tricky. It's not suggesting the idea of two different minds, like somehow one is not responsible for the other. That's of course what our society and professional psychiatrists would ha uh mentioned, but that it's not two different Minds, it's rather a dual personality, almost like a spiritual schizophrenia or a um uh uh not even quite that. It more indicates an idea of a divided mind Something that's that's not quite whole, something that's not that should be put together and it should congeal, it should be better than this. So Daisuka. So that's how you would define perhaps this double-mindedness on paper, but how about in person? What does it look like? Okay, I've shared my testimony somewhat. I did not grow up per se in a Christian home. I didn't start going back to church until my teen years. So The Bible lessons that some of our teens know and are well familiar with probably could teach me some of the facts and rehearse some of the things about these stories that I don't even know now that I didn't grow up learning a lot of those things, but I learned quickly when I began to go to church that what things made my parents happy, what things made my Pastor happy, what things look good on the outside. Okay, I'll admit that that's one thing I crave to do is just look good in front of people. And I think a lot of us fall into that trap. Of course, the uh Proverbs says the fear of man bringeth a snare. So we already know that there's a snare and we're spiraling out of control when that's the way that we live. But we look at it, what it's defined on paper, but how about in person? I know firsthand what it's like to uh sort of pretend uh fake it till you make it sort of thing or uh maybe look good uh on the outside. We're hey, we're all guilty of it. What you need to kind of do tonight is just say You know what? Pastor Brunt's not trying to pick on me. He's just pointing out from the Word of God that this is a challenge that I'm going to take in my life. How about you? Are you different? Maybe perhaps when you leave the church building Realize this you are the church. My wife and I have been talking a lot about that and what it means to be the church. But uh realize when the church goes, that you go with it, that you are the church. But are are you different around a certain group of individuals at work? Do you display a different demeanor? Or does your attitude change? Maybe around certain family members you put a little bit of a damper on your walk with God, whatever it may be, double-mindedness, and it could just simply m be this idea of hiding on purpose a certain portion of your life. I think James is getting uh hitting all these points when he says, hey listen, a double-minded Christian is headed for disaster. He is spiraling out of control. He d he may or may not realize it, but there's a big problem. So uh but notice in uh James you're in James chapter one probably But James chapter four, verse eight, I've mentioned this earlier, that James four, verse eight at the end he says, And purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Notice he didn't say, Purify your mind, ye double-minded. That would kind of make sense in our frame of thinking. I think what he's getting at is that this word is actually entailing much more than just your mind. According to this scripture, it entails your heart. It's the real you. It's what makes you tick in a day. It's it's what drives you. It's your motivations. It's the way you're consistent or else not consistent. You know, God just wants you to be consistent. He wants you to be uh either hot or cold. He doesn't want you to be somewhere in between. We know from the Word of God that uh James chapter one he's pointing out a double-minded Christian is headed for a lot of disaster. Die is also used in another English word. Called a divide. Now, if you were over in England, you would know that in Parliament, a divide refers to a vote that's separated between two positions, yay and nay. You know Christians can get like that. You could be separated between yea and nay. You can be fostering certain thoughts. You could be living a certain way. You could be harboring different thoughts. You can be um uh planning and and and uh this sort of thing this way around this person and then a different way and you we somehow think that we're gonna get away with it all of course we'll everything's open and we're naked before God's right Um but still somehow we can fall into this trap. And James says, listen, I'm just putting it plain and simple. If you want to be close to God, if you want to have that intimate walk, then you need to learn to deal with this double-mindedness. So um I I've been there before. What does it look like in person? It could be something I just jotted down. It could be a Christian who looks longingly at the world and desires it. Um you can't wait to maybe if you're um homeschooled or Christian school, not uh not picking on any of our teens in particular, but maybe um grew up in a Christian home and you say, man, it's about high time I just kind of want to get out of here Uh this is enough for me. Um it it could be uh that you know you're required to hold up a certain image Because people know, hey, this is this is you, this is uh how everybody knows you and that sort of thing. What would they think after all if if I got involved in this? So no, I won't really do it because You know, that sort of thing. But you look longingly at it. It could just be a longing glance at something uh the worldly or something that that just doesn't belong. Christians who have wrong kind of friends You look up with the wrong kind of people and enjoy it. They enjoy getting around a certain scene. And uh listen, I I don't have any problem with being salt and light, but I think as Christians we are designed We are uh predestined by God to live separated lives. The children of Israel were a perfect, beautiful example of God's people being separated. And that That message, that thrust does not change for us today. We need to be living separated lives, different from the world. They ought to crave what we have, so to speak. But Christians who have the wrong kind of friends and allow that to taint their view, Christians who habitually feast on secret sin. You know, it's um it's sad that several people I've looked up to have really kind of wiped out for the cause of Christ. I won't name anybody specifically I suppose out out of respect for the individuals, but I could think of one that hurt me really good in Bible college. He was my floor leader. Uh I loved the guy. And looked up to him and just godly, every time we talked, it seemed to just reorient itself toward God and our walk with God. He sharpened me and I sharpened him and then come to find out that he gives in to a terrible gross sin and leaves his wife and so forth. And uh again, I'm not mentioning any means. I don't mean to be ugly or anything like that. But what was likely happening and what he admits all over social media was simply that he had been entertaining wrong. He'd been living a double-binded life. Everybody thought It was like that top spinning, it was just going to keep going, everything's fine, it looks great, until it didn't spin anymore It went out of control. He couldn't keep a handle on it. He couldn't keep it hidden from everybody. And he acted on what he did. So it could be c Christians who are habitually feasting on secret sin. Things that things that they think can they can Separate from their walk with God, separate from God's people, separate from anyone who may um be a little bit offended by that or so forth. It could be Christians who harbor thoughts of discontentment. that lead to rebellion in their heart about rules, authorities, maybe a situation in your life. I realize that Uh I you know, I feel kind of like this. I feel like God has really blessed me and my family and y we have some y struggles and some things and sometimes negative, adverse situations happen. But when I hear some of you folks mention testimonies of what God's brought you through. I'm kinda humbled. I feel like, man, I don't know anything. I am young and uh not very experienced in my own estimation. And I I hear folks the things that you've been through and you remain faithful to me that's That's astounding and and preaches for itself. But I know sometimes as Christians when God deals us a certain hand and this is kind of the way it works, things are tighter than you like or things didn't work out the way that you like or uh someone wronged you and And I've seen it happen. And then because they they just feast on it, they don't want to get rid of it, they they sort of are uh pretending to be okay, but then they they um just r It could be Christians who act differently around a certain group of individuals. I don't need to spell out necessarily everything that James is hitting it. But you get the idea, a double-minded person is kind of doing a little bit of an acting job, isn't it? Um some talented actor are ones who can play quite various roles, different roles. They can play a serious character while being a humorous character maybe in the in another movie. But I I got news here, a lot of Christians have become adept at being professional actors. We can put on a certain facade, and again, I'm just being honest with you folks, straight up and Then uh and in another environment, in another scene, if you will, we we act completely different. God says that's wrong. God says you're headed for some disaster. There are going to be some problems in your life, even if you've done an A plus job hiding that up till now Why? Because that's what James says. James says, a double-minded man is unstable in all of his ways. You can't draw nigh to God and maintain your double-mindedness, whatever that may be. So what are the dangers of double-mindedness? I wrote down number one is that you're divided in your heart. Remember that's part of the word. Sukas is not just your psychology and your your thinking. Um psychologists don't like to admit this, but this is your heart. This is your relationship with God. That's why A lot of those sessions don't end up working because they don't need sessions, they need this savior and something completely different to solve their problems. But divided in your heart. Two souls, two hearts, two opinions. Have you ever noticed that professionals are professionals because of their single-mindedness? Uh let's say, for example Michael Jordan, he should have just stuck with basketball, okay? I'm from Chicago and uh you know so I know uh Michael Jordan at least. Um that Michael Jordan was phenomenal at basketball, but he lived breathe eat practice day night. He did uh had a regiment, was very regimented individual, and all he did was basketball. He was good at what he did. I could throw out other individuals like uh Venus Williams and uh uh all sorts of others that you immediately uh Michael Phelps you'd say oh I know what they do I know what they're well known for why because they're professional they focused in they honed in on what they were good at they they concentrated on a single thing They weren't uh divided in this and this and oh I'm gonna do this. No, no, no. They were so good at what they did because they were single-minded focused. We need to be single-minded Christians Focus on the Lord, living for God. Nothing that distracts, nothing's uh gonna distract me. I'm not gonna be divided in my heart. Um I mentioned um James talks a lot about double-mindedness. Turn to James chapter 4. Look at verse number 4. Strong language protrudes from this verse. James 4, 4. He writes this, ye adulterers and adulteresses, he's talking to believers. Know ye not that the friendship of the world is enmity with God? Whosoever therefore will be the friend of God is the enemy uh or f uh friend of the world rather is the enemy of God. You see how there's a divide heart? Some of them were thinking they can do both, and James pointed out he said You are an adulterer and an adulteress. You're a spiritual fornicator. You are double-minded that you can't have Both. It may sound like he's strong, but he's trying to keep you from disaster in your spiritual life. Maybe you say, I'm not quite that extreme, Pastor Bret, I don't think Um where I'm living that double mindedness. And it you're right, it could be a mild case. It could be that the spin is the top is just starting to spin But mind you that eventually that's going to happen. One thing just progresses to another. You could look at Lot. Lot was a perfect example, right? that he left Abraham uh left with Abraham from Ur. He followed, he was issued similar commandments, he was there for just about everything. He washed Abraham continuously almost day after day sacrificed to God. So he kind of really, by inference, had no choice, you know. Um he did, of course, and he chose, he believed God. But then what happened? He he looked toward the cities Uh, you know, it's nothing wrong with looking. Then he began to kinda lean toward what he wanted, gave the choice and he lost it. And then he he lived in the cities, not just the outskirts. And eventually he even lingered when the the destruction was about to come. And this is the same pattern I see in Christians that we think we can kind of get away with it. We got this dichotomy going on in our lives that w around a certain crew we're We're living for God and we kind of put it out there, maybe we even have a desire, but then we let these certain things in our lives we look, lean, lust, uh live and and linger in in sin. Even though that's not what we originally intended. So guarding your heart. Be careful because one danger I would point out about double-mindedness is it is uh It there's a danger in a divided heart in your life, but also a danger in disarray in your life. By the way, they all start with a a D, so we're alliterating today. Disarray in your life Take a look at James 1. 8 again. James chapter 1, verse 8. A double-minded man is unstable in all of his ways. What does the word unstable in all of his ways? That's our text this evening. The word's actually a negative of a verb that means to place down permanently. So it means it's the opposite of being planted firmly. Instead you're wobbling out of control, kind of like that top that I had started off our message with tonight, but unstable. We're spiraling out of control We're not planted firmly. Of course, um the the Bible talks about being firm and standing on God and and uh our our walk with God and and it's it's you can see what James is saying If you're living double-minded, that means you're getting unstable and things are getting hairy canary. It's gonna spiral out of control. You ever you ever notice somebody that uh just one lie kind of feeds into another? Maybe you've got um Uh s some of you may have that experience either with your um children or something like that that they try to cover it up, but that's kind of the way even adults do. We we kind of spin a situation a certain way and because we did that we don't want so and so to find out and and uh you know one thing kinda leads to the other and You don't want so-and-so talking with so-and-so 'cause then they're going to put two and two together. You know, and that sort of thing that that we do this in our life kind of gets in disarray and where rather than thinking and being at peace in mind, all of a sudden it's like out of control and we're so bogged down with stuff. God does not want us to live like that. We had mentioned by way of testimony that if Pastor did put a recorder in your your house, you ought to say, oh man, please do, I love that I'm accountable before other people. That ought to be our response, but some of us would hesitate and say, Whoa, I don't know. I've got some things that are going on uh you know, I don't know if that's such a good idea and so forth. That that that could be a problem. Uh uh oh almost a symptom of disarray in our life. But wow, what else what what other things that we may have? Maybe distance from God Look at James chapter 4 verse 8. Love the book of James. Draw nigh to God. He'll draw nigh to you. I mentioned this earlier, and he says that so how do we do that? How do we Keep that close walk with God. That's right. I want that. I'm not going to be able to do that. That ought to be our desire. That ought to be what we want. Or otherwise I feel like this The moment you You know something he couldn't be any more right? In full time minutes. What I give my life for, and I love it. Away from God. And at first I thought, why am I keep us double-minded. We ought to be s to live apart from God. Do you feel like that? God, I don't. What? And we ought to be afraid to be dying. Spiders, how many have act Well Brother Jerry, I didn't expect You know, falling asleep. I mean I love it. Okay? How about call I have this one properly? The fear of clowns. Okay Chlorophobia kind of how about how about nomophobia? Walking away from God. We fear the We fear allowing anything in our life to creep in that robs From living for God. A double minded live on But the point of the Or what it's made for, but you still have to do it. Gotten in the way of living or have You know, I'm I'm not foolish. The jumping is a very good thing. And and you could almost Uh some they just did their entire life. Too clear to think on a Christian life. Definitely not God's will So what about um maybe p uh pet. Get rid of double mindedness. Um John one uh first John one nine but yeah Oh yeah, I think that's a good one. That happened to to our tally. Bite and she would Well if you back up, Because that's a good thing. They're I like the country, share how to crack it down back. With all the chip I believe Cup The weight and the which And looking under the Oh, I'm not sure. You gotta you'll not die. Uh uh sometimes we we are flat out keeping us. The f the that's just a lie from sta Get rid of it. Just be gone with it. That's It's just purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Cleanse your hands. constant and it comes um not not picking on the young people at all but God's given us Are you gonna make I've been double-minded? Wow I'll close this was one of the most powerful nations in the world. Actually it was the most powerful in the world during its time. From one hundred B C The Empire. Powerful. I had one problem It was divided. You got it. De visque, ever too, I'm not pushing, like the crack, Well, we've got a couple different God One nation under God. Indivisible. Why did they include that? They knew a nation. God knows James A Christian against it's no good. You got a lot of problems. Uh maybe you A sir. Maybe you're a something wrong with you, but you could be like me And and think the other day. No, I'm only You say, but he looked he looked just on the outside. But then when we kind of take a peek underneath, which by the way from the beginning, he didn't need us to take the back off. to discover that it it looks a little bit different. So let me ask way though back to James 20, that a double-minded man is unstoppable. And all of his waste. Have you been living double-minded? And if so, are you willing to make the choice? Corrected tonight. Oops. Very good attention. And I know uh God has I'm not putting my sniffle back in what's I need. Ms. Jennifer play a up front if you hey do business. Um as and Jennifer Plate