Lord lift me up the higher ground. Exodus twenty-five. We're gonna we're looking at the tabernacle, and uh is there anybody would happen to um not have your picture of your tabernacle with you. I have a stack of them down front here, Jerry, a couple guys, James. Uh if there's anybody'd like to have one. I just think as I keep saying, I think it's helped to to visualize what we're talking about here. We're studying the tabernacle. Fifty chapters of the Bible are d are uh devoted to discussing either directly and and in their entirety the tabernacle or referencing the tabernacle in one way or another. And so we've come to the conclusion it's important for the believer to understand a little bit about it. And actually, in my study, uh in preparing these lessons, doing this series, I've come to a little different conclusion about the tabernacle than what I've just assumed was true about it and I've um my uh understanding of it has developed a bit and so I hope yours is also as we're studying. Alright Everybody got it there. Exodus chapter 25. I'm going to read just verse 23 down through verse 30, where the table of showbread is addressed. Notice what it says. God's instructions of Moses here. He says, Thou shalt also make A table of shit'em wood, two cubits shall be the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof. And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold. Previous pieces of furniture were overlaid or made completely of what? Brass. They were brazen is what we call it. Now this one is overlaid with gold. And we'll find out why here in a moment. Thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, and make thereto a crown of gold round about. And thou shalt make unto it a border of a handbreadth round about. And thou shalt make a golden crown to the border thereof round about. And thou shalt make for it four rings of gold, and put the rings in the four corners that are on the four feet thereof Over against the borders shall be the rings, shall the rings be for the places of the staves to bear the table. And thou shalt make the staves of shitam wood, and overlay them with gold. that the table be borne with them. And thou shalt make the dishes thereof, and spoons thereof, and covers thereof, and bowls thereof to cover withal. Of pure gold shalt thou make them And thou shalt set upon the table showbread before me always. Calling this the table of showbread And uh so let's have a word of prayer and we'll try and look at this real quickly. Father, Lord, you've spent a lot of time in your word on this this uh building of sorts uh referred to as the tabernacle, the structure. And obviously has great significance. Help us to learn from this and apply Holy Spirit, I pray you'd apply to our lives the principles given here and the pictures that we see in this, and fill me with your Spirit and speak through me, Lord, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I said that uh my understanding of the tabernacle has been developing as I've been working on these messages, and I've come to realize that the tabernacle for the Jewish people was not so much an instrument Addressing their salvation. But it was more a structure as an instrument, not of bringing about salvation for the Jews. The ones involved in this tabernacle, they're already saved at this point. This is more for the main maintenance of their relationship with the Lord. This tabernacle. The washing of the labor and the coming in and the uh the offering of the sacrifices on an annual basis, then on a daily basis, and the candle uh stick we're going to look at in a couple weeks and uh all the altar. This all was the presence of God. This was them approaching the presence of God And I'm seeing this instrument, this structure, as a way for the Jews to go through and express their worship of God, maintain their fellowship with God. And um I think uh I think we can see this a little bit in the makeup. You have your picture there, and uh we have the curtain uh it goes around the court of the tabernacle. You see it there. And there's only one way to enter into the court of the tabernacle. That was through the one door on the east side. We said that was a good picture of the Lord Jesus Christ as how we enter into a relationship with the Lord, as how we enter into the Lord's presence through the Lord Jesus Christ. He says, I am the door. By me if any man enter in he shall be saved. And so we have the door there. Very first thing we noted is when you get inside the court of the tabernacle, you have the brazen altar. And there, before you did anything, there had to be a sacrifice made. The judgment of sins had to be dealt with. And isn't that true in the Christian life? I have no Christian life until the judgment of my sins has been taken care of. Again, the Lord Jesus Christ took our judgment for us and made it possible for us to enter into the very presence of God. We get past the brazen altar And we get to the labor. We're not told exactly we're not told anything about how it looks, the size, anything, but we do know what its function was. Its function was for the priests to cleanse themselves, to maintain uh clean uh maintain themselves uh to be clean so that they can go about their duties in the tabernacle itself and and running around there in the dirt and different things, living in the world, we pick up and needed continual cleansing. And we said that was true for the Christian life. We only get saved one time But we need a continual cleansing of our sins to maintain our fellowship with God. For them to go into the presence of God. If they didn't wash up first, boy, they were going to die. They need to have that daily um uh what would you call it daily defilement I guess you could say. Remember we pointed out Peter. Jesus would wash his feet. That was very symbolic. Peter said, No, you ain't washing my feet. And uh Lord says, Oh yeah, if you don't wash your feet then you're none of mine. Oh in that case, give me a bath. Uh give me the full deal. And the Lord said, You don't need a bath. You're already saved. You don't need everything washed And uh he said, just need those feet. You need that uh those sins that we commit as Christians dealt with. And so that's all taken care of. Then once you get to that, then you get to this structure that's called the tabernacle We not even got in the tabernacle yet. In the tabernacle, the tabernacle itself, you can see in your picture there, is divided into two portions. The first part is called the holy place You go within the that outer veil, it's called, you enter through the outer veil, you come in, and on the right hand side you have this table That were called the table of showbread. On the left-hand side, inside this enclosed structure, you have the uh candlestick, the golden candlestick. You get up here, you have the golden altar, and then you have another veil, the inner veil, and beyond that is the Ark of the Covenant and uh and the Holy of Holies. And uh the very, that was the very presence of God. Nobody went into the Holy of Holies except on the annual Day of Atonement, and only the high priest. And only through a very a very elaborate, uh a very specific is the word I want process to get in there. All of this Was part of Israel's maintenance of their fellowship with God. It wasn't them coming to the tabernacle getting saved over and over and over again. It's important to understand, people in the Old Testament got saved basically the same way as people in the New Testament, by grace through faith. They look for a coming Savior. The New Testament, we look for a already Savior. We look back to the crucifixion of Christ They looked ahead and they didn't have all the information at that point we did and maybe expressed itself a little differently than it does in our day, but it was the same thing, for by grace were they saved through faith, just like we are. And so all this elaborate Ceremonies and these rituals and processes they went through was all a part of them maintaining their fellowship with God. If uh Levi Goldstein, good Jewish name, uh is out there and his his sheep kicks him in the shin Um, I've I don't I would never say this, but I've found I've I've heard that some people, if they get kicked in the shin by a sheep, they say words they ought not to say. Did everybody ever hear anything like that? Ever ever hear of anything like that? Um I've heard of that. And uh and how good night he gets convicted. Uh I've I've grieved Jehovah And I shouldn't have said that. Um I need to go make that right. And so he'd come to the tabernacle. Is he getting saved again? No, he don't get saved again, but he's maintaining his fellowship. Everybody with me? So I I I see that here now. And um uh so now we're getting inside We've looked at the door, we've looked at the praise and altar, we've looked at the labor, now we're standing at the outer veil. And uh we're about to enter into the tabernacle through the outer veil. Uh it's a little dark in there. Uh there's no lighting, there's no windows. There the only lighting is the candlestick. And that is a continual burning of perpetual flame zero mat. We'll look at that next time. And so it's dimly lit And we notice on the right hand side a table. Now, first thing I want us to consider, and I'm going to do this pretty quickly, is the dimensions of this table of showbread. I don't know how you pictured this in your mind. The other year we went up to Lancaster and we went into the tabernacle replica there. That is fascinating. If you ever get a chance to go up to that, you want to go and see that thing. You know what struck me? Everything about it was a lot smaller than I pictured in my mind. Has anyone ever been there? Anybody ever been there? A couple people. Did you get that same impression? Everything's I pictured stuff bigger. You get inside this veil, and here you have the uh the table of showbread. The dimensions, it's only three foot long It's a yardstick about long. Um it is a foot and a half wide, eighteen inches wide, approximately. if our figures are correct, um it's only it's not even three foot high. It's a very small table, very low down to the ground. It's not something you would stand up to and do anything. You would have to bend over to operate on the table there and do anything on the table. It's a very small structure, very small piece of furniture. It was made of shit of wood. It's also called Achae wood. Very hard wood. We were talking about that. Chuck gave us a dissertation on the kind of wood down in South America the other night. I asked him about it. He brought me a piece. You talk about hard. Um come up here, uh can uh Vicky, let me knock you in the head with this and see. And uh no, I'm teasing. Uh I don't want to break his piece of wood. But um The Achai wood, the Shidam wood, was very, very hard, and they covered it in gold. All the furniture outside the tabernacle in the court was made of brass. Everything inside is covered, either made of solid gold or covered with gold. And I think there's some significance to that. It had a rim Around the edge of the top of the table there was a rim around it, and uh we believe that was to keep the utensils and the bread that was put on there, just keep it on the table, maybe when they were moving and stuff It would help it would just have a uh uh uh just a flat edge. There would be a rim around there. Uh there's a rim around it. It had rings on the four corners down on the legs They had golden rings, solid gold, and they had a g a staff that was uh made of wood and overlaid with gold, and the purpose for that was they'd slide that stab down through the those rings and one on each side, and four priests would pick that thing up and carry it. They weren't to touch it. They were to carry it with that. And so it had that included with this piece of furniture. There was dishes and spoons, there was bowls, all of this made of gold. Take your Bible and turn over to Leviticus. Real quick. I don't know if we're coming back to Exodus here or not. We might not. But look at Leviticus. Leviticus gives us a little more information. And I'm just trying to give you a little idea of what this thing is. Leviticus 25, 24, Leviticus chapter 24, and verse number 5. It says, and thou shalt take fine flour and bake twelve cakes thereof. Two tenth deals shall be one cake. And thou shalt set them in two rows, six on a row, upon the pure table before the Lord. That's the table of showbread. And thou shalt put for pure frankincense upon each row, that it may be on the bread for a memorial, even an offering made by fire unto the Lord. Every Sabbath he shall set it in order before the Lord continually, being taken from the children of Israel by an everlasting covenant, and it shall be Aaron's and his sons, and they shall eat it in the holy place, for it is most holy unto the him, most holy unto him of the offerings of the Lord, made by fire, but a perpetual standard. So here we're getting a little bit more information about what's going on on this table They are making these little cakes. I was doing a little research on them. They're actually bigger than what you think. They're bigger than a bagel, but they're skinnier than a bagel. What are those things that you get? They're kind of Mexican and you wrap up burritos, you make burritos, you put all the stuff in there and you wrap them up. What are they called? Tortillas, not the crispy, the soft. That's what's called. Are you sure? Anyway, that's kind of the idea what these were. Maybe a little thicker than that. And they had they were made of fine flour. If you look at it real carefully, there's no eggs added. There's no sugar, and they're not pouring any honey in, no leaven. They're just baking this flour, a little bit of moisture, no doubt, and uh they're just it's just fine flour, very fine, nothing coarse, no chunks in it, just very fine flour baked Um, and about the size of those tortillas, and uh about that size, a little thicker, and what they would do is they would stack them Six on one pile and six on the other. They called it rows, it was more like piles, and stacked them up there. Um and so they were and now notice the si the weight of them. They were two Tenth deals. Did you see that? Verse number five. And thou shalt make fine flour and make ten cakes thereof. Two tenth deals shall be in one cake. Now, I got looking at that, looking that up, I thought oh that that's meaningless to me. And so I found out that one tenth of a deal is an omar. Well that explains everything. What in the world's a Nomar? Did you know? Now get this that when the manna fell, when they were traveling in the wilderness, They were instructed to gather one umar for the day's provision. And so an Omar was about what one person would eat of a day, of manna. Alright? And so they're telling us here that this was more than enough. This is two-tenths of a deal. This would be two Omar's. Twice what God instructed the Israelites to gather of the manna for their sustenance when they're in the wilderness. So this is way more than enough for the priest who ate this every Sabbath. They would eat the high priest in the tabernacle there. They would gather around, they would eat this, and uh they put fresh there. So this was way more than enough than for just one priest. Where did they get the name Showbread from? What does that mean? Showbread? I don't even spell it right. S-H-E-W. Showbread actually comes from a term, it means this: Bread of the face. Like you're showing something, someone, here let me show you my scar. You put it in their face. That's the idea. Bread of the face. The suggestion is this was the idea. It was bred for the face or the presence of God. It was bread for when you wanted to enter the presence of God. I think you'll see where this leads Um showbread, set out before the face of the presence of God. It was prepared and stacked in two rows, or what we might call piles. Now look at verse number eight of Exodus 35 Notice what he says there. I'm sorry, Exodus, or Leviticus. What am I talking about? Leviticus 24. Look at verse number 8. Every Sabbath. He shall set it in order before the Lord continually. Now, where did they get this fine flour? Where did they get all these cakes? Look what it says: being taken from the children of Israel. By an everlasting covenant. Who provided the materials to make this cake? God's people Who provided the brass to build the furniture out in the court to serve God? Where'd that come from? God's people. They brought it. They gave it. Who provided the coverings and the skins and the curtains and all that? Who provided all that for these people to have a relationship and worship God? God's people. There's a pattern here. Everything needed for the service of Almighty God was provided by God's people. Now listen, we have to be very careful that we guard our attitude about the church needing God's people to give to the work of the Lord. We should not allow ourselves, well, every time we go there they pass a plate around. You know, always asking for this and send these Bibles to Mexico and buy this truck for that ministry and send these scriptures to Kazakhstan and support this missionary And uh buy this bus and do this. Um, hey, that's God's plan. That's how God finances the work. Uh and so everything I'm going through here, I'm finding, well where'd they get the stuff for that? God's people gave it. Well where'd they get the stuff for this? God's people gave it. It's like good night. All they did was take offerings all the time. And uh it was part of uh the supply for it. So first of all we have the dimensions of the table. Boy, this is exciting, isn't it? The dimensions of the table of showbread. Who would have ever dreamed it'd be so exciting? Look at next to the second part, the designation of the table of showbread. In other words, where's it at? Well, as we said, it's in the tabernacle, it's in the holy place. We've gotten past the brazen altar, sins have been judged and dealt with. under judgment no more. Now of course in the Old Testament economy they had to do that over and over again because the blood of bulls and goats cannot wash away sins, only the blood of Jesus So they had to slay them over and over each year. But nevertheless, the sins were covered, and uh their they went past the labor, they've confessed their daily sins, their fellowship, and now they come in the very presence of God, and they have the bread. Right hand, first thing they come in, very hand, there's the bread. The bread was designed in a One of the intentions of the bread being there was to sustain and give nourishment to the priests. As they served God on the Sabbath day. That's a big day. That was an important day in Israel This holy bread was there, and one of its purposes was for the priests to eat that. Now get this, they would eat that, and that would sustain them, that would nourish them as they went about the service of the Lord. They were serving the Lord, but they needed sustenance. They were giving of themselves to the Lord, but they needed something of the Lord to give to them. Follow where we're going with this? It was significant as they served God and made intercession for Israel They needed some input, they needed some sustenance, some nourishment for their own selves, so that they would be able to intercede for the people of Israel and effectively serve God. And before I finish up with that thought, something else to point out here. This is a table. How many folks here have a table in your kitchen? How many people ever put bread on that table? Sure. What else do you have on that table? You have bread? You got the table? What else do you have? Well, yeah, nine sports booth. I mean, as far as furniture is concerned. What do you got around it? Chairs. I read this and read this. You know what? There aren't no chairs. Well, how are they going to sit there and eat the bread? The answer is they don't. There's no place for rest in the service of the Lord. They had responsibilities. They're in the holiest place. They have tremendous responsibilities. This was not their rest time. Hey, now listen, don't misunderstand, don't go to seed on this, but as far as our service of the Lord, you study Hebrews, particularly chapter 7, 8, 9, and 10. It makes it clear, this is not our rest yet. This is the time. Jesus says, I've got to work While it is day, night cometh when no man can work. This isn't our rest. Listen, as long as there's people still needing to be saved, as long as there's people dying and going to hell, we've got to stay at this You follow what I'm saying? Now that doesn't mean the priest had his breaks and they would rotate and he'd catch his breath and rest. But as far as the ministry is concerned, you stay at it, stay at it, stay at it, you don't sit down. Um I think w uh I I'm of the conviction we need to be so conscious all the time. We need to be given the gospel all the time. We need to be pressing the issue all the time. So there's no chairs there. That caught my attention. No chairs. And then the last thing I notice we have the dimensions, the designation, the design. In other words, what's the purpose of all this? Well, the book of Hebrews tells us That all this is a shadow or a pattern of realities in heaven, but it's also a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ and his ministry for us. And we'd have to go to Hebrews and we'd spend hours on that. And so that's the designation of all this. It was for Israel at the time, but for us, it's a picture of an actual Uh actual tabernacle in heaven? This is a pattern of an actual table of showbread? This is a pattern of, Hebrews tells us all these were shadows of realities in heaven All of that, here's the last thought. What's the direction we receive from the table show bed? In other words, what does it teach us? If you knew how much ground I covered in the last 15 minutes, you would be aesthetic. Many notes I covered. Well, we are priests in the New Testament sense of the word. We looked at that the other week. And there's lessons for us, there's applications here. Bread in the Bible refers repeatedly, or I should say often, to the Lord Jesus Christ in general. What did Jesus say in John chapter 6? I am the bread of life. In fact, he went on in chapter 6. And he pressed the issue and he says, if you don't eat, I am the bread of life. If you don't eat my flesh and drink my blood, you're none of me Boy that threw the folks for a loop. I said, what are you talking about? He said, I'm the bread of life. And uh if you don't eat my bread eat eat my body and drink my blood, uh you're none of mine. I I'm bread. You've got a And they're like, Good night, this guy's talking about cannibalism. He's nuts. Well, that they didn't say exactly that. And what did everybody do? What's the Bible saying? What did everybody do? The Bible says they all left him. They said, this guy's crazy. He is he's bread? Huh? I'm out of here. I don't have nothing to do with this. This guy's nuts. We may start a campaign on the internet and let everybody know this guy's crazy. Jesus said to the disciples, You're going to leave me also? Of course, Peter. We're not going to leave you. You're the words of eternal life. We'll never leave you. That is a classic passage where Jesus is referred to as the bread of life. I don't think we're stretching it When we say that in our ministry for the Lord, now I'm talking, this is a Sunday night, it's a low crowd, a lot of folks out, this is pretty much, you know, uh pretty dedicated people Our service of the Lord, we're going soul winning, we're teaching, and we're singing, and we're working the bus routes and all that. I think one lesson we get from this is we've got to stay, we've got to get continual input from the Lord Jesus Christ in our lives. Even as we're serving the Lord. The bread also in the Bible refers to the Word of God in particular. Jesus said in Matthew 4. 4 and again in Luke 4. 4, he says, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by what? Every word that proceedeth from my Father. You know what he's saying? You know what I think the picture of showbread is? For those of us that know the Lord, we're trying to live for God, we're trying to please the Lord, we're trying to maintain fellowship with God. We want to be near the Lord. It's very, very important that we have a continual, regular intake of God's Word. I said all that to get to this thought. We're going to serve God. We're going to get in close and be intimate and mature and grow in our understanding of the Lord. There's one thing we've got to come by continually. That is the table of showbread. The Word of God, this is what I want to challenge us. This is the application I want to give. I want to challenge every one of us to take time on a daily basis, get into the presence of God. And ingest the Word of God. I'm talking about taking it to another level of just reading, all right, read my Bible today. Zoom. I'm talking about getting into a quiet place, a holy place, so to speak, and get alone with God. And partake of that spiritual bread, the Word of God. Take it in, ingest it. Make it a part of my thinking. Read it. Let God ingest it into my soul. And become a part of me. I'm afraid for a lot of us we get the Bible up here. But we never get it down here. You know what I'm talking about? I mean really spending time with God, spending time alone with the Lord. Spiritual service without spiritual sustenance leads to spiritual washout. I've seen it over the years. Somebody's active serving the Lord. Boy, they're faithful and they're excited about it. Man, they're just going about, God's using them. After a bit, they lose interest. And suddenly they're just doing it because they have to. And soon that fades out. You know what my first thought is? I'll bet you somewhere they quit spending time with God. No, they may have read their Bible, but they quit getting something from God. God stirring their heart and feeding their heart and soul. And that's what we have to have. Hey, uh Arbiolette preached, I don't know if he said it here or where. I heard him say it somewhere, but he was preaching a revival in Michigan somewhere, and he said something about reading the Bible. He was talking to the pastor, they were traveling. And he said to the pastor, he says, uh, what's your Bible reading schedule? They were just, he was trying to get ideas or whatever. And the pastor said, Well, I really don't have a schedule to read my Bible. He said, What do you mean? He goes, well, I'm just so busy. He said, you know, I'm studying sermons. I just make the sermon-studying time. That's my time in the Bible Dr. Arbiolette said, he said, I told him, you're headed for big trouble. You need to feed your soul. You need to take in. Hey, listen, every one of us, I don't care how busy you are, if you're too busy to get alone with God and really let Him speak to your heart from His Word, then you're too busy. You're too busy. Something's gotta go. And so that's what I learned from the table of showbread. It's important that we get sustenance and nourishment from the Word of God to help us be what God wants us to be. Father, bless us, Lord, I pray, and help us. To commit ourselves to spend every time every day, some time, every day, on a regular, consistent basis, on our knees before you, just as those priests had to kneel over to get that bread. Help us, Lord, to get alone. Have our own holy place and get alone with you that you can really speak our hearts. You can fill our souls and strengthen us spiritually. We need that, Lord. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many Christians would say, I tell you, I would be thrilled as pastor. Every member of the church would have a time when every day they get alone with God and really let the Lord speak to our hearts through his word. What a powerful church that would be. Strong Christians, teenagers, adults, senior citizens, all of us. We need that. How many say, preacher, pray with me? I really got to make that happen. I've really got to make that. Not just read my Bible, but really let the Lord speak to me through it. How about it? Uplifted hand. How many like that? God bless you. Maybe some of you already have it, but you've got to guard that diligently. So we go to the Lord's Supper. Let's ask the Lord to search our hearts. Let's ask the Lord to develop us and make this such an important part of our life when we ingest the Word of God on a regular basis. Father, bless our invitation, I ask now in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I don't believe we have a piano player tonight.