Galatians 5, if you have your Bibles there, and notice with me if you would, let me get there first, Galatians 5, and uh notice with me if you would Verse number 22. The Bible says, but the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith Meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. The fruit of the spirit. We noted first of all a couple weeks ago as we started a series We introduce the Holy Spirit, who the Holy Spirit is, what he is, and the fact that he indwells in us right now. How many folks here tonight? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. Amen. How many people are excited about the fact you're saved? Say amen. And uh it's like the lady I was visiting one time, I said, Oh, do you know for sure you're going to heaven? Yes. Praise the Lord. And uh so we're excited about it. Praise the Lord. My sins forgiven on my way to heaven. The moment we trusted Christ, the Holy Spirit of God moved into our bodies. We are indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God. Every one of us here tonight that know Jesus Christ as Savior, God Almighty, in the purse of the Holy Spirit, is in your body right now. I don't know about you. That stirs me up That God dwells in my body. And so we noted that. And then last week we talked about walking in the Spirit. If we're going to have the fruit of the Spirit in our life, We've got to walk in the Spirit. And so tonight I want to look just in general at the fruit. I don't think I prayed yet, did I? Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now, Lord, as we look into a few thoughts here about this fruit of the Holy Spirit. We thank you for a good day. It's been a full day, and I pray that as we finish things out in your word, that you would meet with us, that your presence would be here. Lord, I yield my will to you, and with all my heart I pray that you would guide my speaking, my preaching, the words I say. God, I all my heart, I plea with you that you would please fill me with your spirit, dear Lord. And I present my body to you. I pray you take me. And speak through me and help me tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Every believer, every saved person has three very powerful enemies. Can anybody name for me the three enemies that every believer has to deal with? The world, the flesh, and the devil. You say that with me? The world, the flesh, and the devil. Now, those three enemies will fight us, and they'll fight our spiritual well-being. Let me ask you this question tonight: How are you doing spiritually? Where are you at spiritually? How is your spiritual health? The devil is going to fight us, the world's going to fight us, the flesh is going to fight us, and does not want The world of flesh devil does not want us to be well well spiritually. The world of flesh level is going to fight our spiritual growth. And the question we have to ask ourselves tonight, I asked myself as I was preparing this Am I growing spiritually? Am I developing in my Christian life? Is my faith in God getting stronger? Is my walk with the Lord getting closer? And so am I growing spiritually? I hope you ask yourself that. Look in the mirror of God's word. Say, am I growing? Am I developing spiritually? Or are we stagnant? Are you the same place spiritually you were a year ago? Are you the same place spiritually you were 10 years ago? Or am I growing I'm being more effective in my witness is my testimony stronger and clearer, more distinct for the Lord. And so our spiritual well-being, our spiritual growth, and our soul-winning effectiveness. Let me ask you this question, all of us. How many people, let me back up, how many people agree with me, the preacher ought to be a soul winner Yeah, amen. My hands raised. Preacher ought to try and win souls. Preacher ought to get out and share the gospel and ought to win people to Christ. I say amen to that, and I try to work very hard at that But listen, how many folks think the folks in the ch in the pew ought to be a soul winner also? Yeah, amen. It's the body's church, it's the believer, it's the church's responsibility, the body's responsibility to share Christ with others. So the question is this. Am I being more effective in my soul winning? Am I more is my witness stronger? Am I bolder? Am I uh more effective in my soul winning than I was a year ago or five years ago? Or have I become stagnant? Have I gotten cold in that area? Has it dried up a little bit? And the world, the flesh, and the devil are going to do everything they can to keep me from being that soul winner, going to do everything they can to keep me from growing in my faith. They're going to do everything they can to keep me from being spiritually healthy. And they'll fight us. And so what is the world? The world. It's society out there It's uh it's the entertainment industry, it's the community, it's society. The way I look at it, I don't know if you understand what I mean by this, but the world is kind of the sinful nature incorporated in a in in a in an incorporation. It's everybody's single sinful nature, all incorporated together. That's society. And so the world uh will fight that. My flesh is my own sinful nature. And then the devil, who is a real literal spiritual personality. The devil is for real. I'm here to tell you. And so those three, world, the flesh, and the devil, are going to fight me from growing and being what I ought to be as a Christian. Now, of those three, here's what I'm trying to get at, and I'm kind of pushing my way through here, rushing us a little bit, but here's what I'm trying to get at Of those three, uh let me back up. Would you agree with me the world is very, very effective at what the world does Influencing Christians to be worldly, influencing churches. The world is very, very powerful. The world is very, very influential. Society. We see it in our young people, we see it in our old people, how the world influences us. The world's very effective. Would you agree with me? The devil is very effective at what he does. He's incredibly effective. He's intelligent. He's wise in his realm. He is very wise. You and I are no match for the devil. The flesh. The flesh is very effective. Would you agree with me? How many people ever get frustrated with yourself as a Christian? How many people ever did this as a Christian? What was I thinking? What in the world? What am I doing? Anybody like that? You know what that is? That's the effectiveness in the flesh to hinder us spiritually, our growth and our witness. Now of those three, this is my opinion Of those three, I'm convinced the flesh is the most dangerous. The flesh is the most dangerous. The world, the flesh is an ally With the world and the devil. A nation, the greatest danger to a nation is the enemy within the nation. Right? The greatest danger to a church is when the enemy infiltrates a church. We notice that when we study the book of Jude. We notice that in our study of first and second Peter or Second Peter particularly, uh the false prophets coming in. That's a greater danger than the liberals out there And I'm telling you, the greatest danger, your spiritual health, my spiritual health, my walk with God, isn't necessarily the world, isn't even necessarily the devil. It's my own sinful nature allied with the world and the devil Within. And so that's what Paul, under the inspiration of God, is talking about here, is the devil. And he tells us how to contain my flesh. How to have victory over my flesh. Look at verse number 16 of Galatians chapter 5. And we touched on this last week. He says, This I say then. Now notice the wording here. Look what he says. Walk in the spirit, and ye might not fulfill the lust of the flesh. Is that what he says? No. Walk in the Spirit and ye what? You shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. You know how I conquer my flesh? It isn't by using my flesh. It'd say, oh, I'm going to keep that sinful nature down. I'm not going to do this. No, no, no. It doesn't work at all. The way I conquer my flesh is I walk in the Spirit And we talked last week about what walking in the Spirit is. Look at verse number twenty-four. They that are Christ have what? Verse 24, are you there? They that are Christ are what? Have what? Crucified the flesh with the affections and the lust thereof. So I walk in the Spirit, I can have victory over my flesh. My flesh doesn't have to control me. My flesh doesn't have to dictate my actions and my thinking and my desires The Holy Spirit of God, as I walk in the Spirit, which I think is the same as being filled with the Holy Spirit, I can conquer the flesh. Come with me very, very quickly. Everybody doing okay? Alright, how many people can tell? I'm rushing here a little bit. Yep. But come with me to Romans chapter number six. What a powerful passage Romans chapter six is. I tried memorizing this whole chapter years ago. I got part of it, I never got at all. Romans chapter 6, look with me at verse number 11. We're talking about the fruit of the Spirit. I'm getting there. I'm going somewhere here. If I'm going to have the fruit of the Spirit, I have to conquer the flesh And the way I do that is by walking in the Spirit. If I'm going to have the fruit of the Holy Spirit, I need to get the flesh conquered, so I can walk in the Spirit, and the Spirit can bear fruit in me. Look at verse number 11, Romans 6. Likewise Reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body. Sin talking about the sinful nature, my flesh. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body that you should obey it in the lust thereof, neither yield your member as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin But yield yourselves unto God as those that are alive from the dead, your members as instruments of righteousness unto God, for sin shall not have dominion over you That's what Paul was talking about in Galatians. If I yield myself to the Lord, I submit my will to God, I let the Holy Spirit fill me and empower me, and I walk in the Spirit, filled with the Spirit of God. then sin and my flesh is conquered, is kept at bay. But if I yield myself to the flesh, and I say, you know, I'm going to give in there How many people ever you're serving the Lord, you're trying to do right, you're just minding your own business, trying to live for God, be a good witness, and out of nowhere, some thought or desire of the flesh just blows up. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And it's like, what in the world? And so if I walk in the Spirit, there's that conflict there. And Paul talked about it in Galatians 5. They're contrary one to another. My sinful nature wants to rule my life, control my life. The Holy Spirit of God within me lusts or desires, longs to control my life, and who I yield myself to is going to be who's in charge there. That's what Romans 6 is talking about And so now come back to Galatians. And I want to give you, I got a couple minutes, I want to just give you a few thoughts about the fruit of the Holy Spirit. If I am filled with the Holy Spirit I'm not walking in the flesh. I'm walking in the spirit. Then the Holy Spirit bears this fruit in my life. Back here, Galatians chapter I'm for some reason I'm having a hard time finding Galatians tonight. Galatians 5. Here we go. And um notice uh verse 22. But the fruit of the Spirit. Now I got looking at that word fruit. The fruit of the Spirit. It has this idea, the product. Or the result or the effect of the Holy Spirit. Is everybody with me still? Everybody alright? How many folks? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. How many folks are still saved and you as as you were ten minutes ago when I said that last time? Amen. Good. So the Holy Spirit dwells within me. I yield myself to the Lord. I want the Holy Spirit to fill me, empower me And so the Holy Spirit, when I'm filled with the Holy Spirit, then the Holy Spirit produces this fruit in my life. The word fruit means the product. This is the product Of me being filled with the Holy Spirit of God. This is the result or the effect on my life when I'm walking in the Holy Spirit. Somebody asked Dr. Lee Robertson years ago. They said, how can you tell if you're filled with the Holy Spirit? Now his answer was, it's easier to tell if you're not filled than if you are. I want to suggest to you that one of the evidences that I'm filled with the Holy Spirit as a child of God, if I'm filled with the Holy Spirit, one of the evidences, a very clear evidence Is this fruit being born in my life? These nine fruits that are listed here, are they in my life? Are they being lived out in my life? Are they evident in my life? If they're not, if you come up there to verse number 19, the works of the flesh, adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness Lasciviousness means lawlessness. Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred. I got some hatred or bitterness in my heart. I'm not filled with the Holy Spirit. Lustful things. I doubt you have hatred variants. It means strife, fussing, and fighting. If I'm fussing with my spouse and fussing with my parents or fussing with my kids, fussing with my brother or sister, if I'm fussing, I'm not filled with the Holy Spirit If uh strife, seditions, that means divisions, can't get along with somebody, I don't like that person, we're not on talking, we're not on speaking terms, you're not filled with the Holy Spirit, you're under the control of the flesh. You with me? And so how do I know if I'm filled with the Holy Spirit? The fruit of the Spirit is evident in my life. And these works of the flesh are not there. And so when I'm filled with the Holy Spirit, when I'm walking in the Holy Spirit, this fruit is produced in my light. Real quick, I know I'm under time frame here. But I want us to notice the source of this fruit, and I'll probably just give this thought tonight. We'll pick the rest up next time. The source of this fruit. Look at the fruit again. Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. This is the fruit. This is what my what will characterize my life If I'm filled with the Spirit, if I'm walking in the Spirit. Now what is the source of this fruit? Look what it says. But the fruit of the Spirit. The word of there has the idea, the source of, or the overflow of. Now you're going to hear me say this, make this statement numerous times throughout this series, because this to me is profound. Love? How many people would like to? How many people would like to be a loving Christian? Now the world says love is weakness. Especially for fellas. The world's definition of love is really totally different than God's. World's definition of love is lost selfishness. But if I understand the love of God, and we're going to study this, if I understand the love of God and it's shed abroad in my heart, it's a powerful thing. So I I want the love of God in my heart. I want the peace of God in my heart. And I don't respond to this, but I wonder how many people I'm talking to tonight. And down in your heart you say, I would really love. To just have the peace of God in my heart. I'd just love to have some the peace of God. There's turmoil there in your home. It's all turmoil. Tension and frustration, and you're frustrated all the time with everything. You say, I'd really like to have the peace of God in my heart. Love, joy. I'd love to have the joy of the Lord in my heart. I haven't been happy for a long, long time. I'd like to have the joy of the Lord in my life. I would like to go through the list here. I'd like to have long, I'd like to be more patient. I would like to be gentler, kinder to people. I'd like to be good. I want my heart and mind to be clean and good. I want my faith to be stronger. I want to be meek, more humble, temperate, more self-control. And so we go down through there. We want these things. Now here's the point I'm trying to make. This fruit is not something that I can manufacture. I can't produce this peace that he's talking about here in my heart. I can't, I I don't uh well where do I go to get this fruit? I've got to get, I want it. Where do I go to get this fruit? Here's the thing. The source of this fruit is the Holy Spirit of God. It's not me. It's not some program. It's not some book I read. It's not some course I take. The Holy Spirit is the source of it. It's the fruit of, the source of, the overflow of the Holy Spirit. Now here's my question, and this is the main point I think through this whole series, where if this fruit comes from the Holy Spirit that we want and need so badly in our lives as believers If it comes from the Holy Spirit, where is the Holy Spirit? It's in us. The Holy Spirit of God dwells within us. So do you know what that means? That means that I already have The love of God in my life. I already have the joy of the Lord in my life. I already have the peace of God in my life. And go down through this list. It's already there in me, in my heart and soul, in the person of the Holy Spirit. You say, well, then why don't I experience it? If the if it's the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit's in me, I already have that. Why am I why don't I have the joy of the Lord? Why don't I have the peace of God? I'll tell you why. I need to get out of the way and let the Holy Spirit bear that fruit. That's the whole point that Paul's making here. That flesh, I let the flesh on, I let the flesh make me angry, I let the flesh uh uh have me lust The le the flesh I can't get along with people and I got all this frustration because I'm allowing my old sinful nature to control my thinking and my decisions and my behavior. And I'm quenching the Holy Spirit. You know what it means to quench? Are you listening? It means to push down. It means to squelch, to force it down. And so the Holy Spirit's in me. He lusts, he desires, he longs to fill me and bear this fruit in my life. But I Decide to follow the flesh, my own understanding, my own reasoning, my own desires. And I quench the flesh, the spirit, and thus I have no peace. I have no love of God in my heart. I'm frustrated. I don't have the joy of the Lord. I have no self-control, no discipline. I can't do this. The source of this fruit is the Holy Spirit. Listen, if I don't have if I'm not experiencing the fruit of the Holy Spirit in my life, if these things are not true and evident in my life. It's not because of my situation I'm in. I've been doing this a long time now. This will be 45 years I've been in the ministry. And I've had people tell me over and over and over again, and I hate to admit it, but I've even thought this myself on occasion If you knew what my situation was, if you knew what my circumstances were, if you knew what my home was like, if you knew what my background was, if you knew how I grew up, then you would understand why I'm so unhappy and why I don't love people and why I'm so frustrated The fact of the matter is, can can we maybe take them can we can hey Clo can you take them out or something? It's just very hard to preach with all that noise there. I'm sorry, I don't mean to embarrass you. Are we okay? All right, thanks. The fact of the matter is it's not because of my situation Listen, I grew up in a broken home. I grew up, and you name it, what all comes with that. And I can look back and I can say, you know why I don't care about people? Because I've been hurt so badly in my past. And some of you all know what I'm talking about. You've got the exact same thing. Anybody with me? I feel like I got the devil fighting me tonight. But the fact of the matter is, the reason I don't have the fruit of the Holy Spirit in my life It's not because of my circumstances, isn't because of how my spouse treats me, isn't because of how my parents treated me, isn't because of my financial situation The reason I'm not filled, I don't have the fruit of the Spirit is because I'm quenching the Holy Spirit. Am I? I'm not letting him bear it. It's already in there. I just need to let it out. I just need to get out of the way. Let the Holy Spirit control. Let the Holy Spirit. Are you with me? Well, if you knew what I had put up with, then you know why I'm so miserable. Has nothing to do with what I'm putting up with You say, well, preacher, I don't have the ability to do these things. It has nothing to do with my ability. In fact, the less ability I have to try and produce this type of stuff, the better. And the Holy Spirit can do it Well, I don't have the Bible training. You know, I've seen I've seen new believers that hardly know their Bible at all have more evidence of the fruit of the Spirit in their life than some old mossy-backed Baptist Christian that's been saved for so long and they've gotten so cold and they've so used to letting the flesh control their thinking that they're miserable Doesn't matter. It's not my Bible Bible knowledge is good, it's helpful, but it's not my intelligence. It's not my situation. It's the Holy Spirit of God I have in my life right now, I have in my heart and soul the love of God is there now. The peace of God is there in the person of the Holy Spirit. The joy of the Lord is already there. And if I walk in the Spirit, and if I die to self and put away rationale, my reasoning, my own justification, and just die to self, as Romans 6 says And let the Spirit of God produce that, then in the most difficult circumstances, I can have the joy of the Lord. And when I'm so mistreated, I can still love. Let me ask you a question. Does God does God love the unlovely? Does this world treat Jesus Christ terribly? Does Jesus love this world? You know why? Because the fruit, He has the fruit of the Spirit. He is. And I can do that, not in my own power, not in my own manufacturingness, but because the Spirit of God is in me. 1 Thessalonians 5. 19 says, quench not the Spirit. Don't push them down. Don't argue with them. Don't try and squelch him. The Spirit of God speaks to your heart from the Word of God. Agree with Him. Submit to Him. The preacher's preaching. Maybe you're reading your Bible. Maybe you're driving down the road, you're listening to 887, and a song or a preacher or teacher on there says something, and the Spirit of God speaks to your heart. How many people know what I'm talking about? The preachers preach in the Spirit of God. How many people you know what I'm talking about? And then I have a choice to make. Do I agree with God? Say, yes, Lord, you're right. I need to make this. I need to make this adjustment. I need to make this change. I need to stop doing this. I need to incorporate this. I need to trust you. And I can make that choice. I can quench the spirit of God, say, no, I don't care what I don't care what you say, God. This is what I'm doing. And you'll never have the fruit of the Spirit. I learned this, I'll end with this. When I was down at Chattanooga, big church, Dr. Robertson would preach powerful messages, powerful messages. And he gave the invitation in every service, they baptized every service for 40 years, Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night, for 40 years, people would flood to the altar And I noticed after I'd been there for a while, there was one man, an older man. Well, he's probably what I am now, back then, so he wasn't that old. But that same guy, when I first got there, he was always at the altar, same place, every time. He'd be up there, he'd be weeping, he'd be praying earnestly. You could see, I'd sit down front, he'd be praying And after a while I thought, man, this guy must be living a wicked life. I mean, he's at the altar every time. He must be living in terrible sin. After a period of time I got to know him. You know what he was? He's one of the most godly men I've ever met in my life. I mean the guy's out souling him. He they gave him an award one year. He gave a million tracks out in his life. Him personally And he was at the altar. You know what he was doing? He was submitting to the Spirit of God. God would speak to his heart. And he'd say, Yes, Lord, I don't want to resist you. I don't want to clench you. And the fruit of the Spirit was all over that guy. I mean the fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, long-suffering, goodness, gentleness, kindness. I mean it was coming out of his ears. It was uh everywhere Because he was walking in the Spirit. What's the source of the fruit of the Spirit that we're going to look at? And we're going to study each one, all nine of them. But the source is already in us. We just get out of the way, let the Holy Spirit bear it. Okay? Father, please help us do that. I pray you'd help us to learn what it means to die to self. Help us, Lord, to learn what it means to yield our will to you. When you speak to us, when your spirit deals with us, we say, Yes, Lord, not my will, your will be done. I'll let you lead me. I'll let you fill me. I pray, dear God, you would teach us that. Please teach us that. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many along with me would say, Preacher, too often I find myself quenching the Holy Spirit Too often God will speak to my heart, prompt me, and I'll and I'll come up with summary. Any like that by the uplifted hand, too often. I see that flesh. I see it in my life And I need to get myself out. Let the Spirit of God fill me. Bear this fruit in me. Father, bless our imitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.