Alright, let me turn this on. I forgot to do that. I forget a lot of things nowadays. That's all right. Being old, everybody just looks over it. I don't have to worry about it. All right. Well, good crowd tonight. I thank the Lord for you. I'm glad you made it. We have our uh let's see one, two, three, four, five. We have a fifth one. We have one more chalk drawing to do tomorrow night and I hope you'll be in your place tomorrow and bring some folks with you and see what the Lord will do. I'm glad you're here and we have some visitors and I thank the Lord for you too. Glad that you made it out and I trust uh that uh You'll let the Lord speak to your heart, each one of us tonight. I trust we'll just open our heart and let the Lord do the rest. Let me like this and the best for the week. Let me see your hands. Toss that one. Is that it? Okay. How many like the lion the best? Ooh, okay. How many like the eagle the last the one I did last night? The best? Let me see your hand. Okay, got one or two on that. The deer. Okay, and then the first one? Hmm, how about that? The lion and the first one would be would be the winner tonight. Well You know how to get them. The uh we do these chalk drawings for for one reason, and that is just simply Uh there was a time when people came out to see him and I'm I'm hoping that uh we haven't run out yet And uh I'm just trusting that uh tomorrow night we'll just uh have uh uh very few seats empty here uh tonight. Take your Bible and turn with me to the book of Romans, chapter three. Romans chapter three Romans chapter three I'm going to start reading in uh let's see verse uh twenty-one. It says, but now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested, being witnessed by the law in the prophets, even the righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ, and to all and upon all them that believe, for there's no difference. For all have sinned come short of the glory of God, being justified freely by His grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God has set forth to be a propitiation uh through faith in his blood to dec uh declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God To declare, I say, at this time, his righteousness that he might be just and the justifier of him that believeth in Jesus. Where is boasting then? It's excluded By what law of works, nay. By by what law? Of works, nay, but by the law of faith. Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law. Is he the the God of the Jews only? Is he not also of the Gentiles? Yes, of the Gentiles also Seeing it is one God which shall justify the circumcision by faith and the uncircumcision through faith. Do we then make void the law through faith? God forbid, yes, we establish the law. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we pray now as we once again get into your word that you'll help us as we uh preach uh these wonderful truths and I pray that you bless the chalk drawn as we show it. And I trust Lord that uh if there's one here that uh is not uh absolutely sure that they're on their way to heaven They've never trusted Christ as their Savior, that they might tonight see the Savior high and lifted up and put their uh faith and their trust in Him. We ask again in Jesus' name. Amen and amen Paganism. Paganism, from what I understand, it uh it refers to uh any religion or a ver a variety or various religions, uh other than Christianity or Judaism So paganism. We think of paganism, somebody, I mean they're pagan, we think of uh uh natives and idols and I don't know different things along that line. The Apostle Paul is in in Corinth, and he's writing to the Christians at the in Rome, and that's where the book of Romans comes from. In the first chapter, he deals with the pagans that are uh I how I don't know how you'd say it. Uh lewd, crude, nude. That's just pr about the way it is. And uh it deals with uh it it deals with the The uh uh man who has put God out of his mind, he didn't want to retain the knowledge of God, and so he's uh given up to a reprobate mind. In this in the uh second chapter, he deals with the with the hypocrites. He deals with those who are pagan. But uh they don't think they are. And uh he deals with the like the Pharisees and so forth and those who uh are uh how can I say it? They're just uh uh they judge those who are uh in chapter one and yet they're doing the same thing but because they are clothed and look decent why they don't think there's anything wrong. We have that same situation in in in sometimes in our churches and of course in our society where people look down their nose at certain activities and and uh but they don't look at their own self. And so uh Paul deals with this, uh this thing of judging other people and man being guilty of doing the very same things. But then he gets into into chapter three and and uh he's uh uh He he looks at the two of them together and that's what we read was the verses there that dealt with that. The one conclusion that you can come as you uh come to if you read uh chapter one, chapter two, and chapter three. Is that that all are guilty. All are guilty. All have come short of the glory of God. All of them. Are guilty of sin against God. All of them are guilty of the sin of unbelief. They're guilty because of their very nature and because of their deeds also. In Romans chapter three and verse twelve it says, And they are all gone out of the way. They are together uh all together become unprofitable. There is none that doeth good, no not one In verse 19 it says, Now we know that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law, but every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. And then of course in Romans 3. 23 we all know that verse, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. I want us to look at about four or five things here concerning the salvation that God has provided for for mankind. And the first thing we'd look at is God's plan of salvation is revealed. I notice that in chapter one, uh it talks about this revelation. I call it the f uh a revelation from the stellar. Well, stellar means from the stars, and that's what I'm talking about. You see, God, uh one thing that God is concerned about is this matter of salvation. The man, uh the matter of of uh getting man back into a place where he can bless him again. Back into a place of fellowship. There was a time when he enjoyed that. When God created man, he created him in his own image. I believe he created him uh uh uh in three parts, body, soul, and spirit, so that he could fellowship with the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit And when man sinned, it broke that connection because he died spiritually. And so the the he could not fellowship with God through the Spirit And so man was is alienated from God, kicked out of the Garden of Eden. And by the way, I I just I believe it just like it is in the book there. a myth. There was uh I know that some churches just teach that uh these are full of truths, but you can't believe the f you know, the first book in the Bible uh and take it literally. I I simply believe that that God created the heavens and the earth. And I believe he created man out of the dust of the earth and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life and man became a living soul. I just accept that because the Bible tells me so. And whenever we we start to making our own uh conclusions concerning that uh and doing away with the word of God, then we we fall in a dangerous category there because then we have the option then to change anything that we want to do. want to. So we don't start in the in the very first book in the Bible. But the reason I say that that he is he reveals his his plan of salvation. He began when man needed it It was already there in place. When God created the heavens and the earth, he created the star patterns that we see today. They've changed the position just a little bit, but you know those constellations have been in the sky for thousands of years. You can go back to the the oldest uh uh sky charts that you can find in Asia, uh Babylon, in those areas, those people were very uh uh very uh knowledgeable uh concerning the stars. They were astronomers And they were also astrologers there. There's a difference between the two. Astronomy is the the study of the stars, and uh astrology is uh the study of man's idiocy, I believe, because it it just you know when they start making predictions that never come true, there's something wrong with that. But what I'm saying is that that the star patterns up there were there for a reason. The names of the patterns, where did they all come from? And if you if you look at the the zodiac You find there some interesting uh interesting thing. You find uh Pisces, the fish, you find uh Leo the lion, you find the Aries the lamb, you find these different the Virgo the Virgin And in the constellation Virgo the Virgin there are what they call barren uh constellations that are around them, little star clusters that have their own names. All these were named way back thousands of years ago, and nobody can really put a finger on who named them, but the one thing is sure, and that is the gospel story is told in the stars. Now I believe that it's been corrupted through astrology and the devil doing his best and because people don't really pay a whole lot of attention to it today uh it's been corrupted to the point where it's difficult to see the message in the stars. But nevertheless, if you study it out and you look at those constellations and see the barren constellations and names of them And you you start realizing, hey, you know, there is something here. Now it was like a sake, it's corrupted today. But back in those days, I really believe that God Had the gospel in the stars and told about the sacrifices through Ares the Lamb, who's uh a sheep with his head bowed because he's been uh he's been uh s slain and we could go through that whole thing it's a it's a it's a deep study that I'm not going to get into But I just want I w read a couple of verses of scripture uh because I'm not I'm not crazy, all right. There there's I'm not the only one that has felt this way and and thought this way I am an amateur astronomer, and so I was interested in stars and so forth. But I noticed in Psalm 19 and verse 1, everybody probably knows that one. It says it's the Psalm of David. It says the heavens declare the glory of God. And the f and the firmament showeth his handiwork. Listen, day unto day uttereth speech. Hmm, interesting. And night unto night Showeth knowledge. Interesting, isn't it? Where does it come from? And then it says, There is speech, there is no speech nor language where their voice is not heard It's just interesting that God points it out in Romans chapter 1, he also deals with this same, uh mentions this same thing. But uh says, for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth in unrighteousness from heaven. Well, from the heavens, uh from the from the star messages, I guess you could say. I'm just saying that that this this thing of salvation is so important to God for mankind that he made sure that there was a a copy of the gospel of Christ, or the gospel of God, however you want to put it, in place so that man had a message that he could go to and with reli uh with uh uh reliance uh uh uh looking upon that he could he could get the message from it Now, you may disagree with that, and that's fine, and and uh there's nothing it says specifically on that, and we're not supposed to look at the stars to get the gospel, all right. We have a book here that's a more sure word of prophecy. We can rely upon it, and that's what we go to. But I'm saying the message for those way back uh after the creation and the fall of man, I believe they had a message there. It was a message that was passed down from Adam to the to his uh children and on down uh uh through uh Noah and the rest of them, but the the message is also there where it could be read in the stars by those who understood it. The second place that this knowledge of this salvation comes is in chapter 3 and verse 21, where it says, excuse me. Where it says, uh, but now the righteousness of God uh without the law is manifested being witnessed by the law and the prophets. And so the second place we get uh this the the the the uh method of salvation or salvation itself where it's revealed is in through the law of God and through uh through the prophets that have preached the word of God. Then I notice something else When you do a study on the tabernacle, and I understand you've done some of that, you can see the plan of salvation in the tabernacle furniture and so forth. in the high priest garments. God just made sure that that down through the centuries, God always made sure that the people that his people, mankind, would have a message that they could uh understand and be saved Then I noticed uh uh it's scriptural and through the law and the prophets, uh through uh uh through the stars at one time, and then uh I believe it's also a a uh it's a suitable Uh it's a suitable salvation. When I say that, it's suitable because it applies to everyone. The word all in there is used a number of times. All have sinned and you know it all are guilty and so forth But it also says that there is none different. Mankind, no matter what race they are, no matter what color they are. There was a day in the f in the deep south where uh the black man, for instance, uh was uh uh thought to be an animal. And uh tragically, uh there was a lot of people that uh that felt that way about it. And they treated 'em like animals. But we know that uh that man Regardless of where he's from, what color his skin, what nationality is, he is man. And we've all sinned and come short of the glory of God. And man's nature. is one thing that we all have in common. When I say man's nature, I'm talking about this basic sin nature that we inherited from uh from Adam. And then uh also uh he uh Man's need also is something that we all have in common. Man has a need because, number one, he doesn't have any purpose in life unless he knows God as his Savior He doesn't have any peace in his life. He has no place in his life. There's a always a restlessness and always a looking for uh something that's going to help him So those are things that the plan of salvation has made available to mankind. And God has made sure that through the centuries that there is always the gospel available to everyone who would uh would believe. God's plan of salvation is a righteous plan. In verses 24 and 25, it says this. Uh being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God has set forth to be a professional I say that it's a uh it's a salvation that is righteous. Man is a sinner. But God is holy. In the book of Isaiah, we see the angels, the seraphim, flying around the throne of God, and they're crying, holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty. Throughout the scriptures we see the references. Matter of fact, it was interesting. uh is found in the scriptures and it turned out to be just one shy of seven hundred and seventy. Thought that was interesting. It's uh seven hundred and sixty-nine, but I may have missed one. Okay, I was counting them all as I was going As I looked at my computer. But anyway, um the Word of God uh five hundred and forty-four times in the Old Testament two hundred and twenty-five times. Uh in the New Testament it's uh referred to I'm sorry, that was uh five hundred and forty-four times uh the word righteous and holy for two hundred and twenty-five times I believe it was So anyway, but our God is a holy, a holy God. So if man has to is going to have fellowship with God, then he has to be as holy as God. You say, well, how in the world can man become holy? How can he become righteous? How does man get to that point in his life knowing that he's a sinner? And of course, the wonderful thing about God Is that whatever he demands, he supplies. Whatever he demands, he supplies. He demands perfection, then he's going to provide perfection. So what did he do? He sent his son down here to live a perfect life. And by the time Jesus died on the cross, there was not one person that could uh uh uh accuse him righteously. They accused him falsely, but not rightly And uh Jesus lived the perfect life without spot or blemish. And when he died on the cross, God accepted that The Bible says that He is propitiation, which means satisfactory sacrifice. He is a propitiation for our sin and not for ours only, but for the sins of the whole world. And so God provided that perfect sacrifice in order for man to have a sacrifice that he would accept I'm looking at at 1 John chapter 2 and verse 2, the one I just quoted in Romans chapter 3 and verse 25, it says, whom whom God has set forth, speaking of Jesus, to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God. And then in 1 John 4 10, it says this, herein is love. Not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. So, God's provision is the perfect sacrifice, which was Jesus Christ, who shed his precious blood, that we might have redemption. I see also God's promise. If you receive his perfect sacrifice, then you have his righteousness and his eternal life He hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. The wonderful thing about about God is he looks down at mankind. He looks down to that person who's received Christ as his Savior. And he doesn't see all the sin that he committed throughout a lifetime. What he sees, if that person has trusted Christ, he sees the absolute, absolute uh righteousness of Jesus Christ. And he accepts that individual, not on the things that he does, but upon the fact that he trusted Christ and God's righteousness was imputed to him. Placed upon him, given to him. The Holy Spirit is placed within his bosom and seals him to the day of redemption That's why a person can't get lost once they truly get saved. It's simply because God has done the saving. God has done the sealing. God has done everything. Provided the salvation to make sure that the man is eternally saved. And then the third thing is that God's plan of salvation is reasonable. I uh I uh uh I think of of Jesus uh she he was talking to the woman at the well. You remember that story in the verse uh 22 of John chapter 4. It says Jesus speaking to the woman, he says, Ye worship, you know know not what, but we know what we worship. For salvation is of the Jews. And of course, back in the Old Testament, that's salvation did come through the Jews. It came through Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and so forth. That's the lineage it came through But one thing that salvation does now is number one, it removes, uh, eliminates pride. Verse 27 of chapter 3 says this. Where is boasting then? It's excluded. By what law of works? Nay, but by the law of faith. You see, the Old Testament saints There was a there was an element of works in their uh in in what they did. They had to bring the sacrifice, they had to kill the sacrifice, they had to to provide that every time that they uh committed sin, there had to be a sacrifice, blood. Without the shedding of blood, there's no remission. But Paul says here in in the book of Romans, he said it's not by works of righteousness. He's talking about Abraham over in uh chapter four. And it says to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted For righteousness, even as David also described the blessingness of the man unto whom God imputed righteousness without works. And so This eliminates pride. If a person could uh work his way to heaven, if he could do enough good deeds, and if he could uh say enough prayers, or if he could uh uh win enough people to Christ that that would uh you know uh put him in contention for heaven or give him a spot in heaven. Then he'd pop his chest out and brag about it all over heaven. And God eliminated all that boasting by providing the perfect sacrifice and saying, Listen All you have to do, whether you're a Gentile or a Jew, whether you're black, white, red, or yellow, doesn't make any difference If you'll just simply trust him, I'll impute to you the righteousness of God, and you can have eternal life through him. It also eliminates prejudice. In verse 29, it says, Is he the God of the Jews only? Is he not also of the Gentiles? The one thing that's consistent in the scriptures is that since all have sinned, all need to be saved the same way. And have the same righteousness. No one can boast or brag about anything that they have because God has provided it all for them. The final thought is just simply this. God's plan of salvation is required I listened to Jesus. He talks to Nicodemus. And he says, Nicodemus, you must be born again. Nicodemus didn't understand it, and he explained it and explained it, but it all boiled down to those words, you must be born again. That's God's uh plan of salvation that's required. If you're here tonight and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, that's the way you do it. It says, for with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the uh with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. For as many as received him, to them gave you power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name, that's the way you get saved. Majority of folks in here have already walked the aisle and trusted Christ. But there may be someone here. that has never truly been born again by the Spirit of God. Maybe you're you're one of these that uh Satan has slipped a counterfeit. And you just uh you go through the motions. I've known several people. I was up in preaching in uh in northern Indiana many years ago. And about the second night, I think it was, or the third night, something like that, I noticed the preacher's wife came to the altar. And she began to weep. And the pastor knelt down beside her and asked her what the problem was. She says, you know, she said, I just never have been really been saved. She says, I thought I was, because I was doing all these things, because she was doing all these things that a Christian does. You can go through the motions. You can act like a Christian, and you can even fool me. But you can't fool God. God's looking at the heart, and it's with the heart that man believeth unto righteousness. And listen, you can tell it when it takes place. Oh, it's not some gigantic, you know, emotional upheaval necessarily. Though some people I guess do get emotional But it's a work the Holy Spirit does inside when he born you into the family of God. You can get up off your knees and knowing that through the Word of God, you know That you know. That you know. I hope you're saved tonight. If you're not, take care before you walk out the doors. If we can have these lights out, I'll show this chalk drawing.