Verse twenty for Second Peter chapter one, the Bible says this, knowing this first, that no prophecy of the Scripture is of any private interpretation. In other words, we can all interpret the Bible art for ourselves That's pretty much what he's saying. Then he says this, verse 21, and this is what we're going to look at tonight. For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man. And by prophecy, he's referencing Scripture. That's what he's talking about here. But holy men of God spake, look at this, as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. Holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. I wrote in the margin of my Bible, divine inspiration. That's what we're going to look at tonight, the inspiration of Scripture. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, I'm so grateful for a good day. We thank you, Lord, for gospel tracts. What a tremendous invention the printing press was. And now we have these tracts that we can give out. And I pray you'd stir our hearts We look forward to getting heaven someday and just seeing how many millions of people have been saved because somebody gave them a gospel tract. And I pray you'd bless our efforts there. Now as we look into your word I pray you'd challenge us, Lord, more of instruction tonight. I pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I yield my will to you. I present with all my heart my body anew Pray you'd speak through me and you'd be the teacher of your word tonight, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So we mentioned before, just get us caught up a little bit, there's a transition taking place and Peter's letter to these believers. These are young uh new believers. They've not been saved a long time, although this is a little later in their Christian life. They've experienced intense persecution. They're settling down And Peter's being real concerned about their spiritual well-being. They're getting maybe lethargic. They're getting a little settled in and lost some of their enthusiasm for their spiritual growth They're kind of in a rut and they're not really growing. So he challenges them in the first sixteen verses about uh about adding to their faith and growing and not getting stagnant And would you agree with me? We need that challenge every now and then to challenge us. Get up, go forward, get up and get on. That's what revivals are often about. Now he's transitioning over. He's dealing with a very serious issue that has come up within these the churches of these believers, and there is false doctrine sneaking in We're going to notice that beginning, Lord will, next Sunday night. We'll get into chapter 2. And he's addressing that, but he's laying some foundation first. Before he's going to deal with the false doctrine, he's establishing the authority for correct doctrine, and that of course is the Word of God And so he's talking about the inspiration of Scripture. If you remember, last two weeks ago, verse number 20, the first part, we employ pointed out the importance of Scripture. He says, first of all God's word needs to have first place in our lives. We preached about that this morning. And the night's message is a little redundant maybe from this morning's message. But uh we're working our way through and I just take that. Uh whenever a message comes up, I just take that as that's God's will for that message to be preached then. You work your way through. And so God has something here. And so the importance of Scripture. First of all, the bi uh the the the priority of the Word of God. Then we looked at the interpretation of Scripture, and as we said Now here's what I want to get to. This is what I'm getting at. Is the inspiration of scripture. And this is verse number 21 He says, the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. I just want to go through a little bit of a teaching tonight, just a few statements about the inspiration of Scripture. This passage here is one of the two most uh two very, very important passages in Scripture on inspiration. You could, if you don't have it in a study Bible, you could write in the margin of your Bible, 2 Timothy 3. 16. 2 Timothy 3. 16 and 1 2 Peter 1 21 are two of the most important passages in Scripture on the inspiration of Scripture. And so I want to start out over in 2 Timothy. So keep your place here. Come with me if you would to 2 Timothy chapter number 3 We're talking about the inspiration of Scripture. 2 Timothy 3, verse 16. We memorized this verse. Was it last month or a month or so ago? How many people know that we memorize this verse? How many people know you memorize this verse? Yeah. Good Verse 16, all scripture, look at this, is given by inspiration of God The first point I want to note tonight is this: the fact of inspiration. The Bible says all scripture is given. It's a very dogmatic statement, very emphatic. This book that we call Scripture, this Bible, the Word of God, is given by inspiration Now I want to talk about the word inspiration. Again, it's a little more teachy tonight than preachy, maybe. But the word inspiration comes from Of course, the New Testament is translated from a word that simply means this to breathe into inspiration Breathing into something. For Brother Miller's birthday party, we had a bunch of balloons put up. And to fill a balloon, what do you have to do if you're going to fill up a balloon? You have to Blow into it or breathe into it. Now we cheated. We got this little machine. He's taking on her psh. And uh but that's the idea of breathing into something, inspiration If you have expiration, what is that? Pulling it out of. Expiring, coming out of. Inspiring, we're breathing into something. So God's word tells us. That his word was given by inspiration. It means God breathed into Scripture, I'll just simplify this. Scripture is given to us from the mind and mouth of God into the Word of God. In other words, the very words and will of God is placed into the Word of God. You with me? God has breathed into his word, his very words, he's breathing. He gave it by inspiration. This Bible, when you sit down and read your Bible, it is as much the Word of God as if God was sitting there across from you in a chair speaking audibly to you. That's what the Bible is. I learned years ago, and I don't know where I picked this up, long before I showed up in Maryland. I came I came I don't know where I came across this thought, but when I open up my Bible in the morning and my morning devotions I try to approach that as if God is there speaking what I'm reading, speaking it to me. You follow what I'm saying? I like to read the Bible audibly out loud if I can't And I'll try to read out loud, and I'll take it, and when we read the Bible, it's like God is speaking it directly to us. What I'm trying to say is something we're all fully aware of, and I've been hounding it the last three, four months But the Bible is God's word. It's been breathed. God's word has been breathed into. So it's given by inspiration. As much the will and word of God as if he sat down was telling me, reading, speaking it to me right then and there. And notice in the verse, all scripture is given by inspiration of God. Don't buy into this business that some parts are inspired and some aren't. Don't buy into this idea that certain parts of the Bible are correct and given by God and others are just myths. There are no myths in this book. It's God's word. It's God's word. So number one, the fact of inspiration. Say, well, I don't fully understand inspiration. There's a lot of things I don't fully understand, but the Bible says it's so, it's so So God's given us his word by inspiration. Now, the purpose of inspiration. Why did he give us his words? Well, look at the rest of the verse there. 2 Timothy. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, that's teaching on spiritual things, for reproof, that's correcting me when I'm out of whack. For correction, that's getting me back in line. For instruction to righteous, that's telling me how I should live. Alright, well why? Look at verse 17. That the man of God may be what? Perfect. Doesn't mean sinless perfection. He means mature, complete. I can be everything God wants me to be. That the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all what? Good works. God wants me to grow. God wants me to be the man that He saved me to be. God wants you to be the person, man, woman, child, whatever you may be. Say what he saved us to be, be complete, mature, everything God wants me to be. But it comes through the God breathed book, the Bible. So the purpose of inspiration is to not just fill our minds with information. Some people just love to get facts about God. uh when I was in Bible college and the fellow was a good fellow, so don't misunderstand uh what I'm saying. But the guy was what we call, what I call an egghead. Anybody know what an egghead is? An egghead is not somebody that's bald. An egg kid, what we always referred to, was somebody that just fills their head with facts, tons of facts, tons of facts. And this guy, again, he was fine, fellow, not trying to be critical But we go to preaching time, we'd have big conferences there and preaching, and he'd bring four or five Greek dictionaries and Hebrew dictionaries and all these lexicons and and uh leprechauns and and all these things. And he'd spread out there, and when the preacher's preaching, boy, he'd be looking. You know what? He wasn't looking for God to speak to his heart. He was trying to fill his head with information. And God doesn't give us his word so we can get all these facts about this the the image that Daniel saw and and uh this and all the No no no He gives us His word so that our lives can be transformed. So we can become like Christ. Romans 12, 1. I love this passage. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. That you present your bodies, a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God. That's what God wants. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye what? Transformed. How? By the renewing of your mind. And that's where God's Word comes in, the inspiration. He changes the way we think. He renews our mind. I start, you know, if we're reading God's word, and this word is the mind of God, comes from the mind of God, if I learn that word, then I can start thinking the way God thinks You with me? I start seeing what God says. I like what Raymond Hancock used to say. I think it was him. He used to say, the Bible reveals to us the mind of God. Let's open it up and see what God's thinking about. I always like that. And so the purpose of inspiration, God gives us a Bible, so that our lives can be transformed. Number three, uh, if you knew how close to being done I am, you would be excited, Brother Ed. You'd be shouting. Come back to 2 Peter. Look at verse number 21 again. So we have the fact of inspiration. We know this Bible has been given to us. Breathe it. God breathed it. The purpose, change our lives, make us Christians, we ought to be. Number three, the origin of inspiration. This thing is God-breathed. Look at verse 21. For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man. The origin, the Bible did not come from the mind of man. It did not originate in the hearts and minds of men. When somebody, I think I said this recently, when someone says to you, oh, that Bible's just written by man. Uh, it maybe have been penned and written by man, but I'm telling you it's authored by God. Men didn't come Isaiah didn't get around and say, you know what, I think I'm gonna write a book and see if I can sell it and make a lot of money. That's the authors of the Bible. That's not, it didn't come from their mind, it didn't come from their heart. The origin of Scripture is not from man. Man was the penman. Man was, so to speak, the chalk that God used to record his word on the pages of Scripture. Are you with me? Just the instrument. Just the instrument. So the origin of inspiration is not with man. For though prophecy came not in the old time by the will of man. And that leads me to my last thought, believe it or not, the process of inspiration. How does that happen? How does the word of God in the mind of God transfer to the mind of the Bible writers and down onto paper. How does that happen? That process is called inspiration. That's what inspiration is describing. How it comes from the mind of God, the will of God, into Isaiah, Ezekiel, Moses, Samuel. Job, the different writers of the Bible, Paul, it comes from the mind of God and it's breathed into The mind of the writer who then writes it down. That is the process of inspiration. That is the how of inspiration. Now look here It says it came not in the old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake. Well, first of all, God selected certain men to be the penmen, record down his word. They were holy men. These were spiritual men. Were they sinless men? No. If God was only going to use a sinless person to record his word, we would not have the Bible. Because there are no sinless people. God chose sinful man. This is a miracle of God's mercy and grace. That he would take a sinful man and breathe into that man's mind the message he has. And that man writes it down on paper. An old sinful man. Now these were holy men, they're not sinless, but they were holy. They were spiritual. They were men submissive to God. They were men willing to let the Lord lead them and direct them. They were men Submissive to God's will for their life. Let me just throw this out. God's not going to use someone very much unless they're submissive to the will of God. Just say, Lord, not my will, your will be done. If I'm holding on to my will and I'm not submissive, God, I'll do anything for you except that you're going to limit how God's going to use you. And these men were submissive to God. They were holy men, spiritual, godly men, not sinless, but men nevertheless. And now here's what I want to get to and what I want to end with. The Holy Spirit moved upon them. Now, this is where in my mind it gets interesting. But holy men of God spake. And some of them did literally speak, and they had somebody write it down. Many of them they wrote it themselves. But look what it says: as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. That word move there is an interesting word. It means this, to be driven along. It means to be carried along. That same word is used throughout the Gospels when somebody, in a certain case, they would take one case where they took small children and they brought them to Jesus. They carried them along over to over here. It means to be driven, to be carried along. It has the idea of being conveyed. Holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. They were inspired. Take your Bible, if you would, and go with me to Acts chapter number 27. Paul is appealed to Caesar. And he's now being shipped as a prisoner up to Caesar, and en route, of course they're going by ship, and in route they hit a terrible storm. That storm has beaten the boat up bad. They're throwing uh they're throwing uh cargo overboard. They're praying for their life. I mean it's bad. It's been, if I remember correctly, about 14 days. They've been in the midst of this storm. And all hope that they were safe would be saved was lost, they say But God assured Paul that they're going to make it. God says, I'll take care of you. Nobody's going to die. But look, if you would, at verse 15 of Acts 27. And you'll see what I'm trying to do here in a moment. Acts 14. But not long after there arose against it their ship, their boat, their sailing in, a tempestuous wind. called Euroclidon. It would be what we call a hurricane. In the South Pacific they call it typhoons. Verse 15, and when the ship was caught and could not bear up into the wind, look at this next phrase, we let her drive. In other words, we couldn't control currents, the waves, the wind, we couldn't control the ship. Read on there. It says um and running under a certain island which is called Clauda, we had much work to come by the boat Which when they had uh taken up, they used helps undergirding the ship. They're trying to hold this thing together, it's gonna fall apart, fearing lest they should fall into the quicksands. They straight sail. That phrase straight sail means they brought the sails down. The wind is so violent. It is so out of control. He said, pull those sails down. We're going to run into run into land. They straight sail, and look at this. And so were what? That's the same word back up in verse 15 where it says let her drive. In other words, we're just taking our hands off this thing, and wherever the current Whatever the wind drives us, we're just going to let it push us along, just carry along. That is the exact same word in 2 Peter 1. 21, where it says they were moved by the Holy Spirit. You say, what in the world does that mean? What are you saying? This is what it's telling us. When Paul, let's use Paul for an example, when he sat down in that Roman prison. And he's going to write a letter of joy in the Christian life to the church at Philippi. He sets down, as he begins to write, the Holy Spirit of God. Breathe into his mind the thoughts and the very words that God wants him to write down, and he has moved along, his thinking. is moved along by the Holy Spirit. And when he's writing down there to the church at Philippi, Paul was servant of God He is literally writing down exactly what God is moving on his mind, the thoughts to put down. Are you following me? That is inspiration. God breathing into the mind of Paul or Isaiah, any Bible author, writer I should say, God is breathing into their mind the very words he once written down. What an amazing thing. Can you imagine being somebody that God did that for through? Well what an amazing experience. By the way, when Revelation was finished, God stopped doing that. So you see some preacher on TV, let me just throw this out there, and Paul's, or Peter's going to talk about this here. You got some person that says, I've got a revelation from God. God's inspired me to tell you this. Don't you believe it God chose very specific holy men till the Bible was complete. It was a one-time event until the Bible was complete. But God spake And when you and I are reading these passages, Psalm 23, God breathed in the mind of young David as a mountainside there. He's writing down, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. The Spirit of God is moving his thinking, driving, conveying his thoughts to be exactly what God wants written down. Isn't that an amazing thing? I don't know about you, but the hair stands up on the back of my neck when I'm preaching this. Both of them. And uh few of them back there. This it's amazing to me how God has given to us his word. God breathed into the minds of these folks, the penmen of Scripture, the very words, not just the ideas. God didn't say, well, I'll put this idea in his head and let him write it out however he thinks is. No, the very words. Jesus said, even the jots and the tittles will not pass away. Um, I got was I was studying this again and I got thinking about all the way back in Genesis. Chapter 2, where God, the Bible says that God formed man from the dust of the earth. How many people remember that? I don't mean you were there. I mean you remember reading. A couple of y'all were pretty close. He formed man from the dust of the earth. And all he all there was at that point was a body. A lifeless body made out of the dust of the earth. Just a lifeless body. But the Bible says God came down And this is incredible to me. But he breathed into that body's nostrils. He breathed into that body's nostrils the breath of life And man became what? A living soul. God breathed into that body. His very own life. Now not that man is divine, we're not, but God is the author of all life. And God breathed into that body his own life, and man became a living soul. You know what happened when these penmen, Paul in prison, and he took pen in hand and he started to write down, God! Breathed into his mind the very words of God. And that writing became the inspired, perfect, flawless word of God. Just as miraculous as God breathing into that body the breath of life. God breathing into their minds the very word. What I'm trying to tell you is this. Same thing I said this morning There is nothing in existence like that book right there. Nothing No man in all of history ever has or ever will come up with something even remotely close to what we have in the Word of God. Inspired, all scripture, holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Spirit of God, Holy Spirit of God. Um and by the way, it wasn't just simply dictation. Now sometimes you hear read sometimes in theology books they'll say, well, God spoke and it was just like the guys became uh you know, just writing, they have no control over it. That's not the way it was at all God took into account their personality. You can read, if you read your Bible over and over, you start picking up a little bit of the personality of the writers. You read Psalms enough, you can start, without even knowing, you look and say, boy, that sounds like David. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Sometimes there's a psalm that no penman is assigned to it, and you read it and say, man, that sure sounds like David writing that. You pick up the personality of John in 1, 2nd, and 3 John. Talks about love Loving one another, loving God, God is love, you get to the Gospel, John. He whom the Lord loved Leaned on his breast. You see this, you see the personality, a compassionate, sensitive man. You read Peter, you pick up his personality, just pretty blunt, laying it out Uh Paul. Paul said one point, he said, No man, uh uh no van no man stood with me. I think Paul had a hard time keeping associates. I mean they were just constantly abandoning. I think he was so driven, but you pick up this the personality of him. And the amazing thing is, God uses you and I just the way we are. I'm trying to say this: you don't have to be like someone else to be used of God. When I first started preaching, I thought I had to be like Lee Robertson and he was very stiff. Have you ever seen him preach? You know, it's like Have faith in God. He was just very bru abrupt uh and do right. And it was great, it was power, God was on, but and I said up there, all right, have faith in God. And it didn't work And then another great influence in my life was Jack Hiles and he was and he always coughed back then. He was like and so I get up and preach and uh that didn't work You know what I learned? I just need to be Dennis Leatherman totally yielded to Jesus. Now you're not going to inspire me to write things. But I'm telling you, God using us to bring others to Christ is a miraculous thing. After the service, Diane led that lady to the Lord. That was the Holy Spirit of God working, bringing that lady to Christ. And God uses us just the way we are. Teachers, don't try and don't look for another uh Billy Sunday in your Sunday school class, there will never be another Billy Sunday. There will never be another John R. Rice. There will never be another uh D. L. Moody But what are in your class are boys and girls that are indwelt by the same Holy Spirit that Spur Spurgeon and Moody and and John R. Rice, all those guys were indwelt with, and just let them be themselves, and of course in in the image of Christ, but their own personalities, and God uses everybody the way we are. So when God was inspiring these holy men working in their uh He he a can he incorporated their personality in it He accounted for their personality. It wasn't just dictating. Now, some parts of the Bible are straight dictation. Moses went up on the mount. And God dictated him the Ten Commandments. And it was just, yes, yes, Lord. Alright, thou shalt have no other gods before. And just dictated. Other places, God's using their writing from their heart, and God's moving on their heart and mind what to write down. You follow what I'm saying? And so God used them. God used them. He incorporated their past experiences. You can pick that up a little bit. Their personal situations. When I study a psalm or a passage, I like to look, what were the circumstances? What was going on around there? It helps you pick that up, what was happening. This book, 40 writers. Over 1,500 years, 40 different writers spread out over 15 or more hundred years. But there's one author, God Almighty. God Almighty. And that same Holy Spirit, for every one of those 40 authors, moved on their minds. breathed into their minds the thoughts and words that he would have them write down. This is a miraculous book. Nothing like it. Nothing like it. And what this book, what I tried to say this morning, I repeat again tonight, what this book can do for your life and my life, nothing else in this world can do it. It's a powerful, powerful book. And by the way, it's written in such a way, we can study it our entire lifetime. And trust it and believe it. Amen. Came across baseball seasons on. I like baseball. I'm not an expert on it. I just like watching it I like when the pirates beat the Orioles. That's uh I like that I was reading this week about a Major League Baseball umpire. His name was Bill Clem. Anybody recognize that, Tom? You recognize Bill Clem? I don't know. But anyway He was at the time one of baseball's best-known umpires. They said when he stood behind the plate, he was in charge of that ball part. He had just an atmosphere about him, a status about him, that he was the leader, he was in charge, he was the authority, and everybody saw that, and everybody recognized that He said there were times when the coach would come out of the dugout, all mad at him, for a call he made, and he would just stare him in the eye, and the coach would turn around and go back and sit down. That's what they say the kind of fellow he was. He said there was one occasion, so ninth inning, um, critical game. The batter hit the ball into left field. The runner on third broke for home plate. They threw the ball in to the catcher. The catcher was guarding that plate. That runner is coming in full speed in, and there was a horrific collision. Knocked the catcher over. The base runner went to the ground. They both ran into Bill Clem, the umpire, and he went down to the ground. Dust everywhere The dugout for the runners team was yelling out, he's safe, he's saved. The dugout for the catchers team was yelling out, he's out, he's out. The crowd, half the crowd was yelling, he's safe, he's safe. The other half the crowd was yelling, he's out, he's out. They say that Bill Clem got up off the ground and brushed himself off. He looked at the crowd. He looked at the two dugouts and he says, he ain't nothing till I declare what it is I said that to say this. This whole world can yell and tell us whatever they want, but it's the Bible is the final authority. What God says is the final word. Like I said this morning, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, as long as I'm pastor of this church, we stand with the Bible. That's our authority. Why don't you make it the authority in your home? Why don't you quit letting Hollywood tell you what to do and how to dress and what's right and what's wrong? Just cut that garbage off. Quit getting worked up what politicians are saying this and that and the other. I'm telling you, let's go straight to the final authority. The Word of God given by inspiration of God. Let's pray. Father, I pray you'd take these thoughts. Challenge us, Lord. We're trying to emphasize this year your word. And the role it plays in our church and in our lives and in our world. And help us get back to the old book. Heads bowed, eyes closed, almost the same invitation I gave this morning. But I wonder how many of God's people would say, preacher, I really, really need to get back to the Bible. I need to get this thing back in my life, in my home, where it needs to be, in my schedule. I need this thing to be the authority. Quit letting Hollywood and peers and work and school and everybody else tell me what's right and wrong, what to do, what not to do. I need to let God start tell me. Any like that, uplifted hand preacher, I need to get back to that old book. God bless you. Hands all around, we need it. I need it. Our church needs it. Let's teach it in Sunday school. Amen, teachers. Let's teach it on the buses. Sing it in the choir. And make this thing what it ought to be. Father, bless her imitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen