Turn back to First Peter chapter number one. I wanted so badly to preach on Father's Day today and been working on it and um I had read this passage in my devotions a week or so ago and my mind and heart and mind kept coming back to it and coming back to it. And so um I felt like this is uh the message for this morning. And so um I don't have a Father's Day. I wanted to. It was a real blessing yesterday. We had our Great Commission Day and a bunch of us went over to Ter Alden. We're doing surveys and Uh what a joy I don't know that I've ever done this before, but uh I was able to uh take my dad with me, going door to door sharing the gospel with folks And uh I can't tell you what a blessing that was to have my dad there with me and it was a real blessing, knock on the door and introduce myself, and I'd say, That is my dad right there. Privilege. And so um I just thank God for it. I failed to recognize um uh Betty's uh nieces here. Jane is up from Tennessee. And there the two of them are heading up to New York New York, leaving tomorrow. I'm going to be up there for a week or so. And so good to see you, Jane. We're glad you're here. I didn't didn't mean to overlook you and We just uh glad that you're with us. First Peter chapter one. I just want to read verse eighteen and nineteen. And I'll be very frank with you. This is two verses that really should be hot Underscored or highlighted in some way in your Bible. They are very significant verses. Notice what it says. For as ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation uh received by tradition from your fathers, but With the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. I want to speak this morning for a few moments on the precious blood of Jesus Christ. Let's pray and ask God to speak our hearts. Father, thank you for this special day and and what an honor it is to be a father. And God, then the joy and blessing of having fathers, and we're grateful for their influence. Our church would not be what it is had it not ha is were it not for the fathers that uh are faithful and bringing their families and being a positive influence. And so bless now our study of your word. I yield myself to you. I pray with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. Take my body and use it, Lord, as a channel for your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. As I said, I kept coming back to this passage. And our text here deals with one of the most important aspects of our salvation, and that is the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, I I don't mean to be critical, and I hope you'll bear with me on this, but um we live in a society and I don't know that it's unique to our community, it's probably uh across the country, maybe around the world. But a lot of churches will talk about or they'll preach about the gospel. They'll talk about man needs to be saved. They'll talk about Jesus dying on the cross and rising again. They'll preach about the gospel, but they do not preach the gospel. You follow what I'm saying? Uh I come across a lot of Christians. They know all about the gospel. They can tell you aspects of it. They can talk about the gospel, but they have never received the gospel. They've never put their trust. Let me illustrate what I'm saying. We go out knocking on doors and happened to us yesterday. And uh we'll introduce ourselves. We have a little spiel we go through. And one of the questions we get to eventually is um Uh we'll ask them if they think about heaven and hell, those things. One of the questions is, do you know for sure that if you died right now or whenever you died, do you know for sure that you would go to heaven and not to hell? Do you know your sins are forgiven? When you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. And we'll get answers like this. I hope so. I think so. Oh, I'd like to believe that. And these answers come from people who just previously had assured us that they are faithful church attenders. In fact we had a couple yesterday my dad and I uh visited. And um oh yeah we and we talked about that and I said well can I come back sometime? Uh we were out in their yard, it just wasn't c And can I come back, maybe have an evening, and share sit down and show you from the Bible how when you die you go to heaven, not to hell. They said, Yeah you can, but you can't come Sunday because we're in church all day And you can't come Wednesday because we're at go to church Wednesday nights. It would have to be some other time because we're in church every time the doors are open. But they did not know whether they were going to heaven or hell. Now, isn't that sad? They knew about the gospel. And when we talked to them about the gospel and went through all they knew all the things about it, but they didn't know the gospel in a personal way. And we meet people who go to churches and the pastors preach about the need of being saved. And they'll preach about Christ dying on the cross and rising. And they'll preach about heaven and about hell. But they never preach the gospel in a way that anybody and somebody can apply it to their life. And that's a tragedy I think there's a lot of people, I hate to say this, but I'm afraid there's a lot of people die and go to hell that know all about the gospel, but never knew the Christ of the gospel. Never understood how it applied to them personally. And they die with the knowledge in their head, but emptiness in their heart, and loss for all eternity. I want to look at one aspect of the gospel that is incredibly important. And my prayer is that this morning Each of us, now I'm looking at the crowd, most if not all of us would claim to know Christ as Savior, and I believe that's true. I trust that's true. But there's a lot of people in the world that don't know Christ And so we're going to look at an aspect of the gospel, probably. I mean you can't categorize them here probably, but one of the, in my mind, most important aspects of the gospel, and that is the Lord the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse 19. Says in verse 18 how we're not saved. We're not redeemed by gold and silver and all that. And we'll talk about that in a minute. But in verse 19 he says, but with the precious Blood of Jesus. The precious blood of Jesus. That word precious is a Precious word. That is a neat word. The word precious means this having extreme value It means uh has the idea of highly esteeming something. It is very precious, it's very valuable to me. Boy, this this has highest priorities in my life. Did you notice Eric and Jody walking around with little Samuel, little baby Samuel just born? You could just look at them, and that child is very precious to them. Very valuable, highly esteemed. Uh a lot of the others back there, um uh Justin's not paying a word a bit of attention to me. He's looking at his little baby there, and uh all precious and I'm picking on you a little bit. And um But uh uh boy that child is just precious. Man, I'd give up everything in the world before I give up my little child. Just precious. I was reading this week of um uh back uh just before World War II in Germany when Hitler and his his uh machine were rounding up the Jews and hauling them off and there was a German lady. And she would been shopping downtown by the train station on a particular day. And this lady was older now and she was sharing it with another woman on a plane. And uh we got talking and uh they got talking and she says I was shopping downtown right at the time when Hitler was rounding up the Jews and putting them on the cattle cars and the train and hauling them off to the camps And she said, I was shopping and I saw and there was a a huge group of Jews come by and the soldiers had them and they were loading them up. And she said, I stood there and just almost dumbfounded watching this take place in in front of me. And she says, my my eyes went to a woman, a young mother, and she was being pushed off by the um the the German soldiers. And there was a little girl, just two or three, walking behind her crying. The mother kept looking back and looking back and the lady kept looking back and the soldiers finally grabbed her and grabbed the little child and said, Is this your daughter? And the Jewish woman with tears rolling down her eyes, the woman's telling the story, pointed at me, she said, and said, No, that woman there is her mother. And the soldier said, Get your daughter out of here. And this total stranger was telling the story. Said I grabbed the little girl, little Jewish girl, and took her and raised her as my own. And they took the mother off. She said, I never knew whatever happened to her. I tell you, that little baby girl was more precious to that woman than her own life. Follow what I'm saying? Understand how much she loved her daughter to be able to do that, knowing her daughter would have been killed if she'd have been taken with her and gives her off to a stranger. The Bible says that the blood of Jesus Christ is precious. It's very, very valuable. It's highly esteemed. God has always considered blood to be very to be of great value. Early on in the scriptures in man's history, God had instructed man that he is not to eat flesh with the blood thereof. And he instructed that they were to drain the animals as they killed them. They were to drain them of the blood. They were not to eat the blood. And the reason being was, God said, For the life of the flesh is therein. There's something about blood that is very sacred in the eyes of God. I'd asked a doctor, I worked as a, you know, in a hospital down when I was in Bible college, and one of the doctors there, a Christian doctor, and had a pretty good testimony and we had had a message on the the life of the flesh was in the blood or I'd studied in a class, I don't remember, but he was there and I asked him And I said, I have a question. I said, the Bible says that the life of the flesh is in the blood. I said, medically speaking, is that a true statement? And he thought for a moment. He says, You're exactly right. The life of the flesh is in the blood. From the beginning of man's history, God has considered blood to be something almost sacred. The Bible teaches that if a man sheds another man's blood, if he kills him, murders him, that his blood is to be shed. It's called capital punishment. And by the way, I think it's still a good idea today. God considers blood to be of great value, almost sacred. In fact, it's if you stop and think about it, it's It's surprising that even for the Jews in the religious ceremonies that God had given them All of this pointing to the coming Lord Jesus Christ, their coming Messiah, who would be the Lamb of God, who would give his blood to save the to wash man from sins God would accept the blood of bulls and goats as they would sprinkle that on the mercy seat and they would sprinkle that on the d various uh pieces of furniture in the tabernacle. And God would accept that as a temporary covering until the blood of Jesus Christ would be shed. And I thought in the context of our message that blood being almost a sacred thing in the eyes of God, that God would even recognize and accept bulls and goats' blood. To be a temporal satisfaction of his judgment on sin until Christ would come. God holds nations responsible for the shedding of innocent blood. God holds a nation responsible if that nation will tolerate the shedding of the innocent blood. If you read scripture carefully, you find that the nations that shed innocent blood, that tolerate it, that sanction the killing of innocent people Those nations were destroyed very violently. I was reading this past week. The most current statistics I could find. And this I believe was 2012. That in the United States of America, in the year 2012, there were three, at least 3,000 babies aborted a day. Not a year, not a month, not three thousand a week, three thousand babies aborted in their mother's womb Every day of the year. Um that figure works out to a hundred and twenty-five an hour. That means since we've been in church here, about a hundred babies, statistically speaking, a hundred babies have been aborted since we began this service. That comes to two babies aborted every second. It comes to one million ninety-five thousand a year. Children aborted. If you've been paying attention to the news at all, you've read about and heard about this fella in Philadelphia, Gosnell. Who took that to its logical conclusion and just slaughtering babies even after they're born, cutting their spinal cords with scissors and just slicing their heads off I'm telling you, God considers the shedding of innocent blood to be a horrendous thing, to be judged very severely. Blood is a sacred thing in the eyes of God. And every nation that I can find in Scripture that tolerated the wholesale slaughter. And many of the pagan nations uh would slaughter children, they'd offer them the Molech, and every one of those nations, every one of them, without exception That slaughtered innocent blood, shed innocent blood, every one of them was violently destroyed. You ever read through the Old Testament and Israel comes in and God instructs Israel to kill every person, every living person in a in a city or in a country that they're invading, and he would say, Kill the men, the women, the children, slaughter them all. You know why God instructed them? Not because God's some hateful God But because those people as a society had become so vile, and those nations had become so callous to the sacredness of life, And the value of blood, and you'll study these nations, not one of them were nations that were good or godly or indifferent. They were extremely violent nations. And God brought his judgment on them. As I studied the Bible's teaching on blood. And I came to this Teaching in this record here of God's judgment on nations that shed innocent blood, I became very, very fearful for the United States of America. Preachers have been saying this for many decades. That God's judgment is coming to America. The more I study my scriptures, the more convinced I am that judgment is sure on America unless America repents. I see no other option. I see no other option. All through Scripture, God considers blood to be of great value. Great value. Blood is sacred to God. Man's blood is very sacred to God. It contains life. And now we have here in our passage the blood of Christ. And the Bible says the blood of Christ is precious. Precious. The precious blood of Christ. What is it about the blood of Christ that God considers so precious? Let me give you a couple real quick thoughts. And I could give a dozen or more. But let me just give you three Number one, I put this down: the blood of Jesus Christ is precious because it purchased our salvation. Look with me at verse number 18. For as much as ye know that you were not redeemed, With corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by traditions from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ. He says here that we are gold and silver and valuable stones and precious minerals. That is not what saves us. That is not What is enables us to escape the judgment of God, all these things did I but only the precious blood of Jesus. It is the blood of Jesus Christ that purchased our salvation. That word redeemed there in verse number 18 is a very important Bible word. Brother Ken Lake had a tremendous message last Sunday night, and his first point was on being redeemed. And he gave a tremendous explanation and definition of that. It simply means he said, and I agree with this and I and I come to the same definition It means to liberate something or someone by payment. It means to rescue from captivity. Or to pay a ransom to a person for a person being held hostage In other words, the Bible says that you and I, the Bible teaches that you and I are held hostage naturally. That we are under sin, we're held captive to sin. And the only thing that can purchase our freedom is the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Um, I put this down. Satan holds us hostage by the can somebody find out what that beeping is? I hope it's not a bomb. Is there any Muslims in here? Whoa, I shouldn't have said that. Alright, well I guess it's okay. Everybody alright? All right. Um the Bible teaches that uh That we are born in sin. We are born sin sinners. We do this all the time. We all know this. You don't have to teach a child how to lie You don't have to teach a child how to be selfish. You don't have to teach a child how to sin. It comes naturally. We're born sinners. We're born under sin, in sin. And that makes us a captive, so to speak, of Satan. Because we are sinners, we are under the judgment of God. The law holds us guilty. Yesterday we were out doing our uh survey, our fantastic survey we do. And one of the questions there is this. If you were to stand before God, And God was to judge you according to the Ten Commandments. Would you be innocent or would you be guilty? Now we just had them go through what the Ten Commandments are. And every person that's honest Says, well, if I was judged by God according to the Ten Commandments, I would be guilty. I've broken at least a few of those commandments at some point in my life. And that's the whole point of the question. The Bible says that all are guilty. We are all under held hostage, so to speak, by the law. The law condemns us The law says we are guilty. The law demands that we be judged by God for all eternity, separated in the lake of fire, as guilty sinners before God. We are hostage to sin. Now, how can I be freed from that? How can I be freed from that judgment? How can I be freed from that condemnation? Can silver and if I give enough gold, if I give enough money, will that get me out from under that judgment? Will that help me escape the condemnation that is in the law? Will money do that? Verse number 18 says, no. Well, if I'm good enough. It was interesting. Yesterday I uh we we must have run into a bunch of religious people. One of the questions on our survey is, do you believe if a person lives a good life that they will escape hell? And every one of the people we uh um interviewed, surveyed, they said no They understood the Bible teaching that you and I are not good enough to escape this judgment. We are held hostage. So, how can I be free from the judgment of God? How can I escape my guilty condition before God? I need to get out from under the law. So I'm not judged by God when I die. There's only one way is to be purchased or redeemed, to be bought back by God. And only the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ can do that. There is nothing on planet Earth that is valuable enough to save a soul from the judgment of God in hell. You know what's sad? As we speak right now. There are religious institutions in our community and communities around the world that are teaching if you give enough money If you do enough sacraments, if you do enough of this, that, and the other, you have a chance of getting to heaven. That is a lie of the devil. There's nothing on planet Earth, no church, no organization, no man can purchase you and I back from the judgment of God. Only the blood of Jesus. I read this week of the most valuable substance in existence. It's called antihydrogen I asked Brother Pat about this and I actually knew more about it than he did. And um no, not really. He filled me in a little bit on it. I had no idea what he was talking about, but um There is a substance in existence, the scientists make it, it's called antihydrogen. Does anybody have any of that by chance? Antihydrogen, I have no idea what it is or what it does, but the scientists tell us that plutonium and gold are like dirt. Compared to the value of anti hydrogen. One ounce of anti hydrogen costs $1,750 trillion. So if you have some you suppose the tithe on that That would solve a lot of our problems. Create a whole lot more, too. Hey, all the anti-hydrogen in the world can't buy a soul back from the judgment of God. It's only one thing, the blood of Jesus Christ. You may be the richest man in the county, but if the blood of Jesus Christ has not been applied to your account and you die that way, you will spend eternity in hell. I'm not trying to be unkind, I'm trying to be honest. Only the blood of Jesus can save a soul from hell. Let me ask you a question. If you were on the verge of eternity and you knew that you were going to go to hell, What would you be willing to do to escape hell? I don't know about you, but I'd be willing to give up everything I own. Amen. Every every last penny, every possession I have, if they can escape hell Nothing I own is of any value when it compared to eternity in hell. But I'm telling you, everything you own cannot keep you or I or anyone else out of hell. Only the blood of Jesus. And I'm telling you, that makes the blood of Jesus very precious. Very precious. Well, I would enjoy my possessions. I enjoy all this. Yeah, we can. 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 years. And then we go out into eternity. And I tell you what, those possessions mean nothing once we're out in eternity. The blood of Jesus Christ is very, very precious because it's the only adequate payment for our sin. Brother Ken Lake made a statement last Sunday. I said that message disturbed my heart. And I wrote it down in the margin of my Bible, in the back finally by my Bible. He said this: on the auction block of eternity Jesus outbids Satan for my soul. And the payment he made was his shed blood on the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. The blood of Jesus Christ redeems us. It purchases our salvation. The second reason the blood of Jesus is precious is because the blood of Jesus appeases God's holiness. God never has forgiven sin apart from shed blood. Never All through the Old Testament, the only way their sin could be forgiven was on the Day of Atonement when blood was placed on the altar. And that was the only thing that made God's people acceptable to God. Was the temporary blood of bulls and goats to cover until Jesus Christ comes. And his blood was shed. God never has forgiven sin apart from shed blood. God cannot forgive sin apart from shed blood You have your Bibles here, and we're going to look at a couple verses real quick, but not far away from where we are. Come over to Hebrews chapter 9. Here's a passage that really should be underscored in your Bible. Hebrews chapter 9 And verse number 22. I want you to turn in your Bibles to this and see this for yourself. Hebrews 9. 22. Now he's referencing the first part of the verse, he's referencing back to the Old Testament ceremonies when the Jews would use the blood of bulls and goats, as I mentioned, to uh uh set things apart and whatnot. Look at verse twenty-two. He says, and almost all things, talking about the Old Testament furniture and the tabernacle, almost all things Are by the law purged with blood. Now look at listen to this next statement. And without the shedding of blood, there is no remission. Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission. Now the question is: what does that word remission mean? It's very similar, the root word is very similar to the word forgiven. And it literally has this idea to take something and treat it as if it had never been. In other words, a person before God, we've all sinned. But if we find remission God will view us as if we had never sinned, as if we had never had. It's called being justified. Did you ever hear the simplistic definition of the word justified? Just as if I'd never sinned. When the blood of Jesus Christ is applied to a person's soul God views that person as if they had never sinned. There is remission there. There is justification. These are Bible terms. And it means that God forgives me and views me legally as if I had never broken one of his laws. In fact, Corinthians tells us that he views us as righteous and as holy as Jesus Christ himself. The righteousness of God is put to my account when Jesus' blood is applied to me. The blood of Jesus Christ is very precious because it appeases God's holiness, our sin against God. I am afraid we have a very shallow understanding of how awful our sin really is. I'm afraid in Christianity today, sin is viewed as just some sort of mistake. I'll never forget a number of years ago. Remember the gal down in Texas that she had five children, I think, and she killed all five of her children in the bathtub. Anybody remember that event? And it was huge on the news, and some of these liberal crackpots were trying to excuse her and justify her. And I'll never forget, I was watching a news broadcast, and they were talking about this, and they had a gal, a lawyer somebody was interviewing, and she made this statement. She said, so and so, the mother that had killed all her children, she said she simply made a mistake. We all make mistakes. And I tell you, I was highly offended at that statement. Sure we all make mistakes, but we don't all kill our children. And that mentality has gripped Christianity that we can do wrong And we can just disregard the Word of God. And we can just disobey God. And we can live our lives however we want, irregardless of what God's will is, and somehow it doesn't matter I'm telling you, sin does matter. It costs Jesus Christ dearly God's holiness is so adverse to sin that God killed his own son so that you and I could be forgiven for our sin. When we get such a light view of sin that it really doesn't matter, that I can just live my life and disregard what God says is right and wrong. We have a shallow view of Christianity. We have a faulty view of how deeply our sin hurt the Lord Jesus Christ. If we understood the preciousness of the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, if we understood fully the cost. That Jesus Christ paid so that you and I could be forgiven for the things we just disregard and don't even give a second thought about. It would humble us. It would shame us to think that we have such a light view of disobeying God. Tell you how many folks here you're saved, you know it say amen. Every one of us that are saved, we're going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ. We say, oh yeah, it'll be great, I'll get my rewards. Did you ever read how Paul described the judgment seat of Christ? He says, therefore knowing, this is in reference to the judgment seat of Christ, he said, therefore, knowing the terror of the Lord. The Apostle Paul, probably the greatest Christian that ever lived. When he thought on the fact that someday I'm going to stand before Jesus Christ, who shed his blood for my sin. And I'm going to have to stand before him and see his wounds and realize the price that he paid for my sin. He said, that's a terrible thought. It's a terrible thought. Now, the judgment seat of Christ is a time of reward. As a Christian, how we lived our lives, and God has rewards for those who live for Him and pleased Him. And as we understand Scripture, there's five crowns available to the believer. And thank God for that. But I'm afraid we live in such a day and we have such an atmosphere within our Christian family that sin is some trait thing that really is indifferent and really is no big deal. It is a big deal. Jesus shed his blood for my sins My bad attitude, my selfishness, my ingratitude, my deliberate disobedience to the clear, revealed will of God. I cost my Savior deeply. Blood of Jesus Christ is precious. Because the blood of Jesus Christ is the only thing that can purchase me back from judgment and eternity and hell. It's the only thing that appeases the holiness of God for my sin. My sin costs the Lord dearly. I was reading about a house had caught on fire and there was a s family in there and young children. Firemen showed up and by the time they got there the house was engulfed in flames. They tried to get in, they were pouring water into the thing, and for some reason they caught movement or they heard a sound in one of the upstairs rooms and they could not get to it, and the only way to get to it was to climb a cast iron pipe that was coming down the side. One of the firemen, without hesitation, ran over and got a hold of that pipe and worked his way up, and lo and behold, inside the room was a small boy, six, seven, eight years old. He grabbed the boy and got a hold of him and somehow secured him and let himself down that pipe. When it was all said and done, the whole family was killed. Mom and dad were dead. A little boy was left orphaned. Some time went by and people kind of shared them and took care of them. There was no family, other family, and finally they were having a day when the town got together and the magistrate was there and they were going to determine who was going to take Responsibility for this child. The wealthiest man in town was there and he gave his arguments to why he was able to care for this boy and Uh he had the resources available to give him an education and meet his needs and get him a good start in life. There was a educator there, a teacher, and said, Well, I've worked my whole life with children and I know children. I think I would be helpful and Several people gave their arguments, and the whole time, the story goes, the little boy sat stood there and just kind of stared at the ground with a very sad face. And then a man walked in. When the boy saw the man, he knew he recognized him. And after all the arguments had settled down and they were trying to decide, the man pulled his hands out of his pocket, and his hands were blistered and scarred. He was the one that had climbed that pike that was almost red hot and reached in and grabbed that boy and went back down. And when Boy saw that man with those scarred, burnt hands, understanding the price he paid for his salvation, so to speak, little boy ran over. And threw his arms around him and said, I want this man to be my daddy. I want this man to be my daddy. That little boy understood the price that was paid for him to be alive. And he loved him for that. The blood of Jesus Christ is precious because that's the price it was cost Jesus so that God's holiness could be appeased for my sin. Let's stop taking sin so lightly. We have to stop Our disobedience to God, thinking that it's no big deal. It's well, what's the big deal anyway? God will forgive me in the end. Yes, thank God for his forgiveness. But let's not forget how much it cost our Savior. The blood of Jesus Christ is precious. It purchased me back from the slavery of sin. It appeased God's holiness The blood of Jesus Christ purifies my heart. 1 John 1:9 says, the blood of Jesus Christ, his Son, cleanseth us from all sin. Hey, the Bible tells us we are forgiven. And thank God for that. The judgment of my sin is removed because of what Jesus Christ did for me. He paid the price for my sin. God's judgment is removed. I'm forgiven. I'm treated in the God, as far as legally concerned, as far as God sees me, it's like I never sinned. But the blood of Jesus Christ doesn't just stop at forgiving our sin. It also purifies us from sin. It cleanses us from sin. It's one everybody wants to be forgiven. Yeah, I don't want to be judged for my sin. I don't want to go to hell for my sin. I want to be forgiven. And thank God forgiveness is available. I read this morning in my devotions: the mercies of the Lord are forever. God forgives us. But here's the problem, I'm afraid a lot of folks don't want to be cleansed. I want to enjoy the pleasures of sin, but I don't want to experience the judgment for sin. And so I want to be forgiven for my sin, but I want to be able to continue on in my sin. But God's salvation doesn't work that way. God says that the blood of Jesus Christ doesn't just remove the judgment, but it'll actually work in my life to cleanse me of the sin in my life. To remove it from my life. The night I got saved, May 7, 1979, I was not on my knees calling out to God to save me from hell. I wasn't even thinking about hell. It was the last thing in my mind. I needed God to take my sin away. It was destroying me. The sin was making me into a man I did not want to be. It was making me into a person that was that was it was destroying me. And I tried and tried and tried to free myself of this sin. The more I read scriptures, the more I realized I could not free myself from sin. Only the blood of Jesus could cleanse me. I bowed and trusted Christ. You say you're sinless? No. I still got this old rotten flesh. But I tell you what, I hate it. Tell you what, after I got saved and I sin, it's a whole whole world of difference than before I got saved in sin. Tears you up. I'm telling you, if a person claims to be safe and they can just go on and live in sin and live in sin and live in sin and live in sin and there's no chastisement, there's no conviction, something's not right there. Because the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us. It works to cleanse it out. I didn't think about telling this illustration, but I I've you told it before, but we're in Indianapolis. I my res one part of my responsibility is I do run the bus. I just want to impress you with how hard a worker I was. Um And you will be impressed. Uh we ran the bus. I ran the bus. I came in, I taught the teen class, right the bus, taught the teen class. I usually went overtime. That's hard to believe, but it back then back in those days I did And um and then I came from Teen Sunday school, I came right on the platform, I'd make announcements and do different things, then I'd slip out, go downstairs and preach children's church. Large church, we're in about six hundred. One day I came in and in between I ran in the bathroom looked and lo and behold I had a blood stain. I'd cut myself shaven. How many people remember me telling this story? I'd cut myself shaven, blood all in my white shirt. I mean it's huge blood slot. Nobody said anything to me. It was hideous So I ran back in my office, I thought, what do I do? What do I do? I gotta be on the platform in a minute and I can't go home and oh I can't go up there like this and I'm panicking and then all of a sudden, I don't know if it's the Lord or what, I thought of white out I thought I got some wait out. So I pulled it out. I smeared anybody know what wait out is? You can tell if a blonde has been at the computer there's wait out on the screen there. That's a good one, isn't it? Yeah. So I wipe that thing out, wipe that thing out. And you know what? It covered up my sin, my stain there. And I made announcements and did some church and all. It covered it up, but that stain was still there. And eventually that white out would wear off and the it would still be there. So when I got home I threw the shirt in the washing machine and the next day my wife washed it, she put tide and detergent and all that. And she And you know what that did? It cleansed the stain. It removed it, took it out. And that's what the blood of Jesus Christ does: it cleanses our sin. It gives us victory in our life. Blood of Jesus Christ is very precious. It buys purchases us back. From sin in hell. It appeases the holiness of God. It purifies our heart. It preserves the believer. Think about the Passover. They put that blood on the doorpost. As long as that blood was on the doorpost, they were safe. That's all I'll say about this. As long as that blood is on the altar in heaven, the believer's safe. I'm telling you, the devil himself can't get to that altar and remove that blood. The blood of Christ preserves us. The last one I wasn't able to get to, the blood of Christ believe persuades unbelievers. And Zechariah 12. 10, speaking about the nation of Israel, says, When the Lord comes back, they will see him whom they pierced. And the blood that Jesus shed and the wounds that that left, when Israel sees that, they'll say, We're guilty sinners. He loved us enough to die for us. And it is that that will persuade them to turn to Christ at the end of the tribulation period. Every one of us here, they're saved. We have someone we love. We want them to be saved: a friend, a neighbor, coworker, family member. You know the best way to win them to Christ? Point them to the blood shed on the cross. Tell them the price that Jesus paid for their sin. Jesus says, and I, if I be lifted up, he was referencing his crucifixion. If I be lifted up, will draw all men to myself. The best way to win people to Christ is to preach Christ crucified, buried, and risen and coming again. That's the gospel. That's the gospel. I wanted to preach on Father's Day, but I couldn't get away from the blood of Christ. It's precious. It's precious. Christians aren't Christians because we say a prayer, because we walk an aisle or fill out a card. All those may be a part of it. But that's not what saves us. That's not what makes us a Christian. It is Jesus Christ dying for our sins, being buried and rose again, and us trusting him. That's what makes us a Christian. The blood of Christ applied to our account. Now let's make sure that we have trusted Christ in his blood. And if we have, then let's share that with others. Let's understand the great price that was paid. Father, bless us, help us. Lord, this was such a Lord, this is such a grand truth. Lord, I feel so inadequate to try and declare the preciousness of your blood. I pray, dear God, you'd help us as believers and as a body. A church that we would humble ourselves to think that you would pay such an awful price for us to be forgiven. Help us to live