And I just want to read the first verse uh here in this parable. Um get everything turned on here He says there, verse 25 is the first verse in the parable. He says, And behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? That is the setting for the proverb, uh the parable here the Lord gives on the Good Samaritan. What we normally think of the parable the Good Samaritan is being compassionate and helping those that have need, and all of that's in there, and we may, Lord willing Maybe next week preach on that aspect of this parable, but that's not the reason the Lord gave the parable was to talk about being nice and being helpful. The parable was given in response to this lawyer questioning the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, did you notice there in verse 25 it says he stood up tempting him? This was nefarious. Here, uh this this guy did not have good intentions. And the Lord responded with this parable. So I've entitled the message The Jericho Road. It really doesn't fit the title, really doesn't fit the message, so Um nevertheless, that's what I gave it. So let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our time in your word. I thank you, Lord, again for the privilege of being with your people. What a blessing. And I ask that you would speak to our hearts now from this passage of Scripture, open our hearts and minds, apply to our lives the principles and the truths are given here. That we can go out of here stronger faith, understanding who we are a little bit better and what our role in life is, what salvation is all about. Heaven and hell, eternity. Lord, I need you to fill me with your spirit. And I ask for that now, Lord. I present my body to you. I yield my will anew. Pray you'd fill me and speak through me this morning. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. If you are a teacher, whether in the schools or in the Sunday school department or wherever, if you're a teacher, you would do well to study the Lord Jesus Christ's teaching methods. Jesus was a master teacher. Now he did not come, we feel obligated all the time to point out he did not come to be a teacher, he came to be the savior, came to speak and to save that which was lost. Nevertheless, Jesus was a master teacher. He was tremendous And he, if you study the Gospels carefully, you notice he could take everyday events and tell them and present them in such a way that he could bring out great spiritual truths that people could see and understand. He could uh bring about changed lives by taking some event, some very common uh uh activity that people would see all around them. And he could bring that out and bring out spiritual truths that people would walk away with their lives changed. He could alter the way people would think about God and about life about themselves just by simply telling a story about some event or some e uh some happening. And over and over the Bible says that people were amazed At his teaching. The Bible uses this term repeatedly. They marveled at his words. I'm telling you, Jesus was a master teacher. And he could sit down with all classes of life and all various backgrounds of education, and he could draw them into his message. And leave them walking away, understanding some things about the Lord. Now, one of the most powerful tools that Jesus used as a teacher was what we call parables. Um I count, and there could be others. I'm not uh I'm not sure I have a a real accurate count here, but my count is that he told at least thirty-two parables. Overwhelming majority of them are here in the book of Luke. I'm toying with the idea and praying about maybe through the summer months on Sunday mornings, preaching through the parables of our Lord Jesus Christ. They're fascinating. So parables were a substantial part of Jesus' teaching. It was a was a key tool that he would use. When he wanted to communicate a truth to people, he would take a parable. In fact, Psalm 78, verses 1 through 3 tells us that one of the prophecies about the coming Messiah was the fact that he would come speaking in parables. And thousands of years before Jesus showed up, God, through his prophets, uh said that one of the characteristics of the Messiah is he would use parables in his speech, in his teaching and preaching. Now what exactly is a parable? Well the word parable itself means literally to hold up beside something. Now that's what the word itself, the literal definition of the word parable means to hold to hold something up beside something else And the idea is this. Jesus would have a truth that he wanted to present to the people. He'd have a truth he wanted to get across for people to understand. And what he would do, he would take that truth and he would hold up beside that truth a story, an event. That would illustrate that truth, that would help them visualize in their mind what that truth was So a parable was a story held up beside a biblical principle or a biblical truth to illustrate it, to open their minds, to see and understand what it was. One definition for a parable I came across was this. A short story or a fable designed to illustrate a spiritual truth or some moral instruction. Now, I think that's probably a pretty good definition. I take a little bit of issue with part of that. A short story or a sable designed to illustrate a spiritual truth or some moral instruction. Now The idea is this that when Jesus would had something, for in this case the the lawyer showed up, he's questioning Jesus and is He's a little deceitful about it. We'll look at this in a minute. And he says, Lord, what do I have to do to inherit eternal life? He wasn't really wanting to find an answer to that. He's trying to trip the Lord up. But the Lord says, you know, he comes back and says, What's the law say? And he tells him, Love the Lord thy God and thy neighbor as thyself. He goes, okay, and he goes and tells this parable, he tells this story about this man that goes down on Jericho, and thieves fall on him and strip him and leave him half dead. This uh the Levite comes by, Pharisee comes by, they don't pay any attention. Uh the Samaritan comes by and he cares for this guy and takes care of him and goes the extra mile to take care of him And so the Lord is doing this. Now, the idea of a parable is that Jesus would make this story up to illustrate to this lawyer what you need to do to go to heaven. I take issue with that. I can't see Jesus making stuff up. You follow what I'm saying? Jesus is God. And as God, he knows everything about everybody. Now you could stop and there and prepark it there and preach on that for a while. Lord Jesus Christ knows everything about us. We can't hide anything from Him. We can hide it from our spouse. We can hide it from our neighbor. We can hide it from the church. We can't hide it from God. Amen? Amen or not. That'll preach But what I'm trying to say is this. There are millions and millions, there at this point in time, there was millions and hundreds of millions of people in the world. And Jesus Christ as knowing everybody, somebody's in trouble. I've been there and done that. Um I th this is just me. But I think there's enough human events out there that Jesus Christ would know about that he wouldn't have to make stuff up. He could find an event that took place at some time and pull that in. And I think, are you listening, girls? I think most of these stories of the Lord Jesus Christ I don't think he made them up. I believe there are probably actual events that took place that he's drawing from his omniscience. And he can tell these stories. That's just me But uh I have a hard time thinking he makes up. So nevertheless, Jesus gives these stories and he holds them up beside a biblical truth or some moral principle to illustrate that so people understand Now generally in a parable, the story itself is not that significant. Generally in a parable, well I'm just a hit with the kids this morning, aren't I? Oh wow, they're just responding tremendously. But uh here's what I'm trying to say is this. The stor generally in uh when Jesus would tell a parable, when you're going through the gospels, you get a parable there The story itself is not that significant. It's the truth that he's illustrating is the significance. The point that Jesus Christ is getting across And I think there's a real caution here for those of you that enjoy studying the Bible, and every Christian should study their Bible, but when you study your Bible, be careful you don't get too hung up on the story itself. and try and get every little detail, some spiritual truth out of every little detail. Generally his parables have one point to them, have one truth he's trying to present. And don't get hung up on a lot of the little details of that. The story itself is not that significant. Usually it is the truth or principle being explained. So, a parable, a tool that Jesus used masterfully to communicate spiritual truths, moral principles. A parable was designed. To in such a way that the people that heard the parable, when he was done, they were able to come to their own conclusions as to what he was saying. They would be able to come to their own application. He would have a biblical principle, a spiritual principle. He'd give this parable, kind of explaining it, illustrating it, and when he was done, the people would say, ah I see what he means by that. Ah, I see how that applies to my life. It's designed for the hearer to come to their own conclusion. To discover for themselves how that truth applies to my life. If you notice in this parable and many, many others, Jesus Christ ends the parable with a question. Who was the neighbor in this situation? And the idea was for that lawyer to come to his own conclusion. Well, I see what you're saying. I see who you're saying the neighbor is there. And then the application is made. It's kind of like, do you ever hear somebody say that they had an aha moment? Ever hear that? Ah, I see. That's the idea behind the parable. Jesus gives the truth and he presents his parable, and the people say, oh, I see it. It's clear now. I understand what you're saying. That's the idea behind the parable. Now, if you would, turn over, keep your place here, because I'm not going to look at the parable this morning so much. We're going to look at the lawyer That prompted this parable, but I do want to make another couple statements about parable themselves. Turn over to Mark chapter 4 As Brother DeLong said, to your left in your Bible, Mark chapter four. And down in verse 10, the Lord gives us a little insight as to why he spoke in parables. In this case here, he gave a parable not so much to reveal to the Pharisees the point he was trying to make, but he suggests here almost to hide it in a sense. Now what does he mean by that? Mark chapter 4 and verse number 10. Says, and when he was alone, they that were about him with the twelve asked him of the parable. He told this parable about a sower that sowed seed. Some fell by the wayside, some fell on stony ground Others fell on thorns and other owned good ground and grew up and he told that little story. Now he's alone, the disciples ask him, What was the deal with that story about that sower in the seeds? What was that all about? And he said unto them, Unto you it is given to know the mystery of the kingdom, but unto them that are without, all these things are done in parables. Now look at verse 12. That seeing they may see and not perceive, and hearing they may hear and not understand, lest at any time they should be converted and their sins should be forgiven then. Now that sounds on the surface, it sounds like Jesus is trying to hide how to be saved from people, doesn't it? He says, uh lest they see and they understand, they perceive and hear and they understand and their sins are converted. Their sins are blotted. They're converted He is actually quoting Isaiah chapter 6 verses 9 and 10, where Isaiah, we mentioned referenced this in our missions conference, Isaiah heard the voice of the Lord. He said, Hear my Lord, send me. How long should I go and preach? And Jesus expands, and God expands on that to Isaiah. And the idea behind it is this. The people that Jesus was addressing, the people that Isaiah in chapter 6 was addressing, now the people is Addressing the Pharisees. And these folks, now here it's important to understand this, these folks had allowed sin To harden their hearts and darken their minds to such a degree that when the Word of God was presented to them, they would just blow it off. It had no effect. They were not impressed with the authority of the Word of God. They would not allow the Word of God to influence them in any way. They had sinned against God in such a way that their hearts were so hard and their minds were so darkened, the word of God had little or no effect. And so he says, I'm going to use parables to try and get into that dark heart. I'm going to use I'm going to try and illustrate what the Word of God is saying in such a way that maybe they would see it, but their heart is so hard, so So guys, that they won't even perceive. Even if they see it, they won't they won't take accept it. They won't understand it. Even if they hear it, they refuse to understand it. They have hardened hearts. The point is this, he's using parables not because God doesn't want them to understand, because they refuse to understand the Word of God. They had hardened hearts. So a parable was a very key, important aspect of the Lord Jesus Christ. And in the Pharisees' case, they had deliberately hardened themselves and rejected the Word of God. Now, let me just say this here. We have to be careful as Christians. We have to be very, very careful as Christians that we keep our hearts tender to the Word of God. It's very, very important. Listen, if there is some area of our life that is out of line with God, as a child of God, as a believer, if there is some area of my life that is not in tune with the will of God, I need to be very, very careful that I stay tenderhearted and submissive to the will of God. And when God deals with me, when that becomes obvious to me that this is not what it ought to be that I respond in faith and trust God and make the adjustments and make that what it ought to be, because if I don't, my heart gets hard. And my mind becomes darkened, even as a child of God. And I've seen it. I've been in this long enough now. I've seen it. We're a Christian. They know something's not right. They know it's not according to the will of God, and yet they refuse to submit to the Word of God. They refuse to make the adjustments that needed to be, to get in line with the will of God and the Word of God, and their heart gets hard And it gets harder, and it gets harder, and it gets harder, and finally at a point, it doesn't matter what God says or does, they are not going to do what God says because I want what I want. I don't care what God wants And that is a very dangerous position to be in. And that is where these people got to in Mark, where Jesus is referring to this. And so he uses parables. And to illustrate truths and to help people understand and to deal with folks who had very hard hearts as Jesus' ministry developed. Hostility towards him increased. As he became more popular and people began listening to what he says, and people began believing on him. and they began following him and his instructions, uh the establishment, so to speak, became very, very hostile to him What Jesus would do, and in many of his parables, he would expose the hypocrisy of the Pharisees. And the Pharisees, rather than submitting to Jesus Christ, and submitting to the fact That they were being very hypocritical, they would harden themselves against the Lord. And they became, as I said, hostile towards the Lord Jesus Christ. He expressed compassion to the misfits. The people who were outcasts of society. Um folks that uh uh that were living uh very very sinful lives, very, very s uh anti-social lives. He would be compassionate to them He showed mercy and kindness to the sinful. He offered hope to the sinful that they could be forgiven. could find new life. Whereas the Pharisees and the self-righteous hypocrites, they would just say, hey, look how much better I am than them. I don't behave that way. I don't do that. I do all these wonderful things And Jesus just lambasted them. And he said, these people, these are the ones that I came to save, to seek and to save the sinful. The ungodly are the ones that Jesus Christ. He'd come to call the righteous, you self-righteous. Came to call sinners to repentance. And they bristled at that. And they became very hostile. And rather than submitting to the word and will of God, they became antagonistic. And that's still typical today. You get somebody that preaches the Word of God, that holds the Word of God sincerely and in truth, and people get convicted, and it shows somebody that I'm not right, I'm not lined up with that, rather than submitting to the word of God, they'll attack the messenger of God. And they'll try and discredit the messenger and they'll try and uh make him look bad and they'll try and make him look like uh like he's corrupt. And no thing. I keep saying this, but we live in a world today that has perfected the ability to make that which is good look bad and make that which is bad look good And somebody will preach the word of God. Somebody will get up and say, you know, this is not a lifestyle choice. This is sin. And rather than acknowledging dealing with the fact that that's what the Bible teaches, they will attack the one that preaches that. Follow what I'm saying? And Christians are no different. A backslidden Christian will just as quickly attack the messenger of God rather than submit to the Word of God, and they'll try and discredit the one who is preaching the Word of God. And we've seen that happen. And that's what's taking place here. The lawyers, and we'll talk about what a lawyer is in this context here, and the scribes and the Pharisees. Jesus Christ was declaring the Word of God. They did not line up with the Word of God, and their hypocrisy was being exposed. And rather than humbling themselves and saying, you know, we need to get in line with the Word of God, we need to adjust our thinking, we need to, the Lord is right and we are wrong, they began attacking the messenger, in this case, the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's where this lawyer comes in. He is coming to tempt the Lord. Um There are two dangers in the Christian life. And I'm trying to lay some groundwork here as we consider what this parable is about. There's two dangers in the Christian life. One danger is this. And I'm using this term in quotes, holiness, quote unquote, without compassion. And the idea is this. I wear the right biblical clothes. I dress according to biblical standards. And by the way, there are biblical standards for dress. Amen. I've got right biblical haircut. I carry my King James Bible. I don't go to these places. I do go to those places. I do this and I don't do that. And I've got these lists of things that I do. Therefore, I am holy. But yet they have no compassion for others. No concern for others. There was a church in Tennessee when I was on staff with Neighborhood Bible Time and um uh knew the church pretty well. I'm telling you they had their doctrinal I's dotted, they had their doctrinal T's crossed. They were as fundamental as you could get, but they could care less about a soul getting saved. They could care less about helping somebody that had some needs. They were holy, but they didn't have any compassion They didn't care about anybody else around them. All it was is look how fundamental we are. Look how separated we are. Look how holy we are. Now listen, we ought to be fundamental. I'm not arguing with that. We ought to be holy. We ought to be holy even as the Lord is holy, the Bible says. We ought to separate from sinners. The Bible is clear in that. 2 Corinthians teaches that But we're also to be compassionate. And the other side of the problem, one is holiness without compassion. The other danger is this: compassion without any holiness. And that is this, as long as I care about people, it don't matter what I do. And God don't care what you do, and God, you know, anything's good to go. We're under grace. It doesn't matter how I live, it doesn't matter how I look, there's modesty and all That means nothing. As long as I care about people, that's just as wrong as the first one. And so this is all part of what these people are thinking. This is all what the Lord is dealing with. The Pharisees Man, they had the holiness down, but they could care less about others. It was all external anyway, their holiness, on their heart And so the Lord is addressing that. The Pharisees had neither. They had no genuine holiness. It was show only. And they had no compassion. I think a classic example is that is two men went up to the temple to pray. One was a Pharisee. He said, Lord, I tithe, I do this, that, and the other, and I'm glad I'm not like this guy here. He's a sinner The guy over here smote his brass, couldn't even look up to heaven, said, God be merciful to me, a sinner. Jesus said, that's the guy that went down justified. So the Pharisees had no genuine holiness. It was hypocrisy. And they had no compassion. And so this lawyer comes to the Jesus Christ, and with that frame of mind that I just took the lengthy to try and illustrate, and he is very hostile to the Lord Jesus Christ. And he confronts Jesus. Now, here's my first thought, and I'll go through these real quickly. Here's my first point of my message, and I'm really not even going to get into the parable itself. But the first point is this. I want us to notice the description of the Pharisee, of this lawyer, I'm sorry. Notice the description we're given of this lawyer back in Luke chapter 10. Look at verse 25 with me. Are you still there? Everybody doing all right out there? All right, good. And behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tempting him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? Let's talk about what it means to be a lawyer, first of all. A lawyer, in the biblical sense, here is one who is highly trained in the Old Testament law. We think of a lawyer today, you think about the courthouse You didn't have crime and civil cases and defense lawyers and all that. And we've got all the lawyer jokes, which I don't have any this morning. But that's not what we're talking about here. This was a religious institution. This was a Jewish role that this guy had. He was highly trained in the Old Testament law His responsibility as a lawyer of Old Testament law was to interpret and teach God's law to the people of Israel. understand what it would mean and to do that. Now the lawyers over a period of time had developed a tendency to try and catch people in their mistakes I mean they knew that law inside and out. And they developed this mindset where they would just watch somebody and they would just be waiting for them to violate the slightest little law and aha. Remember Jesus in one case said, you can see the moat, you can see the um help me out here. You see the moat in the eye, and you got a beam in your own eye. That was he was that was referring to the mentality of these lawyers. You knew that law just down to little T and you say, uh, you're violating the law in that one little spot. And they failed to see that they were idiots themselves. I'm not sorry, not idiots. They were hypocrites of own self their own selves. And they had developed this. They knew the law. They knew it inside it out. They had it memorized. They could put and they could put their own spin on God's law. Brother, they could make it mean almost anything. Remember when they uh brought they brought the woman taken in adultery to the Lord Jesus Christ? And they don't care about that woman. They didn't care about helping her find forgiveness. They just wanted to catch Jesus. They were just using her. And they were using the law. Not to help people, not to have people learn that they're sinners and they need Christ as Savior, but to destroy people. To exalt themselves and destroy others. That was their whole mentality. They were more concerned about the letter of the law than they were love for sinners. So that's the mind frame of this fellow that's coming up to the Lord Jesus Christ. He knows the law. Now what he's missing is that Jesus Christ is God. He's the one that the law is built on. So he comes to the Lord Jesus Christ and he tempts them. Now, the first thing I want to try and find something good about this guy. The first thing I notice is that he's respectful. Says he stood up and said, Master. I think it's respectful that he would stand up in the presence of Jesus Christ. He's not just casual about it. He's showing a little respect here. And he refers to him as master. The term master means literally teacher. He recognized he recognized that Jesus knew what he was talking about In fact, in John chapter 7, the Pharisees were amazed at Jesus Christ. They said, How does this man know letters, seeing he hasn't been trained by us? How does he, and though term letters there had the idea of the sacred writings, the scriptures. Saying, how does this Jesus, how does he know the law, how does he know the Bible so well? We didn't teach him. Well, it's because he is the Bible In a very real sense. He is the Word of God. They didn't understand that. So he shows a little respect to the Lord Jesus Christ, but he was deceitful. He was respectful, but he was deceitful. Again, verse 25. He stood up and tempted him. He wasn't trying to learn from the Lord. He was trying to catch the Lord in his own words. He was trying to prove the Lord Jesus Christ to be wrong. Sometimes people do that. They come to church, not they come to church and sit under the teaching and preaching of the Word of God. not to have God teach them and help them grow and be a better Christian and grow in my faith, but to come and try and find out if anybody that's teaching or preaching says anything wrong. And they say anything wrong, boom! There you go. He's an idiot. That must be the word of the day today or something. And that was the mind frame of this fellow. He's not coming, Jesus. What do I need to do to inherit eternal life? He could care less about inheriting eternal life. All he wanted to do is take Jesus down. All he wanted to do was discredit Jesus, girls. That's all we wanted to do. Alright, are you listening? Are we listening? This is the word of God. It's very important. He could say or do nothing against the message Jesus was given, so he's trying to take out the messenger. It's surprising to me how often professing Christians will question the clear teaching of Scripture. It's how amazing to me how so often Christians will question the clear instructions of God. Well, what does God really mean by that? We had a fellow years ago had given testimony. We had preached and we try to preach the Bible. We try and hold biblical standards up on different things. And one night in testimony time on a Sunday night he stood up and he says, you know For a while, when Pastor was preaching, he'd preach on something that I was doing that I knew wasn't right, and I knew it was in scripture, I saw it, he says, my explanation was, well, I just don't interpret it that way And he says, you know, God convicted me about that. It had nothing to do with how I interpret it. He is me it was me trying to justify my sin. And I was wrong. Now, to his credit, I thank God for that. And God's still using that fella. But it's amazing to me how many times the clear teachings of Scripture we will try and justify ourselves. I've heard Christians over the years try and justify adultery. I've told a number of times a fellow came into my office, not a member of our church. I doubt if he ever ever attended here. He might have once or twice years ago. He came in, claimed to be safe. He says, I'm in love with another man's wife. I said, that's sin. He goes, yeah, but I really believe it's God's will. And he just went on and on and on down why it's okay for him to be unfaithful to his wife and be involved with another man's wife And finally, I gave him scripture, and I was just as straight with him as I possibly believe. Finally, I said, listen, if you are here to have me justify your sin of adultery, it will never happen. So now if you want a preacher to justify your sin of adultery, I can give you the names of some other preachers in the community here. No doubt they will say what you're doing is fine, but you're not getting it from this preacher. Professing Christian is very clear in Scripture, and yet he refused to acknowledge it. That's what this lawyer's mentality was. Dishonesty, it's amazing how people who claim to be saved will justify dishonesty. Just lie And yet somehow in their mind, listen, last I checked, one of the Ten Commandments is, thou shalt not bear false witness. Lying is sin. There's no justification for it. There is no excuse for it. And yet, sometimes we try and do that. Dishonoring parents. The Bible says that a child is to honor their parents. Yes or no? And for a child to dishonor their parents is sinning against God. There's no other way around it. There's no excuse for it. There's no justification for it. It is one of the Ten Commandments And yet, I've had young people go to great lengths trying to excuse and justify why they talk disrespectfully to their parents, why they Sneak around behind their parents, why they say hateful, derogatory things about their parents. Listen, somebody needs to stand up to our young people and say, that is sin. Stop it Don't do that. You are sinning against God. And so this lawyer had this mentality that it didn't matter what Jesus said, didn't matter what God said, they could spin that. And they could take it around and justify what they were doing. That's what he's doing. When he comes and says, Lord, what must I do to aherit eternal life? He wasn't trying to find an answer to that He was trying to twist around what the Lord was saying. In fact, later on you get down there, it says he willing to justify himself. He knew he wasn't living up to what his own scripture he quoted And so, this lawyer is not concerned about doing the right thing. He's not concerned about pleasing God. He's not concerned about obeying his Creator. He's only concerned about pursuing his own agenda, getting what he wants. So we notice the little description of the lawyer. Then we notice the depth of his question. Look at verse 25 again. Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? Regardless of this man's motives, he had a profound question. That is a huge, huge question. What must I do to inherit eternal life? I want to remind you this morning, there is one of two places a person goes when they die. Either they go to heaven with eternal life, or they go to hell, which is eternal death. There's no in-between. There's no loopholes. There's no way around it. I go to one of two places when I die. Every single person in the world who has ever lived, when their life is up, when their time is done They go to either heaven or hell. If that is the case, and it is, with that being the case, then the question, what must I do to eternal herit eternal life, becomes profoundly significant. Do you agree with me? The most important question a person can ask is, how am I saved from hell? How do I find eternal life? There's no other question that comes even close in importance to that question. So though his motives were uh deceitful. He's trying to tempt the Lord. He's not looking for an honest answer. Nevertheless, the question itself is very significant. It's an important question. And that question is what prompts the story of the Good Samaritan. Now By him asking this question, it tells me a little bit about the Lord Jesus Christ, his ministry, and his message. Why would he come to Jesus and ask, what do I have to do to eternal inherit eternal life? Why would he come to Jesus for that? Why didn't he go to the Pharisees? Why didn't he go to the chief priests? Why didn't he go to the scribes? Why didn't he go His other lawyers. He doesn't ask them, you know why? Because they don't have the answer to it There was something about Jesus Christ. There was something about his message. His ministry emphasized eternal life. The focus of Jesus Christ was getting people to a point where they would accept him as their Savior so they could go to heaven and not to hell, so they could have eternal life. Everybody knew that Jesus Christ was all about being saved from sin and getting to heaven So when the question comes up, what should I do to have eternal life, the obvious place to go to would be to Jesus Christ. That's what he's about. I've experienced that a little bit as pastor here at Mountain Lake. We have had over the years, occasionally someone will call us up and they'll say, Pastor Levin, I'll say yes. They'll say this is so-and-so. I've had on numerous occasions other preachers call me up. They say, Pastor Lemon, we've got somebody that they're not saved. And we just wonder if you or someone from your church could go by and try and get them saved. And my thinking is, I don't say this, because I'm a nice guy. I say, I think, why don't you go get them saved? You're a preacher. You have the same Bible I do. I don't have anything you don't have. So I say, okay, well is there anything well we just know that you guys kind of specialize in that. Really Okay. You know why he came to Jesus and asked that question? Because Jesus specialized in that. Jesus specializes in getting people saved. Jesus specializes in helping people see and understand how I can have my sins began. How I can have new life in Christ, eternal life, how I can go to heaven when I die and not to hell. That's that tell his him coming to Jesus, answering that question tells me a lot about Jesus' message What did he say? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. That's what Jesus was about. Now listen, if we're a Christ-centered church, and we should be, amen. If Jesus is all about getting people saved, and we're a Jesus-centered church, we ought to be all about Getting people saved. Right? If if we're a Christ-centered church, and that's what Jesus is about, So I got looking at this question, I thought, well that's interesting. This guy knew, even though his motives were wrong and what he was out, he knew that this is what Jesus was about. We had a family years ago coming and um the family realized we need to be saved. And they said we need to be saved. Where should we go to find out how to be saved? Somebody says, I know where we should go. We need to go out to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. They know how to tell you how to be saved. Listen, I'm not trying to say we're something the others aren't. I'm saying this. Every church ought to be a church where people can go to and find out how to be saved. In fact, it's a shame for a person to go to a church and not find out how to be saved. Good grief. And so this lawyer's question tells me a little bit about the Lord Jesus Christ, but it tells me a little bit about the lawyer. What must I do to be saved? Tells me a little bit about his mindset. You know what his mindset was? Said, I can do enough and get myself saved. In fact, he makes a contradictory statement in the question itself. What must I do to inherit eternal life? You don't do something to inherit something. Right? If I'm inheriting something, I'm getting it because somebody else did something. They died. And I'm simply inheriting it. I'm simply a beneficiary of it. I'm simply receiving it. I'm on the receiving end. I didn't do anything to get it. So his mindset, he's all confused on the grace of God. He's a legalist. He thinks there's another things I can do, if there's enough laws that I can keep, if there's enough rules that I follow, then praise God, I have eternal life. And Jesus is a master at confronting that and correcting him on that. And that leads me to my last point, is this, the decision of the lawyer. Verse 26, Jesus turns it around. He said to them, What is written in the law? You're a lawyer. What does the Bible say? How readest thou? And so he gives a pretty good answer. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy might, strength, with all thy mind, and thy neighbor is thyself. Good answer. If you want to do something. To get to heaven. If you think doing enough is what to heaven, then here's what you're gonna have to do. You're gonna have to love God with every ounce of your being You're going to have to love every single neighbor with every ounce of your being, unfailingly, perfectly, your entire life, without fail, if you're going to do something to get to heaven. Jesus, all right, that if that's what you think you got to do, that's right. You do have to do that. The problem is he's not doing that. He can't do that. He's a sinful human being. And the Lord goes and gives this lengthy parable about this good Samaritan to illustrate to this guy You're not doing what the law requires you to do to have eternal life. What you need is a savior because you're failing to live up to the law. You're right, the Lord says in verse 28. Men are not saved. Oh, by the way, notice it says here, thou hast answered right. The Lord doesn't end there. He says, Well, Lord, what do I have to do to inherit eternal life? Well, what's the law say? How do you read it? Well, love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength, love thy neighbor as thyself. You're right. But he doesn't stop and say, just you're right. See, nobody gets saved by giving right answers. He gave the right answers, that doesn't say. I'm not satisfied with somebody saying, Well, how how do you know you're saved? Well, Jesus died for all the sins and go down and just give all the right answers. Having the right answers in my head doesn't save my soul. It's trusting Jesus Christ in my heart that saves my soul. And so the Lord doesn't stop just saying you're right, you gave the right answer. He goes, all right, you go do that. It's kind of like this. If I would go and knock on the door And I said, I'm Pastor Leonard, Mount Lake Independent Baptist person says, well, uh, what do I have to do to be saved? And I say, well, what do you think? They say, well, keep all the Ten Commandments. And let a person be saved. And I would say this, all right, go ahead and try that. Go ahead and keep all the commands. I was visiting out here, not far away, just off King's Run Road, years ago. Knocked on the door, fellow came to the door I went through my little spiel. Do you know for sure? If you die now, you go to heaven? He goes, oh yeah, absolutely. I thought, wow, praise the Lord. I hardly ever have anybody say I thought, this, it's amazing how fast your mind can come to conclusions I'm thinking this guy is an independent fundamental Baptist. He just moved here. He's going to join our church, be a faithful worker. He's going to tithe, give the missions, work the bus routes. And I had this all in my mind. This guy is amazing. Because nobody ever says, oh yeah, I know for sure I'm going to heaven. He obviously had to be a dedicated, sold-out, uh, fundamental independent Baptist. And I asked the next question, well, how do you know? What makes you so sure? You know what he said? I keep the Ten Commandments. He said, really? Yeah. Say can you name him? Huh? He didn't keep the Ten Commandments And this guy didn't love his neighbor as himself and did not love God with all his heart, with all his soul, with all his mind. That whole story was to illustrate to this lawyer that what he was saying that he had to do to inherit eternal life, he was coming way short of. Now there's a tremendous lesson on compassion in that story, and we'll preach on that. The whole point here was that Jericho road does not end in Jericho. That goes throughout the whole world. And if I'm going to be good enough to get to heaven, then every single person I come across, I have got to love them. I've got to love God and love them with all my heart, with all my soul. I've got to love them like I love my own self And every single person, I gotta make sure they have as much food to eat as I make sure I have enough food to eat. And I gotta make sure every need is met on them and just as make sure as I do I my own needs are met And nobody lives up to that, girls. Nobody lives up to that. Because we're sinners and we've fallen short of the glory of God. And this lawyer had a decision to make. Now here's my final appeal. This lawyer had a decision to make. He could Keep just he could just trust in himself, or he could say, Lord, you're right. I need you to be my Savior. You're right, Lord. I need to submit myself to you and trust you as my Savior. But what happens there? Come down in verse 29. But he willing to what? Justify himself. The lawyer had to make one of two decisions Either he could fall at Jesus' feet, confessing his sin, pleading Jesus for mercy, or he could attempt to justify himself, and he chose the second. And he tried to justify himself. Well, who is my neighbor? He didn't care who his neighbor was. All he was trying to do was say, hey, listen, I'm not as bad as you're implying I am, Jesus. I'm not as much of a sinner as you're implying I am, Jesus. I am just. He was a self-righteous man. And unless at some point down the road he changed his attitude, this old boy died and ended up in hell. Because nobody ever goes to heaven justifying themselves. Nobody ever is right with God justifying themselves. And it's a sad, sad story on the part of the lawyer. And he failed to live up to his own standard. And he sought to justify himself. A decision, I came across this quote. In fact, just this morning I was reading a little book A decision for God is a decision against myself. A decision is a decision against sin. And I'm talking to some Christians this morning. God's Holy Spirit's been working in your life. God's Holy Spirit's been dealing with your life. There's some areas in your life that you know don't line up with the Word of God. You know they don't. The Spirit of God's been dealing with your heart. You can have a decision this morning. You can decide, you can decide, yeah, you know, the Lord's right. I really need to make these adjustments. I know there's some things that need to go out, I know there's some things that need to be put in place. God, you're right. Right? I'm wrong. Lord, I submit to you. God have your way. I decide to do what you say I should do. Or I can choose to justify myself. Say, you know, Lord, you're not right, Lord. I know a little bit better how to run my life than you do. I know better what's right and wrong for me than you do, Creator. You can walk out of here justifying yourself if you want. But God blesses those that humble themselves and let the Lord have his way in their life. Maybe there's someone here this morning you're not even saved. You don't have any assurance in your heart that you're going to heaven when you die. You hope you do. You hope you're going to heaven. But you can't honestly say, yes, I know, I know God has forgiven my sins. I know when I die, I'm going to heaven. Listen, you do one or two things this morning. You can accept Jesus Christ as Savior and get those sins forgiven and know that you're going to heaven based on the Bible, or you can try and justify yourself. Say, well, you know, I'm really not that bad. I think I can get myself there. I think it'll work out alright in the end. Everybody thinks it's going to work out alright in the end. It never works out alright in the end. People that make sure and get that settled, they're the ones that it works out all right in the end. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I trust that you could use this message this morning to challenge some of us. Stir our hearts. Lord, what I know what you're looking for, Lord, in my own heart and all of us. You're looking for folks that would humble themselves. Humble ourselves before you and say, yes, Lord, you're right, I'm wrong. Your will, not my will. Your way, not my way. I pray, Lord, that your Holy Spirit will bring great conviction on us as a church, on us as individuals And send revival and stir a new humility, a new faith and trusting you. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how would we say preach