Genesis chapter number twenty-two. Genesis chapter number twenty-two. I do appreciate Pastor uh allowing me to preach tonight. Uh always a blessing when you get to get to preach, get to minister. Um and I know it's uh for a pastor giving up his pulpit, that is a big deal And so I do appreciate him allowing me to preach tonight. I appreciate it to be a blessing to our children. Uh they're getting used to the cold. They got to play in the snow a little bit. Joshua tried to build him a snowman with the little snow that he had But they enjoyed uh getting out in the snow and um getting used to the cold and that's that's a blessing as well. Um Let's stand tonight as we read God's Word. I'd like to start with three verses. Genesis chapter 22, verses 1. And through three, and it came to pass after these things that God did tempt Abraham, and said unto him, Abraham, and he said, Behold, here I am. And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah. Offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of And Abraham rose up early in the morning and saddled his ass, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and clay the wood for burnt offering, and catch and rose up and went into the place of which God had told him. Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you for your goodness to us tonight. We thank you for your word. I thank you for your love and your mercy and your grace to us. I plead with you tonight that you'd fill me. With your spirit and your power, Lord, you'd work in this place, you'd bless this time. And Lord, I pray that you stir our hearts tonight. You challenge us, Lord, this matter of missions. And I pray, Father, Lord, you take your word deep into our hearts tonight, Lord. We thank you for what you've done in our lives and what you're doing. We thank you for what you're doing in this place, Father. Uh Lord, the people that are here, their faithfulness, and Pastor Leatherman, Lord, I just press that you just bless in a mighty way tonight. Help me to be a blessing. Use me, I pray Uh, Lord, you challenge us and change us we might be more like the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you for salvation and eternal life tonight. And I plead with you tonight, Lord, you just lead and guide to all stone. Be with the other ministries as well We thank you. We love you. Lord, I bow now before you. I worship you. Lord, you are worthy to be worshipped tonight. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. You may be seated Thank you for standing. On Sunday morning we talked about the call of missions that awakens us, and Sunday night we talked about the connection of missions. That which motivates us to rise up and get involved in the work of missions, to be involved in every one should be involved. If you're here tonight and you're not involved, you should be involved in some way in giving, praying, going to missions tonight. I think it's every Christian's obligation tonight, and I think God has a place for each of us to be involved in missions. Tonight, well I'm going to look here at the sacrifice of missions. The sacrifice of mission. Somebody has said if you took the ten most important chapters in the Bible, this chapter would likely be part of that list. This chapter tonight, this uh subject that we'll look at tonight, um It's so important in the Old Testament as we see the picture of Christ in Abraham's sacrifice. of his son Isaac, as he takes him up to the mount. Notice in verse number one he says, It came to pass after these things that God did tempt Abraham and said unto him, Abraham, and he said, Behold, here I am. Now, this tempt has the idea of testing or proving God is going to prove Abraham, and God is going to call Abraham to do something that's very, very, very, very hard. He's going to offer him to make a sacrifice. In verse number 2, he says, and he said, Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest. This is the first time in the Bible, I believe, that you'll find the word love is right here in Genesis chapter 22. And is referring to Abraham's love for his son Isaac. Now, Isaac at this moment is not a child of eight or nine Not even a child of 11 or 12. Some believe he's as old as 30, 35 years old at the time that this happens. And that does change things a little bit for us. He wasn't naive As a child might be, where a man would take his five or six-year-old up the mountain, and the kid said, Hey Dad, what are we doing? Isaac was a bit older here. But God calls Abraham To sacrifice the thing, the person that he loves, more than anything else in this world. And I would say in our lives, there's going to come a time where God is going to ask us the question: what do you love more than me? And I would say kids or children can easily slip into that place. Now, your wife, your husband can slip into that place. Your job can slip into that place. Ministry can slip into that place. You know, ministry can become a God. Does. It can become a God. I can, because I'm serving God. And doing for God, I can think that that ought to be the most important thing. I ask people a trick question. I ask them what if your priorities are right. If your priorities are right. Which is more important? Your family or the ministry? And they'll say, oh, your family. I said, no. They said, your ministry, I think, no. Wait, that's a trick question. It is. God's the most important. Because sometimes my family We'll have to take a back seat to the ministry. Sometimes I'm born with ministry, and my family will take back seat because my family understands they aren't my God. My kids aren't my God My kids aren't in here tonight so I'll brag on 'em a little bit. We do a lot of counseling in our ministry down there. We do a lot of marriage counseling. So sometimes a lady will come over in the morning and she'll bring her son for counseling. And my wife has to be there, obviously. I'm not going to counsel a woman alone. That would be foolish. But she'll bring her son And so we may not even know she's coming. She may send us a message, say, hey, I'm coming over this morning to counsel with you. It's 9 30. She'll be there at 10. And so I'll tell Joshua, Joshua, uh so-and-so is coming over bringing her son. You're going to need to play with him. Joshua says, Yes, sir. And he'll play with that young man for two, three hours and not complain at all. Rebecca's the same way. Because they understand that they aren't God. They aren't the priority, God is. And so they're willing to get in there. And I'm so thankful tonight for them. And I would ask you to pray for my kids. Ask you to pray for them. Do you know that half of the kids that grow up in our independent Baptist churches, half of the kids that grow up in missionary homes, will not even go to church when they get out of the house And better men than me. Their kids grow up, they look like they're doing fine. I'd ask you to pray for Joshua and Rebekah tonight that they would go on for God. It's funny when I say it's it's half You know, don't go on for serving to serve God. Rebecca's always like, well, I hope it's Joshua that doesn't go on. I say, well, I hope you both. I hope you both go on. I want you both to serve God. When you grow up. But you know, there's men in the Bible who sacrifice their kids. David sacrificed one of his kids. At the end of his life, there, he said, Oh, would the God Absalom I had died for you? Do you know how many of David's kids killed giants? None of them. As far as we know, none of them. Now Zereh, she had Joab and Abishai. We know Abishai killed a giant, and one of David's brothers killed, one of David's brother's sons killed a giant. But none of David's sons killed giants. You know why? Because his child were princes and governors. They didn't want to get their hands dirty. It made it too dangerous for them. But David, thereafter Absalom had died, he said, Would to God, Absalom, I had died for you. But if he really wanted to die for Absalom, all he had to do was just stay in the palace when Absalom came to run him out. What was Absalom really what was David really willing to pay for Absalom? The answer is nothing. When Amnon Ray Tamar, what did David do? Nothing. When Absalom killed Amnon, what did David do? Nothing. He wasn't willing to pay the price. We see that Eli sacrificed his kids. Because he put them before God. The question tonight is when God comes to you and asks, What do you love more than me? And he says, I want you to sacrifice that for me. That's what God was telling Abraham. He said, What do you love more than me? He said, Abraham, I want you to take your only son, the son that thou lovest, and I want you to take him up on the mount, and I want you to sacrifice him I'm proving you Abraham. And in verse number three He says, and Abraham rose up early in the morning and saddled his ass and took two of his young men with him. And Isaac his son enclaved the wood for the burnt offering and rose up and went into the place which God had told him. He rose up early the next day. I wonder how that conversation went with Abraham and Sarah. And he says, God's called me to sacrifice our son, our only son. Yeah, I don't think Sarah, if she was a woman of faith, I don't think she put up much of a fight I don't know. I'm just imagining. And she said, God wants you to sacrifice Isaac? He said, that's right. She said, but he's the promised seed. He said, that's right. She says, How's this going to work out? And he says, if I kill him, God's able to raise him up. Because remember, Abraham was the promised seed. He was the seed of their old age. He was the result of a miracle. Because many times Whatever we have in our hand in our life, we think it's so valuable, but we forget who gave it to us. The same God that gave Isaac to him could give Isaac again, and Abraham believed that. Sometimes we begin to think that what's ours is ours. And what's ours really isn't ours. It took us eleven years to have Joshua. In fact, we had a miscarriage after seven years. About seven years? We didn't have any children. We got married and we wanted children right away, but the children didn't come. And so we waited and after seven years we got pregnant and we're so excited thinking this is it And then the baby dies. We lost that baby. And of course my wife It's much worse for her going through that than it is for me. It was hard for me, harder for her to go through that. She remembers when that child would have been born. She remembers all the dates She remembers all that stuff. But all that feeling came back of losing that child. And we were contented. We said, Lord, if you you don't want us to have any children, then that's fine. And then Joshua comes along And I lived with a fear after Joshua was born, and this is a, I don't know if anybody else lives with this fear. I live with the fear of God taking Joshua from me. Now I don't know if that's normal. I I talked to an older preacher about that and he just looked at me and said, That's dumb. He didn't have any mercy or sympathy for me. He had I think he had seven kids But I lived with that fear for a while until God took that fear away. And I said, you know what? The Lord giveth, the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. So here Abraham is. He goes and tells Pharaoh what he's going to do. And he takes Isaac with him, a man of maybe 30 years old and two other men. And they get the wood and the fire in verse number four. Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place afar off. And Abraham said unto the young men, Abide ye here with the ass. And I and the lad will go yonder. What does he say? And worship. And come again to you. He said, Me and the young man are going to go yonder and worship God. We're not worshiping our son. I'm not worshiping Isaac. We are going to go worship God, he said. Then we're going to come back to you. Me and my son are going to come back. Because can I say this tonight? Whatever it is we love, whatever it is we love, until we give it to God It's not really ours. We think it's ours. But if we haven't given it to God, it becomes an idol to us. Because we're saying, God, you can't have this thing in my life. God, you can't have my children. You can't have My job, you can't have my ministry, you can't have this area of my life, this is mine God asks us to give all to Him. If God were to take my children tonight We get on the road and we have an accident where God was to take my children. I hope that I would worship him. Because I don't deserve Joshua and Rebekah. I don't deserve 15 years with Joshua and 13 years with Rebekah. I don't deserve those years. Those are gifts from God that God's given me. Now, if they grow up and live a long life and have children, I'll praise God for it. But tonight, friends, until we give what we love back to God. As a sacrifice, that thing is an idol in our life He says, and worship and come again to you. And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it upon Isaac his son, and he took the fire in his hand, a knife, and they went both of them together. And Isaac Spake unto Abraham his father and said, My father, and he said, Here am I, my son, and he said, Behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? And I suppose that up until this moment they hadn't had that discussion. Abraham just told Isaac, let's go up the mountain. And as Isaac's walking up, he looks at all they have. He says, Where is the lamb for a burnt offering, Father? What does God what does Abraham tell him? He says, God will provide. Later, he's going to call this place Jehovah Jirah, which means God provides. Missions is God's work. It's not our work. It's God's work. And if God wanted to call some corporation to invest in missions and fund missions, God could do that. If God wanted to create money out of thin air, he could do that. If God wanted to open up a gold mine on the back of your property, God could do that. Isn't that right? That would be wonderful tonight. Think of what we could do for meetings, Pastor. It was just a gold mine back there and just pump gold out of the ground or an oil mine and say, oh, look at this. Well we can just support missions that way, but that's not how God does missions. God wants to use us Which is so much better. Isn't that right? God gave Isaac And now he tells Abraham, I want you to go and give Isaac back to me so I can give him back to you. Now, Isaac, right now, was a blessing. He was a gift from God. But they're getting ready to go through something that's going to make Isaac that much more special. Because when he goes up there to sacrifice Isaac up on the mountain and give Isaac back to God The story that we're going to read is going to be so special. He's going to give it back to God, and then God's going to give Isaac back to Abraham. And that's the way missions is. God calls on us to give the missions. And as Pastor mentioned, that's different for each person. Sacrificial giving is different for every person. Maybe God calls on you to give $100 a month, $100 a week. I don't know what God has you give But I know this. I know that if everybody in our independent Baptist churches gave everything God wanted them to give, we could reach the world. I believe that tonight. The obstacle isn't God and His provision. And the need tonight is still great. There's a need for labors The problem tonight is us. It's us. When I gave my life to God, surrendered everything to God as an 18-year-old young man, I thought that what I was doing was what everybody did. I thought I was rebellious, and that I hadn't given everything to God. I'd lived for me, I'd lived for my life up until 18 years old. I got saved as a five-year-old boy. But at 18 I wanted to live for God, and I've gave God everything. I said, God, my life is yours. You can use it however you want. And I just thought everybody did that. And so I go around and start preaching, different churches, preaching as a missionary, and at the end of the service, I would ask in the invitation, I said, How many of you here tonight God can use your life for whatever he wants. And I thought that everybody would raise their hand. A little bit naive And I'd have people, I'd have maybe a third raise their hand, fourth raise their hand, and I asked myself the question What is it we have in our life that's so special that we won't give it to God And if it's so special we won't give it to God, doesn't that make it a God in our life? Doesn't that make it an idol? It does, doesn't it? I mean, if it's more important than God, if if Abraham told God, said, No, God, I won't give Isaac to you, I won't sacrifice him, that would have meant that Isaac had become his God. That the gift from God had become his God. Isn't that right? And so he tells God, he says, God, I'll give you my only son. And they're going up, and Isaac says, Where is the lamb? He said, God will provide. Himself a lamb. Verse 8, and Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb, a burnt offering. So they went both of them together, and they came to the place which God had told him of. Abraham built an altar there and laid the wood in order. Notice and bound Isaac his son And laid him on the altar upon the wood. It wasn't because Isaac was resisting Because Isaac, I believe, was big enough. He could have resisted, he could have run away, but it shows Isaac's part in the sacrifice that Isaac was willing to give of himself. To be that sacrifice, as a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ in the garden, he said, Not my will, but thy will be done. In Hebrews it says, I have come to do thy will, O God. And so Isaac here is a picture of the willing sacrifice, giving himself to be sacrificed. He was the promised seed. And if God allowed Abraham to go through and to kill his son and didn't raise him up, there would be no promised seed. There would be no salvation. But we see that Isaac also believed God. Abraham was willing to give the sacrifice. Isaac was willing to be the sacrifice. Verse number nine, and they came to the place which God had told him of. Abraham built an altar there and laid the wood in order and bound his son. And laid him on the altar upon the wood. And Abraham stretched forth his hand and took the knife to slay his son. And the angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham And he said, Here am I. And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything unto him. For now I know that thou fearest God. To seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me. And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him a ram called in a thicket by his horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered him upon offered him for a burnt offering in the stead of his son. And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovah Jirah As it is said this day, in the mount of the Lord it shall be seen. In verse 15, and the angel of the Lord called unto Abraham out of heaven the second time. And said, By myself have I sworn, saith the Lord, for because thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son, thine only son That in blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven, and as the sandwich is upon the seashore, and thy seed shall possess the gates of the enemies And in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because thou hast obeyed my voice What is it you love tonight more than God? Is there anything in your life tonight that if God were to ask you for it, You wouldn't give it to him. That's what missions is about tonight, the sacrifice of missions Because God is calling upon us to give to Him everything we have tonight. It's a sacrifice. It's what we love. That we're willing to say, God, I love you above everything else Let's go, if you would, to Exodus chapter thirty five. Exodus chapter thirty-five. Exodus thirty-five is a famous passage of Scripture. It is a great offering. For the tabernacle. In verse 4 and 5, it says, And Moses spake unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, saying, This is the thing which the Lord commandeth, saying, take ye from among you an offering unto the Lord, whosoever is of a willing heart. Let him bring in an offering of the Lord, gold and silver and brass, and blue and purple and scarlet and fine linen of goat's hair. This is the great offering for the tabernacle In chapter 35. Go if you will over to chapter to verse 20 and 22 Verse 20, and all the congregation of the children of Israel departed from the presence of Moses. And they came every one whose heart stirred him up, and every one whose spirit made him willing, and they brought the Lord's offering to the work of the tabernacle of the congregation, and for all his service, and for all The holy garments and for the holy garments. And they came, both men and women, as many as were willing hearted, and brought bracelets and earrings and of gold and of every man that offered an an offering of gold unto the Lord In verse 36, verse 4 through 7, it says, And all the wise men that wrought all the work of the sanctuary came every man from his work which they made. And they spake unto Moses, saying, The people bring much more than enough for the service of the work which the Lord commanded to make. And Moses' commandment And they caused it to be proclaimed to the camp, saying, Let neither man nor woman make any more work to the offering of the sanctuary. So the people will refrain from bringing, for the stuff they had they had was sufficient for all the work. to make it and too much. Now you've heard this offering. You've probably heard preaching on this offering. They brought too much. They brought more uh Than they needed. This is chapter 35 and 36 of Exodus. Well, if we go back just a few chapters to chapter 32, there's another famous event in the history of Israel. And that event is the golden calf. The golden calf where Moses went up on the mount God has spoken to the people with an audible voice. Moses goes up on the mountain. The people, after 40 days, say, We don't know what's happened to Moses. We don't know where he is. Make us gosh. And so Aaron says, Bring your gold and silver, and they do. And Aaron fashions them a golden calf and says, These are your gods, we're going to name them Jehovah. And he says, Come tomorrow, we're going to have a feast unto Jehovah. And they do. Moses is up on the mount, he hears what's happened, he comes down off the mount, and when he's up on the mount, God says, I'm going to kill all the people and make a nation of you. And Moses pleads for the people. And he comes down the mount. He throws down the Ten Commandments, the tables there, and he's angry at the people for what they've done, their idolatry. And of course, the Levites rise up. There's 3,000 people that are killed. And in chapter 33, something interesting happens. God tells the people. He says, I'll send you up to the promised land, but I'm not going to go with you I'm not going with you. I said my angel. You can have the promised land. You can go up, but I'm not going with you. And you know what the people do? They weep and they worship. And it's the first time that the people of God Worship God. And after that, Moses says, Lord, if you go not with us, take us not up. We don't want to go up without you. If you don't go up, Lord, we don't want the promised land without you in it. We don't want to go up there to a place of blessing if you're not there because Lord your presence Means more to us than everything. And the people of God worship God. God says, all right I'll go with you. And that's where we get to chapter 35. I was going to preach a message on from the golden calf to the great offering. But I couldn't do it. I had to one sermon in chapter thirty-two and then another sermon in chapter thirty. It took me three sermons, and I left a lot of stuff out. But when you see this offering and the people bringing more than enough, what was it that caused them to bring this offering? It was gratitude at the presence of God. And what's so incredible about this, I won't take a lot of time tonight. But here the people want the presence of God more than the promised land. You know, when God sent them into judgment out of the promised land, God says, I'm taking you out of the promised land, but I'm going to go with you. Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, God says, When I take you out of the promised land, I will still be with you. A lot of people today they want the promised land, but not the presence of God. And can I say this tonight? Once you know the presence of God, Why would you want anything else? You know, in 1 John he says, God is light and him is no darkness at all And the thought came to me, I said, you know, if you know what it is to walk in the light, why would you want the darkness? And I feel like, I feel like there's a lot of people in our churches Who they're saved, they come to church and and they they give, but they've never really known the presence of God. Because once you know the presence of God, why would you want anything else? There's nothing in the world that can compare to the presence of God tonight, folks. There's nothing better than that. And once you've come to the presence of God and worship God, why would you want the darkness tonight? The people here, they said, Lord, if you don't go up with us, we don't want to go. And they bring an offering. Then Moses has to tell them. You gotta stop. It's too much. It's too much. By the way, who gave them the gold and the silver and the linen? Who gave them all that? God did. They were just giving back to God what God had given to them. Let's go to Acts chapter 2 tonight. Acts chapter 2. I don't think that we could consider Exodus 35 to be a sacrificial offering. Because I think the people still had plenty left over. Let's go to Acts chapter 2. Acts chapter 2, we have the early church. And they just had Pentecost in chapter Chapter 2, and they're getting together, and some things are happening here in the early church. Acts chapter 2 and verse 47. 44 and 47 it says, And all that believed were together, and had all things common, and sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all men, as every man had need. There was no commandment here to sell everything you had. There was no edict from Peter or John or anybody else you had to sell yourself. They just started selling their stuff. They said the work of God is so important, we're going to sell everything we have and give it to the church, and they had all things common. People want to use this for communism. But this is nothing like communism. This was voluntary. Communism is not. When you've got to take a gun and point it at somebody, say, give me all your stuff, that is not what's going on here. That's called robbery. Amen. And communism has never been instituted without the threat of violence and without the wiping out of many people who didn't want it. But why were the people giving? Because as you read here, there had singleness of heart, singleness of vision, their hearts were full of joy. And they said, there's nothing more important to me in this world than seeing people saved. Go to Acts chapter 4. Acts chapter four Verse thirty two He said, The multitude of them that believe were of one heart and of one soul, neither said any of them that aught of the things which he possessed Was his own, but they had all things common. And with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ, and great grace was upon them all. Ask your question tonight. It's kind of a trick question. If you came tonight and you say, I've decided to sell off everything I have and give it to God. That would only be wonderful if God told you to do it. I mean, if you went and sold everything and brought it and said, I'm bringing all this, I said, Did God tell you to do it? So, well, no, not really. I just I just wanted to do it. If God's not telling you to do it tonight, then that's not necessarily a great thing. Who told these people to sell everything they had? God did. The Holy Spirit of God moved upon them to do that And why is it that God could do that? Because these people said, everything I have belongs to God. And God can do with it as He sees fit. My life belongs to God. My family belongs to God, and my possessions belong to God. See tonight, folks, what I have isn't mine. I don't own a house. If I owned a house, that would be wonderful, but it wouldn't even be my house. It'd be God's house. The car I have, the car we have out here, it belongs to us, but it's God's car. Cars we have in Brazil Those are God's cars. When God's allowed us to rent a house that we don't we don't publish the house we have, it's a wonderful house, but we got it at a very cheap price and we're able to host events for the church out there. It's an incredible place. It's a mansion. It's a lot bigger than we could ever use, but it's not ours. It's God's. Go, if you will, to 2 Corinthians, and I'll close here in 2 Corinthians. Second Corinthians chapter eight I feel bad, preacher, because the other missionary is coming in and I may be preaching everything he was going to preach. I'm glad I'm not coming in after the mission's emphasis week It says in verse 1: Moreover, brethren, we do you to wit of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia, how that in a great trial of affliction, the abundance of their joy And their deep poverty abounded under the riches of their liberality. Church of Macedonia would have been Church of Philippi, Thessal uh Thessalonica, I'm trying to think of it in English Those churches over there, he says, their deep poverty they gave with great joy. Verse number three, for to their power I bear record, yea, and beyond their power, they were willing of themselves. Praying us with much entreaty that we would receive the gift and take upon us the fellowshiping and ministering of the saints. And this they did, not as we had hoped, but first gave their own selves to the Lord and unto us by the will of God. This is sacrificial giving. People who are very poor, but the church of Philippi, Paul wrote to them and he said, No other church communicated with us concerning giving and receiving but you only. The Church of Philippi, which was a poor church. They didn't have a lot of money, but they gave everything they had. And the liberality that they gave, they gave with joy. The Bible says God loveth a cheerful giver. A cheerful giver. Let me ask you a question. What would bring you more joy in this world? A T-bone stake? Or a soul safe? A bash boat? For soul's sake. A hunting rifle? And I'm not preaching against that. Unrifle is a great thing. You kill deer, you eat deer, mean. I'm not preaching against that tonight. I'm not preaching against a bathroom. I'm not preaching against a new car. I'm not preaching against any of that tonight. I'm just asking you tonight: what would make you happier tonight? Things were soul safe You know, when they gave to the tabernacle in Exodus 35 and 36, preacher, they gave the materials for a tent That would be the dwelling place of the presence of God. But when we give the missions, we're giving money so that a person can be the dwelling place of the presence of God. Know you not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost? Let me ask you a question. That temple would have been marvelous, it would have been beautiful, but is it better than a soul saved? It's not. I tell you, the families we showed up there on Sunday nights, those people. I wouldn't trade anything in the world for those people. And this church supports a lot of missionaries. And you say, well, we support a lot of missionaries, but wouldn't you like to support some more? Wouldn't you like to support some more? That'd be wonderful tonight, to support more missionaries. And I would say tonight you can. You can, because it's not about what we have, but what we're willing to trust God for. Now we're almost done, so I've left the hardest part for the end. I would like to look at verse eight and nine. He said, I speak not by commandment, but by occasion of the forwardness of others, and to prove, what does he say? What does he say? The sincerity of your love. Ask Rebecca if she would marry a guy that didn't give demissions. She said, I don't feel I probably would. When I met my wife, I gave the missions My wife also gave demissions. You said, would you have married her if she didn't give demissions? He said, why not? Because giving to missions proves the sincerity of our love. You don't give demissions. And it's not me saying it. I mean, it's the Bible. It's God saying it tonight. He said that proves the sincerity of our love for who? For God! And our love for souls. Saying tonight that if we sincerely love God And we sincerely love souls. Then the way we prove that By giving a mission. That's hard, isn't it? Somebody told me, said, Well, preacher, it's only hard if you don't do it. And I said, That's true. That's true. Do we love tonight? God looked at Abraham and he said, Do you love me more than Isaac? Abraham said, I do. I'll sacrifice my only son. And God gave him Isaac back. I'll say this tonight in closing. When I gave my life to God as an eighteen-year-old young man. I never would have imagined all the things God's done for me. I haven't gone hungry. Not for one day. I've lost some weight, but it's not because my wife didn't feed me, although I joke with people about that. But my wife has never not fed me I never imagined God would give me two kids tonight. And not just two kids. Two kids who want to serve God. Two kids are going to grow up, preacher. You know, I thought about this. David's sons would have been better off if some giant had taken their head off. If Amnon had been out to battle and some giant lopped his head off, and Absalom had been out there, some giant lopped his head off, they'd have been better off. I want my kids to grow up to be giant killers. My desire tonight. That's what we're hoping to prepare them for. The people that you saw on Sunday night that are safe. Never imagined God would use my life for that. When you give everything to God The Bible said, I have not seen or ear heard the things which God hath prepared for them. The what? Love him. Love him. If God doesn't have everything tonight, the invitation is this. Would you give it to him tonight? Everything. Everything. Let's pray, Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you for your love and your mercy to us tonight. We thank you, Lord, that you loved us and gave yourself on the cross for us. Lord, everything that we have tonight belongs to you. All of our possessions, our lives, our children. Our house, our car, everything we have tonight belongs to you. Lord, if there's something that we have tonight that we love more than you, I pray that tonight we bring it to the altar and we sacrifice it to you tonight. Let's give it to you like Abraham did. Come lay it on the altar tonight and say, Lord, all that I have is yours. Let's stand tonight. The pianist plays tonight is