James chapter one while I'm thinking about it, um If anybody is interested, we are wanting to hold some Bible clubs in some towns the next this coming week or next week, and what we're looking for is maybe some Bible time teachers that um and by uh that helped that told in bible time maybe the bible story or the missionary story and you would be willing to help us we're gonna our idea is to go into Uh maybe up at Davis, we'd like to try up there, maybe a couple other towns that we didn't reach Storm Bible time, and go in and kind of canvas the neighborhood, see if we can't round up some kids and young people and maybe take the Bible stories, the missionary stories that we taught during Bible time and teach them again. Elizabeth is heading this up. I've asked her if she would kind of organize that. So if you're interested in that Please see her afterward. Maybe in a fellowship hall, would that be good? And so see Elizabeth if you'd like to help out. I think this is a great opportunity to reach some more people uh with the gospel and so um that'll be right after the service this evening. James chapter one and verse number seventeen is our text for tonight. We're preaching through the book of James on Sunday nights. And the Bible says, verse 17, every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. I want to speak tonight. On the Father of lights, the Father of lights, let's pray, ask the Lord to speak our heart. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Word of God I thank you for the testimonies and Lord for the report from Kazakhstan. God, our hearts are burdened for uh this nation and other nations like it around the world that have such a desperate need of the gospel, 17 million people and so few gospel preachers. And Lord, I ask you would stir our hearts Now, as we look into the Word of God, I pray that you would open our hearts and minds, that we would understand your love and your goodness a little bit better this evening. Lord, I present yield my will to yours. I present my body to you. I ask with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, and God, that you would speak through me And challenge us and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Remember, we looked at verses 2 through 16. 2 through 12, I'm sorry. We looked at verse 2 through 12. And there James addresses the subject of dealing with temptation. Now you remember the temptation he's talking about there is not an enticement to do evil, but the temptation is more like hardships and difficulties that we face and we go through life. And uh we looked at that at length, and if you remember we said uh God teaches us here that we have to have the right attitude going into difficult times and hard and hardships. He says, Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, difficulties. And so we have to have the right attitude about that. And uh I think um Coming apart here maybe. I think I'm alright. And uh have the right attitude. Then he says we need to have the right understanding that when God allows difficulties into our lives He has a purpose. He is strengthening our faith. He is developing our patience. And God has a purpose for the difficulties we go through. And then he tells us how to deal with those hardships. If you lack wisdom, you're going through a difficult time, you lack wisdom, ask of God, who gives to all men liberally. And uh let him ask in faith. And he says that God will reward those that endure the hardships and stay faithful through them. So that was the first section. Then he shifts gears in chapter in verse number thirteen through sixteen. And he deals with temptation in the sense of being tempted to do wrong, an enticement to do evil. He says we need to understand God does not tempt us And I have a reason for reviewing this, so bear with me. But he says God's not the one that entices us to do evil. God is not the one that is drawing us out to operate outside of God's will. It comes from our own desires, and so he gave the source of our temptation, the steps to temptation, as being tempted, drawn away of his own lust, and enticed. Then when lust not conceived, it bringeth forth sin. Sin when it's finished bringeth forth death. And so he gives us the stage there. Then he we ended last week with this stern warning. He says, Do not err, my beloved brethren. And he's pointing out to us, this is very, very important, that we do not give in to temptation. Temptation leads to sin. Sin leads to death. Nothing good ever comes out of sin. And so he gives us that stern warning. Now we come to verse number 17. And it's almost like God, through James here, is trying to lighten things up a little bit. And he says, as we just read, every good gift and every perfect gift is from above. and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. And so here he is, and he's and he's shifting gears a little bit. I think one of Satan's strongest tactics Is to convince us that God is not good. If Satan can convince us that God's will and God's directions and God's instructions for life are really not what's best for us, that somehow God is holding something out I could just be a little happier if I could just do this. Oh, if only it was all right to do that, then things would be so much better. Listen, anything outside of the will of God ends in misery It is better to be hungry. I read this quote this afternoon. It is better to be hungry in the will of God than to have a full stomach out of the will of God. And so Satan tries to convince us. Oh, if only something was different. Oh, if only that, if only this, if only that. And somehow we believe that God is holding out of us. Isn't that exactly what he did to Eve? He got her to question the goodness of God. Yea, hath God said, You can't eat of any of these? And what was he doing? He was planning in her mind that God was somehow holding out. That God was somehow not giving her everything she could have, not doing what was best for her. I found that the world is very good at taking that which is good and making it look bad. And the world is good at taking that which is bad and looking like it's so good. The world has perfected the ability to take that which is right and make it appear wrong. And that which is wrong, make it appear right. Listen, we live in a society anymore where if you believe the Bible is the Word of God, we're presented as the bad guy. You hold the Bible standards, you hold the Bible convictions, and brother, you are narrow-minded, you are bigoted, you are hateful. And you need to be censored and you need to be put in your place. Listen, that is the world taking that which is good and making it appear bad. And that which is bad, making it appear good. The world is very good, perfected the beauty of taking that which is pure and making it seem that it is evil. And that which is evil Seem like it is pure. And so Satan has perfected this. And he this is this is what he's trying to get us to believe. That the good things that God does for us, the good things that God gives us. Are somehow bad for us. And the things that God forbids, the things that God warns us about, are really good for us. And he has twisted that thing around. Now here you have in verse number 14. Look there with me if you would, please, verse number 14. But every man is tempted Let's go to verse 13. I'm sorry. Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. So what's that verse telling us? The verses tell me it is not God that tries to draw me out and get me to do wrong. That is not of God. Then you come to verse 17. And it says, every good gift and every perfect gift is from above. In other words, we have, number one, my first point tonight is we have a contrast of actions. Verse number 17, verse number uh thirteen, God doesn't tempt us to do wrong. Instead, God gives us good things. The world, the Satan, they seek to draw us away from that which is good. They seek to tempt us and entice us into doing wrong. But the Father of Lights On the other hand, he gives to us that which is good and perfect. Do you follow what I'm saying? I don't know if I'm communicating this very well this evening. But uh uh there's a contrast here. And I I don't think it's a coincidence that these verses are in this order. He says, Listen, this is temptation, leads to sin. That's where sin ends up, into death But God, He doesn't draw us out to do that. God, on the other hand, He gives us good gifts. He gives us perfect gifts. We must never think, we must never make the mistake of thinking. That the devil has anything good to offer me. I'm telling you that Satan can sugarcoat He can uh make the like as I just said, he can make that which is wrong appear so right. And he can and in fact there was a song years ago, uh, it feels so right, it can't be wrong. I'm telling you what, that thinking is of the devil. That thinking has destroyed more lives And so we must never make the mistake that the devil has anything good to offer me. You know what the devil would do to every one of us if he had the opportunity, if he had free reign If Satan could have his way in your life and my life, you want to know what he would do to us? Read Job chapter 1 and chapter 2. When God removed the hedge around Job and he let the devil says, All right, you can do what you want, except you can't take his life. The devil wreaked havoc in Job's life. And so we must never think that I can somehow play with the devil, I can somehow toy with the devil or negotiate with the devil, and somehow it's going to come out good for me Listen to me. God contrasts us what the devil has to offer, what the world has to offer, and the sin and temptations of the flesh and the world that will destroy us, God gives us Good gifts. We must never make the mistake of thinking that the devil has something better to offer us than what God does. Um I just this is just simple thinking tonight on my part. Uh um Living for God is a good thing. Living for God is a good thing. Living for the devil is a bad thing. And we fail to see that. Living in the Spirit and bearing the fruits of the Spirit is a good thing. That's a good thing that God offers to us. Living in the flesh and producing the works of the flesh, anger and wrath, and malice, and envy, and jealousy, and hatred and bitterness Drunkenness, maliceness, all that stuff, that's bad. Um resisting sin and temptation is a good thing. Yielding to it and giving in to it, that's a bad thing. And so we have a contrast here. Verse 3, verse 13. Drawing up, temptation, drawing away. God doesn't do that. God gives us good things. What God has to offer is good for us. Listen, it is far better for a young person to keep themselves pure than to lose their purity. Amen or not? It is far better for a home to be right and good and establish and keep the wickedness and godliness. That is far better for that home than just open the doors and let all the garbage come in. There's a contrast here. Whether we like it or not, we live in a world of sin. But we have a heavenly Father that is good and loves us. And we must see that contrast about what God has for us and what the world and the devil in sin wants to do to us. And uh there's a real contrast here. What God has to offer is good and perfect. What the devil has to offer is sin and death. Before we give in to temptation We need to stop and consider how good God is. Stop and consider. How many f anybody here, God being good to you? God being good to you? Do we have any reason To disobey God, justifiable reason. Is that well God hasn't been good? No, we don't have that. We need to stop. Whenever that temptation takes place, stop and say, wait a minute, God's been awfully good to me He died and suffered hell so I can escape hell. Listen, if God didn't do anything for us besides save us from sin in hell, he's done more than we deserve. And so when that temptation comes up, the enticement is there. When verse thirteen and fourteen are taking place, being drawn away in my own lust, stop and jump forward to verse 17. Wait a minute. God sure is good. Every good gift and perfect gift. I have no reason to give in to that. Why should I do that? God's been too good to me. So, number one, my first thought tonight is this: there's a contrast here Verse 13 and 14, verses verse 17. Sin and enticement, death. God, good gifts and perfect gifts. Number two, my second thought is this: I see here in this verse the character of God. Look again at verse 17 with me. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above and cometh down from the Father of lights. I like that title. I just think that is a neat phrase. The father of lights. I got looking that up and studying those words, how they're used. And it comes to this idea. When the Bible refers to God here as the Father of Lights, it has this idea, the generator of lights. The word father there has the idea of generating something. It has the idea of originator of lights. Genesis chapter 1 and verse 3, the Bible says that God said, Let there be lights. Light. He is the source of light. He is the generator of light. He is the originator of light. Now we think of light, we're thinking of the lights. We think of the sun, uh light, brightness, light like that. I don't believe that's what he's referencing here, although that's true. God is the Father of lights. He is He is the one that created light But I think what he's talking about here is light in the sense of understanding. Did you ever say to somebody, ever try and explain something they didn't understand, they say, well let me tell you this, maybe this will shed some light on it. In other words, this will help your understanding. Maybe you'll see this a little clearer. I think when the Bible is telling us here that He is the Father of lights. I think what he's talking about, and we'll see this a little bit, but I think what he's talking about is the he is the one that helps us understand The way things really are. He helps us understand what life is all about. Apart from the Lord, we have no clear understanding of what life is really about. Apart from the Lord. Apart from the Lord Jesus Christ, we have no real understanding between what is right and wrong. Has anyone noticed our society is deteriorating morally? Has anybody noticed that? Yeah, it's almost a daily. Every day it's getting worse. And you know what's interesting? The more that God in his word is removed from society, the more degenerate our society becomes. Anybody notice that? You know why? Because apart from the Lord, our understanding of what life is and what right and wrong is, it gets clouded. We lose that understanding. You remove God and the Bible from schools, and suddenly you've got schools where they don't even know it seems like they don't even know what right and wrong is. There's no moral standard You remove God out of science and you come up with this crazy evolution theories. And you've got to come up with some convoluted explanation as to where everything came from when you remove God from it But you put God back in science, and you know what? It all makes sense. Very simple answer, very clear explanation of who we are, where we're from, where we're going, and what we're all about. Listen to these verses. Listen to Proverbs 1 and verse 7. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of understanding. When I understand who God is, he's the Father of lights. When God gives me understanding, then when I fear him, then I understand things a little better. You know, I've come to the conclusion some of these little bus kids come in here and they know the Bible verses, they learn about the Lord, they've got more sense about what life is about than some professors in universities I like it. You ask them. Well, where'd we come from? God. Every answer to everything is God. And uh so Proverbs 9, verse 10. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And so God is the one that gives us understanding. God is the one that helps us see what life is all about, what it is, what's right and wrong. And He's the source of a correct understanding. Um, it is what's that mean? If I can't understand what life is about, if I can't understand what right and wrong is apart from the Lord, then that tells me, number one, it's very important that I get to know the Lord It's very important I know the Lord Jesus Christ, the personal Savior. I don't know, maybe there's someone here tonight, and you don't know for sure that when you die, your sins are forgiven. You're on your way to heaven. Maybe you've never accepted Jesus Christ the Savior. The Bible says we're all sinners. We've all sinned. Come short of the glory of God. Because of our sin, we're under the judgment and wrath of God. And if we die in our sins, we die in that condition. The Bible says we are separated from God for all eternity. Hell and ultimately the lake of fire. But thank God Jesus Christ died on that old rugged cross for us and he suffered the wrath and judgment of God in our place. He was buried, he rose again. And if we will simp by simple faith, call on the Lord Jesus, trusting Him, depending on Him to come in our heart and life, forgive our sin, and save us from hell, Jesus Christ will save us And when we make that decision to accept Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, then God opens our understanding. And we see this world and we see right and wrong and we see what life is all about from an entirely different perspective. How many people, when you accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, your outlook on life changed dramatically? Can I get a witness? Sure. Sure. That night, May 7, 1979, I accepted Jesus Christ, my personal Savior, suddenly I saw myself completely different. I saw this whole world in the fact as a place that God created and he is Lord of all and King of kings. And I had a whole completely different perspective. Listen, uh he's the father of light. He is the one that gives us understanding He is the one that promotes us to help us see what the world is. We talked to some people, come by the booth this week, and out visiting, and we meet people that in their minds they're very, very intelligent And you try to talk to them about right and wrong and it seems like they are so ignorant. You know what I'm talking about? And they just don't understand And it's because they don't know the Lord as Savior. The fear of the Lord is the beginning wisdom. So God is the source of correct understanding. So it's important that we know the Lord as our personal Savior. But not only that, it's important that we walk with the Lord. It is important that I maintain a daily walk with God. I tell you, one of the most important things every one of us can do as Christians is establish a daily habit of reading our Bibles every single day. How many folks here are you're saved and you know it? Say amen. You know what the most important thing you can do? Get that Bible out on a daily basis and let God speak to your heart. Learn that book, memorize those verses, get in on our memory program. And uh quote them over to yourself. Underline those verses of the Bible, incorporate the Word of God into your life. And you know what you'll do? You'll start seeing things entirely different. I've seen it over and over and over. I've been in the ministry since 1985. And I'm telling you, I've seen it so many times where somebody's saved, maybe they're living for the Lord or whatnot, and they get away from that daily Bible reading. And they get away from the Word of God and spending time each day walking with the Lord, and you can just see their spiritual understanding deteriorating. And lo and behold, they find themselves doing things they would have never done before. And they find themselves involved in stuff they would have never gotten involved in before. Why? Because they're getting away from the Father of Lights. And they don't see things clearly. They don't understand clearly. They start making foolish decisions. It's important that we know the Lord is our Savior. It's important that we walk with the Lord. It's important we stay close to God. Stay close to the Lord. Nothing between my soul and the Savior. I want to stay close to the Lord because I He's the father of lights. Now notice some things about the character of God. That's the title he gives here. But look at verse 17. First thing I see here, God is good God is good. Every good gift and perfect gift is from above. Good gifts and perfect gifts only come from a good and perfect God. If God is giving me good gifts and God is giving me perfect gifts, that tells me something about God. He's good God is good. I like what Lewis Howe, our missionary down in uh in um uh uh I want to say Venezuela, um New Zealand, uh Brother Lewis and Kim down there. And uh I tell you I like what I like getting little um uh emails from Lewis and letters. You know what he puts his name, you know what he always puts right behind his name? I know Chuck and Sharon know. God is good, dot dot dot all the time. I like that. That's a good remember. That's a good reminder. God is good. All the time. When I was texting with Lewis this week at the fair booth, Ed was doing all the work. Carolyn, I was sitting in the back texting And uh texting with Lewis Howe. Doesn't that blow your mind? I'm sitting at the county fair texting with Lewis Howe in New Zealand. Going back and forth. Just I'm just amazed. And uh we're going talking about the meeting and soul winning and stuff and going on and he sends one, and God is good all the time. The only thing I'd say was, Amen, brother. God is good. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above. That tells me that we've got a good God. Only a good God gives good gifts. Next thing I notice here, every good gift and every perfect gift is from above. That tells me that God is not only good, God is generous. God is generous. That word gift there means something that is freely offered. I was going to sit down and write down everything that God gives to us for free. But after 17 volumes of stuff, I ran out. Not really. Now just stop and think about it. What is everything that God gives to us, freely gives to us? Life? Air? Health? I mean, you just go on and on and on and on and on. Our God is a generous God God gives us so much. And then he asked in return for so little, comparatively speaking God gives us so much. I've often thought of this. The very fact that Jesus Christ would take responsibility for my sins. That he would take responsibility for them. Step up before God, say, God the Father, that's the other man is all these sins, just horrendous. God the Father, I'll take responsibility for them. I'll be the one responsible for his sin and take God's judgment on himself for me. And what does he ask in return? He just says, just trust me. Put your faith in me and you trust me. And you just follow my leadership and your direction, my direction in your life. You just do what I say and believe me and trust me that I know what I'm doing. You just follow me. Isn't that something? God gives us so much. And the little we ask, and you know what? We're such stinking sinners. Not right or wrong. And we bucket that. We say, yeah, God, I'll accept. We'll kneel at an altar, we'll kneel by our bed with Sunday school class, Bible time somewhere, counseling room, and we'll accept Jesus as our Savior. And Jesus says, all I ask in return is you just trust me. You just have faith in me and let me lead and direct your life. And then we stiffen our net. This is my life. I'm going to do it the way I want. Lord, you can save my soul, but you ain't running my life. Man, how ungrateful can we be? God is a good God. And God is so generous to us. He giveth. And look at this. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above and cometh down from the Father of lights. That word cometh there is interesting. It has this idea to continually be coming down. These good gifts and these these perfect gifts are just continually, continually coming down upon us, kind of like the rain this year. So every day you get up, it's raining. Does it seem like that to anybody else? And uh but that's the idea here. Every good gift and every perfect gift. uh is is uh cometh down uh is from above and cometh down from the father life just keeps pouring it out and pouring it out and pouring it out we are so spoiled in United States of America it's a crying shame God has given us so much. And we grate because we can't have more. We grate because it's not wrong. Listen, God gives us so much. And he keeps on and keeps on and keeps on. Even before I was saint, God was giving to me generously And there's no reason. God continually does that. He's so generous. He keeps it up. There is no reason for us to think he's not going to continue to be good and generous to us. How many people ever got convicted about not being very grateful for God's goodness? Anybody here been convicted? And I was preparing this message. God convicted my heart. Lord, you've been awfully good to me. I sure don't act like I'm very grateful sometimes. I sure don't live for you like I should. I don't trust you like I should so many times. God Help me to be grateful for your goodness to me. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above and cometh down from the Father of lights. So we have a contrast Sin and temptation, the world wants to draw me away into sin and death. But God, on the other hand, He gives me good things, He gives me perfect gifts, gives them so generously, pours them out. And uh uh means he's good. That means God is generous. But he goes on and he makes a final statement. I'll end with this. Look at verse 17. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above and cometh down from the Father of lights. Look at this. With whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. Now you look at this verse, and I come to the conclusion I think he is obviously making a comparison to the sun. Our star, the sun, that our earth circles around. The father of lights. There's no variableness. That thing is fixed in place. There's no shadow of turning. It's not spinning around the earth. It's right in its place. It's always there. How many folks notice the sun comes up in the east every single morning? That amazing. And every night it goes down in the west. I have yet I've been watching, and the sun has yet to set in the north. You know why? Because there's no shadow of turning with the sun. There's no variableness with it. It's fixed in its place. Now, we've read the Bible. We know the day's coming when that old sun's going to be burned up and melted in fervent heat. Amen? God's going to create a new heaven, new earth, new sun So when the Bible talks about God the Father, there's no variableness, even a shadow of turning. God is the same. Yesterday, today, and forever. God is unchanging. That word variableness means no variation in his nature. God is constant in his character. In other words, God's holiness does not vary. I got thinking about that. You know what that means? That means that that which was sin a hundred years ago is still sin today. That which was right and good and holy five hundred years ago is still right and good and holy. We've got this crazy idea in our churches and in some circles of Christianity that somehow we need to keep up with the world. We need to keep up well man, we gotta keep up with um what's the phrase? Uh keep up with uh the times. We need to keep up with the times. Anybody ever hear that? No. Is that a saying? Sort of. But um But you follow what I'm saying? Listen, the Bible says in the last days evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse. God doesn't change. His holiness doesn't change. Doesn't matter what the world says. Doesn't matter where the world's going. We need to uh God is unchanged. There's no variableness in his holiness Here's where I think we make a big danger, and this is one of the reasons we don't want to go into the contemporary Christian movement. And the idea is this. Well, we're not going to be as bad as the world We're going to keep a little distance. And the idea is not to separate from the world. If all we do is separate from the world, Then we're following the world. As long as I'm not as bad as the world is, as the world gets worse, then I'm doing what I'm getting worse also, but I'm not as bad as the world. I'm separate from the world. The idea isn't to be separate from the world. The idea is to be separated unto the Lord. And with the world getting continually worse, if I'm separated unto the holiness of God, and there's no variableness or shadow of turning with this holiness, it is fixed. It is unchanging. As I'm separated to the Lord, the world is going to get farther and farther from me. You follow what I'm saying? And if all we're worried about and what you find out, what you find is uh what the world was doing at this point, and I'm not as bad as the world, I'm back here, I keep my arm's length from the world, I don't dress like the world, I don't Uh I don't uh uh listen to the world's music. I don't do any of that. I keep my distance and the world's right here now, and this is where I am as a Christian, and then as time goes by the world keeps getting worse. Where am I at now? I'm right where the world was before. And then few years goes by, and now I'm right here where the world was then. And when the Bible says that the Father lights, there's no variableness, neither shadow of turning, his holiness, his character, his righteousness, his justice does not change. And I am to be committed to him. I am to stay faithful and be separated unto the Lord. And then as the world goes, and but you know what that means? That means we stand out more and more and more in a wicked world. We become more and more a sore thumb in this old world. Ed and I were talking this week, you know, I'm getting to the point where I just feel like I don't fit in in this old world anymore. I just don't fit in. I'm aggravated with everything it does. I don't agree with what's going on. And uh so uh God is unchanging. His holiness doesn't change. Hey, by the way, his love doesn't change. I have loved thee with an everlasting love. Think about this with me for a moment. God's love for me, and you put yourself in my shoes, God's love for you and I. Never had a beginning. It's everlasting. Before the world was, before there was even time, God loved me. Before I ever did a thing, before I ever made sinned, that first sin, before I ever took his name, anything, God still loved me. It is unchanging. There's no variableness. May there's shadow eternity. Hey, that means God's love for me will never end. When this old world is long gone, burned up, and we're on the new heaven and new earth. God will still love me. That tells me God's love never is interrupted. It's never interrupted. No variableness And God loves me today just as much as he ever did and just as much as he ever will. You say, preacher, you don't know how bad I failed God this week. You don't know I messed up bad. Well that may be the case, and that needs to be dealt with, but I'll tell you this: God loves you just as much today as he did last Sunday. God's love hasn't changed. God's love hasn't wavered. There's no variableness, neither shadow of turning. Our God is an unchanging God. His holiness, his love for us, his justice. Does it seem like sometimes sinners get away with sin? Doesn't it seem like sometimes, man, those that are so ungodly and just hate God in the world, seems like they're living in the biggest houses And it seems like they're just getting away with everything. I'm here to tell you, God's justice does not change. Don't get jealous of them. Don't you fret because of the wicked. God is still just And the and the story is not over yet. And so we just stay faithful to God. So I see here in this verse that God is good. God is generous. He just pours out his blessings on us. He asks for so little in return. Just trust him. Just let him lead your life and follow his directions. And God is unchanging, not a shadow of turning. I don't think it's a coincidence that verse 17 follows verses 13 through 16. Let no man say when he is tempted, I have tempted of God, for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed And when lust hath conceived, bringeth forth sin. Sin when it's finished, bringeth forth death. Do not err, my beloved brethren Every good gift, every perfect gift is from above, cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variabless, neither shadow of turning. You see the progression He's contrasting the sin and temptation wickedness and the goodness of God. This is what I want to end with. You and I are going to be tempted this week. Some point, whether we like it or not, it's there. That temptation in and of itself is not sin. But when that temptation comes knocking, and by the way, I want to remind you, it's a good thing to have standards and convictions To keep those temptations at a minimum. Less standards I have, more temptation I got to deal with. But that temptation comes knocking. Looky looky. You know what would be a good thing for me to do? Stop and say, wait a minute. God has been very good to me. God has done so much for me. How in the world can I give in to that temptation? You know what I think would have helped Achan in Joshua chapter 7? When he saw that gold and that silver and that Babylonian scarment, he was tempted to take that. You know what it would have helped him if he'd have stopped, maybe just gotten his knees. God, you've been awfully good to let me be a Jew. You've promised me all this land, milk and honey. Lord, you've been too good for me, for me to give in to that temptation. You know what? He just might have been able to say no to that and walk away Amen or not. I think if Eve would have stopped and just thought for a little bit, wait a minute. God has given us all this garden, all of this, and the river of life, and all this stuff. Why in the world should I not trust? Why in the world should I give in to this? The goodness of God will help us have victory over temptation. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would help us to remember on a daily basis how good you are. Lord, I meant to say that it'd be good to start out each day on our knees saying, Lord, you're good to me. You've been so good to me. I love you, Lord. I want to please you with my life. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher? It's good for me just to stop and remember how good God has been to me. Maybe you've been griping, maybe been giving in here and there, maybe even lower in standards or whatever somehow. This evening God spoke to your heart and you said, Preacher, pray for me. I want to focus on God's goodness. I'd like to see victory in my life over some temptations. And I believe Zeroing in on God's goodness would help me do that. Is there any like that? Have the uplifted hand preacher pray for me. God bless you. Hands all around. Maybe there's someone here tonight say, Preacher, I'm not sure that when I die, my sins are forgiven. I'm going to heaven. Listen, preacher, I'd really appreciate if you'd pray for me also, that God would help me settle that in my heart. That I would know that when I die, my sins are forgiven I go to heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. How about it? Any at all? Just slip it up Preacher, I'd like for you to pray for me that I could have that settled in my heart and life. How about it? Any at all? Any at all? Maybe there's someone you're praying for that's away from God. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me for that loved one, that one I'm concerned for. That they would come back to the Lord, that they would see how good God really is. And you'd say, I'm praying with them. I want to be a testimony. And there's somebody in your heart tonight saying, I'm praying for. Anybody by the uplifted hand preacher, somebody so burdened for. Father in heaven, I saw a lot of hands. You know our hearts. I pray you'd help us to take these situations, these temptations, these issues. Help us to bring them to the altar, Lord, and just trust you and let you have your way. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.