All right, let's take our Bibles this morning and turn to the book of Daniel, chapter one. Daniel chapter one, please. Like a little boy said to his mother, Daniel Channel One. You know that's everything's based on on the the internet and the TV and everything else, isn't it? We oughta base everything on the Bible. All right, I want to read just um just one verse and then preach the message from that one verse, and that one verse is verse 21, the very last verse. of this chapter. And you'll notice here that we are told, and Daniel, what's the next word? Continued. Yes, Daniel continued even unto the first year of King Cyrus. Now uh you say, well, uh brother, that's that's not a very thick verse. Um how are you gonna preach a whole sermon out of that little statement right there? Well I'm not sure to be honest with you, but um but I'm gonna try. All right. And uh here's what I want us to do. I want us to focus on that little word continued You know, i if uh I I hired a fellow one time several years ago, um I hired a a fella who uh stayed with me until uh he uh got uh elderly and decided to retire and go uh move near where his children live And um and he said, Well, Pastor, what do you want me to do? And I said, I want you to shut the back door And he looked at me and said, What? I said, I want you to shut the back door. He said, Well what's that mean? I said, Well they come in the front door and they go out the back door and you don't ever see them again So I want you to shut this back door so that everybody comes in sticks. You know? And um and so he came to me about five years after after I hired him And he said, I know what you asked me to do, and I have tried my best, but I don't know if I'm doing a good enough job. And I said, Well, brother, you're doing better than most, I can tell you that It is difficult to get consistency in our world today, isn't it? Consistency. And I want you to to notice here that Verse 21 says, and Daniel continued. And I want to speak to us this morning on this subject, the faithfulness of Daniel. Let's pray together. Father, thank you so much for the blessed privilege to be here today. We are grateful for our wonderful Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Father, we are grateful that we have a Bible that we can open the Word of the Living God. And it's still just as inspired today. It's still preserved today. It's still as powerful today. And Father, I pray that you will bless your word to our hearts. encourage us this morning and Father help us to look at the example of Daniel and then to want to emulate uh a life that is uh that is faithful and uh just as daniel continued may we leave here today uh purposed in our hearts that we are going to continue in the things of our Lord for as long as God gives us breath. So, Father, help me as I speak, bless what I'm about to say, and then speak to our hearts and draw us to yourself. In Jesus' name we ask it. Amen. I have always been fascinated with Daniel. Daniel is one of those Bible characters that uh that has just um uh just touched my heart through the years. I remember years ago uh I my um my uh salvation I was saved when I was sixteen years of age and uh I I was um a rebellious uh hippie. You remember those critters uh hippies, well I that's what I was. And um and uh uh but the Lord saved me. And uh when I got saved I had to change I mean everything had to go Uh I had to learn how to talk. All right, because all I did was curse, you know. Uh down in West Virginia we'd say all I did was cuss Uh I just cussed every word that came out of my mouth was filth. And um and then I had to I had to get a whole uh uh get rid of a whole couple of uh uh uh crates of of uh music that uh I had one of those um uh one of those uh quadriphonic stereo systems from Panasonic And uh the neighbors would call and say, Hey, tell him to turn that thing down. Uh that's how uh that's what I lived with. My my dad got me a set of headphones And uh so I plugged the headphones in so nobody around could hear it and I I uh uh that's why I can't hear today, I think. But uh anyway, that's a long time ago. And God saved me from all that. And uh and then I remember chapter one in verse uh uh in verse eight where it says, But Daniel purposed in his heart And I had a pastor who loved me, and uh and he took me under his wing and uh he showed me this verse and he said, Now, uh brother, listen He said, you just make up your mind. That's what this word means here. Daniel purposed in his heart. He made up his mind that he was going to do the right thing. And he said, now you make up your mind you're gonna do the right thing. And boy, I I I struggled, oh my soul. I had uh I had so many issues going on all at the same time And but yet when I got saved, I I got I did what that preacher said and I got in the book I got in the book and I purposed in my heart that I was going to uh to to to do the right thing and not defile myself with the world that had uh that had just complete control over my life So I gave up all the all of that uh music and I gave up all the drinking and I gave up all the drugging and I gave up all the the uh foolishness that uh that I was doing and and Turn my heart over to the Lord. I started going to church three times a week, preacher. Three times a week. My dad said, uh son, what happened to you? What's happened to you? And uh uh about six months later, uh he got saved. And uh we were all standing down front. The preacher had all all the family come And my mom was standing there and she's crying her eyes out. And um my my brother was there, my sister was there And my dad was standing there and the pastor had his arm around my dad. And I think that the preacher was fishing for a compliment. Now I don't know this for sure But I think he was fishing for a compliment. And he said to my dad, what was it that finally got to you and you came and got saved tonight. And uh my dad pointed at me and said, anything that can change that has got to be real. And I thought, thanks, Dad. Right here in front of five hundred people, that's awesome. That's amazing. I mean none of them liked me anyway because they knew me, you know, and uh and then my dad gets up here and embarrasses the daylights out of me. But We purposed in our hearts. And you know what? Serving the Lord became primary in my life. And the next thing I know, the Lord's called me to preach. The next thing I know, I'm headed off to Bible College. Um now I I went to um Bob Jones University in the seven early seventies, all right? I got over it though. All right, so y'all uh so so you as you can tell. But um But I got over it, all right. But thank God for what I got down there when I got it. Because it it was structure and I needed structure. I was there when Bob Jones was boot camp You know, you had to go to bed, you had to get up, you had to eat, you had to do this, you had to g do that. Well, I needed that because I had zero structure in my life But I made up my mind that I was going to serve the Lord and I was going to do what was right. And Daniel was an inspiration to my heart. Now, Daniel's life story is told us, and uh while I'm sure that he probably had some moments uh in his life where he may uh uh uh uh uh staggered a little bit. He his faith might have just uh wavered a tad here or there because when you stop and realize what Daniel had uh to face in his life, man, it is amazing that he continued You know, it's amazing. And uh and I want to point out uh some of that to you uh here in the message Now, what the Spirit of God shows us here is a long life The long life of a man who did the right thing. And here's the neat thing about Daniel. There are two major characters in the Bible. Where God tells us a great deal about their story, but there is no negative information about them. Recorded in the scripture. Now, don't make a mistake here. They weren't perfect. They were men just like we are. They had temptations just like we have them. But these two men, one of them was Joseph, and the other was Daniel, exactly right. And Daniel uh uh uh lived a long and fruitful life, and uh the amazing thing is he continued. He just continued. Now, let's look at just a couple of things about that little word, continued. All right? And I want to show you how Daniel did this. First of all, let's consider the survival of Daniel The survival. Notice my text verse says that Daniel continued. Daniel's survival through everything that happened to him is amazing. The very fact that he continued and he survived with all that he had to face is absolutely amazing. Now, folks, don't forget that Daniel was taken into captivity when Nebuchadnezzar and the Babylonians came to Jerusalem to conquer the city. And that's that's um uh uh when Daniel was uh captured and we we know that Daniel was in a group of about uh 10,000 young people who were taken back to Babylon by the the the uh Babylonian soldiers. They took everything that they could get their hands on. They went in the temple, you'll remember, and they took all of the gold and the silver and all the cups and the plates and the and uh the the uh candle abras and everything else. They took it all And carted it back to Babylon with them. They took uh uh the the the uh young people, 10,000 of them They went into people's homes, and if there was any resistance, they just killed them and left them lay. And here is where Daniel was taken. He was taken, think of this now, away from his home, away from his mother and father. Away from his grandparents, away from probably his loved ones, the immediate family and the extended family And he was taken some five hundred miles away from Jerusalem to a completely different city, a completely different culture and even a different language. Now you imagine that Uh uh do we have any by any of you uh kids in here around eleven years of age? You are s you are? Stand up, son. All right, there's an eleven-year-old right there. Any twelve-year-old? Huh? Stand up. There's a twelve-year-old. How about thirteen? Anybody thirteen? Yeah. Look at this. All right. How about 101? Amen. Yes, sir. Look at that. He bounced right up. Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you. You may sit down. No, Daniel was taken from his family and from his home and taken 500 miles away when he was about the age of these young men. Now you think of that. I I can't fathom that How dare say, his mom and dad weren't in that caravan. They only took young people. And there he is. A little boy, and he is chained up and walked All the way to Babylon. Oh man. Folks, I'm telling you, his chances of survival at that young age would have been very slim. His chances to make it. I mean, even when he got a little older and was thrust into the uh government service, if you remember, it took a couple of divine miracles from God to save his life If God had not intervened, Daniel would have died early. But he survived. He survived. You say, well, I wonder how he did that. Well, he survived because he continued. You see, he distrusted in the Lord, even though things were uh uh very dangerous where he was. Daniel lived seventy-some years in Babylon after the captivity in 586 BC. Seventy years he lived in Babylon. Now that's a long life in a strange and foreign land being held as a servant. And realize this, guys, Daniel survived without his parents present. He did the right thing and he didn't have a dad. How many of you had a dad that had a finger that long? Do you remember that finger? Pointing it at you and shaking it at you. I remember that Man, my dad used to scare me to death with that finger. I thought he's gonna kill me. He's gonna kill me. I'd do something and here he'd come and that finger isn't going. I thought, man, and I'm I'm trying to get away from him Daniel didn't have a dad looking over him. Daniel didn't have a pastor looking after him. He didn't have a youth pastor looking after him. He didn't even have uh uh extended family looking after him. No, Daniel was on his own, and yet he continued. And realize this, folks, Daniel made it because of the very fact that he continued. He just kept his heart right with God. No doubt in captivity, it was survival of the fittest. I would think it would be. I mean, there's also no record that Daniel ever saw his parents again, which uh makes most folks think that they were executed in the original siege of Jerusalem. I don't know for sure, but it makes sense, doesn't it? But yet, my text first says that Daniel continued even unto the first year of King Cyrus. So when Cyrus took the throne, remember now. Nebuchadnezzar was the one who originally came. After Nebuchadnezzar, there was a king named Nabonidus. And after Nabonidus, there was a king whose name was Belshazzar. And then after that, Cyrus came along. So for seventy years Daniel stayed in Babylon, and the point is, folks, for him to live that long under the circumstances that he was thrust in I it it's just amazing. But yet he did it. He did it. He he did live through all of this transition in his life, and not only did he live through it, but he thrived through all of it. You see, folks, we don't have to have uh the world tell us how to survive. No, we have a God We have a Bible. We have a church. Let's lose ourselves in our in our salvation and in our savior and in our church and under the authority of our pastor and let's raise our families to continue My that is such a needed thing today. I had a fella come up to me This last April, and he said, My family and I are leaving. And I said Why? He said, Well, we we don't go along with some of the standards here. I said, like what? And he said, um he said, well, I guess we're we're really staggering on this one. I said, what's that? He said that you can't have tattoos and be on the platform I said, Well, that's true. And he goes, Well, that's why we're leaving. And I said, Oh And I said, Well, explain that to me. He said, Well, and it wasn't even him. It's his wife. His wife's tattooed. Now I I don't know this cause I saw it, but I know it because he told me. Just about all over. Yeah. And so do you know what I think happened? Because She was told she couldn't be on the platform with those tattoos showing. I said, cover them up. Cover them up. I mean, y you know, people make mistakes and you know they get out in the sun and their brain melts. I understand that. You know? Duh. Young people, listen to me. That's permanent. Amen. All right. Look here. Look look at me. All you all you young uns, look at me. That stuff's permanent. All right, you go get a tattoo, you don't cro and then go Whoops You don't do that. And by the way, while I'm here, you know what it is? It's identification. What do we do? What do farmers do with their cows? They brand them. Hey, that's permanent. Right? That's permanent. And what you're doing. Now don't get mad at me. It's don't get mad at me. You know it's the truth. But you go sit down in that chair and get branded. And its identification with the world. Just like going and getting your ears pierced. Amen, preacher, that's good. And now These people left sweet people and they left And I was just th I was thinking after after it was all over, I was laying in bed one night and I was thinking about him praying for him and I thought, man, if only they had continued. You know, they lost their marbles or she lost her marbles somewhere. And she went out and got tattooed. And as is normally the case, one is not enough. So it's all up down that arm, all up down that arm. And I don't know how much those things cost, but you could support a lot of missionary endeavors with what it costs to get all labeled up You know? All identified. Amen. Hey, smile. All right. Hey, I'm your friend. I'm not trying to hurt you. I'm trying to help you. You know if these guys go out of here and and they get uh twenty-one years of age and w uh and all of a sudden one of them says, You know, I ain't gonna go get me a tattoo I'm on my own. I can do what I want to do. I'm a man now. I'm going to go get me a ta well wait a minute, that preacher said. Oh, I remember what he said. Well I ain't doing that Then it was worth it. Continue. Just continue Just continue. You say, well, preacher, I've already been tattooed. I was tattooed in the military, or I was tattooed before I got saved. Well, God bless you. I'm not mad at you. So don't be mad at me. Second thing I want you to see, I want you to notice the service of Daniel. The service. And now again, let's focus on the word continued. Now, I told you a moment ago, Daniel lived over 70 years in Babylon, and in that entire 70 years, Daniel was a faithful man. And here's here's the thing, guys, think of this. Daniel, we we all know that Daniel uh uh uh uh held Two uh very uh uh high positions in two of these kingdoms. High positions I mean uh under uh uh under the the Babylonians as well as under the Persians Under Nebuchadnezzar, under his son Nabonidus, under his son Belshazzar, which was Nebuchadnezzar's grandson. And then once the Persians conquered Babylon, He served under King Cyrus, who history calls Cyrus the Great. Right, so he must have been a pretty powerful fella, don't you think? And God gave Daniel the ability to interpret dreams and visions uh uh and uh uh uh and he uh interpreted these when the kings of these nations uh uh were given a vision from God. And so when the the uh uh kings Uh false prophets could not interpret the king's dreams. They called Daniel in, and Daniel would pray to God and God would enable Daniel to tell the heathen king what the dream was about. You know, he must have been known as God's man. Huh? Yeah. Don't you think he must have been known as the prophet of God? The prophet of Jehovah God? Israel's God? Sure. Sure. And I say that because the Persians recommissioned him after the Babylonians were defeated. Isn't that something? You know, normally when a king takes over uh uh uh another king, first thing you do is you execute all the king's henchmen Right? Not Persia. What'd Persia do? Hired Daniel He must have had a reputation. You know why he had a reputation? Because he continues. He just stuck with it. He just stayed by the stuff. He didn't quit. He didn't uh uh uh You know, uh w what's what's that word they're all saying today? I'm a recovering fundamentalist. Oh. No you aren't. No you aren't you never were. You never were a fundamentalist. You're welcome. Just can't be real. I ran into a preacher about two months ago at an airport in Atlanta. I was preaching down that way. And um and so I was going to my gate. I ran into a preacher that I preached for. I went back and researched it. I preached for him in 1985. 1985. And I sa and so he saw me. I didn't know I didn't recognize him, I'll be honest with you. He got big. All right. And I but he recognized me And uh he said, Brother Norris, and I stopped and I went I said, refresh me, and he did. And I said, Oh man, how you doing? He said, um, he said, uh, I'm doing I'm doing good. And I s and I thought, well, you're eating well. I mean I didn't say that. I didn't say that, but that's what I was thinking All right. You know, a lot of times I think things and I don't say them. But then sometimes I do, and that's what You know. That's what makes me such a tender pastor. I just stay in hot water all the time, all the time I'm gonna get me one of these, brother. I like that. Yeah. And uh so anyway I said he said uh he said are you still at open door? And I said uh yeah Yeah. I said, how'd you know I was an open door? And he said, uh uh well I've I've kind of followed you uh in the sword. And I said, Oh, okay. I said, so you get the sword? Well not anymore. And I thought, uh-huh. So I looked at him and I kind of gave him a little, you know, look down into your soul look, and I said, um Why not? What's happened? And he said, well uh you know uh I said you got another direction. Is that what you're saying? And he he just sort of, well, um, you know I said, No, I don't know. Tell me about it And he said, uh, you know, things change. I said, the Bible doesn't. And he said, Well there's no use in me arguing with you, is there? I said, No, sir. Nope. And here's what I said to him. I probably shouldn't have said it, but I did. I said, I wondered why you never invited me to come back to your church. Now if you know me, you know I have a chance. I'm uh uh I'm as hard-headed and stubborn as I have always been. I'm meaner now than I used to be. You know? See, are you a guest? Yes. Yes, I'm against it. Well you didn't even let me say what uh I ask you what you're aga it doesn't matter. I'm against it. Alright, so we just settle that issue right there You gotta continue. You gotta continue. Stay with it. Don't give. Don't bend. One more thing. One more thing. I've got to show you one more thing. Thirdly, I want you to notice the sanctity of Daniel. Now again, there's one more continued here, and that is the sanctity of Daniel. You see Daniel continued in his ways, his lifestyled ways. Now, uh uh let me show you what I mean. His choices in life. Look at one uh chapter one, verse eight. But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion of the king's meat, nor with the wine which he drank. Therefore, he requested of the prince of the eunuchs that he might not defile himself. Now that rankled the king. He didn't like that. Well, you just a goody two shoes or something? You think you're better than us? You think you're better than me? Well, uh you see folks in the early years of Daniel's life He did something, listen carefully now, this this will help you. He did something in his youth that set a precedent and a pattern for the rest of his earthly existence. He made up his mind that he was not going to defile himself with the world. He purposed in his heart. You see, the Jews had the law of Moses, and they were told in that law what they were to eat and what they were not to eat. And uh the and if they followed that law, uh uh uh then they were healthy and God blessed them and and uh uh and now hears Daniel and he finds himself in the big city, it is estimated that almost a million people lived in Babylon. That's a big city back two and a half thousand years ago. And there's Daniel right in the middle of it. I mean, I'm sure that the devil whispered in his ear and said Hey Daniel, uh who's gonna know? Go ahead. Come on, go ahead. Nobody's gonna nobody here knows you anyway. You're in a strange land. Nobody knows who you are. Go ahead and eat whatever you want. Go ahead and drink whatever you want. And uh, you know, no one knows you. But he was not going to cast dispersion upon his God. And he purposed in his heart And you know, that reminds me just like um uh just like uh Joseph. And Mrs. Potiphar winked at him and said, uh come here, come here, big boy Joseph said, How can I do this thing against my God? It wasn't how can I sin against your husband? It wasn't how could I sin against you? It wasn't how could I sin against my own convictions No, he said, How could I do this thing against my God? You see, we we just need to make up our minds, don't we? The world says, hey, come on, everybody's doing it. No, they're not. That's a lie That's a lie. Everybody's doing it. No, they're not. You know, my my mom used to say, well if everybody got on top of the uh of the bridge and jumped off, would you do it And I uh and you know, before I was saved I was such a smart, well still a smart elic, but not quite as bad as I was, all right? And uh All right, so so my mom would say uh uh w if everybody got on top of the Empire State Building and jumped off, would you do it? And I would say, well if I had a parachute, I would Folks listen. Don't defile. God made you. And young people, God has something for you. I I I I I cannot tell you And brother brother Pastor Denny can say the same thing, I'm sure, because we've shared stories and and uh I think we were cut from the same cloth back in the seventies. All right But I struggled with all that after I got saved. Did you? Man, I mean, I had to cleanse my mind. I had to clean out my heart. I had to get rid of all that filth that I poured in there. I had to change my appetite. You know? I told m I told my my friend, I said, I don't I I don't I don't want to go to church tonight. He said, why? And I said, Well, you know I s I uh I s I smell like smoke. And he said, You sorry thing, won't you quit smoking? Duh. You know? I mean that'll help you on it. You know what I did? I quit smoking. Yeah. Wasn't any uh um gum to chew or any patches to put on or You know, any drops to put in the drink or it uh in your water, you know, it was just quit. And for about two weeks, I want to kill somebody. In Christian love, but I want to kill somebody. You know? And I fought oh my soul for a couple of years, brother. Couple of years. I remember being down at at college and we'd go over to uh Hardy's and get a hamburger and I'd come out of there and someone's sitting out front smoking and I would just stand there and go Oh it's a struggle. But if you don't ever start, you don't ever have to quit. And the smoking was bad. The drinking was worse. I started drinking when I was twelve. Twelve. I always worked. Always worked. From the time I was twelve years old, I got uh every summer I got a job working for a farmer And always worked, always had money. And we we all uh I bought me a motorcycle. Twelve years old, and I had a motorcycle. Oh, not smart at all. Yeah, give the give the idiot a motorcycle. Yeah, that's what you want to do. So so we would drive down to the to the ABC store alcoholic beverage control in the state of West Virginia and set out in front of and when some guy come up I'd say hey If you get me, and I tell him what I wanted, I'll buy yours too And he is, well yeah. And so he'd go in, buy whatever it is I wanted. Bring it out, give it to me. Thanks, man. Pat me on the back. And sometimes I see the same guy the next week, you know. Twelve. Twelve Good night. Steal it out of go marks and uh and sh uh uh stores steal them beer, stealing wine out of the coolers. And you know, never got caught doing anything. Never I think the devil just wanted me to get as bad as I could get. I think he did. Because buddy, when I got saved and I I said, that's it. I'm done. And I was 16 years old and just shaking like a leaf. Shaking. My mom said, What in the world's wrong with you? Nothing. You know. My dad knew. My dad knew what was wrong with me He'd put his arm around me and say, It'll get better. It'll get better. He'd squeeze me tight. Continue. I'm seventy years old. I'll be seventy-one next month. Next month, he's older than me. By a month. Yeah. I'll be seventy one in the tenth of September. Hey, hey. On a hot day. If I'm out working, playing golf or whatever, the devil say, boy, beard be good right now Get thee behind me. Get thee behind me. You see, you gotta make up your mind. He purposed and he continued. Let's pray.