And I'll get to our message here this morning. I'd like for us to read together, if you would, in unison, verse number six. Alright? Philippians chapter 4, verse 6. How many people recognize this verse? It's our memory verse for this month. Let's read it together. Ready? Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication. With thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. I want to highlight two words right smack dab in the middle of that verse. With Thanksgiving. With thanksgiving. Let your requests be made known unto God by prayer and supplication. With thanksgiving. I want to talk about the adornment of prayer. The adornment of prayer. Or I could rephrase it, the accompaniment of prayer. Let's pray. Father, I ask now you bless our time in your word. I thank you for good good morning, Lords. Honey School is a blessing. The music has been a blessing. The song service. Fellowship has been encouraging to me. And so we thank you for your goodness to us as individuals and as a church. And now, Lord, our Bibles are open before us. We believe with all our hearts this is your word. And so we're asking you to speak to our hearts and lives, our minds, and affect our lives by your word here as we look at it in the next few moments. Lord, in and of myself, I have nothing of any eternal or spiritual value to offer. I am aware of that. And so, Lord, I yield my will to you and I present my body, and I ask that you, through your Holy Spirit, would speak through me. to each of our lives. And we would walk out here a little stronger in our faith, a little closer to you in our walk with you. So Please bless. Again, fill me with your spirit, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I'd like for write down three statements. You got a paper there, got a pencil, maybe in the flyer margin of your Bible somewhere in one of the fly leaf, but I'd like for you to write down three statements I believe would be very, very helpful, very, very encouraging for all of us to get us started this morning. Give everybody a chance. Get a pen, piece of paper, fly leaf of your Bible somewhere, and jot these down. Number one, write this down if you would. God cares for me. Write that down. God cares for me. Isn't that a wonderful truth? Now think about that. The God of creation The Almighty, all-powerful, all-wise, omniscient, omnipresent, holy God, this God that spoke everything into existence, that God cares about you and me. In fact, I put this down under that. I put God cares deeply for us. He cares deeply for us, young and old. Young and old, God cares for us. These young people, I I appreciate our young people so much. I appreciate the good work that Pastor Brett is doing, how God's using how the young people are growing, coming out church faithfully. I appreciate it so much But the important thing is for every young person here to understand God cares about you so much and He's got a plan for your life. And God cares about young people, little children down in King's Kids down there. They're kicking off their little Christmas program starting Every one of those little children, regardless of what kind of home they come from, regardless of what kind of background, regardless of what their financial standing may be, maybe a little rich kid, maybe a little poor kid. But God cares so much about those little children. Our Creator cares so much about them. That's important to understand. God cares about them. Young couples starting out, small children, starting out in life. And the cares and the issues, concerns, and dreams. It's important to understand that God cares deeply for young couples and single, older folks. I'm not there yet, but folks that are older folks. God cares deeply for them. God cares deeply. Helen. God bless you, Helen. Isn't it good to know God cares about us? God cares about us. Number one, God cares deeply for me. Write this down, number two. God speaks to me. God speaks to me. Say, wait a minute. How does God speak to me? I'll tell you how God speaks to you and to me and to us. He speaks to us through his word. Whenever I open my Bible, that is God speaking to me. God speaking to me. I saw a little, uh, I don't they have a little name for it, but it's a little picture with words on it, a little statement. And this guy, and uh is he looking up to God and he's raising his fist and he's saying, God, why won't you speak to me? And beside him was a closed Bible. And the point was this, we're not will if we're not going to read our Bible, if we're not going to look in our Bible, then we're not going to hear from God God speaks to us through his word. God cares about me so much. And God wants to speak to me. God wants to direct me. He wants to address the issues of my life. He wants to comfort me, encourage me, warn me, give me promises. And God speaks to us through his word. That's why it's so important that we discipline ourselves to spend some time every day in the Word of God. Every Christian, I know I I beat this to death. But it's so important, every Christian, whether you've been saved uh two days, two years, twenty years, or ten decades, that'd be a long time. Regardless of how long a Christians have been saved, we ought to discipline ourselves to open our Bible every single day and let God speak to us. Let God teach us. Let God address us. How many folks here ever, at some point in your Christian life, you ever opened the Bible and you read and it was like God was addressing everything going on in your life right at that moment? It's like he wrote it that morning. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You know what that is? That's God speaking to us. God addressing our lives. God dealing with the issues of our lives. So God speaks to us. That's what makes daily Bible reading so important. God speaks to us. Oh, by the way, that's also what makes church service so important. That's what makes church service so important. You know, every church ought to preach the Bible. Nobody in the world comes here to hear Dennis Leatherman's opinion. My opinion isn't any worth any more than anybody else's opinion. But I tell you what, God's word is the most important thing in the world. And we come to the house of God. There ought to be the preaching of the Word of God. What does God say? Thus saith the Lord. That's God speaking to us. God speaking to us. I appreciate what Pastor Brett said. These hymns just saturated full of scripture and doctrine God teaches us and God helps us. So what we say, number one, say it with me. God cares for me deeply. Number two, what is it? God speaks to me. Write this one down. Number three. God listens to me. Now, that of those three is perhaps the most amazing thing Think about this, this universe, and the more we're learning about the universe, the more mind-boggling it is. Is there anybody is there anybody else here like me? You're captivated By things that Nassau, the pictures they're getting from outer space. Anybody know? I mean, it is absolutely mind-boggling this universe And the God that spoke this thing into existence, and God said, Let there be light. And God said God spoke this thing into existence. What power! How powerful is God that He can just speak something and out of nothing A world, a solar system, a universe comes into existence. What a what an incomprehensible God we have! And that God will listen to you and to me That's staggering. That God would listen to me. God would listen to me. When I come to God in prayer, faith, believing. I pour my heart out to God and I talk to God. He listens to me. When I meet his conditions, and that he is a holy God. And thus his holiness demands that there be some conditions met. But when I in faith, believing, trust God, and meet those conditions. God listens to me, the youngest child. I don't know about you, I like children praying for me Their faith is so simple. They just come. If I can get anybody to pray for me, I get a little child praying for me. Teenager. And pray to God. Sometimes it feels like my world's falling apart. I don't know if I'm coming or going. There's a God in heaven that is so incomprehensibly powerful. And he cares so much for me. When I talk to him, he'll listen to me. How many folks here are ever in a situation and you thought, I just wish I had somebody that would just listen to me. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I could just pour my heart out. And I just listen to me. I'm telling you, we got someone. We got someone We can tell him our heartaches. We can pour our heart. We can make our requests to him. Anytime, anywhere, we can pray. We can pray. Philippians is actually a letter That the apostle Paul wrote to a church that God had used him to start the little town of Philippi. I say little town, I don't can't tell you off the hand the size of the town. But God used them to establish his church. He went in there, he started preaching the gospel, talking to people about Christ. People decided to accept Christ as Savior. A group of people got saved. He organized them together, established the church, provided some leadership. Of course, all under the direction of the Lord, all under the power of the Holy Spirit. Paul moves on, he leaves that church behind, and they're growing and they're flourishing. Did you notice in verse number one there of chapter 4? I think Paul loved this little body of believers, don't you think? My dearly beloved, my dearly beloved. See, I long for my joy and my crown. My dearly beloved. And he's writing back to this church at Philippi there as the founding pastor, so to speak. And the theme of the book is joy and rejoicing. Paul is writing this letter from prison. You would not I I I know few people that associate joy and rejoicing with prison. You don't generally put those two terms together. Go visit somebody in jail. How are you doing in jail? Oh, it's fantastic. It's great. I've never had anybody say that to me. But Paul in jail, in prison, and in hard for us to comprehend the conditions of that prison he was in. He's writing to this body of believers in Philippi. He writes this letter to them, and he loves them so much. And he's talking to them of the joy of the Lord. And this is all under the inspiration of God He's talking to them of the joy of the Lord and God's goodness and rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, rejoice! And then we get down to verse 6 and 7, 6 in particular, and he gives us one of, there's many, but one of the most important passages on prayer In Scripture. Now, there's a lot of other passages on prayer, and they're all very important, there's no doubt. The Bible is saturated with teaching on prayer. But this is significant here, and he says this, be careful for nothing And that's my first point this morning. I want us to notice a very pointed command. A very pointed command. The Lord says, be Careful for nothing. Now I want you to look at that phrase very carefully. Now look at it, analyze it, think about it. That is not a suggestion. He's not saying, hey, you know, it would be a good idea if you weren't careful for nothing. God's not saying that. What is it? It is a very Pointed command. He's commanding them. Be careful for nothing. It's like this. I told you, be careful for nothing. Are you listening? Are you doing what I said? You don't know. I like picking on Ethan. He's very pickable Some people are huggable, some people are pickable. He's pickable. But God is giving us a command. There's no options. He's saying, be careful for nothing. If I'm careful for something, what am I doing? I'm disobeying God. Right? Because he said, be careful for what? Nothing. It's a command, it is not a suggestion. Now, what does he mean by this? What does he mean when he uses the word careful? I'm not to care about anything? Well, how are things going? I don't care. No, obviously he's not saying we shouldn't care about things. We should care about things. In fact, we're commanded to other places Give diligent concern and attention. He's not saying we're careless. But the word careful there is a very unique word. It has the idea, and most many of you already know this. But it has the idea of being anxious. John R. Rice put it this way: anxious care. Be careful for nothing. To be troubled. It means to has the idea, and here's a biblical term, and I'll touch on it here in a minute, but take no thought. Is the same concept. Don't let this bother you. Don't let this worry you. Don't let this make you anxious. How many people agree with me? That's a whole lot easier said than done. Sure. But nevertheless, he's very pointed in command here. Be careful for nothing. Then I got looking at that word nothing. Surely it doesn't mean nothing. Must mean something else. I I think surely it means be anxious, worried, concerned about most things. It's not what it says. Well Lord, in this situation, surely I don't be worried about that. How many people here ever had a situation and you weren't worried about it and you got worried that you weren't worried about it That's my problem. I ought to be worried about this. The word nothing there is actually used 88 times in the New Testament in this context. And it means exactly what we think it means. In fact, I got looking up the literal definition of it and it expands on it and has this idea. Be careful for nothing, not anything of any type at any time in any way. There's no exceptions on that statement There's no loopholes here. Well, surely God would understand if I'm worried about this. Nope, nothing. Not at any time, in any way, under any circumstances at all, to any degree, for anything at all. Good, nice. In Matthew chapter 5, 6, and 7, we have what is referred to as the Sermon on the Mount. We preached through it in Wednesday nights. It's three chapters. Took us about eight years. It's a great passage of Scripture. The Sermon on the Mound is not an evangelistic sermon. And we pointed this out over and over, and it's very important to understand. Very at the very beginning, he's speaking to his disciples. These are saved people. And he is discipling his disciples, so to speak. And the second half of chapter 6 of the Sermon on the Mound, we won't take time to turn there, but this is a huge portion of this sermon. It's a three-chapter sermon, and half of chapter six, a huge section of the sermon, he is addressing this idea of taking no thought. Not worrying, not being anxious, not being troubled. And he talks about some basic things. Just take no thought for what you should wear How'd people be a little concerned if you got home and you had no clothes? I'd be concerned about that. How people would be concerned you got home and you didn't have any food Well, I'm concerned, I don't give some thought to this. And the Lord said, listen, even the most basic means of life as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ I should not worry about those things. I should not be troubled about these things. As a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, I should not be characterized by anxiety. As a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, worry should not be characteristic of my life. Because our beginning statement, God cares deeply for us. God speaks to us, he instructs us, he directs us, and he hears us, he listens to us. And you and I have no reason in the world, justifiable reason. To be anxious and to be worried. I asked this a minute ago, I want to ask it again because I'm getting convicted. How many folks say, preacher, that's easier said than done? Sure. And I'm preaching to myself as much as I'm preaching to anybody. So the Lord gives a very pointed command here. Be anxious for nothing. Be careful for nothing. To worry and fret over anything is to disobey God. I wonder when's the last time and I I think I'm speaking to a good number of Christians that are pretty sincere in your faith I think I'm speaking to a good number of Christians that are pretty genuine in your desire that I want to please God. I want my life to be what God intends for it to be. I want my Lord to be pleased With how I live and my behavior and my frame of mind. I want my creator to be pleased with me. I think I'm speaking to a good number of people that feel that way. I wonder when's the last time we've ever knelt at an altar or knelt beside our bed and said, God, I have to confess sin of worry. The sin of anxiety, the sin of allowing my heart and my mind to be troubled, By the issues of my life. Jesus said, let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. He said, Be careful for nothing. Be careful for nothing. So the Lord gives a very pointed command, a very difficult, not easy. A whole lot easier for me to stand up here and preach to you about it than it is for me to go home and practice it. A whole lot easier to sit here and say amen and I appreciate amens. A whole lot easier to do that than walk out the door and go home and then say, all right, I'm going to do that. Huh? But nevertheless, the Lord's given us that command. Be anxious for nothing. Be troubled. Be worried. Careful for nothing. So we're given this pointed command. And I read that, and if it ended there, it'd be like, oh, how in the world do I do that? That leads us to a prayers companion. Notice what he says: be careful for nothing. And what's the next word? But he gives us a resource. He gives us something here that I can carry out that command. I found over and over in Scripture, God will tell us to do something, then He gives us the resources to do it. We see that in missions. God calls a young couple, Brandon Kelly and his precious wife and his three little children. And he says, I want you, and he impresses upon their hearts and minds, I am calling you to go to Indonesia, a very difficult, in many ways very dangerous area for Christians Christians just Christians of any sort, let alone going in there to plant a church And I can imagine, and Brother Kelly, he'll be with us next week. He hasn't told me this, but I would imagine at some point it was like, whoa What is he calling us to do? How does this play out? What happens? And I'll tell you what Brother Kelly's finding out, I assure you, he's finding out that God gives him the resources necessary to do what God has instructed him to do. And so when you and I are instructed by God to be careful for nothing, and we think, how in the world do I do that? God says, but here's how you do it. Here's the resource. This is the way I counter worry and anxiety. Now notice what he says here. And I the point out, I put it this way for sake of alliteration, prayer's companion. But he's given us the prescription here for a troubled heart. He's given us the prescription here for an anxious mind, and the prescription is very simple prayer. But in everything, be careful for nothing. But in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. I believe he gives us three ingredients here. For I put it this way, three ingredients for mind altering prayer We're talking in Sunday school about mind altering drugs. Say, what? You ought to come to Sunday school. It's pretty crazy. We're talking about mind-altering drugs. The Bible is talking here about mind-altering prayer. My mind is troubled, my mind is anxious, I'm worried. How many people here wake up in the middle of the night and that mind is just going, oh, it's terrible. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Well, God says, I've got a prescription for mind-altering prayer. He gives us the three ingredients of anxiety destroying prayer. And here they are. They're very clearly laid out here, very obvious. But number one I I'm supposed to be anxious for nothing. Lord, I'm trying. I'm worried that I'm worried, you know. Oh no, I'm worrying. As I'm disobeying God. Now I'm worried that I'm wor Bing because on this How do I stop this? Number one, first ingredient is this. Actually pray. Actually pray. There's a whole lot of talking goes on about prayer. There's a whole lot of preaching goes on about prayer. We got songs about prayer But I wonder how much we actually pray. I think the greatest hindrance to prayer is not praying. James put it this way: you have not because you ask not. And so the Lord says, be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer. Just pray. I'm convinced if every person at the part of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, myself included, if we would begin praying, as the Bible clearly instructs us to pray We would see amazing, amazing things happen in our homes, in our community, in our church, perhaps in our nation, perhaps around the world. I believe one of the greatest failures, and again I include myself, one of the greatest failures in the Christian life is the failure to genuinely pray as God instructs us. So to actually pray, actually pray. But in everything by prayer. What is prayer? What does it mean? Does it mean cross my heart and hope to die, go through this ritual, do all this stuff? No, no, no Prayer is simply making a request to God. You have not because you ask not. That's prayer. God, I'm asking you. I'm worried about this situation. I'm worried about this need. I'm worried about this circumstance. I'm worried about what I'm facing. I'm very anxious. It concerns me. I can't sleep. Well, by prayer, God, I'm coming to you and asking you to meet this need, to solve this problem, to work in this situation. It's simply making a request to God. By the way, asking God Making requests to God is something God expects from all of us. How many folks here are parents? How many do particularly when your children were young, but how many you expected them to come and ask you for something if they needed something? And people, you just expect that from them I found the older they get, the more expensive those requests become. Thought it was banned when we bought diapers. I'm here to tell you this morning, every one of us, from the youngest up through the oldest, God is expecting us to ask him for the things we need. By prayer, by prayer, in everything. You mean I should pray over the tests I have to take? Yeah. And don't be stupid and not study But ask God for help. Ask God for help. We do not come to God as slaves to some master. Oh, fear and trembling. Oh, Master, could you bestow a little glass of water? I have a little more per porridge, please. That's not the biblical version of what prayer is Prayer is a child coming to a loving heavenly father. Do you notice in the Gospels how many times Jesus says, My Father, my Father, my Father? In fact, the Lord's Prayer is we call it our Father, which art in heaven. I tell you what, a daddy, a boy calls comes to his daddy, or bo uh a boy calls up his daddy and says, Dad, could you help me? Son, I'll help you any and every way I possibly can. And a child of God, a Christian, comes to our Heavenly Father, God, would you help me? God, our Father, expects us to come to Him, ask Him for help. So by actually praying, God's cure for this carefulness, this anxiety, this anxious mind. Is to pray, come and actually pray. Over and over. God emphasized we're a child coming to our Father. I believe our prayers are to be natural. Just pour them out to God. And I'm a and and sometimes maybe men are a little more tend to be this way than ladies, I don't know. I never did figure out women. But maybe men tend to be this way, but sometimes we tend to be a little proud. And we get the family together and pray, and it's like we're very a little self-conscious. Come on now. Anybody know? We're just a little self-conscious, mate. But I found the more I pray, the more natural it becomes. And you get to the point where I can just ask God and just pour it out. Our prayer should be natural. It shouldn't be real stiff. Oh, let's see. I've got to put my hands like this. Uh God. I don't know. Oh Father in heaven, you help me. God help me get a nice big buck. Listen, you're allowed to ask for it, right? Let your requests be made known. My son sent me a little joke. Had a guy shot this, he prayed, said, Lord, uh, and I I I I don't I think this is okay. Um He prayed, said Lord help me get an eight point. No, the point eight point comes, he shot it, big old beer. He says, boy, I wish I'd asked for a 12 point. Um being a little silly there, but our prayers ought to be natural. And the more natural my prayers become, I find, the less anxiety I face. Our prayers ought to be natural. Our prayers ought to be regular. We ought to be consistently praying. In fact, I want to suggest to you, along with our Bible reading, when we discipline ourselves and schedule a little time every day to spend time, let God speak to me from his word, we ought to, along with that, schedule a regular time where I pour my heart out to God. Here's the way a lot of Christians, I think some Christians a lot of times have this view of God like a vending machine. I mean people do they still have vending machines? And we kind of go, well well I'll wait till I have a need and I get hungry, then I'll go to the vending machine and get things right with God, shall out a sandwich. And that's not the way God is. My prayers ought not to be just until I'm in a crisis situation, until I'm it ought to be a continual ongoing, praying God over everything, bringing everything before the Lord. How many here how many here ever your one of your kids came and had a need and you said, well why didn't you tell me this before it got so big? Huh? And so, God, our prayers ought to be natural. They ought to be regular, constantly, bringing them before the Lord. They ought to be continual. I like what the Lord Jesus said in Luke chapter 18, verse 1. He said, Men ought always to pray. And to faint not. In other words, don't quit. Just keep praying, just keep praying, just keep praying. Let me ask you a question: how's your prayer life? How's your prayer life? When's the last time you just got to learn God on your knees? Poured your heart out to God. Young people, when's the last time you really pray? Mom, dad? When's the last time we got wife and kids together? So let's pray and ask God to help us. Pray and ask God to help us meet this need. We need a new car. We need the Lord. Let's ask God, help us. Ask God to give us wisdom. So one, the solution is prayer. Number two is supplication. Notice he says there, be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication. There is an accompaniment to prayer, something I need to add to. Prayer is just asking God for stuff. It's natural, it's simple, it's basic. I'm just asking God for stuff. It's ongoing. It's just part of my Christian life, praying to God. But then there is what's called supplication, and that's a whole nother level The word supplication itself means this: an earnestness in prayer, an intensity in prayer. The one definition I came across implied this: a desperation in prayer I'm desperate. And by the way, it says in everything by prayer and supplication, the word and has the idea, don't leave this off. Make sure you include in your regular, normal, casual, everyday praying to God, make sure you don't leave off times of supplication Times of intensity prayer, special seasons of very earnest prayer, making a very diligent effort to every area of my life is right because I need God To intervene in this. And I'm not just going to casually make a request to God, as fine as natural that should be. I need more than that. I need, I need God to do something. And I'm gonna do whatever I need to on my part. To be sure that God can work. This is where repentance comes in. I do intense self-examination. Is there something in my heart and life that is Contrary to the word of God, is there something in my heart and life that is grieving the Holy Spirit? Is there something in my heart and life that is keeping God from intervening? And I go a thorough examination, I do a thorough repentance Jesus told a father one time in one of the gospels the disciples could not cast the devils out of this Son. And Jesus came and spoke the word and cast the devils out. And the disciples came and they said, Lord, why couldn't we do that? We pray. Why couldn't we solve this problem? Why wasn't this need met? And he made a statement. He says, this kind Cometh forth not but by prayer and fasting. I think he was implying supplication. In other words, there are some situations in life, there are some circumstances, there are some needs that simple casual requests are not enough. There needs to be an intensity, there needs to be a desperation, there needs to be a hunger, a willing to do whatever needs to be done. God, for you to meet this need, for you to save my son God, for you to alter this circumstance, a refusal to give up until God either changes my situation or changes my disposition. Paul had what he said to the church at Corinthians and 2 Corinthians, he said he had a thorn in the flesh. Now, my personal opinion in studying that is it was incredibly painful for Paul. I believe it was a physical ailment that was very, very painful. And Paul saw it as a distraction. Paul saw it as a messenger of Satan to buffet him. And he says, I besought the Lord three times. And it doesn't mean that Paul just came and said, God, can you take this away? God, take this away. That's two. God, take this away. That's three times. That's not what he's saying. I believe Paul was saying I went through three periods of earnest seeking God. Pleading and begging, supplicating with God, please take this pain away. Please take this thorn out of my flesh. Three periods of earnestly seeking God. What did God say? No. I'm not taking it away. God says when you're weak, that's when you're strong. And this thorn is actually keeping you humble before me and making you more effective in the cause of Christ. What did Paul say? He says, more gladly therefore will I Glory in my infirmity. Paul changed his disposition. He didn't change his circumstance. As far as we know, he still had that flesh, that thorn in the flesh, so the day he died. But God changed his whole perspective on it. And it was a result of supplication. Seeking the Lord, I'm seeking the Lord, I'm seeking the Lord. God, you've got to change this. You've got to change. And if God can and often does change the circumstance, but sometimes he changes our perspective of it. I've found almost often as not God changes me. About as often as he changes my circumstances. And so be anxious for nothing, be careful about nothing. Don't let these things trouble you. Well, how do I do that? Well, by prayer, but Not just prayer, it also includes seasons of intensely seeking God. But then he adds a third one. And that gets interesting. By prayer and supplication, what's the next statement? With thanksgiving. Hmm. We might not have thought to put that in there. But I believe that phrase with thanksgiving is something God looks closely for. There's a lot of things I don't know, and I'm not an expert on anything. But I've come to the conclusion God really, really wants us to be grateful. God really, really wants us to be thankful for what He does for us. Now we've got a handicap. As Americans, we have a handicap in this matter of gratitude. You know what our handicap is? We have got it so good. For so long, so easily, that our prosperity is killing us spiritually And we have been raised, not this coming generation, I'm talking about maybe my generation, has been raised to expect The best and the most of everything. And if I don't get it, I am not being treated right. I deserve better than this. And God. I don't know. God says, you want to kill your prayer life? Have that attitude. No, you come with thanksgiving. You come with thanksgiving. And he writes to the church at Philippi. He says, listen, under the inspiration of God, don't you be anxious, don't you be troubled, don't let these things go. How can we do that? Well, by prayer, you just natural part, you ask God, you ask God. And supplication. You have seasons where you're seeking and pleading with God intensely, doing a personal examination. But then, with all of that You be thankful. You be thankful. You be grateful. I got I was telling my wife last night, that word with there is You know, sometimes God has these little words in there that we just overlook and we think they're just a word. But they're powerful. That word with, and I don't know, maybe it won't affect you the way it did me, but that word with there Me had this idea to be accompanied by. So I'm all worried about this situation. I'm all troubled and anxious about this situation. Alright, I'm not supposed to do that. Alright, I'm going to pray. God help me. I'm going to supplicate the Lord. I'm going to fast and pray. I'm going to do whatever. With Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving, you come with me into the throne room of God. And it's like this, and I'm trying to be disrespectful, I'm not trying to be oversimplic, but it's almost in my mind, it's like God says, oh, you have thanksgiving with you. Let me listen to what you have to say. It's almost the idea that Thanksgiving lends credibility to my request. It's kind of like suppose a neighbor kid or something would want something from me. He would like to have a something I have, fishing pole. And they're scared and they're anxious coming. They come and ask me, uh, Mr. Leatherman, could I have your fishing pole? No, these things are sacred. Fishing poles, right? Not a matter of life is involved, invested in this fishing pole, eh? I ain't giving it nobody Please no go away, kid. Come on, no, I'll give you a dollar. No. So then they go and find my son. And they come in with my son. My son says, Dad, I think it'd be really good if you gave that kid your fishing pole. What are you talking about, boy? No, seriously, Dad, it would be really good. Alright, since you're the one saying that. Alright. Had the pole, kid. By what I'm trying to say. And my my impression on reading this is like we're coming to God. And not that God's hateful like I am. God's very kind, God's very gracious. But he is telling us, listen, if you want to be cured of that trouble, you want to be cured of that anxiety and that that worry. You want to obey my command? Well, you pray and you supplicate, but you bring thanksgiving along with you. And when you do that, Then you have the peace of God that passes all understanding. So thanksgiving is more important than just One day out of the year will be lip service to Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving is a vital, vital, vital part of my spiritual well-being, of my mental well-being. With Thanksgiving. With Thanksgiving. Let me ask you a question. When's the last time you got on your knees and perhaps in tears? Thanked God for being so good to me with Thanksgiving, accompanied by Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving. I believe ingratitude turns off our prayers to God. I believe ingratitude enters man in a downward spiral. I wish we had time. We don't. Romans chapter 1 That ugly, ugly picture he gives of humanity and our descent into depravity. And it all begins with this statement: neither were they thankful. You know where perversion and depravity begins? In an ungrateful heart. An ungrateful heart. In fact, I want to suggest to you Eve's, Adam and Eve's disobedience to God. Was rooted in discontentment and ingratitude for all that God had done, and God's holding that from me Now, we're not judgmental because you and I in the same situation, we'd probably blown it worse a whole lot sooner. But nevertheless, they had so much. They had to have this. God's not being fair. And the whole descent into darkness, whole descent into hell. Again, an ungrateful heart. The Bible talks about a generation that is not thankful. The Bible says the characteristic of the last days, Peter, neither were they thankful. Either were they thankful. Ingratitude will kill our prayer life. Ingratitude will plunge us into depravity. Ingratitude is characteristic of the last days. When we bring thanksgiving along with us into our prayer closet, we get God's attention. Oh, I've got so much. I am with this, a promised contentment. Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God, and the peace of God. Which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. The promised contentment, the promised contentment, beyond all understanding How in the world can you be in that situation and not be worried? You ought to be upset. How come you're just so peaceful? Ah, you won't understand beyond all understanding. I read about a doctor. I'll end with this. He was diagnosed with terminal cancer. He's not going to live. They said, this is it. Boy, what a what a scary word that word cancer is. He said you have terminal cancer. He was worried. He was scared. He was a Christian doctor. He was worried. He was scared. And he began to seek the Lord, and he prayed, and he supplicated. And God did not take his cancer away. But God took his fear and anxiety about his cancer away And he got to the point, he said, before he died, he says, I got to the point where I thanked God Or what he was doing in my life. And rather than being fearful, and this is a supernatural thing, no doubt that God did, but rather than being fearful and anxious about what he was dealing with He decided, and God led him, to go out and find other people in his exact situation, and he would begin to share with them the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And to hear how I could have eternal life and be forgiven at a home in heaven from somebody that was in the same condition I am in, that was a powerful, powerful witness. And as I read his story, I read how he led many, many people to Christ who were dying therm of cancer. Before he went off to be with the Lord. Be anxious for nothing. Be careful for nothing. But in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, that your requests be made known unto God. And the peace of God. Which passes all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. Isn't that good? Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving. When's the last time you really prayed? Is it regular? When's the last time you got her knees at an old altar and said, thank you, Lord, you've been so good to me, giving me so much When's the last time you just cast it all in the Lord's hands and say, God, you lead me, you direct me, I'm going to trust you? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would take the simple verses here, and you'd burn them deep in our hearts and minds. That we could, in a world of worry, in a world of anxiety, a world that's a mess, that as your disciples, you would give us peace of mind that passes all understanding, that makes no sense. Now, we could be a testimony to this old sinful world, to how good you really are. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many say, preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it, Christ saved me. I've got that settled. However, My prayer life is far from what it ought to be. And God's Holy Spirit has spoken to my heart that I need to give diligent attention. To get my prayer life what it ought to be. Is there any like that, preacher? Just my everyday natural prayer life. God bless you, hands all around. That perhaps is our greatest need. And maybe an old-fashioned altar is a good place to say, Lord, revive my prayer life. Teach me to pray. I wonder how many would say, preacher, I've got some situations that they really worry me. I am anxious. I know what God says, but I am. And you'd say, preacher, my heart is stirred that I supplicate. I'm going to really seek the Lord and search myself and give some earnest times of, give some specific kinds of very earnest, diligent prayer. Above and beyond just the everyday pray. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me. I need to and I want to. I'm going to do that. Is there any like that? I do have some situations where I'm going to give myself to earnest supplication seeking God. Maybe fasting and praying. God bless you, hands all around. So some here say, preacher, I hate to admit it, and I'm embarrassed to admit it, but I'm really not as thankful as I should be. I take things for granted, I get demanding, I get impatient, selfish. And as a Christian, that ought not so to be. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that I would be characterized by gratitude. And my life would be characterized by thankfulness. And contentment. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. God would help me. Sure. God bless your hands all round. One last question, and we give the invitation. Someone here this morning said, Preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. Nobody in the right mind wants to go to hell, and only a fool ignores this. But as an earnest person concerned for your spiritual well-being, you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure my sins will be, I'm not sure I'm on my way to heaven. I need that settled in my heart and life Would there be any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I am concerned about where I spend eternity in my spiritual well-being Now Father in heaven, hands raised, you know our hearts. Help us, Lord, to act on this. Help us, Lord, to act on this in faith. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.