How many of you have enjoyed this book? This has been fun. I I have enjoyed this book. This would have been fun. Tonight, um We'll be we'll be kind of looking at the book as an overview, I guess you could say. Um for I think most everyone understands what what over the past few weeks. Pastor, he's been gone for three weeks and he's asked me to to preach uh for him. Well he's been in New Zealand. And we've um looked at this uh short little book of Philippians. There's only four chapters in it, and we spent one service for each chapter. And um I I've really enjoyed it. I've really enjoyed it. Just for sake of review, um actually we'll do that in a minute. We'll go ahead and read the text first. Uh Philippians chapter 4. We'll read verses 4 through 7 That's important. Uh f uh verse four. Rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say rejoice. Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. Be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds. Through Christ Jesus. It's a interesting fact. Four of the most twenty of the top twenty-five quoted verses in the Bible are in this chapter Four of the top twenty-five most quoted verses are in this chapter. I I I I love this whole book. We really I really enjoyed it. Um And we're going to just kind of wrap things up tonight with this book of Philippians. And if you're taking notes, the title of tonight's message is simply Rejoicing in Christ. Rejoicing in Christ. Let's pray and then the message this evening. Heavenly Father, Lord, we love you. You've just been so good to us. Lord, it's just I I I just can't get over the fact that the the that that um you would even save me, Lord. I and let alone a allowing me to to do things for you, Lord. I just can't get over the fact of how much you've loved me and Lord, we love you back. Lord, I ask that you would uh be with us tonight now as we look at uh this book one more time for this series. Lord, I ask that you would fill me with your spirit. Lord, I want you to be the preacher tonight And Lord, I just ask that you would hide me behind you, Lord, and that you would teach us something from your word about joy, Lord. And I just ask again that you would bless the service, and it's in Jesus' name. Amen So for sake of review, you know the drill. We'll go ahead and we'll do this again. Who was the human author of the book of Philippians? Paul. Um Paul and we we again just for sake of review we talked about how amazing that fact was in and of itself that God would take someone like Saul And use him as much as he used him. That God would take a murderer, someone who hated Christianity, hated Christ, save him, and then he was one of the greatest Christians that we've ever seen. So, who was it written to? The Philippians. We looked at that a little bit. It was a Roman colony, and they kind of that was kind of their thing, their identity, that they were Roman citizens, and they were special that way. We looked at the uh some of the first church members, um the Philippian jailer, remember him, and then um the the the lady that was uh demon possessed and She was a fortune teller and then also the the business lady that the that sold purple. Uh remember that? So you have a just a very diverse group of people that make that were the first converts of this church and then it grew. I learned something else Um Paul, when he first got to Philippi, it was around 51 A. D. , and this was written when? So about 10 years. About 10 years after Paul first shows up, they're already sending out and supporting missions. I think that's pretty cool. So where was Paul when he wrote this? Jail. In a Roman prison. And we talked about how this wasn't like Tom's prison. This is this was uh it's a little rougher than that. And um to to to be able to still be used of God in a Roman Prison. It's an amazing thing. And uh but that's that was Paul. So my favorite part, who was it that delivered this book back to the church? I'm going to name my son after him, remember? Epaphroditus. We had a conversation about this. And Courtney's all on board with this. We're going to name our son Epaphroditus And um we'll call him Etaph for short, it's fine. But I like that guy. He was a servant. Mentioned just a couple times in the whole Bible, but without him we wouldn't have this book. Without him, Paul wouldn't have been ministered to. This guy literally worked himself almost to death and uh became so sick because he was such a servant to Paul. And there's a lot of people like that that work For Christ behind the scenes, and only when we get to heaven will know what they've done. We talked about the theme of the book of Philippians and the entire book, the overwhelming theme is what? Joy. The joy of in Christ. And that's uh tonight's uh title, Rejoicing in Christ. We understand though that each uh chapter, we kind of broke it up that way. And there was um different aspects, I guess you could say, or different focuses, um, but all still revolving around joy. What was the um focus of chapter one? Do you remember Chapter 1, verse 6 says being confident of this very thing. And we looked at this confidence in Christ. And then chapter 2. We looked at thinking like Christ, the mind of Christ. Let this mind be in you, being like-minded by having his mind. Then we got over to chapter 3. And we saw the conversation of Christ versus the conversation of the wicked. And then we uh last week we looked at uh chapter 4, and that is being content in Christ. And because of Christ, we can have joy and we can be content. Sixteen times, I was going to ask that as a question, but I just gave you the answer, so I'll go ahead and say it again. Sixteen times the word joy or rejoice is mentioned in this book. And I'll read them to you. Follow along with me. See if you can keep up. Chapter 1, verse 4. Always in every prayer of mine. For you all making requests with joy. Verse 18. What then, notwithstanding every way, whether in the pretense or in truth, Christ is preached, and therein do I rejoice Yea, and will rejoice. Verse 25. Um there is in joy and faith. Chapter 2, verse 2, fulfill ye my joy. Verse 16, that I may rejoice in the day of Christ. Verse 17, towards the end, I joy and rejoice with you all. Verse 18, for the same cause also do ye joy and rejoice with me. Verse 20, I sent him therefore. The more carefully that when ye see him again ye may rejoice. Chapter 3. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. Uh uh verse three, God in the Spirit and rejoice in Christ Jesus. And then we go over to uh uh chapter four, where we'll be tonight, verse one. Therefore, my brethren, dearly beloved, and long for my joy in my crown. Verse 4, rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say rejoice. Verse 10, but I rejoice. So you can see this book is just the overwhelming theme of it is joy. And in chapter one, we saw because we are confident in Christ, we can have joy in Christ. Chapter 2, because we think like Christ, we can have joy. And chapter 3, because we act like a Christian should act and have the conversation of Christ, we can have joy in Christ. In chapter 4, because we are content in Christ, the understanding that He is all we need, we can have joy in Christ. Now there's one thing that we ought to look at tonight, and that it is our responsibility to rejoice. Look at our main text for tonight, verse four of chapter four. Rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say, rejoice. This is a command. This word is an action verb. Rejoice. It is something that we are to do. It is our responsibility. To rejoice. We understand this. We talked about this. Happiness is based off of circumstances. There will be good circumstances, there will be bad circumstances, happiness will come, sadness will come, but through all of that it is Our responsibility as a Christian to maintain our joy in Christ. This is a job of a Christian to rejoice It's not someone else's job to make me rejoice. It's my responsibility. My wife loves me very much, but she can't make up her mind that I'm gonna have joy. She can't make up my mind for me. A lot of times we get this mentality that other people are supposed to make us happy. Again, happiness is based off circumstances And we in that we sometimes we blur the definitions of happiness and joy. Understand this. It is my job, my responsibility as a Christian to make up my mind that I will have joy. Not that I'm like, oh wow, this is so wonderful. I'm going through this wonderful trial and tribulation. This is great. No, but I can have confidence. in Christ. I can be content in Christ. I can act like he wants me to act. I can live that out the way he wants me to live that out. And I can make up my mind. I will have joy despite the circumstances Does that make sense? Is it okay? It is not this world's job to make me rejoice It is not a parent's job to make their child rejoice. It's that child's job to rejoice. It is not your husband's job to make your husband's job to make his wife rejoice. Now understand, they can bring circumstances that might bring happiness. A good husband will bring his wife a card, he'll bring her flowers, he'll bring her a coke or something like that. Milky Ways, they're great. I don't like them, she does. But here's the thing There can be circumstances where a husband or wife will affect happiness, but ultimately it's the individual's job to make up their mind that they're going to rejoice. Because I don't bring you stuff every day, do I? I don't. Probably should. But I don't But hey, she still loves me anyway. Isn't that cool? Her love for me and her joy in our marriage is not based off of me bringing her Coke in Milky Ways. And that's a good thing, because I don't do it very often. But joy is up to the individual. So so yourself, examine yourself tonight Are you making up your mind that you are going to have joy through whatever circumstances? So, there are a lot of applications of joy we can see from this book. We just saw the word sixteen times. And there are a lot of different ways we could apply joy. We can rejoice at the gospel is being preached in chapter 1, verse 18. We can rejoice at the very thought of each other, and I get that from verse 4 of chapter 1. And a lot of times that does bring joy when we think about people we care about and stuff like that. We can rejoice in the Lord. We can rejoice through persecution or trials. Chapter 2, verse 18. But what we're going to say tonight, and this is the direction we're going to go. Again, there's many different applications for joy, but look at this. Verse 7 of chapter 4. One of the products of joy is another attribute that we often search for, and that is peace. These two go together. When you get God's peace, you get God's joy. When you get God's joy, you get God's peace. You'll see what I mean. Verse 7 says, And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts. And minds through Christ Jesus. You see, when we rejoice the peace of God, we'll keep our hearts and minds. Now, I want to talk about this thing peace for just a second here. It's almost like this mystical thing that the world's searching after. It's like they want we want world peace, we want peace on earth, we want pe you know uh we want uh you know everyone just to get along, we want and and people will will will seek peace Can I say you you can't get it outside of Christ? You can't get it outside of God. Not true peace And people will try to seek peace in all kinds of worldly ways, but Jesus said he came to give us peace, not as the world giveth, but he wants to give us real peace, his peace. And again, the theme of the book of Philippians is joy. I believe this: that when we apply the things that we've learned over the past few weeks and we're confident in Christ and we're content with Christ. We try to think like Christ and we try to live like Christ, have that conversation. Not only will we have joy, but we'll also have peace. I believe these two go together. Peace is something that the world covets but never attains. World War I was supposed to be the war to end all wars. Yeah, that didn't happen. Peace is something that we should seek from God, not from the world. Now, God gives the command in verse 4. We're going to link these together. God gives us the command in verse 4 to rejoice. But the reason he wants us to rejoice, one of them, is because God also wants us to have peace. I don't know if you knew this, but God wants what's best for you. Okay? God does not think about how He can make your life miserable. And I tell this to the teenagers all the time. Your parents aren't like, ooh, how can I make them suffer today? No. And God, it's not his j goal to make you suffer. He wants you to have peace. He wants you to have joy. That's why he gives you the commandment to rejoice. And when you rejoice, the byproduct of that, one of the byproducts of that, is peace. And people search for this in all kinds of ways outside of God. Now, the only way we can have this peace is if we rejoice. Okay? Now, how do you rejoice? I've been saying all month. It's your job to make sure you rejoice. It's your job to make up your mind whether or not you're going to have joy. How do you do it? What's that look like? The word rejoice, we can kind of break it down right there. It means to rejoy. And the concept I get from it is with studying is this, to re-stir up the joy that you had. Um you like orange juice? How many like orange juice? I love orange juice. I drank a lot of orange juice. I and and and praise the Lord for Sam's Club. You get the orange juice with multiple packs of orange juice. I have one for me and I just drink right out of it. It's great. I love orange juice. Uh how many of you are like, I love pulp? Like you love the pulp in the orange juice? Because that's real orange juice. Okay? Okay. If you don't like the pulp in the orange juice, just go get some sunny delight. Okay? But I love I love like pulp and I'll go like find like extra pulp to put in it. No, I'm just kidding. I don't do that. But I love orange juice with pulp in it, okay? But one of the things with pulp, you have to shake it up. Right? This kind this kind of bothers me, and I'm guilty of this, so I bother myself sometimes. I bother myself all the time When I get the orange juice out and I drink some of it, or pour some in a glass for people who drink out of glasses, if you if you if you drink some orange juice without shaking it up Eventually that pulp starts to settle. You get towards the end, and I love pulp, but I like some orange juice with it. You know what I'm saying? And so when it gets towards the end and it's all pulp, it's kind of like, uh, okay, where's the orange juice? Then I'll go get the sunny delight and I'll pour it in there and finish it off, right? But what what you have to do to make it good is to shake it up. To restir that orange juice back up. Does that make sense? And that's what makes it good. Orange juice with pulp. Amen. That's good stuff. And so that's the kind of the idea I get from this word, rejoice. Sometimes we have we have joy. You trusted Christ as your Savior, you love him. I mean we have joy in Christ, but sometimes that can get kind of stagnant. We can kind of get in a rut sometimes. We gotta shake that back up. And then it's good. And all the pulp's not stuck at the bottom. We need to re stir the joy back up. I was going somewhere with that. Now I'm thinking about his orange juice. But do you restir your joy? Do you do you restir your joy? Let me ask you this way. Okay, we looked at these four chapters. Confidence in Christ. Um thinking like Christ conversation of Christ, content in Christ. If we apply those four things, that is how we're going to restir our joy. Now let me explain it this way If I look at you and I say, you need to stir your joy back up, that means we need to take action to say, you know what? I'm going to put my confidence back in Christ. And because you understand that putting your confidence in Christ resters your joy. Because you understand that putting your confidence in Christ Results in joy, and I say you need to get your joy back, you need to make the decision to have joy, that means you need to make the decision I'm going to trust Christ Does that make sense? This is like really deep for me, so I don't know if you're getting it. Okay And then if I say you need to re-stir your joy, you need to make the decision that you're going to put your joy back in Christ And you're going to have joy despite circumstances, that also means that you said you need to say, you know what, I'm satisfied. I'm content with Christ. I'm content with where I'm at. Whatever state I'm in, I'll be content there. Because you understand that when you are content in Christ, that brings the joy of Christ. Does that make sense? And then again with with um chapter three, the conversation of Christ. When I say we need to make up our mind that we are going to have joy and restir the joy That means just that we have to make the decision that I'm going to have the conversation, I'm going to live like Christ wants me to live because the product of that is joy. Is it starting to come together? Is that starting to make sense? Like I said, this was deep for me. So I'm barely getting it, so I hope you're getting it, okay? But we need to restir our joy by applying the principles that we've learned in this book. This whole book is about joy and how to restir it. And again, I've just enjoyed going through this and learning all the different applications here. So we want this peace, remember, in verse 7, the peace of God which passeth all understanding We have people that covet it and want it. They just want peace on in like world peace and all this other kind of stuff. They want peace in their home. They want peace in their marriage. They want peace in uh in their relationships, they want peace at work. They just want people want peace. And one of the most quoted verses in the Bible is this is this verse, the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts in mind. How do you get it? Well the first thing you've got to do before you can get this peace is rejoice. Restir that joy back up. And how do you do that? Making up your mind you're going to be content. Making up your mind you're going to be confident in Christ. Making up your mind that you're going to think and act like a Christian should. Now, there is another thing I wanted to mention, another port po in this formula to get peace. Verse 7 says, The peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts in mind. How do you get that? First thing you've got to do is rejoice. The second thing is this. Verse 5, let your moderation be known. Look at that, verse 5, chapter 4. Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. What is a moderator? Think about it. What is a moderator? Someone tell me something. You think of a debate, you have two people debating, and you have a moderator. What is he doing? What's that? That's exactly right. I was hoping someone would use that word, control. Keeping things under control. Keeping the two people debating from ripping each other apart. Keeping them on the time limit. He's controlling the debate You have a meeting and you have someone moderating the meeting. The one moderating is the one in control of the meeting. So when he says, let your moderation, let your moderation, what is it that is moderating you? What is it that's controlling You. Let your moderation be known unto all men. How do you get peace? The first thing is rejoice. Second thing is let other people know who's controlling you. And hopefully that's Christ. You want peace? You want joy? So why don't you let other people know where you get it from? Why don't you let other people know about this Jesus that you know? Why don't you let other people know who's got a hold of you? Does that make sense? Does that make sense? Sometimes we say, I just want peace, I just want peace, I just want everyone to be happy, I just want everyone to get along. And we don't even bring God in, let alone tell other people about Him. How are we going to get this peace? Number one, rejoice. Number two, let everyone know what's controlling you. And then the third thing was this. Pray about everything. Pray about everything. Just pray. Pray about everything. Where do I get that? Verse 6. Be careful for nothing. That means don't hesitate. Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication. With thanksgiving. Let your request be made known unto God. That's praying. You know, there's nothing too insignificant to pray about. You know, you don't even have to ask for something when you pray. You can just talk. You know God wants to hear from you. Pray about everything. If there's a request, whether big or small, pray about it. Pray about everything. And now here's the thing. Oh again, we're going to make application here. We want joy Man, I just wish I had joy in my life. Everything's down all the time. Again, that's because we're basing things off the circumstances. But we just want to have joy. We want to have peace. We want everything to be wonderful We'll go we'll go seek peace from a s from from from a a person or or a maybe even a substance or or we'll go seek joy from entertainment. We'll go say really we're looking for happiness. We don't even realize that there's a difference But we seek joy and we seek peace and all kinds of different things without even asking for it without even praying about it. I mentioned this earlier. I wasn't planning on even mentioning it now, but sometimes we pr we look at prayer as like a last resort. Well, it shouldn't it be a first resort? We we we say we we'll we'll go we'll go to the pastor, seek counseling from him. We'll go to a psychiatrist, we'll go to a doctor, we'll go to all these different people, we'll go to our friends, we'll go to Facebook, we'll go everywhere to try to find peace and find joy, and then when we still don't have it Then we say, well, let me see if God's got anything for me. Well, he had it all along. God wants you to have joy. God wants you to have peace. Do you understand this? So um how do we get how do we get peace? Number one, rejoice. Number two, let everyone know what's controlling you. Number three, pray about everything And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall, word shall is the strongest word in the English dictionary to mean something is certain. Shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. I think that's an encouraging thing. So, excuse me. Peace and joy are related. God's joy and God's peace are related. We understand that, right? We see that. And I think um that's something I tell you, I was getting a little convicted when I was studying this because how often do we do I seek joy and peace other places before I even seek it from So the sum of everything we've learned the past few weeks, the book of Philippians There's uh three I guess applications uh you can make just in closing out this whole book. One, isn't it just a joy to know Christ? Isn't it just a joy to be a Christian? Now there are things that are rough in a Christian life. There are rough circumstances, but remember joy is not based off of that. That's happiness, sadness. But being a Christian, that that's a joyous thing right there. To know Jesus, hello, that's joy. The joy to know I'm saved. To know I'm going to heaven. The worst thing that could happen to me is I would die and go to heaven. That is joy. To know I'm saved, to know I'm going to heaven, know my sins are forgiven. It's not just the joy to know Christ, but secondly, it's a joy to live for Christ. It's a joy to serve Him. We see some servants in this book. Paul, a servant. Epaphroditus, a servant. He mentioned Timothy, a servant. It's a joy to not only be saved and get the fire insurance, I guess you could say, but to also live for Christ as well. It's a joy. Again, are there rough circumstances that happen in serving Christ? Yes. Are there times when we're sad? Yes, but it's a joy to serve Christ. Can I say this? I enjoy serving Christ. I enjoy doing what Christ has asked me to do. What he has called me to do. I enjoy it. Are there times with the sadness? Yep. Times happiness? Yep. Overall, it's a joyous thing to serve Christ. And then the third thing is uh just in closing out, why don't we just make up our mind that we'll rejoice? It's a we understand this, it's a choice. We read through this this this short little epistle over the past few weeks. And we've seen how to rejoice. We know it's our responsibility to rejoice. We know God's told us to, and we know we can't depend on anyone else to rejoice for us. So can we just make up our mind that we're going to have joy? Can we just make up our mind we're going to have joy in our own mind, in our own heart? Can we just make up our mind that our our marriages will have joy? Our homes, families, church. Let's just make that decision. You know what? I can't control circumstances Are bad things going to happen to me? Absolutely. Good things are going to happen, you better believe it. Which one's going to be more? I don't know. Can I control it now? So rather than basing my life off of circumstances and my whole life being an emotional roller coaster up and down, happy, sad, can I just make up my mind that I'm going to have joy in Christ? Be content with that. Be confident in that. Think like that and act like that. Does this make sense? Does this make sense? Heads bowed, eyes closed, no one looking around for just a moment. I know this was a different kind of message tonight. I was trying to just summarize uh the book in general. But still some things I think the the some applications I think we can draw from that tonight. And no doubt the Lord has spoken to your heart tonight. He spoke to mine. And if God's dealt with your heart in any way, in in a few minutes she's going to start playing the piano, and that's an invitation to come and do business with God. If you if everyone could stand to your feet, still no one looking around, I'm sorry. And we'll look around for just a moment. Just a couple questions. Number one is this. And again, I've mentioned this the past few weeks, but without knowing Christ is your Savior, it is not possible for you to have joy or peace. You can't have it. Outside of Christ, no joy. And if there's someone here and you say, you know what, Pastor Matt, I do not know Christ as my Savior No one's looking. Can you just slip your hand up so I could pray for you? Pastor Matt, I'm not sure I'm saved. I'm concerned about that. I'd like you if you could pray for me. Could you just slip your hand up where I could see it I just want to pray for you. Okay, one more question. And it's just kind of general. But how many of you would say this, you know what? God's been dealing with me the past few weeks about Joy. I understand now it's my responsibility to have joy for myself, to act on this myself. And if God spoke to your heart tonight. In any way at all, could you just raise your hand and say, Pastor Matt, pray for me? Maybe you need to have more joy in your life and make up your mind that you're going to rejoice. Pastor Matt, pray for me. Put your hands up And uh just a minute, she's gonna play the piano, and that's an invitation to come forward. But if God's dealt with your heart, I encourage you just to do business with God.