And Luke chapter 8, the parable we're going to be looking at this morning is actually found in three of the four Gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. We've read the Mark's account of it. And um but our text is actually going to be in Luke chapter 8. And while you're turning there We had a great time yesterday. Of course, the Autumn Glory Parade was going on and uh this is 22 years in a row we've gone down there and distributed gospel tracts out to folks just before the parade And we uh have bags of tracks and we go ahead of the parade there and just give it to anybody that'll take it. And uh we had a wonderful, wonderful time yesterday, as Brother Dan mentioned in Sunday school And the best I can figure, we gave out around 2,000 tracks in about what, 20 minutes, a half hour time we panned out. And folks received them and uh I just felt like everybody was very, very receptive uh to the word of God. I had one lady, uh there was a couple of the kids that a couple of girls that ride our Sunday school bus, they saw me. I was going down there and talking to folks and giving out gospel tracts. They came running out, Pastor Sutherland, we want to help, we want to help. So I gave them each a stack of tracked a handful and they went ahead of me and they undercut me. Everywhere I went, people already had it. And um So, you know, that kind of backfired on me. But uh I came up to a lady sitting there and I said, You get one of these tracks? I had uh this one here. And uh she goes, uh already got one. She goes, I read that track And uh it said that I was a sinner and I was going to die. And I said, Well, you know, that's the thing. We're all sinners. We've all come short of God's glory, and the consequences of the judgment of God is is death and hell. I said, but if you'll read on there, Jesus died and suffered hell for us. He's buried, he rose again. And if we'll call on him, come in our heart and life, he'll be our Savior And she goes, yeah, I read that in there. She says, I'm going to take this to work. She says, this is really good. I'm going to take this to work and put it up on the bulletin board at work. I said, that's a great idea. I said, where do you work at? She goes, Baltimore. And uh and uh she said, she said, Baltimore? She goes, there's a lot of sinners down there I said, Yeah, I know, I've been there. And uh I said, Well, we're all sinners. And so she's uh she goes, No, seriously, I'm gonna take it down and I'm gonna put that up at work. Isn't that something You never know where these gospel tracts will end up or how God will use them. And uh we just had a wonderful, wonderful time, and uh we appreciate everyone praying and helping in every way. I do want to mention this real quick before we get in the message. Uh Beacon of Truth has a new gospel track. It debuted yesterday, I think. Never been given out before. And we have s well I don't know, was there about 5,000 back there we got And uh so we have packs of these. Consider this, a real pleasant, smiley face. And I was telling folks, I said, if you'll read this, it'll make you smile And uh they'd smile when I said that. I said, Now wait a minute, if you stop halfway through, you gotta read the whole thing. The first part'll make you sad But then read the end of it and then you'll be glad. And it's the plan of salvation. So we have these in packs of ten. If you'd like to take some of these new ones, we put them on the table in the lobby. And as you go out, take what you can use And uh we want to get these out in the hands of folks, and I believe the Lord will use them in a great way, and uh we'll see people saved as a result of that. All right, we're in Luke chapter 8. I want to begin reading in 11. Now this is uh verse 11. Now this is a little repetitious from what I just read here in Mark, but we read in Mark a moment ago But as I said, this parable that the Lord tells is recorded three times, three of these gospels. So that tells, you know, if God puts something in the Bible one time, it's important. If he puts it in three times, we need to pay attention. And so follow along if you would. I'm going to begin reading in verse 11 and read down through there to verse 15. But notice verse 11. Now the parable is this. Now let me stop here real quick and just say this. The Lord had told the parable. He said, a sower went forth to sow And he was sowing his seed, and some of it fell on the wayside. This is the previous part of this passage. Some fell on the wayside where people walk in the pathway. And he said the birds came and snatched it before it had a chance to germinate, basically is what he said. He said he sowed some of it and it fell on rocky ground and grew up real quick, but when the sun came out it withered And he said he threw some of it, as he's throwing that seed out, some of it fell on thorny ground. There's weeds and thorns and bramble growing. And he said it grew, it germinated, grew, but all those other weeds and stuff choked it out, and it never bore any fruit. He said, but some of it fell on good ground. And boy, there it germinated and took root and it brought forth a great harvest. Now I'm putting it in my own words. The disciples come to him and say, what are you talking about? We don't understand what this means. And that's what our passage is now. He's explaining to them what he meant by this. Now let's pick up in verse 11. Now the parable is this. Get this. The seed is the word of God. Those by the wayside are they that hear, then cometh the devil and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved. They on the rock are they which when they hear receive the word with joy, and these have no root, which for a while believe and in time of temptation fall away And they which fell among thorns are they which, when they have heard, go forth and are choked with the cares and riches and pleasures of this life and bring forth and bring no fruit to perfection. Verse fifteen. But that on the good ground are they, which in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it And bring forth fruit with patience. Now, our text for this morning is verse 11. The seed is the word of God. That's what I want to focus on. Let's pray together. Father, it's been a good service. Lord, I just enjoy so much the fellowship with your people. It's such an encouragement to my heart, Lord, these good songs that we can sing. Lord, now with your word before us, and we try to bring a message from this, I ask that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit, that you would speak your word through me and challenge us, dear God, I ask. Don't leave us alone. Help us, Lord, to go forward in our faith. Help us, Lord, to grow in our understanding of your will for our lives. Lord, if there's any with us that do not know for sure, do not have the assurance that their sins are forgiven That when they die, they go to heaven and not to hell. I pray that today would be the day of salvation. Help us, Lord, meet with us. Stir us, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. It's disturbing to me as a Christian how many people just so flippantly dismiss the Bible. They'll make statements like this. Ah, the Bible, it's just written by men. Anybody ever hear that statement? I hear it. Ah, that Bible's full of mistakes. Oh, the Bible has all kinds of contradictions. Now, I've had all those statements made to me many, many times over the years. So many of you have had the same thing. You've heard the same thing. You try to witness someone, talk to them about the Lord. But here's the thing, when somebody makes a statement like that and you press them a little bit, I like to ask this question. When someone says, uh, oh, the Bible's just written by man, I like to ask this question, how did you come to that conclusion? They'll say, oh, the Bible's full of mistakes. The Bible's full of contradictions. I'd like to ask them this. Can you show me any? And you know what I've found? They can't find any. They can't show me any. In fact, I found when I press people a little bit and they make statements that just dismiss the Bible, and I press them a little bit, I find that very few have actually ever really read it. And they're dismissing the most important piece of literature in the history of man, just dismissing it and never even took time to read the thing. And the few that have read it, if I press them a little bit, they never really studied it. Maybe they'll open it up and here or there they've read a few portions or whatever. A lot of times they'll go to Revelation, everybody's fascinated, they'll go to Revelation and read a little bit and just kind of dismiss it. And they never really read it. And if they have read it a little bit, they never really studied it to understand what it's all about. And it bothers me that someone would so flippantly dismiss the book that claims to be the Word of God and yet never give it any attention. I've had people tell me stuff like this. Well, I'll ask them, well, it's uh it's just written by man. I said, well, how do you know? How'd you come to that conclusion? Well, somebody told me that. I say, well, you believe everything people just tell you? I had a person one time telling me, ah, the Bible's just written by man. I said, How do you know? He said, I saw a show on TV. I said, Well, there's that's undeniable. You know, everything you see on TV has to be true. I like that quote uh uh uh everything uh on the internet has to be true. Abraham Lincoln said that. And so Some of y'all are there, yeah, what's wrong with that? Brother Byron Fox was with was with us. Um A couple weeks ago, an atheist recently confronted Byron Fox and said that he had found 14 mistakes in the Bible. He listed them. And um I thought, I thought for sake of argument, now think with me a little bit, we've got to put our thinking caps on this morning. Let's for let's for sake of argument say that this fellow is correct. That there are 14 mistakes in the Bible. And the mistakes he listed were numbers he he thought didn't match up, and little time frames didn't match up in one book, another the time frame didn't quite match in his in his understanding. Let's for sake of argument say that he's correct. Stop and think about that. Fourteen mistakes. All of them just number type things or time schedule type things. Fourteen mistakes. Now think about that. The Bible is composed of 66 different books. It was authored by 40 plus different authors over a 1600-year period of time. Every book of the Bible, the theme of the Bible, meshes together beautifully. Nobody denies that. Now, no book in history has been scrutinized, criticized, analyzed, and dissected like the Bible has been. So for 1600 years, analyzed, dissected, studied, criticized, and the best he can do is come up with 14 mistakes. that have are are numbered, just simply numbers, I think that's a pretty good record. You find me one book of man of that volume that has been around that long, written by that many different people over that period of time and only find 14 mistakes, you're doing pretty good. No book of man can come up with that record Now I'm not suggesting he's correct in those mistakes. In fact, every one of those mistakes has a very quote unquote, I'm saying, every one of those quote-unquote mistakes he came up with, every one of them has a very simple explanation One of them he said, one of the books in the Old Testament history book says a fellow began to reign when he was eight. Another book says he began to reign when he was, I think, eighteen. Oh, see, there's a mistake. It's not a mistake. He was given the position at the age of eight. He began exercising his authority at age 18. Very simple explanation. It's not a mistake on the Bible's part, it's ignorance on his part. Right? So people, it bothers me when people just dismiss the Word of God and just flippantly make these accusations without ever really studying it, without ever really thinking it through. What I'm trying to say is this. I have been studying, I have been reading this book every day for 35 years. I have given my life to study this book I hold in my hands. I have been preaching and teaching this book since 1985. And I'm telling you, I am more convinced today than I have ever been that this is the very Word of God. Perfect in every way, preserved, inspired, and the word of God for us. So the Bible is God's word The word is the seed. Now, the Bible is our only accurate, only source of accurate information on heaven and hell. Uh brother Stroop was talking in Sunday school, a good Sunday school last, and he said people will say stuff like this. Well I think this. Well I think that. And you talk to people and you ask them, what about heaven? What about hell? And people will say, well, I think it's this and I think it's that. Well, I don't think there's a heaven. I don't Think there's a hell I think Kevin's like this, I think hell was like that. Listen, that's wonderful. Everybody's entitled to an opinion But the only accurate source of information about what heaven really is and what hell really is the Word of God. The only accurate source of information that we have on salvation, and by that I mean the knowing for sure that we are saved from hell, that when we die we go to heaven and not to an eternal hell. The only source of accurate information what had to be saved is God's Word. People have opinions People write books, pamphlets, and all of that, and they're entitled to their own opinion. Everybody has the right to free speech. But the Bible is the only accurate source of information on these subjects. The Bible is the only source of accurate information on how to live my life in such a way that it's pleasing to God. Hey, I've got news for you. The Bible tells us how to live. It's God's guidebook. It's God's manual for us. And so the Bible is the most important possession that you and I have. It is the most valuable possession that you and I have. Now we come to our passage. As I mentioned, this parable is told three times, Matthew, Mark, and Luke Um given in quite detail. Jesus' original parable, disciples come, they question him, then he explains it. He tells us what he means by it. Now he makes this statement in verse 11 of Luke chapter 8. He says, The seed is the Word of God. Now, I am not a Greek scholar. I I uh the only Greek I know, this is the truth, had a little deli down the road from our place back in Philly. So that's the only Greek I know And but the Bible, the New Testament was written in Greek. It was given initially in Greek. And it's translated into our language from the Greek. So I don't know I don't know a lot about Greek except this one little guy, and he was a nice guy But those that do know Greek suggest that this phrase, the seed is the word of God, also implies this. The seed is the word of God, or you could put it this way The word of God is the seed. The seed is the word of God, and the word of God is seed. Now, I find it interesting that as you read through the Bible and as you study the Bible, you find that God refers to his word compares his word to various objects and uh uh that so that we can understand what his word is like. For instance In Ephesians chapter 5, verse 26, God refers to his word as cleansing water. He says this: He says, washing of water by the Word. Again, in Psalms 119, verse 9, he says, Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his ways by taking heed thereto according to the word. And so God compares, he's trying to tell man what his word is like, how it functions. And he says it's like water that you use to cleanse yourself. It is like uh you come in and your hands are all muddy, you've been working out in the garden or whatever, and you come in, your hands are all muddy, you turn that water on, you put your hands under it. And boy, it just cleanses that mud off of there and uh cleans up. That's kind of like the Word of God is. You know what I found I found when I read and when I meditate on God's word, it helps my thoughts to be cleaner. Helps me to live a pure life. You know, you sit in front and watch some filthy t uh television show, you watch some filthy movie, you listen to some filthy rock and roll music, something like that It doesn't cleanse my mind. It corrupts it. It makes me think things I ought not to think. Makes me say things I ought not to say. It makes me think and do dirty things. But the word of God is a cleansing agent. I read that and I meditate on it and I memorize it and it gets in my heart and mind and I want to make it and it and it cleanses me. I believe the Bible is good for our country. Listen, if I if if if I was pres if I was president, we'd be in a mess, I'll tell you that right now. More than we are. Maybe. I don't know. I'd like a shot at it at least for a few days. I don't even remember what I was talking about now. Uh if I was president, I would require every kid be taught the Bible. Now, whatever. But um I think it'll do a heap of good. Yeah. I think I think I I think if all the if all our kids the Bible was read in the home, read to our children, they would memorize it. It was taught to them on a regular, consistent basis. I don't think we'd hear so many kids cussing. Talking filthy. Am I right or wrong? I think moms and dads would read the Bible. Wouldn't hear moms and dads cussing. Tell you what I go to Walmart, I feel like I need to wear earplugs. Language is so filthy. But the Bible, Dog compares his word to a cleansing water. I believe the Bible and the blood of Jesus Christ is the most powerful cleansing agents for the heart and soul known to man. It will cleanse us. In Psalms 119-105, the Bible is compared to a lamp and a light. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path The Bible can direct us through life safely. We live in a dangerous world. I'm talking about spiritually dangerous world. The devil is a roaring lion walketh about seeking whom he may devour. We've got to be wise. We've got to be uh uh have some spiritual understanding, or the devil will destroy our lives. And the Bible is a lamp for us. The Bible is a light for us to show us how to respond, to give us wisdom and direction in life, so I know what to do and what not to do. Bible can direct us through life safely. Anyone here? Let's have confession time. Anybody here ever make a decision that was foolish and you regretted it later on? Anybody? Some of y'all are lying through your teeth I made decisions that I regret. I look back and I thought, what in the world was I thinking? You know one decision I've never regretted? I've never regretted doing what the Bible says to do. Never regretted that. I have never read God's word and soul where God instructs me to do something or not to do something or get be involved in this or avoid that. I have never made that decision to do. I'm going to trust God and do what he says. I never afterwards said, boy, I wish I hadn't done that. Never. It has always been good. It has always been right. Hasn't always been easy. But it has always been best to trust God and do what the Bible says. You know why? Because it's a lamp unto my feet and a light into my path and it leads me and directs me. We do not have to make a wreck of our lives. We can live good, pure, godly lives with the joy of the Lord and at the end stand before the judgment seat of Christ. And hear him say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. We can hear that if we'll simply trust God. And do what his book tells us to do. It's our manual. God refers to his word. He compares it to various things, cleansing water. A lamp and a light to my path. In Ephesians chapter 6 and in Hebrews chapter 4, he compares his word to a two-edged sword. Um as a defense against Satan, as a as a tool that God uses to Cut things out of my life that ought not to be there to correct things. This past week Brother Grant had uh surgery at his gallbladder removed And that thing was wreaking havoc in his body. And it was causing him pain. It was limiting his ability to function in many ways. And the doctors had to go in there with very sharp knives or some kind of instrument. They went in there and they cut that thing out and pulled it out. He's home recovering today. But that is very much like the Word of God is. As I read God's Word and I trust God and I follow His instructions, I find that sometimes God's Word will deal with something in my life that ought not to be there. And something in my life that is hurting me, that is hindering my prayer life, that is hurting me and restricting me and is not good for me, and it has to get out. And God's word is like a two-edged sword, like a thread- scalpel that cuts in there and pulls that thing out and gets that out of my life. When I got saved, age of 19, I was a mess. May have even heard my story. I mean an absolute mess. There is nothing about my life before I got saved that I am proud of. I hear people sometimes give their testimony and it's almost like they're bragging about all the sin they've been in. I am ashamed of how I lived before I trusted Christ. I'm ashamed of that. And after I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, God began changing my life. And I remember I'd read this book, and boy, God would deal with my heart. One thing, it wasn't, it was a couple weeks maybe after I got saved. And I was I just loved rock and roll music. And I'm listening to these guys and they're screaming about on a highway to hell and they're jamming about adultery and drunkenness and sex and drugs. And I'm reading my Bible. And I'm feeding this stuff into my mind. And I thought, you know, that ain't right. That ain't right. And the more I read the Bible and the more God worked my heart, I decided that's like that inflamed gallbladder. It's got to get out. That stuff is hurting me. And um eight traps. Stacks of them on these. And uh I'm out one day I finally said, alright, we're doing surgery, God. Your word has been cutten And we took all them and I just started smashing them and smashing them and smashing them. And it's not just that, but other things. That were so harmful. And God's word is like a sword. It's like a scalpel. And it'll cut in there and it'll find these things that are hurting us And it'll help us get them out and change our lives. You know, sometimes you see people, and I think they're joking around or whatever, but something bad's coming and they'll put a little cross up You know, ooh, keep that devil away, put a little cross up. That's baloney. I tell you what you do, when you're being assaulted, when the devil's giving you a hard time, don't don't go like this That doesn't do anything. I tell you what, start quoting scripture to them. Learn these verses, memorize them Boy, that temptation comes, that thing there isn't right, and that verse will come to mind. That's what he says in Ephesians, the sword is the word of God. And it's how I fight back temptation. It's how I fight off demonic oppression. The word of God. The word of God. The Bible is compared in Scripture to a fire. In ri in Jeremiah 23 verse 29, a fire. A fire purifies. When they find gold, boy, they put that under the fire, that heat, and it it it melts it down, and all that dross comes, and they say Skim that off and that fire, that heat is a purifying agent, a process of purifying that gold. And so and God's word is like a fire And I read that, and boy, God brings things to mind. He brings changes about, and he changes the way I think, and he purifies the way I view life and the world. And I get a whole new perspective on who I am and who and what God is and why I'm here and what my purpose is in life and what's right and wrong. It's also in that same passage the Bible is compared to a hammer. Breaks the hard heart. Boy, you have a hammer and just bust that thing and break that hard heart. Uh anybody here, anybody here know what it means to have a hard heart? I hate to admit that, but I've had times when my heart got hard. God was dealing with me about something. I didn't want to do that. God was directing me a certain way from His Word, and uh I just bristled up a little bit and said, no, no, no, that's not what I'm about Well, I tell you what, that word of God, a preacher preaches a message or something, my heart's heart, preacher preaches a message, that word of God pierces and just boom, breaks that heart. Suddenly I say, all right, Lord. You're right, I'm wrong. I'll submit to you and I'll let you have your way. The word of God, cleansing water, a lamp and a light, two-edged sword, fire, a hammer. And here in our text It's compared to a seed. The seed is the word of God. Or you could say, the word of God is seed. And what the Lord is teaching his disciples here in this parable is this. He has given them, I believe, a pattern for church's ministry, for our ministry in getting the word the seed, out into the soil of the world, out into the fields of the world, into the soils of man's heart. And he says a sower goes and sows that seed. He takes the seed. He gets up out of his easy chair. And he goes out to where the fields are, and he puts effort and time, and a little bit of finances to provide all this, and he spreads that seed out into the fields. And depending on the condition of the soil, determines whether it's fruitful or not. But the seed is the word of God. The word of God is the seed. And he's teaching us that the pattern for us is to take the seed and get it out into the fields and scatter it, sow it, broadcast it. And that seed will then germinate, depending on the condition of the soil, and bring forth fruit. It is our responsibility to show the word of God. God's word is like cleansing water. That means I need to read the Bible, keep my life clean, and do right God's word is a lamp and a light means I need to go to God's word to find the re the direction in life and make the right decisions in life and and to be wise and not foolish and how I live and what I do. I need to go to the Word of God. It's like a hammer and breaks my heart when it gets hard and makes me submissive to the will of God. Gets those things out of my life that ought not to be there. It's like a fire and it purifies me. And it's like a seed. And I need to take that seed and get it out there and show the Word of God. Our job, let me ask this, how many folks here, you're saved and you know it? Say amen. You know what our responsibility is then in that case? Is to sow the seed of the Word of God. So the seed is the word. The word is a seed. Let me say this. First of all, there's no deficiency with the seed. The seed's good. You read through this parable, and I tried to explain it, and we read two of the Lord's explanations of it, and you find different responses to the seed. One, it lands there on the hard ground, the devil comes along, hauls it off, and it never has a chance to germinate. That's a person comes in and they're not even going to listen to it. The devil's got them blinded. The devil's got them so focused on other things. They hear the word of God, the gospel is presented to them, and before they even give it a thought, the devil takes it out and never never has any effect on them whatsoever. He said some of it falls on rocky ground. You sow it there, and it's a lot of rock. The soil's just real shallow. Underneath is a rocky granite bed or whatever. And boy, they received that seed. Those roots go down, but they don't go very far. That sun comes up and beats on them. There's a little moisture there and just that little bit of soil and it just withers and dies off. And that's like people sometimes get saved. They'll accept the Lord. I think they genuinely get saved. They'll accept the Lord. They'll accept the Word of God. They'll receive the Lord Jesus their Savior. But they just got they're just not willing to do what the Bible says, to grow and develop, become a strong Christian. And after a while, they just, because they're not reading the Bible, they're not faithful to the teaching and preaching God's word, they're not around other Christians, that faith is unable to take root. It just withers off and dies. They don't lose their salvation. They just never become fruitful. Spiritually, they just wither away. Then he says, some of it he's out there sowing it, and some of it he throws over there, and uh it's off weeds And uh the the seed gets there and it germinates, it uh takes root down, and it comes up and lo and behold it's growing. But there's so much other stuff in their life, and they've got this and they've got that, we've got ball games, I've got uh shows to go to and I've got work and I've got the garden I've got the car and I'm building a garage and I've got this and I've got to go there and we've got vacation I got all this stuff. I just don't have time to read my Bible. I just don't have time to go to church. I just don't have time for all this. I'm glad I'm saved. I accepted the Lord. But I've got all this other stuff going on. And you know what he says? They never bear any fruit. It just chokes out. And they never really become an effective, influential, fruitful Christian. When I was young, my daddy told me years later, after I gotten saved, he said, when we were young, he said, right after he got saved, they had an opportunity Now, don't misunderstand what I'm saying. Don't read more into this than what I'm saying. But he said we had an opportunity to buy a cabin up in the Poconos. My daddy had just gotten saved. And he said I was real, he told me this years later, he said, I really was tempted. It was very nice. It was a good deal. It was a beautiful place. We could hunt and fish up there and whatnot. And Daddy said, I refuse to buy it. And he said, because I knew that I would end up there every weekend and wouldn't be in church, and that would hurt me as a Christian And so he turned it away. You know what? He refused to let any weeds grow up, to choke out his growth. Now listen, I'm not saying it's wrong to have a cabin. If you live somewhere else and you got a cabin up here at Oakland in this area, I say move up here. Here we are. Come on. But you you follow what I'm saying? And then some of it fell from good ground. And boy there, and there's no weeds and the And the rocks are are uh uh I cleared out and that's just good soil, it's turned open, it's receptive, the moisture can get in there And that that seed, that word of God gets there and it's received by the soil, and it takes root, and that guy grows And man, he is witnessing and he has influence, and his life, spiritual life, is strong and healthy, and he bears great fruit for the Lord Now I said all that to say this. One of the seeds never even never even gets roots, never Okay, shows any life at all. Some of it does a little bit, the other it does and gets choked out. What's the difference? It's not because there's something wrong with the seed. The seeds good. It's the soil. Uh have someone in church. Uh maybe have somebody grow up in church, same influences, sometimes the same family. Some kids will grow up and one of them will go on and be something for the Lord, the other one will go out and live in the world and never amount to much. Was it because there was something wrong with the word that was preached? No. It was the condition of their hearts. One maybe had a stony heart or a heart that was choked out by the cares of the world. Another one had a good soil. They were willing to receive the Word of God and get make things the way it needs to be So there's nothing wrong with the seed of God's word. It's good. The varying responses is because of the condition of the soil. Let me say this. No preacher has any right to tinker with the seed. The seed's good. We don't need to change the seed. No Sunday school teacher has any right in the world altering the Word of God so it would be more receptive to my students. No, no, no. It's they not it's it's not receptive to them because there's something wrong with the word. It's not receptive because there's something wrong with the heart. We don't change the word of God. No seminary professor has any right in the world to tinker with the seed. Let me say this. Now listen, we have got to get God's word translated into the languages of the world. We've got to do that. But no translator has any right to alter the word when translating it into another language. Well here let me just give you a little teaching here real quick. When w when a translator translates the word of God from one language to another, his responsibility is to be faithful and true to the language it's coming from, not alter it to make it easier for the new language. Let me illustrate. Suppose uh Jennifer is my secretary, suppose I dictate to her a letter. Or I type up a letter, I give it to her, and say, I want you to mail this to Dr. Sheldon Smith. And in there I write, Dr. Smith, you're uh you know you're a very intelligent man, you're a wonderful friend, appreciate that. God's hands you. And she reads it and says, Boy, you know, Dr. Smith isn't going to understand what Brother Lethem is writing But Lemon's so smart that um she's never said that She goes, Well, I'm gonna type this up for 'em, but I'm gonna make it a little easier for Dr. Smith to understand. And she changes the words and she puts things, leaves things out and adds stuff in there to help. Would that be right? No. No. Her responsibility is to type it exactly the way I gave it. Right or wrong? Yeah. And that's when we translate God's word into, say, uh Kosic Our responsibility, well you know, people won't understand. That word there uh uh from the Greek is redemption, but them in the Kazakh, they won't understand what redemption is, so I'll make it, I'll use another word. No, no, no Responsibility is to translate it exactly the way it is, and then you teach them, and they learn what that means. There's nothing wrong with the seed. We don't change it. We don't dumb it down. The seed is good. So one, I put this, there's no deficiency with the seed. Number two, the seed must be distributed and dispersed. Luke 8, 5, he says, so, so, or went forth to sow. The word sow simply means to scatter, to broadcast. Our responsibility as Christians is to take the Word of God and get it out there. I'm telling you, nobody in Mexico or anywhere else is getting saved with the seed in these boxes setting here. Nobody's gonna trust Christ, nobody's gonna understand who God is, nobody's gonna be warned of hell by it setting here and means to get out to where they are. It needs to get into the hands of people. It needs to get out so they can see it and read it and understand it and believe and be saved. That's the responsibility. is to show the seed. That's our responsibility as church. So number one, there's no deficiency with the seed. Number two, the seed must be distributed and dispersed. The seed is the word of God Number three, I put this down. The determining factor in the productivity of the seed is the condition of the soil. And I just spent a little bit of time explaining that. In other words Whether that seed bears fruit or not, whether a person gets saved or not when they read the Word of God and hear the gospel, depends on the condition of their heart. They need to be open to it and understand and see what God is saying. I've had people say I I knock on someone's door or talk to someone, say this is I want to show you from the Bible, how you can know for sure that when you die your sins are beginning, you go to heaven. And I say this, not even interesting. Well, their soil, their heart, is not receptive to the word of God. And then other people say, yeah, I'll listen to it. They go through and say, well, yeah, I don't know. It's not that important to me. I'll worry about it another time. The soil of their heart is not receptive to the word of God. But you know what? We come across folks on a fairly regular basis. We take a Bible and we say, hey, can we show you from the Bible how you know for sure when you die you go to heaven, not to hell? He said, yeah, I'm I'm concerned about that. I think about that. And we go to the book of Romans and we take what this book here teaches. We go through there and we show them how to have their sins forgiven, die and go to heaven, not to hell. And they'll say, That's what I want. I want to trust Jesus as Savior. And they'll call on the Lord and accept Jesus their Savior. You know what that is? That's receptive heart. It's open to the truth of God's word and say, yes, I want that. So the determining factor in the productivity of the seed is the condition of the heart. Now, I'm telling you, I am no I am absolutely convinced, I've been doing this a while, I think I know a little bit what I'm talking about I am absolutely convinced there are people in Mexico that when they get these booklets, they will read it and they will believe and be saved. I'm positive of that. Because there is good soil in the hearts of Mexicans that will receive the Word of God. I'm convinced we talk about cause that I'm convinced If somebody could get over there and go through and sit down with people in Kazakhstan and show them the Word of God, how to be saved, I'm convinced people would get saved. Because there is good soil in the hearts of people in Kazan and every other nation of the world. Last of all, and this is one's a little serious. Well they all are, but this one especially, the devil is adamantly opposed to the distribution of the seed. He is adamantly opposed to it. You read every one of these parables as it was told, every one of them, the Lord said this. The seed was sown, and the devil snatched it away. The devil took it away. The devil took it away. I'm telling you this morning, Satan is real. Just as real as God. And he is adamantly opposed to anybody getting the Word of God. I'm telling you this: taking the Bible out of our schools was not of God. When a church changes and starts preaching the word of God, that is not of God. That is of the devil. The devil snatches it away, snatches it away, snatches it away. Devil is adamantly opposed to the Word of God. The last thing the devil wants is for God's word to be distributed throughout the world. The last thing the devil wants is for God's word to be preached in churches across our land. The last thing the devil wants is the Bible to be read by God's people. The last thing the devil wants is for you and I to obey the word of God. He is opposed to that. When we fail to sow the seed of the Word of God, we are doing exactly what the devil wants us to do. When we as Christians neglect the reading and the meditation and the memorization of God's Word, when we as Christians neglect the Word of God We are doing exactly what the devil wants us to do. Am I right or wrong? The devil is adamantly opposed to this. When I was saved, I worked in a meatpacking plant. I worked there for four years. It's kind of interesting. I worked for four years in a meat packing plant, got saved, moved to Tennessee, and started working in the surgery department of a hospital. I don't know if there's a connection there or what, cutting beef and working in surgery, but nevertheless, when I worked in that meat packing, I thought that was funnier than you all responded. When I worked at the meat packaging plant, I got saved and God transformed my life. I mean it I was just a different person like that. And there was a fella, Kevin Ames, big muscle, bodybuilder, muscle, I mean, good looking, reminded me of me. And um I mean this guy was just You know, and he was very cocky, very arrogant. I'd wit witness to Kevin And he just gave me fits. Just gave me fits. Finally one day after several months, it was afterwards something, he says, uh, he said, Leatherman They didn't really call me that, but I'm not going to tell you what they call me. But he said, Leatherman, uh you got a Bible I can have? Sure. So I had a little Gideon's little New Testament. Some of you say it has Proverbs and Psalms in it. I said, yeah, I got one here. I gave it to him. He said, thanks. I thought, praise the Lord. He's gonna read it. He's gonna get saved. I know it. Kevin's gonna And several months went by and nothing more came of it and I witnessed and wasn't any change. He was still kevin. Finally, after several months, I said, Kevin, whatever happened, what did you ever do with that Bible I gave you? So I got it right here. He pulled it out. I said, you're kidding. He goes, I take it everywhere. So I stick it in my back pocket everywhere I go. I said, you go to bars Friday, Saturday night? Yep, got my Bible right there with me The guy was a womanizer. He was an adulterer, to be very frank with you. I said, always? Always I said, Kevin, have you ever read that thing? Nah, I just carry it around with me everywhere I go. You know what that is? That's dumb. He's got the greatest piece of information known to man in his back pocket. He never looks at. He carries it around. Fornicating, drinking, drugs. It's got his Bible right there. The Bible doesn't do us any good if it's in our pocket and not in our heart. It has to get in our heart. Anyone here remember this name? Joe Irvin? Old Joe Irvin. I love Joe Irvin. He's with the Lord now. He always sat right down here. Right here. That seat. That's Joe Irvin's seat. Joe Irvin was a Vietnam vet, lived in the nursing home down the road here. He was young, been in there for years, had different issues. He came out to hear Dr. Don Williams he preach, revival or fall revival with a chalk drawing. Joe was quiet, came in, bearded, never said much, he'd laugh a little bit. I he uh one thing I liked about Joe is he laughed at all my jokes. Even if no one else did, Joe did. He was my favorite church member. And saying Joe came out and got saved at one of Dr. Don Williams' meetings. I think Shirley might have brought him. And God transformed Joe's life. I didn't know it. I didn't know him before. All I knew is he'd show up here and I'd visit him and he had his Bible. I did his funeral, he died. It's been a number of years ago now. Down in Kittsmiller did the funeral. His family was there. Someone came up from Virginia. I didn't even know what family he had. Just in the nursing home by himself, he'd come over. They said to me, He said, Brother Leatherman, you will never know how your church changed Joe's life. He is a different man since he's been going to your church. Now I know it wasn't our church, I know it was the Word of God. Joe, I know, is in heaven now, not in hell. No doubt about it. He accepted Jesus Savior. Now I'm saying that to say this. What a difference between Kevin and Joe. Kevin's got the Bible in his back pocket. He's living in ungodliness. I don't know what ever happened to him Joe, humble, good soil, and he hears the word of God and he receives it, and God changes his life And God makes him a blessing to his family, and today he's in heaven. Now what about you and I? What's our relation to the seed? Have you accepted Jesus Christ as Savior? Have you received the gospel of Jesus Christ as given in God's Word? Do you know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you go to heaven and not to hell? If you don't have that settled, if you're not sure of that and have that confidence in your heart that when you die you go to heaven and not to hell, I'm telling you today, you need to receive the gospel of Jesus Christ Jesus as your personal savior and get that matter settled. Now, if we've Already trusted Christ, if that's a setter matto, I know I've been saved, Jesus has forgiven me, He's given me eternal life, I know that's settled according to the Word of God, then what we need to do is get this book in our hearts and minds and lives and read it and meditate on it and memorize it and live it Trust God and do what it says. Let this book lead me and direct me. Let me ask you a question. Do let me ask us this question. Do we really want our lives to count for God? Do we care about that at all? Whether my life counts for God. Do we really desire to be the person God intends for us to be? If we really care about that, if that is important to us, then we've got to trust and obey God's word. Amen or not? Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I ask you would help us to understand that your word is seed, and God, that it bears fruit. That it changes lives, it saves souls from hell. I pray you'd help us to be receptive, to have good hearts, good soil. With our heads bound and with our eyes closed, let me ask a couple questions as we go into the invitation. How many here this morning say, preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved, but I'm not looking to God's word like I should I'm not meditating in that thing. I'm not incorporating into my life. I'm not using it to guide me in decision making. It's really not been the focal point of my life as a Christian. And I want that corrected. I want that changed. I want the Word of God. To be my manual, to be my light and my lamp. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. As a Christian. But I'll read and study and meditate and make the Word of God what it ought to be in my life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, that's my desire. God bless you, hands all around. How about it, others? Preacher, I'm not reading that Bible like I should. I'm not giving it the authority in my life I need to. How about it? Any others? Say, preacher, pray for me also. God bless you, a number of other hands. Every Christian should have a Bible and every Christian should meditate and memorize and follow the instructions of God's Word. How about it? Any others, preach or pray for me. It's not there in my life like it should be as a Christian. Let me ask this question. How many this morning would say, Preacher, I don't know when I die, if I'm going to heaven or hell. I hope I'd go to heaven. I'd like to think I would, but I can't say that I know that for sure. And you'd say, preacher, I'm concerned about that. I want to know from God's word that my sins are forgiven and that I go to heaven and not to hell when I die. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that God will help me settle that in my life. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. I've got to get that settled in my life I don't want to face this. I don't want to wonder and doubt about this. How about it? Any at all? Just slip your hand up. Any at all? God bless you. How about it, others? Now we're going to give an invitation in a moment. If you raise your hand and you say, I'm saved, but I'm not reading my Bible like I should, I think a good thing is to kneel at an altar and say, Lord, help me to do that. Discipline me. Help me to be disciplined. If you're here and you're not sure you're going to heaven when you die, I want you to come. We have somebody can show you from the Bible how that can be settled in your life. And you don't have to worry about it. Father, bless our invitation time now I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's plank