Exodus 25, second book of the Old Testament. Go to the 25th chapter. We're looking At the tabernacle, the Old Testament structure that God instructed Moses to lead Israel to build as a part of their worship of the Lord and their interaction, their relationship with Jehovah. And we've been looking at that and while you're finding your place there, let me just work through some of uh the introductory thoughts here. and uh had one door to enter, and we looked at that. The first thing you approached in the tabernacle was uh the first thing you approached was the brazen altar. And you could not get beyond that until a sacrifice was made. Beyond that was the labor, the brazen labor, where the priests would wash up themselves after the sacrifice and whatnot And then they would enter into the tabernacle itself. The tabernacle was divided into two sections, the holy place, and then the holy of holies. And uh we've already made our way into the holy place. The first uh uh compartment in the tabernacle on the right was the table of showbread uh for the priests, and uh directly ahead was the altar of incense. And now we're looking to the left-hand side as we've entered into the Vale of the Tabernacle. Table Showbread here is on the north end. uh the right hand side as you approach and the the golden candlestick is on the left hand side, the south side. Exodus chapter 25, look with me at verse number 31 And thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold, of beaten work shall be the candlestick uh shall the candlestick be made, his shaft and his branches, his bowls, his knobs, and his flowers shall be of the same. The six branches shall come out of the sides of it, three on three branches of the candlestick out of the one side, three branches of the candlestick out of the other side three bowls made like unto almonds, with a knob and a flower in one branch, and three bowls made like almonds in the other branch, with a knob and a flower, so in the six branches that come out of the candlestick. And in the candlestick shall be four bowls made like unto almonds, with their knobs and their flowers, and there shall be a knob under two branches of the same and a knob under two branches of the same, and a knob under two branches of the same, according to the six branches that proceed out of the candlestick. Their knobs and their branches shall be of the same. It shall all it all it shall be one beaten work of pure gold. That's important. And thou shalt make the seven lamps thereof, and they shall light the lamps thereof, that they may give light over against it. And the tongs thereof, and the snuff dishes thereof shall be of pure gold. Of a talent of pure gold shall he make it with all these vessels. And look that thou make them after the pattern which was showed thee on the mount. The golden candlestick. Let's pray. And I just want to give you a few thoughts this evening, and we'll be on our way. Father, please bless. our study of this this piece of furniture here in the tabernacle. Lord, we're so far removed by thousands of years, and I know for many, no doubt this seems irrelevant, but God, you've devoted so much of your word to this And we want you to teach us what's the significance. Why have you given us so much information about this structure and help us to incorporate that uh that reason into our lives in our worship of you, our service for you. Fill me again, I pray, with all my heart, Lord, with your Holy Spirit, and teach us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Church in West Virginia, the pastor decided that um the church needed more lighting. It was dark in there, and so they're having a business meeting And the pastor said, I have an item of business I would like for our church to purchase, he said it's not going to be cheap, it's going to require a little money, but I would like for our church to purchase a chandelier. Place got quiet. Everybody kind of looked at each other. Now this was in West Virginia, remember. And um Finally, one deacon stood up and he said, Preacher, I don't think we ought to buy the chandelier. And he said, Why? He goes, Well, I'm the secretary of the deacons, I gotta take all the notes. And he says, I have no idea how to spell that thing. And uh he goes, I I couldn't write it in the notes. I don't think we ought to get one. And the pastor says, Okay, well, um all right. Some another deacon stood up He said, Preacher, um, he says, uh, I don't think we ought to get chandelier. And he said, uh, why's that? Why do you think we shouldn't get it? He goes, Well, we already got a piano, I don't think anybody know how to play that thing. And um Chandelier, didn't uh anyway that was a whole lot funnier when I read it in there. But uh a chandelier in the church. Uh a lot of churches have chandeliers. Uh they're low expensive. Um they uh are ornamental for the most part, but they're an important part of lighting the church. Having light in the church is important Um I know of a church, Temple Baptist Church in Powell, Tennessee. They built a new building and in the lobby of Temple Baptist Church in Powell, Tennessee, Dr. Clarence Sexton's Church They have a chandelier that was out of the old grand old Opry. They remodeled that thing and a fella bought that. They auctioned off the old chandeliers. A fella bought that and donated it to the church and they have it hanging in their lobby. Lighting is important. What chandeliers are to the church The golden candlestick was to the tabernacle in many ways. It was very ornamental. It's extremely expensive. And it provided lighting for the uh tabernacle and for the service in there. Uh so let me give you a few particulars on this thing. Uh I think you're going to be happy tonight. I really do. Uh number one Uh the particulars of the golden candlestick. That's point number one. Particulars. First thing we notice is I got studying this thing. I noticed that this candlestick, that's what it's called in uh what is it, verse 31? Uh first verse we read there, verse uh 31, it's called a candlestick. I got looking at that thing, you know what I found out Doesn't have any candles. What kind of candlestick doesn't have candles? There's no candles on this thing whatsoever. There's a reason for that, I think, is because candles have a tendency to do what? Burn out. They go down and they burn out. And uh they are they do not burn perpetually. And if we won't take the time, but I give you the reference in Exodus chapter 27, two chapters later In verse 20 and 21, God instructs Moses that this candlestick is to burn perpetually. It's not to go out at all. They're to constantly keep those uh that thing trimmed and so rather than using candles on the candlestick, they used beaten olive oil. And we'll touch on this in a minute, and with a little lamp there. You remember us reading just a few minutes ago about the lamps. And it would burn that olive oil, and they could just feed that olive oil into there, and that thing could burn perpetually without it uh fear of it going out. So, uh, particulars of the golden candlestick doesn't have any gold and doesn't have any candles, but it is made of gold. Um, it is made of solid gold. It's interesting when they God instructed them to make this candlestick, they were not to make a mold for it, melt the gold down and pour the gold into a mold. They were not to make it that way. They were to beat it by hand, mold that, stretch that gold out and roll it and everything, and beat it by hand into the shapes that God instructed them to. There was men, the Bible says, that God made them wise-hearted in abilities to do these types of things. I like that term. God made them wise-hearted. Bezalil, I think, is the name of one fellow, is mentioned throughout. He was very gifted. Let me say this. Let me just throw this out here. God has given every one of us, as members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, different abilities that can and must be used for the advancement of the church if we're going to be what God needs us to be. You say, oh I all I can do is hammer nails in. Hey, God's made you wise-hearted in that matter. I know somebody pretty high uh I know somebody in the in the church here that can't hammer a nail for to save his life. I won't tell you who it is because I would be embarrassed if you knew it was me. But um uh I'd tell you a couple years ago the door back here uh remember when there used to be bathrooms back in by the kitchen back there You know, that would be nice to have a bathroom there. But uh anyway, uh one of the doors got messed up and so I that's easy. I'll put a little latch on there where the kids can't lock themselves in. I'll put a latch up top and that way that you can the the You can lock it, but the kids can't do it. By the time I was done, the whole frame around that was tore down. There was holes in the drywall and it was terrible. And uh God didn't make me wise-hearted in that But there were people who could work that gold and could use different tools and were skilled at making that thing exactly the way God wanted them to make it. Isn't that a neat thing? That tells me every one of us have a part. You say, well, a guy says, Oh, I can do is hammer gold. Well, how about that? We need a gold hammerer. And he had an important ministry there. The Bible says that this golden candlestick was to be made out of a talent of gold. Now I got looking that up. The best I can find, now I didn't look in Schofield's notes there, the best I can find, the talent, I am told, weighs approximately 94 pounds. 94 pounds of gold. All solid, not hollow. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. Hammer that thing around, mold it, and make it in. Then you got the little snuff dish. And you got the little um uh uh what was that uh other instrument um uh the other instrument there, uh you got the snuff dish, what's it? Tongues, yeah, the tongs for clipping the thing. And uh so anyway, all this is made out of this solid gold. 94 pounds I got curious. I looked up and that's constantly changing, but I got the look I looked up the value of gold And I found out that I think it was as of Friday night, the end of the market when they closed the um thing. Um gold was valued at that time was valued at seventeen hundred some dollars an ounce. $1,700 an ounce. This thing was 94 pounds. I got adding things up. This is what I came to. Approximately this golden candle sit cost in today's dollars. Two million six hundred and seventy nine thousand eight hundred twenty seven dollars and twenty cents. Isn't that incredible? Do you think God considered this thing to be important? They're investing massive amounts of money into this one piece of furniture. Here. So it's made of a talon of gold. It's beaten by hand into shape. There's no candles in the thing. It's interesting. The candlestick itself Is just one shaft that comes up the middle. The candlestick itself. I think in verse 31 it's called a shaft. Other places it's called the candlestick. And then out of the candlestick itself, you have these six branches. Three on one side, three come out the other. The Jews refer to it as, anybody know what the name the Jews give to this piece of furniture? Menorah is what they would call it, the menorah. has the one shaft, out of that candlestick shaft come these six branches, three on one side, three on the other, and uh they are decorated, they're called branches. And they are decorated with knobs and um uh they're decorated, let me find what they are here, with knobs and flowers and uh Uh bulbs, almond flowers, a bulb, and uh a type of bowl type thing The knob, I couldn't figure out what a knob was. I looked it up, looked it up. Best I could find was it was some egg-shaped bulb type thing. You can look up and find pictures of it. So each of these branches Going out the side. The shaft down the middle. Each of these branches had a flower, a knob, and a bowl on there. They each had three. The main candlestick had four And uh here's the interesting thing. You say, what's the significance of that? I tell you, the best we can do is speculate because God doesn't tell us. But as soon as I was studying this, branches, flowers, and instruments, a passage from the New Testament came to mind. John chapter 15. Jesus said, I am the vine. Ye are the what? Branches. And I the Bible doesn't say that's what this refers to, but I thought, what a beautiful picture. Of the light shining to the world, providing light of the truth to the world, that Christ, those branches which we abide in Christ, were able to provide light to the world. And so uh interesting. Uh you have the center candlestick with the three branches out each side. Um It is placed on the left-hand side, we're told, on the south side, the left-hand side as you go in. It was filled with olive oil. Now God in chapter 27 verse 20 says that it is to be pure olive oil that is beaten. The word pure there means this: to be without any impurities. Apparently, they were to go to special care. To make sure nothing got in there other than pure olive oil. Nothing else. No bugs, no little pieces of the olive, the casement of the olive, no leaves got in there. Pure olive oil. So God gave all these very specific instructions. Then you had the tongs and the snuff dishes. They were for trimming the lamps the lamps that were on the top and the wicks, trimming that They would haul the the burnt type the you know how on a wick sometimes you get all that black dupe uh at the top, trim that off, and they would take that out. You didn't want that laying around, they'd take that out and haul that off. So that's the particulars of the of the lamp uh golden lampstand. Now what was the purpose? Why did God have this thing here? I mean there's a lot of money. It's a lot of work going into this. Very skilled craftsmanship is going into this. What's the purpose of it? I can find one purpose in chapter 25 and verse number 37. Says this, and thou shalt make the seven lamps thereof, and they shall light the lamps thereof, that they may give light over against it. Over against what? The idea is this: give light throughout the tabernacle. The primary purpose, I mean, just practically speaking, of the candlestick was to Give light inside the tabernacle. Now remember there's no skylights. There's no windows There's no light coming into this. The only light that's there is what this candlestick provides. Now think about that. You've got these seven lamps up there. That would be a significant amount of light filling this And so uh the purpose was to provide light. There's no natural lighting, there's no other type of lighting, there's no candles laying around. And uh now think about that The priest comes in, priest is reporting the duty, and he's responsible for a period of time. A uh Israelite shows up, he said, he goes, uh The mule kicked me and I said something I shouldn't say. I need to confess my sin. Bray says, alright. Now remember back then they couldn't approach directly God, they had to have a priest. And so priest uh what do you got to offer? What's your sacrifice? Well I brought the mule himself. He k no, he didn't do that. Uh I got this uh I got this uh ram. I'm gonna offer this ram as a sacrifice for the blood to cover my sin so I'm not judged by God. He goes, All right. He offers the sacrifice And the priest says, all right, I gotta I'm gonna go in and make prayers. And so he offers the ramp, he comes the labor, he washes himself uh up from the sacrifice, and uh he comes into the the tabernacle, he enters in. And if there's no candlestick there, he can't find the altar of incense. He can't find it. He's walking around. It's dark. Here's the point. Without the light that God provided, they could not have properly served the Lord. Catch what I'm saying? If that light was not there, they could not have properly dealt with the table of showbread, they could not have properly dealt with the altar of incense That light was necessary to serve God correctly. Now, there is a great scriptural principle there. We are to serve God as He chose us to serve Him. Somebody asked me years ago, they said, What do you think? And I got this from someone else, but somebody said, What's the most important thing? For a person they're going to want to serve God. What's the first place to be in? What's the first characteristic ought to be true? Should they be separated from the world? They ought to be submitted to God. Because if I try and serve God without being submitted to God, I'm going to mess up every time. I can try and serve God and I can even separate myself from the world, but if I'm not submitted to God, I'm going to end up doing that my way. I would far rather have a busworker, a Sunday school teacher maybe wasn't that gifted at what they're doing, but they're totally yielded to God. Whatever God needs them, directs them to do, they're doing it right by as God says. Rather than have somebody that's very good and says, I don't care what the Bible says, I know better, I'm going to do it my way. Follow what I'm saying? And so that that table of sh that uh candlestick, golden candlestick, provided light so that they could function, they could see, they could operate the way God instructed them to. And so the purpose of the candlestick was uh to enable the priest to function. They could see what was happening to light the place. Now here's my last point. Told you uh you would be happy. What's this a picture of? The picture of the candlestick. What does it represent? I tell you, there's really a lot of symbolism. In this candlestick, I think, in many ways more so than the table of showbread and some other things we've looked at You can go to seed, you could write encyclopedias on speculating what the symbolism is of the candlestick. Let me just throw some what people have suggested. Some have suggested that the gold of the candlestick, remember it's providing light. The gold represents the deity of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I say that's very true. Jesus is God. You say, oh, what does it matter whether Jesus is God or not? Everything matters whether Jesus is God or not. Jesus is God. And so the gold there, the light, uh Jesus said, I'm the light of the world, and it's made of gold, so that represents the deity of Jesus Christ. I can see that, and that's wonderful, that's true. The Bible doesn't say that. That's speculation. Some said the light represents the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the light of the world. And I say, absolutely true. Jesus is the light of the world. Without Jesus Christ, we're in spiritual darkness. We don't know what's up or what's down spiritually without Jesus Christ. So He is the light of the world, but the Bible doesn't say that's what that represents. We speculate, we read what the Bible says in the New Testament, we see the light, and uh that makes sense. Um others have said that uh the light and the uh the or the beaten olive oil, that represents the Holy Spirit. That illuminates our minds. And 1 Corinthians says Corinthians says that the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit, but the Holy Spirit lets makes us understand the Scriptures. And uh boy the Holy Spirit lines that and I can see that, that looks good. I I I can see that symbolism there. But the Bible doesn't say that's what the candlestick represents Others said the light burning, the flame, and the light that's emanated is a symbol of the Christian. The Christian's the light of the world. I tell you, I really appreciate Molly's testimony that she is being a light in her school. And I know there's many other young people who are the same. I'm not trying to uh single her out. There's a lot of others who are the same. Thank God for that. That's what we're supposed to be And people on the job that speak up. And by the way, I think we ought to be kind, we ought to be gracious, we ought to be very humble, but I think we ought to speak up when something's not right If they're using language, I tell you the reason they get away with such filthy language today is nobody says anything And so, uh, yeah, the Christian is to be the light. And obviously, we're to be the light of the gospel and share Jesus Christ with people. But the Bible doesn't say that's what the light represents. I made reference to the go the candlestick itself, the and the branches, Jesus Christ and the believer abiding in Christ and the two together provided by the world. And I can see that. That's a beautiful picture of that. But that's not what the Bible says. We're speculating. So what does it mean? Ah, the Bible does tell us. Turn with me, if you would, to Revelation, and we're going to end with this. Revelation chapter 1. The Bible tells us what the candlestick is. The golden candlestick. Revelation chapter 1. And if you know what the first few chapters of Revelation are, then you already know. Where we're going with this. Revelation chapter 1. Look with me if you would at verse number 11. Last book of the Bible. First chapter of the last book of the Bible. Verse number 11. Well verse 10, John says, I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and heard behind me a great voice as of a trumpet saying, I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last. And what thou seest, write in a book, and send it unto the seven churches which are in Asia. Unto Ephesus and unto Smyrna and unto Pergamus and unto Thyre Tyra and unto Sardis and unto Philadelphia and unto Laodicea He says, I turned to see the voice. Who was this speaking? Who was it? It was Jesus. He says there, verse 10, I'm Alpha and Omega. That immediately tells us who this is speaking. Look what he says. I turned to see the voice that spake with me, and being turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks. Huh So he hears Jesus speaking. He's in the Spirit. He's filled with the Holy Spirit on the Lord's day. He hears a voice, it's obviously Jesus speaking, instructing him. He turns around and he sees, apparently lined up, seven of these candlesticks we just studied. Seven golden candlesticks. Well, that's strange. The voice of Jesus, and he sees these candlesticks. Come down with me, if you would, to verse 20. And then and then he goes on, he starts talking about these stars also. Now look at verse 20. Verse 19, right? The things which thou hast seen, the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter. The mystery of the seven stars which thou sawest in my right hand and the seven golden candlesticks. So he saw seven stars in the Lord's right hand, he saw these seven candlesticks. So I'm going to tell you what they are The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches that are listed there in the next couple chapters. He goes that they're literal local churches. He said the stars are the angels of the local churches. I love this part. Do you know what the angel of a local church is? The pastor. I like that designation. So now on you'll call me Angel Leatherman. That has a ring to it. Not really. I know what Tom's thinking. I know exactly what Tom is thinking. But um uh the word angel there simply means messenger. And so he's referring to the pastors of the local churches. Now he's going to tell us what the candlesticks are. The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the Seven what? Churches. You know what the golden candlestick in the in the uh tabernacle represented? If I understand Revelation chapter one, right, it was a representative of the church. It was a picture, a symbol of the church's role. Churches. Hey, without the local church, ministry's in the dark. Amen? We have groups out there that try and operate independent of the local church, but they're not doing it the way the Bible says. Those priests were to operate with the light of the candlestick there, operating with the church. I think the candlestick was a picture of the church. Without the local church, the Christian is in the dark as far as his ministry concerned. God has given to this world and to the Christians, the local church, to help us learn and understand. What's the primary responsibility of the local church? Ephesians says to teach the people how to do the work of the ministry. To enlighten them on how the ministry is to be done, how to serve God. And so, if I understand Revelation right, the symbol here, the picture of this. is the local church. So let's stop and look at this tabernacle. First thing we noticed was the door. That told us how important it is to come to God through the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus said, I am the door. Now think about this. So we have Christ is the only way to approach God. There's no salvation outside of Christ. Then you come to the the brazen altar, and there we find out that our sins have to be paid for by Jesus Christ. You can't get beyond you can't get anywhere and approach God without blood being shed. And so that tells us, number one, Jesus is the only way to God. Jesus had to shed his blood. Now, in the Old Testament, it covered our sins. The blood of Christ cleanses us from our sins. Uh then we got to the brazen labor, and there we find out we need to maintain daily cleansing. I've got to keep myself clean from the daily uh influence of the world on my life and a continual cleansing, confession of sin, and forsaking it right away, dealing with my sins. Then we learn that uh we come to the the altar of incense inside, and there we learn we need to pray. We need to pray continually. So we've got our salvation needs to be settled. We need a daily cleansing, confession of our sins, the influence of the world. We have our continual and daily prayers. Oh, I missed the uh table of showbread. That was the Word of God. Importance in the Christians spending time every day in the Word of God, feeding on the Word of God. Are you picking up what's happening here? What's being presented to us It is the fundamentals of the Christian life. Assurance of salvation. Dealing with sins as they come up. Maintaining my prayer life, feeding on the Word of God. And then I see the candlestick, the importance of the local church. Being faithful to church, being faithful to church. The church is not important because of the people who attended. You and I aren't what make this church important. Back in France, there was a the king of France, this is the 1700s, was would come to church. And the pastor got the idea That people were only coming to his church. It'd be packed out. He got the idea they were only coming before the king, because the king came. So he put out a notice that the king was not going to be there this Sunday The king didn't know that. He put out notice the king's not going to be here Sunday. Well the king showed up like he always did. The pastor wanted to find out who's coming just because the church is important. And the history books tell us not one person showed up besides the king. It had nothing to do with what the church was about. It had everything to do about who was there. That is wrong. We ought not to be faithful to church, come to church because of who's here. We're not the ones that make church important. Church is important because who its pastor is. And alive. God can set up and take down pastors like that. In fact, some of the pastors who thought they were so important, God replaced them and Just like that. It's not who pastors the church that's important. It's not the members of the church that's important. It's not the programs we have in place that are important. Hey, I thank God for our King's Kids and the different programs, Teens and our Wild Game Dinner and all these different programs that have been very successful, very blessed of God, but that's not what makes Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church important Not our people, not our pastor, not our programs. The church is important because it's the body of Christ. The church is important because God considers it to be important. Can I be so bold? Now don't you can go to seat on this, don't do that. But I can can I be so bold as to say if I'm neglecting the church. It's a pretty good indicator that I'm reject- I'm neglecting my Lord. It's the body of Christ. If the church is unimportant to me, then the Lord Jesus is most likely unimportant to me If I belittle the church, I'm belittling Christ. If I'm neglecting the church, I'm neglecting Christ. My relationship to the church is a strong indicator of my relationship to Christ. Two million dollars For a piece of instrument a piece of furniture that all it did was gave light to the service. But you get the revelation, he says, that th that k those candlesticks you saw, they were churches. I'd say the church is pretty important to God. Pretty valuable, Lord. It ought to be to us. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to appreciate what you've given us. in the local church. We are the light of the world. You are too Lord and we're