Philippians chapter 2. And if you have your Bible, if you find your place there, Philippians chapter 2. And just a couple thoughts on Christmas, I jotted down. A number of years ago there was a, well for many years there was an evangelist to uh Israel and to the Jews. Uh Jimmy DeYoung was his name. He was on our radio stations. Very effective evangelist to the Jews. He passed away here four or five years ago or so. Um he went to the school I did. He was a little ahead of me. But um He came across some Jewish history that in my mind sheds a lot of light on Jesus being born in a manger and being wrapped in swaddling clothes. In his research, he stated, he wrote, wrote an article, wrote a little somewhat extensively on this. But he said Bethlehem, and this is well known, Bethlehem was the area where the shepherds would raise lambs specifically for the sacrifices in the temple. And God had ordained thousand years before that until this the Messiah came That the shed blood of bulls and goats and lambs would suffice to cover the sins of man so we could interact with God until the Messiah comes. And then he would shed his blood, the sinless blood of the Lamb of God. And then that would not just cover our sins, that would cleanse our sins. And we could have full access to the presence of God. And we could, upon our physical death, enter right into his immediate presence. But until then, these lambs, and there was very specific requirements for these lambs to be acceptable, to be an acceptable sacrifice to cover our sin. They were a substitute for us until the substitute of God would come, the perfect sacrifice. And so Bethlehem was a place where these shepherds they had a very very specific responsibility. They had a very uh uh significant responsibility in raising up These flocks that would produce these lambs, and they had to be without blemish, they had to be without spot There could be no flaws, no handicap, or or they weren't qualified to be a sacrifice for our sins. And they pay very close attention as as these lambs were born. Well He found in his research of history that the what the shepherds did, when a lamb was born and was going to be used for the temple sacrifices, They would go over that thing very, very thoroughly with a, so to speak, a fine-toothed comb, looking for any flaws, any faults They would wipe the thing down when it was born. They would wipe the birthing fluid with what they called swaddling clothes. garments, pieces of material. And they would wipe that lamb down. And they would bring them into these shelters that were scattered throughout outside the city of Bethlehem They would bring them in the little lamb into these shelters. They would examine it very carefully as they wiped it down with swaddling clothes. And if it was acceptable, he said, they would place them in mangers And set them aside from those that were not acceptable. And they would lay them there in those mangers until they would wean them or whatever and then go on. I think it's fascinating. If that account is true, and I have no reason to doubt it, if that account is true, the shepherds that were approached that night By the angels, and the birth of Jesus Christ was announced to these shepherds. These were shepherds whose responsibility was to examine and prepare the lambs for the sacrifice for the sins of man. So they come into this manger, this shelter, where they've been in many, many times over the years, bringing these little lambs in. And they enter into there and they find a baby wrapped in swaddling clothes that they had used many, many times for the preparation of that sacrificial lamb. And he finds his babe wrapped in these clothes that they've used many times and laying in the position where the lambs that were acceptable for sacrifice were laying. I want to suggest to you that when those shepherds came in there and saw Jesus, the baby Jesus, lying in that manger wrapped in swaddling clothes, I want to suggest to you, they knew immediately what was happening. They knew immediately what this was. This was the Lamb of God. This was the perfect, final, once-for-all, sacrifice for the sins of mankind. That little lamb, that little baby, was none other than God Himself That became that Lamb of God to pay for your sins and my sins. Now listen to Philippians chapter 2. Paul's writing to the church at Philippi, and he's referencing indirectly Jesus birth there in the manger. It's Jesus coming to earth. But look with me to wood at verse number five. He's describing the I I guess what he's doing here, he's describing the attitude of God, of Jesus Christ. In becoming that Lamb of God to be sacrificed for our sins. Look, verse 5. He says, Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus Now listen carefully what he says. Who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God. What's he saying? You can't rob something that's already yours, right? So he's saying Jesus is God, Jesus God. Verse 7, but made himself of no reputation. And took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men, and being found in fashion as a man, humbled himself. And became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Wherefore God hath highly exalted him And given him a name which is above every name. That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. God Almighty, the Son of God, the eternal Son of God, coequal with God, God in the flesh, humbled himself. And though he was rich, yet for our sakes he became poor and took upon him the form of a man, a little infant initially there. Laid in a manger designed for the sacrifice of sins. Three thoughts come to my mind. And by the way, it looks like if God was born of a man. Was born. God was born a man. Looks like there'd be ticker tape parades and announcements and huge celebrations, but there wasn't. As far as the world was concerned, it was just another day. Just another night went by. Herod, as far as he was concerned, when he heard about this baby, it was just another threat to his authority, and he had many of them throughout his reign. In that manger, something, one of two most significant events in all of history took place. God became man. And not only man, but became the child's sacrifice, the sacrifice for our sins and yours. What an event. The shepherds understood that immediately. My first thought about Christmas is the joy of Christmas, and we don't have time. If we go back to Luke, Brandon did an excellent job reading that. But you find joy referenced three times. In the arrival of Jesus Christ, joy, joy, joy. In fact, John the Baptist, when he was still in his mother's womb, leaped for joy. When he came into the presence of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Lamb of God, still in the womb of Mary, his mother. Joy, joy, joy. What is the joy of Christmas? The joy of Christmas is that we have hope. We have hope to be saved from our sins. We have hope of forgiveness now. We have hope of eternal life. I couldn't help but think, as I was thinking about tonight and tomorrow what we want to say, I couldn't help but go back in my mind to the to when I got saved. And the joy that came to my life, and many here could stand and testify the same thing. But the joy that came to my heart and life. Now it wasn't uh jumping up and down, running up and down the stairs at home, you know, carrying on hooping and hollering. But it was it was a deep-seated joy that I was forgiven And Jesus Christ paid that price for my sins, and when I trusted him, he forgave me. Now, unless someone has been convicted of their sin, that might not mean very much. But if you've ever felt the sting Of Holy Spirit conviction of sin deep in your heart, and then to learn that it's possible to be forgiven. What a joy comes. What a joy comes. The worst of sinners can be saved. Because Jesus came as the Lamb of God. So I think about joy of Christmas. The second thought that comes to my mind, and just deliberately trying to briefly touch on these, but the second thought comes to my mind is not just the joy of Christmas, but the uh uh the great love of God We look at that little manger and baby Jesus in there, and we are seeing, visualizing the love of God expressed. What does John 3. 16 say? Say it with me, ready? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. That tells us, that verse tells us the motive For Christmas. For God so loved the world. Now my question is just briefly, why did God use the term so loved the world? Why didn't he just say, for God loved the world That'd be a tremendous statement. But he doesn't. He says, God so loved the world. Now, to make a long definition short, it's I think it simply is for this reason. He used that little two-letter word so. By the way, it's a very small word, but it has a big meaning. It has the idea that the love of God is is is so immense, is so intense, is so great. There are not words to describe it. For God so loved the world. I like to tell a story about my oldest son when he was about three. We were living in Colorado and and you and many of you heard me say this before, but we were sitting one day and we were just kind of horsing around, we're hastling different things, and he got up on my lap and he said, Daddy, I love you. I said, Sam, I love you too. He said, Daddy, I love you from here to the mountains. Now the foothills of the Rockies were just, you know, a mile or so away. You could see them right there out our window. He love you from here to the mountains I said, woo-hoo! Wow. That's a heap of love. From here to the mountains? Yeah. He said, I love you more than that. He said, really? See I love you from here to the ocean. He never saw the ocean in his life at that time. He didn't know where it was But he knew it was a long way away. I said, here to the ocean that much? He goes, yeah. I said, woo. He says, I love you more than that. I said, really? He says, I love you from here to the moon Wow, the mood? That's a lot of love, Sam. He goes, I love you more than that. He said, Patty, I love you so much. You know what he was saying? He was saying, I don't have the words to describe how great my love is for you. I love my son so much. And God looks down at you and me, and we're all sorry sinners. We've sinned against our Creator. We've blasphemed his name. We've lied. Our hearts have been filled with bitterness and anger and hatred. We are sinners to the very core. God says, my creation, man made in my image, every individual one, I love you so much. That I'll give my son to pay for your sins so that we can be restored So that you can love me and we can have a relationship, that sin be removed, and we can love each other. That little Christmas morning, I see a lot of joy. The angels are rejoicing. The shepherds are rejoicing. They know what this is about. I see the love of God, that He would love me that much to take away my sin. I can talk to Him and walk with Him and fellowship with Him and praise Him and He can love me and lead me and direct me and fill me. And the third thought I have on Christmas is the joy of Christmas, the love of God, and the humility Of Jesus Christ. Now we don't think about this. I don't know. I haven't really thought about this a whole lot, but think how Jesus Christ humbled himself. To become a little infant, the God of creation, the God that the heaven of heavens cannot contain him. And yet he laid all that aside, all the prerogatives of the eternal God Almighty. And he came down and became a little baby. Be carried and fed and washed and cared for. One of the key, one of the unique factors of biblical Christianity Is b uh of of all the gods that man has imagined throughout the years and come up with, all these little g quote unquote gods that mankind have come up in re religions he's developed out of his imagination. The unique thing about the truth, the unique thing about the truth about God. Because of all these other false gods, imaginary gods, only the true God humbles himself for man. All the other religions, all the other false gods, imaginary gods men have come up with, all them, God is. But the true God He humbles himself. And he gives himself for us. The humility of Christmas, the humility of Jesus Christ. to give himself. The central truth of Christ of Christmas is the humility of our God. The central truth of Jesus Christ's life, 33 and a half years, is him humbling himself. He could he the the universe is his. The throne of God is his, and yet he humbled himself and had nowhere to lay his head. Foxes have holes, birds have nests. The Son of Man hath nowhere to lay his head. His birth, the central event of all Christmas, is the humbling, the humility of Jesus Christ, the humiliation. Of our God to become a man. And then his life, the humiliation of his life, to be mocked and ridiculed and rejected and accused of horrific things. And then the humiliation of his death, beaten Stripped naked, hung, nailed to a cross to die by God. No nobody nobody took his life. He gave it. He gave it in that fashion, in that form. And doing so taking responsibility for all my sins. What an amazing day. What an amazing day. I was thinking, and I'll I'll end with this, we're going to go into Lord's Supper here. I think perhaps one of, if not the most Christ-like thing we can do this Christmas and all through the year. Is to love God with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind, with all our strength, love God, and then love one another. And then to humble ourselves, to serve our God, and to serve one another. To serve one another. Sometimes we get in our head, oh, I'll serve God. I ain't serving that guy. Oh, I love God, but I don't love her. The most Christ-like thing I believe, one of the most Christ-like things we do is love God with all our heart and love one another. And serve God with all our heart and serve one another. Amen. And let's just this Christmas say, I'm going to love God, I'm going to love others, I'm going to serve God, I'm going to serve others, I'm going to give myself. The Bible says the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister. Not for others, do stuff for me. Do it for me, all right, do it for me. But to do for others, to give myself others. Amen? We're gonna give an invitation to a lady, uh Jane And before we go to the Lord's Supper, I just think it would be a good thing just to humble ourselves before the Lord. If there's some issues in our life that need to be addressed. Let's not come to the Lord's Supper with presumptuous, undealt with sins. Let's come with a humble, repentant heart before God. Let's rejoice in what He's done for us Let's love him and humble ourselves before him and one another. Father, bless our invitation now as we go into this Christmas Eve Lord's Supper. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.