This with me, verse number 26 of Matthew chapter 20. It's Jesus speaking, and he's speaking to He's speaking to the mother of James and John, and James and John are there, and the disciples are around. He's speaking to his disciples, and he makes this statement. Look here in verse number 26. But it shall not be so among you. He talked about greatness in the world among the Gentiles. He says, but you, as my disciples, as followers of Christ, that's not the way it is It shall not be so among you, but whosoever will be great among you, among God's people, let him be your what? Minister. Then he elaborates a little bit. He restates himself. He says, and whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your what? Servant. For even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and give give his life a ransom for many. You want to be great in God's kingdom? You want to be great in God's eyes? It's not the same way as being great in the world. The way the world evaluates greatness. Last week we spoke on the great commandment. Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy might. We don't do anything else, more than anything else God wants from us. He wants our love. Amen? He wants our love. Now I want us to consider this morning, not the great commandment, this morning I want us to consider what does it mean to be a great disciple? To be great, the greatest among you. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless our study of this important truth in the Christian life. And Lord, I pray that you would challenge us I pray that you would open our eyes to see where we're at spiritually, our spiritual condition this morning. Lord, I believe that's most important. I pray you'd press that on us. I pray, Father, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I ask that you would be the preacher, dear Lord, that you would speak through me my weak voice and my frail body. But that you would speak through me and you would challenge us. And Lord, I pray that our lives, our hearts, our minds, our evaluation of ourselves would change as a result of this truth I ask you to open our hearts and minds. Lord, if there's any among us that are unsaved, I pray with all my heart that they would see how desperately they need the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. Lord, some of us have been influenced by the world's values, the world's priorities, the world's perspective I pray you would erase that from our thinking and replace it with biblical thinking, correct thinking And so again, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew with all my heart. I ask you would speak through me and help us this morning in Jesus' name. Amen. The context of our text this morning, what Pastor Matt read and the little bit I noted here, Jesus is making his final journey to Jerusalem. He uh this is it. He's uh just days away from his crucifixion. He knows that. The disciples don't really comprehend that at this point But Jesus knows this is my final trip to Jerusalem. This is my final Passover meal with the disciples And I'll be judged for the sins of mankind. He knows that. In fact, he had mentioned, if you come back up there in verse numbers 17, 18, and 19, he's telling them for the third time Now, when he gets to Jerusalem, he's going to be crucified. If you would come back just a couple chapters, back to chapter 16, verse number 21, here in Matthew Um he's telling them what's gonna happen. Chapter sixteen and verse twenty one. Notice it says, from that time forth began Jesus, now look at this, to show unto his disciples how that he must go unto Jerusalem and suffer many things from the of the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and rise again the third day. Of course then it goes on. Peter pulls them aside as typical Peter And he reacts to what Jesus says and he pulls him aside and he rebukes the Lord. Now, this isn't my message, I don't want to spend time on this, but let me just figure this out there. Can you imagine the audacity of a man to rebuke the Lord Jesus Christ? So Jesus introduces to his disciples here in chapter 16, he introduces the fact that we get to Jerusalem, I'm going to be crucified. They're going to kill me. And I'm going to rise again. Well, the disciples, like I said, Peter rebukes them. Doesn't really sink in what he's telling them. If you would, come over to chapter 17. He says it again In verse number 22 of chapter 17, it says, And while they abode in Galilee, Jesus said unto them, The Son of Man shall be betrayed into the hands of men. And they shall kill him, and the third day he shall be raised again. And they were exceeding sorry. I still think they don't fully comprehend what Jesus is saying. But he tells them twice. Now we come to our text in chapter 20, and for the third time, as he's approaching the city of Jerusalem, just days away from this statement actually happening, he says again. Jesus going up to Jerusalem for the final time took the twelve disciples apart in the way. I mean, he's making a point. He pulls them aside. Say, listen, fellas I'm going to tell you what's going to happen when we get to Jerusalem. I want you to understand this. Personally, I still don't think it fully registers in their mind. Look what he says, verse 18. Behold We go up to Jerusalem, the Son of Man shall be betrayed. Unto the chief priests, unto the scribes. They'll condemn him to death. And shall deliver him over to the deliver him to the Gentiles to mock and scourge and crucify him. And the third day he'll rise again. He gives them more detail in this statement than he did in the previous two. He wants them to get a hold, fellas. This is what's going to happen. And I think he's saying indirectly, he's saying, this is why I've come. I'm fulfilling the purpose for which I became man, and that is to die for the sins of the world, buried and rose again. So that's the context of this statement about greatness in the kingdom of God. And as he makes this final statement, as he's pulled these guys aside And he goes into somewhat detail here and he emphasizes what's going to happen. He wants them to understand as he finishes that little speech he gives them, that information he gives them. The mother of James and John approaches him. And she makes this, uh, she approaches him and she has This request. Now, by way of introduction, I noticed three things about this request that the mother of James and John, the of Zebedee's children, it's James and John First thing I notice here is she makes an inquiry. In other words, what I mean by that is she has this request of the Lord Jesus Christ. There in verse number 20 it says, Then came to him the mother of Zebedee's children, that's with her sons, that's James and John, and they're with her. And she comes up and she's worshiping him. She's shown him respect and all that. But she desires a certain thing of him. She has this request, this inquiry. And he said unto her, What wilt thou? She saith unto him, Grant that these my two sons may sit, the one on the right hand And the other on the left in thy kingdom. So she makes this inquiry to the Lord Jesus Christ. She comes with this request And I am so grateful, and we see it here clearly, I am so grateful that we can come to Jesus Christ with our requests. This mother of Zebedee's children, this mother of James and John, she had been around Jesus long enough, she knew enough about him that I can come to him if I have a desire, if I have a request I can freely come to the Lord Jesus Christ and let him know what I would like to see happen, what I would like to have accomplished, what I would like for him to do. And I'm here to tell you, our Creator, our God, our Savior, we can come to him with our requests. In fact, Peter uh Philippians tells us making your request known unto him with thanksgiving. You say, oh, God doesn't know. God's not concerned about what I would like. Oh, contrary. He does want to know what we like. He does want to know what our requests are. You say, preacher, I'd really like for God to do this for me, then go and ask him. He said, preacher, I'd like I'd really like this. Ask the Lord. Come to Him and ask Him. I venture to say there's a good percentage of the crowd while I'm speaking right now that statement I just made There's a good percentage of crowd. You're thinking of something in your mind you would like for God to do. Right now, it's there. It's in your mind. I am. You know what the Lord says? Come on, ask me. Our Lord is approachable. Our Lord wants to know the desires of our heart. Now, does that mean He's always going to give us everything we want? And the answer is what? Listen, I'm going to get you all to talk to me one way or another this morning. No! In fact, he doesn't do what The mother of James and John ask. But she can freely come and ask it. And by the way, let me just throw this out there. I am glad that God doesn't give me everything I ask for. Whew. Man, there's some things I look back over the years I asked God to do for me or give me, and he said no, and years later I look back and say, Whew, thank you, Lord, for not answering that prayer. Thank you, Lord, for not granting that request. But our God is approachable. James and John's mother believed in prayer She believed in coming to the Lord and letting her request known. She was concerned for her boys. She wanted what she believed was best for her boys, and she came to Jesus Christ. Every Christian mother ought to be a praying mother, praying for their children. By the way, daddies also And so they make this inquiry to the Lord, James and John and their mother, they approach the Lord Jesus Christ. They're unafraid to make this request. By the way, this is a pretty large request they're making. Can my boys sit one on your right hand and one on the other when you come into your kingdom? To be honest with you, my opinion, I don't think she fully grasped what she was asking. I'm still convinced that this point the disciples and of course the lady here, the mother, still view Jesus' kingdom as a earthly kingdom here overthrow the Romans, set up the kingdom there, and have an independent state of Israel. That's what was in their mind. They were looking for a physical kingdom, a a temporal kingdom right there. Get the Romans off our back and um Have our own nation, an independent nation. I think that was what was in her mind. I don't believe she was thinking about the millennial reign of Christ over the whole world. So she makes this request that was a pretty m uh magnificent request, although she probably didn't fully realize it, but I'm so glad she knew the Lord well enough and she was comfortable enough with the Lord Jesus Christ that she could come to him and make this request. She believed in prayer So, uh, oh, and by the way, what did Jesus just tell the disciples is about to happen? He's going to be crucified. I mean the words are barely off his lips. We're going to Jerusalem. They're going to kill me. They're going to scourge me. They're going to beat me. I'm going to die. Now I'm going to rise again, but I'm going to go through it. And Jesus just made that statement. And I would imagine, now of course Jesus is God, so You know, but I would imagine that would be pretty heavy on his mind. Right? If you were going to be crucified next week, do you think that would be on your mind a little bit this week? Yeah And so he just makes this phenomenal statement, what's going to happen? And rather than the disciples saying, Oh no, oh, what do we do? They come and say, Oh, can I be uh can I be vice president? When you're king. And Jesus just says he addresses it. He's approachable. Did you ever think about this? You have something you'd like for the Lord to do? I don't know if you've ever thought this way or not Do you ever think I've got this I'd like for the Lord to do? And then you think, man, God's running this whole universe. He don't care about something little like that. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Get all the stuff he answered. I'm here to tell you God even knows when a sparrow falls to the ground. And we can come to him and pray. So he makes this inquiry. I think there's some folks here. You need to start telling God what you want. Start asking. Start praying. What do you want God to do? What do you need Him to do? Now, if it's not best, He'll withhold it. Praise the Lord But if it fits in his will and he can use it for his glory, God answers prayer. So first thing I notice is the inquiry. Then I notice that Jesus declares their ignorance Look with me if you would at verse number 22. But Jesus answered and said, you know not what you ask. Uh I think that's probably an understatement. She had no com she had she did not realize what she was asking for here. He says, Ye know not what ye ask. Are ye able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of? Be baptized with the baptism that I am to be baptized with? And they said, We are able. I don't think they understood what he meant by that cup they were going to drink from, that baptism they were facing. He's talking about the cup of rejection and the baptism of violent death. And they did drink of that cup, and they were baptized with it. Years later, they gave their lives. But at this point, they know not what they ask. Now, I say he declares their ignorance, and I don't mean that he was insulting them. And I don't mean that he was even necessarily rebuking them so much when he says, you know not what you ask. What he's doing, he's saying he's pointing out they may were making two mistakes in their request. One mistake, and he doesn't say this exactly, but one mistake I think was, is they were putting their will over the Lord's will. You know, a good way to pray is this. If it be thy will, will you do this for me That's a good way to pray. In fact, James tells us that we ought to not even make plans. If we say, well, next week I'm going to go to South Carolina and do this, you ought to say, if it be the Lord's will, I will do that. And so I think there's a part here. He says, you know not what you ask. He says, you don't know what God's will is. I don't think he's necessarily rebuking them. But he's pointing out this. And the second thing, and this is what I want to get at, I think he's pointing out that they have a misconception of what greatness is Oh I can I can hear the mother later on. Oh my one son sits at the right hand of the king of Israel. And my other son sits at the left hand. My boys are something else. I think that was in her mind. I want my boys to be great. And of course, what parent doesn't want their children to be successful? What parent doesn't want their children to be great? But they had a misconception about what greatness was. And Jesus says, ye know not what ye asked. There's nothing wrong with being wanting to be great in God's kingdom. There's nothing wrong with wanting to hear God say, well done. Can I put it in my lingo? There's nothing wrong with wanting to hear God say, Man, you did great, Brother Dennis. There's nothing wrong with that. If I understand what greatness is, if I have a clear concept of what God considers to be great. And from our study and looking at this, I don't believe they understood what greatness was. They view greatness as holding an exalted position. Having some great title. What the world considers great and what God considers great are two very different things. And he expands on that. And so he declares their ignorance. And then I notice in verse 24, the disciples are indignant. Oh, they are ticked off. Look there at verse 24. And when the ten heard it, all right, James and John with their mom, they say, hey, and mom said, they come up to the Lord, and uh Mrs. Mrs. Zebedee says, uh, Lord, uh, when you come in your kingdom, could my boys James and John, could one sit on the right hand and the other on the other? On your left hand? And the other disciples are back there. I can see it. I like to pitch a mind. I can see it. Their heads whip up Why did she just did you hear what she just asked? Who do they think we are? And man, they get take- look there at verse 24. When the ten heard it, they were moved with indignation against those two brethren. You say, oh, preacher, surely Christians wouldn't get mad at other Christians Surely disciples wouldn't get upset because of some something other disciples do. Surely that wouldn't happen. How many people realize that happens? I want to remind you this morning. Let me back up. How many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. Amen. It's the vast majority of us. I want to remind you, we're still human. We still have a sinful nature. Other people do. Hey, we still have to deal with this old sinful nature. that flares up unexpectedly when somebody says or does something and we react. How many people here have ever reacted to something someone else said or did? Come on now. Be honest How many people after you did it said, that was stupid, I shouldn't have reacted like that? Hello? So the disciples are human beings. They're great men. We'll see that, but they're still just men at best. And uh here's the thing. All God has to use in his kingdom are sinful people. It's all he has to use. And so they get indignant about this. They get worked up. They are upset. Now here's the thing, they've been with the Lord Jesus about three and a half years now. He's been mentoring them For three and a half years, he has drawn these twelve fellows in under wing, under his wing, and he has taught them. He has been an example to them. He has illustrated biblical spiritual truths to them for three and a half years, and they still don't get it. They still don't have it. After three and a half years with Jesus Christ, their focus is still on themselves. Their thoughts are still about themselves. It's still all about them. Well, why would John and James be on the throne? Where will I be? It's all about me. It's all about what I want. It's all about my will. It's all about my desires. It's all about my opinion. Me, me, me! Only by pride cometh contention, Proverbs tells us. You know why they got indignant? You know why they got mad? Because It looked like someone else was going to be exalted and they weren't, is because they were what? Proud. Their focus was on themselves. They had a misconception of what greatness was in God's eyes. I think one of the greatest difficulties in Christian life is getting my eyes off of myself. One of the greatest challenges in Christian growth and spiritual growth is dying to self. How many people ever heard a preacher say you need to die to self? Anybody ever hear that? Yeah You know why we hear that so much? Because it's one of the hardest things to do in the Christian life Whether we want to admit it or not, whether we want to accept it or not, the fact of the matter is we love ourselves very much Whether we want to admit it or not, we think too highly of ourselves. And our whole life and our whole motives for the most part is: how does this benefit me? How does this accomplish my will? How does this affect me? In fact Our valuation of other people is very much affected by how their actions affect who? Me. Well, I like them because they're nice to me. Oh, they're they're uh uh uh they're they're very important to me because how they affect me. And our world revolves around ourselves. I heard a preacher say one time there's a woman named Edith And Edith's north border, south border, and west border and east border was all uh uh uh was all uh I forget now how he said it. Never mind, forget that Her north and south and east, she was bordered by herself. Did that make any sense at all, Wilbur? I neither, so never mind. I found, I've been watching this Hubble Space Telescope. I've been talking about it a lot lately. I'm just captivated by that. They found, they say they found the center of the universe. And a lot of people are disappointed it wasn't them. Isn't that our problem? The disciples were indignant. Their focus was on themselves. Their love was on themselves. We've been studying John the Baptist in Sunday school. John the Baptist got it. He understood what greatness was in the eyes of God. John the Baptist understood what it meant to be a good Christian. When he said this, speaking of the Lord Jesus, he said this. He must increase, but I must what? Decrease. John the Baptist got it. And you know what Jesus said about John the Baptist? There is never a man born of woman greater than John the Baptist. The disciples completely misunderstood what greatness was. In their eyes, it was having a title. In their eyes, it was holding a position. I'm over these people. People look at me, they praise me, they admire me. John the Baptist said, no. Not me. I get a decrease. He must increase. And Jesus said, boom, nobody greater than John the Baptist. Greatness. Say, preacher, I'd like to be great in God's eyes. That's nothing in the world wrong with that. That's a good thing. If We understand what greatness is. We understand what greatness is. So these disciples were indignant. That John and James would dare to seek to sit on the right hand and the left hand. That their mother would ask this for them. And they got upset. So Jesus takes this opportunity here. The wife of Zebedee, the mother of Zebedee's boys, shows up. John and James are with her. Said, boy, we'd like for you to we'd like for the Lord, she said, I'd like for you, Lord, if you would. Put James on your right hand, John on the other, one on the other, and when you're in your kingdom, the other disciples said, What? Jesus says, hold it, hold it, let me teach you something. And as he often does, he took this opportunity to teach them one of the most important lessons in the Christian life. And that is this, what it means to be great in the eyes of God. True greatness. Number one, here's my my outline. I'll give it to you quickly. Number one, he clarifies what greatness is Talking about greatness, you're talking about position and power and praise, respect and recognition. Let me tell you what greatness is. Look at verse 25. But Jesus called them unto him. Here he's gathering together. He says, all right, class is in session, he's saying, so to speak. Ye know that the princes of the Gentiles, what's the next two words? Talk to me. Exercise dominion over them. And they that are great exercise authority upon them. He's saying, listen, the Gentiles, the world's view of greatness is wrong. The way the view worldview's great is exercising dominion Exercising authority. It's this. The world's idea of great is being able to say this. I'm in charge around here. He says they miss it completely. That's the way the world views greatness. Getting my way Being served, people serving me. I'm exercising dominion. You do my bidding. Having control. Being the boss. I still I mention this. m message recently, but Gabriel said, Pastor, you're the boss around here. You can do whatever you want That's the world's view of greatness, right? I'm the boss. I call the shots. Um, I'm in charge. Being praised. That's the view of greatness. Did you ever pay attention? Listen, did you ever watch how people treat waiters and waitresses in a restaurant? If something is the slightest thing is not right, if they have to wait at all, man they tear tear them up and chill Uh sometimes I see how waiters and waitresses are treated and I think, man, they ought to get paid triple time Because that is the fallen nature. That is the world's view of greatness. You have to serve me on my time, my way, way I want it, when I want it, how I want it. That's the world's view of greatness. Watch how people treat waitresses or waiters Notice what he says there in verse 26, the first part, but it shall not be so among you. You don't act that way. That's not the way God's people see greatness Having dominion, having authority, I'm in charge, doing it my way, my will, me, my. It's not greatness. It's not greatness. It's interesting. This is a very strong statement. As I study this, it says, it shall not be so among you. That is the way it's stated, it is a very, very strong statement. It basically has this idea under no circumstances for any reason at all ever is it to be that way with you. The way the world views greatness, the way the world views greatness, under no circumstances should be the way you do as my disciple. He clarifies what disciples is. The worldview of greatness is rooted in pride. The world's view of greatness is focused on self. Can I put it this way? This is the world's view of greatness, not thy will, but my will be done. Huh? Not your will, my will. I'm in charge here. It's my will. What I want is number one top priority. That's the world's view of greatness. And Jesus says, under no circumstances at all ever should that be true about you or about our church. The world's view of greatness is not thy will, but my will be done. God's view of greatness is not rooted in pride, it's rooted in Christ. God's view of greatness is focused not on myself but on others. In other words, like Christ said, not my will, but what? Thy will be done. God says that's the great person. Paul put it this way in Galatians chapter 2 verse 20 says, For I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, listen to this, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. You know what Paul was saying? Paul was saying, it's not about me, it's about Christ. It's not about me, it's about serving the Lord and helping others. That's greatness. He clarifies what greatness is. A great Christian removes self out of the equation and makes it all about Christ and others. A great Christian removes self from the equation and makes it all about Christ and the needs of others. And by the way, a great church does that same thing. Oh, that's a great church. I'll tell you what a great church is. A great church is a church that makes much of Christ. A great church is a church that gives ourselves to reach and help others. Not building a kingdom, not exalting ourselves, not saying how great we are It's saying how great Christ is. And giving ourselves to serve Christ by helping others. That's a great church. You know, you could have a church of 25 people be great in the eyes of God. You could have a church of 25,000 people and be small, itty-bitty church in the eyes of God. Jesus has to clarify with the disciples here what greatness is. Fellas, it's not about you. It's not about your position. It's not about your will. It's about accomplishing the will of God. It's about being a help and blessing to others. And I think in 2023 in American Christianity We need to clarify once again what greatness is in God's eyes. It's not me, it's not you, it's Christ. Not I, but Christ. So he clarifies here what greatness is. Second of all, I notice he gives the conditions for greatness. Look with me again, if you would, at verse 26. Look what he says. But it shall not be so among you. We don't operate the way the world does. We don't go by their principles. We don't operate by their values the way they see stuff. It shall not be so among you, but whosoever will be great among you, my disciples, my people, let him be your minister. Whose servant will be chief among you? Let him be your servant, minister, servant. I put in the margin of my Bible beside those verses, I wrote this down. God saved me to serve. To serve others. Not be served, but to serve others. I say this often, and I say it jokingly, but somebody walks in the back doors of the church, push the doors open, stand there and says, okay, bless me That is not what greatness is in the eyes of God. You know what greatness is? Push the doors open, they stand there and say, God, use me. Use me to be a help and blessing to others. And God says there's greatness. They'll be your minister He'll be your servant. I tell you, the world's greatness, the word servant is not part of the definition of the world's definition of greatness. Not servant, not minister. He says, you'll be a servant. That's what greatness is. The conditions for greatness is being a minister. That word minister is an interesting word. By the way, just by But an aside, this comes from the same word as the word deacon, to minister, to serve. To give myself and invest my time and effort and energies in the good of the church, the well-being of the church, so that it functions and grows and is what God wants it to be It has the idea of one who meets the needs of others, one who cares for others, one who waits on others. Greatness in the eyes of the world is the person sitting at the table being waited on by the waiters and waitresses. Greatness in the eyes of God is the waiter and waitress, waiting and serving others. You see the difference? And he says one of the conditions to being great in God's eyes isn't people coming and ministering to you. That doesn't make you great in God's eyes. What makes you great in God's eyes is you giving and serving and ministering to others. To others. One of the conditions for greatness is to be a minister. One who serves and cares for and meets the needs and waits on others. Then he says, verse 27: Let him be your servant. That word servant is actually translated a lot of places in the Bible. Same word is translated slave. I ain't being nobody's slave, and you're not going to be very great in God's eyes. I heard a preacher say one time, he said, I always prayed that God would use me. He said, then I complained to my wife that I feel like I'm being used. Huh? Yeah. Say, preacher, if I have that attitude, if I get the attitude it's not about me, it's about others. It's helping others, exalting Christ, being a blessing, meeting the needs of others, serving others. If I do that, I'll get taken advantage of Yeah. You will. Trust me. This world will take advantage of that. But I'm here to tell you, we don't live for this world. We live beyond this world. Some Christians are all hung up because all they can see is the 60, 70, 80 years, 90 years we have to live here. And everything they value, everything based On that brief period of time of our physical life here on earth, in reality, we have eternity ahead of us And how we use ourselves, how we view ourselves, how we give of ourselves here is vitally important to glorify the God that gives us eternal life. I hope I'm making sense. Greatness in the eyes of God is being a minister. That's what Jesus says. Is serving others, a slave. Gives himself up to others, devoted to the well-being of others. That's the condition for greatness. It means to disregard my own will for the will of God. It means to disregard my own well-being for the well-being of others. You want to be great in the world's eyes? Demand your own way. You want to be great in the world's eyes? Manipulate people to do what you want. Lie and manipulate and twist to get your way. And this world will say, man, that's dog eat dog. They're street wise. Man, they they they know how to get through this life. God says that's not even what it's about at all. You want to be great in God's eyes? Guide itself. Yield your will to God and serve others. When I was in Bible college down in Chattanooga, I was only there a week. I got involved in the bus ministry. I love the bus ministry. I thank God for our bus ministry. I like all our ministries. I love the bus ministry. I love our ministries, but the bus ministry is special to me. In fact, I met my wife in the bus ministry. We got married. Our flower ch not flower child. Um flower girl. The flower girl and the ring guy. We're both little kids off our bus route out of inner city Chattanooga. They were on our bus ministry. I had bus families in our bus in our wedding party. Love the bus ministry. I was working down there. I met a girl. Her name was Belial. Carla Belial. Never married. Just a young lady at the point. She never did marry. I tell you, this girl, I'm telling you, was great in the eyes of God. Unassuming, just served, she went to school full-time, she worked full-time for the school in a scholarship program. She worked in the bus ministry. We ran 42 buses every Sunday It was full-time bus ministry. I mean we put in I put in twenty hours over the weekend just working the buses Carla Belial just gave herself to those dear people. There was a lady on our route, uh, again our route, we were afternoon Sunday school. And it was inner city projects, I mean drugs and prostitution and gangs. I mean, it was bad There was one house there as a lady lived by herself, an older lady very heavy. I'm not trying to be unkind or disrespectful, but that house reeked. I could barely stand at the door without my stomach turning. It was absolutely filthy. And apparently had been that way for a long time. And we'd go by every Saturday, we'd go by, knock on a door, talk to her a little bit. Pray with her, she claimed to know the Lord, and it was just an awful, awful situation. One day I came by, Saturday I came by, I knocked on the door, and she opened the door, and the place was spotless. Things were put away, it smelled like cleaning solution. I mean, the place was spotless, sanitary as a hospital. And I said, wow, what happened? Man, that place looks great. She said, this week Carla came by. And she took a whole day and she scrubbed my house top to bottom for me. Carla never said a word to anybody about it. She didn't broadcast it. She didn't put it on social media. Look what I did. In fact, they didn't even have that then. Praise the Lord She didn't get up in church. I just want to testify what I did. She never said a word. But a dear poor lady in inner city Chattanooga, in the slums, was served. By a young college girl that wanted nothing for herself, but only to be a help and a blessing to someone else. I'm telling you this morning, that's what Jesus says is greatness. Not what this world says. This world is wrong. This world is on a highway to hell. And our God and our Savior says, you want my praise, you want to be great in my eyes? You die to self and give yourself to serve others. Carla ended up going to Suriname Work down there as a single lady, missionary, reaching those dear people, serving. Her health got to the point it failed so badly she couldn't stay She came back, she lives out in Oklahoma today, working in a local church, as best she can out in Oklahoma. Never married, never name up in lights, never a position, never a title I'm here to tell you, she is great in the eyes of God. Jesus said, Do you want to be great? You be a minister. Be a servant, a slave to others. You say, preacher, what will people think of me? I'll be honest with you. The older I get, the less I care what people think of me, the more I'm concerned about what God thinks of me. It would be great, serve others. Buy to self. Get that self-will out of your system. Want to be great in the world's eyes, demand your own way, manipulate, connive, seek recognition and praise. Want to be great in God's eyes, die to self. Yield your will to the Lord. Serve others. And then he gives the criteria for greatness. Look at verse 28, and I'll end with this. And who verse 27, Whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant. That word means slave. Then look at verse 28. Look at the first two words. Even as The Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to what? Minister. And then he brings up that subject again, to give his life a ransom for many. Jesus did not come to get, he came to give. He did not come to be served, he came to serve. And greatness in God's eyes is not you and I being served, and you and I being ministered unto, and you and I getting. That is not greatness. In God's eyes, it's giving and serving and ministering. Even as Jesus is the standard for greatness. Jesus is the model for greatness. Jesus is our pattern for greatness. If I want to be great, be like Jesus. He will intern with me just quickly, Luke chapter twenty-two. Matthew, Mark, Luke, come to chapter 22. Again, this is toward the end of Jesus Ministry here on earth. He's coming up to Jerusalem. He's going to be crucified. Luke 22. Look with me if you would at verse 24. I don't not convinced this is the exact same incident as what we read in Matthew. Notice in verse 24, and there was also strife among them. Which of them should be accounted what? Here this is again: these guys worried about being great. And he said unto them, the kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and they that exercise authority upon them are called benefactors. But ye shall not be so. But he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger. He that is chief as he that doth serve. For whether is greater, he that sitteth at meat, or he that serveth Is not he that sitteth at me, but I am among you as he that serveth. Ye are they which have continued with me in my temptation. Then he goes on. He goes, greatness is serving, not being served. Come over, one more passage, John chapter thirteen, if you would. John chapter 13, and notice with me verse number 4. This is the instituting the Lord's Supper. This is the night before Jesus is crucified. Humanly speaking, we would understand if his whole focus was on himself. He's about to be crucified. But look what he does. Verse 4. John 13, he, Jesus, riseth from supper and laid aside his garments and took a towel and girded himself. After that, he poured water into a basement and began to do what? Talk to me. Wash the disciples' feet. Are you kidding me? And to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded. Of course Peter speaks up, you ain't washing my feet. He goes, well, I better. He says, all right, don't just wash my feet, wash everything. And Jesus, in my words, says, You knucklehead, you don't even know what I'm talking about. If I was one of the disciples, I think I'd have said, Peter, sit down and shut up. He's teaching us something. Come down to verse number 12. So after he had washed their feet and taken his garments and was set down again, he said unto them, Know ye what I have done to you? You know what I just did? You know what I've just tried to teach you? You call me Master and Lord. And you say, well, I am your Master and Lord. Can I put it in the context of my message? Can I put it this way? I am the great one. I am master and Lord. What the world wants to be master and be Lord. He goes, I really am. Look what he says. But if I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet, that's a servant's job. That's the slave's job Ye also ought to wash one another's feet. Look at this. For I have given you a what? Example. That ye should do as I have done to you. Now, I don't think the Lord is instituting an ordinance in the church like baptism and Lord's Supper. Some denominations have foot washing. Everybody ever hear that It's funny, the church I grew up in had footwashing. Um and uh the funny thing is the night before we had foot washing, our ma my mom would trim our toes and scrub our feet Trim our toenails, I mean they were s you could eat off our feet when we came into foot washing And I'm not trying to make fun of it, but I don't think it's an ordinance instituted here. But I think he is telling us what greatness is. Greatness is humbling myself. Some would put it this way, humiliating myself so that I can be a help and a blessing, encouragement to someone else. What Jesus was saying is this greatness is not about me. It's about me dying. The self and serving others, even to the point of washing their feet How many people say that's a little repulsive to wash someone else's feet? If you smell my feet, you would feel that way. But do you get the point? It's not us. It's not me. It's not my will that's serving. About a year ago, the Lord pressed on my heart hard. And I've failed horribly at this, but I just want to tell you that passage where he said, the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister. I said, Lord, help me do that. In my home, in my marriage In my relationship with my family, in my relationship with my church, not somebody doing stuff for me Giving myself to do for others. Do for others. Sometimes we think, why in the world, why in the world am I doing this? Because Jesus didn't come to be ministered until he came to minister. And he's our criteria, he's our pattern, he's our example. Anybody recognize the name Hudson Taylor? Would you agree with me? Hudson Taylor is a great missionary. By anybody's standard, Hudson Taylor was one of the greatest missionaries in the history of the church. He was back, and I don't I don't know if it was England or America. He was back from China and he was giving report, and by this time his fame had spread around the Christian world. And he was speaking at I don't know if it's a large church or a big convention, somewhere he was speaking, and in between meetings There was a lady in the church that heard all about him and all these fantastic things that God had done in China through Hudson Taylor's ministry. And she wanted to ask him a question. It was eating at her. She wanted to ask Hudson Taylor if he ever got proud. But she was afraid to ask him that question. So she went to his wife. And she said to Mrs. Hudson, she goes, I have a question. Has Hudson Taylor, does Hudson Taylor ever get proud? And Hudson Taylor's wife said, I don't know. I'll ask him. And so his wife went on behalf of this lady to Hudson Taylor and she said, There's a lady out here that wants to know if you ever get proud. And Hudson Taylor answered without hesitation, he said, out of what? And she says, you know all the stuff you've done. What stuff? Well, you know, thousands of people saved and churches established and just tremendous word. And Hudson Taylor said, that wasn't me. That was God did that through me. It won me it all. That I want to submit to you is greatness. It's not me. It's not my praise. It's God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, dear Lord, you'd help us to readjust our thinking. As to what it means to be great. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I've really got to deal with this self-will of mine? It's there. I've got to deal with it. Any like that, Christians, uplifting hand. This old self-well, I've got to learn to die to self. I've got to I wonder if there's some say, preacher this morning, I've got to learn to minister and not be minister. I just got to get that frame of mind in my head. And it's not about what somebody's doing for me, but it's me doing for others. Anybody like that, I've got to get that in my head. My hands are raised. Both of them Greatness in the eyes of God. Is there someone here say, preacher, I'm not saved? You say, preacher, I gotta get that settled. I don't want to die and go to hell. I believe Jesus died for me and rose again. I need him to come in my life and save me. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me that I get that settled. My soul's salvation. Is there any like that? The uplifted hand. Preacher, I need to get this settled. I gotta get it settled. Any at all? Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. Have your way. Help us to respond in faith to what this passage teaches us. In Jesus' name. Amen.