Please to Second Thessalonians three. Second Thessalonians chapter three. And we'll begin reading here in verse one in just a moment. I'd be done, Pastor. You find 2 Thessalonians 3. By the way, I I enjoyed the special music a few moments ago there as well. Uh I would never ever attempt that song a cappella. But you did a wonderful job with that. Thank you very much. Right on key all the way through. Did you notice that? And uh that was impressive Let's pray together and we'll read our scripture and get into the message. Lord Jesus, we thank you again for the opportunity to be in this wonderful church, for the missions heart that is shown by this pastor and people. We ask you to speak to our hearts this morning from your word. That's why we're here. We didn't come here to hear a man. We didn't come here uh just for fellowship, although we enjoy that. We came here so the word of God can impact our lives. And I pray that you will speak to each of us this morning. There's a reason every one of us is is here And may you accomplish that purpose in each of our lives. May we be willing. May we listen. May we open our ears to what you would have to say to us. And we ask you for the Spirit's fullness now. And we ask it in the name of Jesus and for his sake. Amen. I want to speak to you this morning on the heart cry of the missionary. The heart cry of the missionary. I want to talk about the one thing this morning that you can do that will have a greater impact on world evangelism than any other one thing you can do. One thing you can do that will impact the world more than anything else. It's a very simple thing. You've heard sermons on it before. Let's read our text in 1 Thessalonians, I'm sorry, 2 Thessalonians 3 and verse 1. Just the first three verses. Finally, brethren, pray for us, that the word of the Lord may have free course and be glorified even as it is with you. and that we may be delivered from unreasonable and wicked men, for all men have not faith. But the Lord is faithful, who shall establish you and keep you from evil. Finally, brethren, verse 1, pray for us. Pray for us. Prayer was the heartbeat of the ministry of the Apostle Paul Forty times in Paul's epistles he spoke of the need for prayer for either the individual Christian or for the church as a corporate body. Forty times Paul mentions in some way the need for prayer. I want to give you three simple thoughts this morning and then we'll we'll go to lunch because I'm starting to get hungry already. Number one, I want to suggest that we must pray for each other. We must pray for each other. Paul says these simple words in this verse right here, brethren, pray for us Now I want us to think about that request for a few moments, and I want to suggest that we need to be praying for one another. And what do we say when we pray for each other? And I don't want to be unkind at all this morning, but I want to make this statement. Often we can kind of get in a little bit of a rut or a pattern, and we can say the same old things about the same old things. Our prayers can get stale. They can be generic. God bless Brother Bob. God help Sister Betty. We can pray things that are just so general that they don't really have a specific. Now, if you want to ask God to bless my life, I would appreciate that. But there's more specific things we can pray. And so I was studying one day, and I came across all of this, and I want to just share it briefly with you here in this first point. I want you to turn with me, please, to Ephesians 3. Hold your place in 2 Thessalonians, but go to Ephesians 3 and verse number 14. Paul often prayed for others, and he gives us a wonderful example of what it means to sincerely and effectively Pray for other Christians. And I want us to look at a couple of these examples. Ephesians chapter 3 and verse 14. Paul says these words in his prayer for the uh the Christians at Ephesus. He says in Ephesians 3. 14, For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named. That he would grant you according to the riches of his glory. Now, notice what Paul is appealing to here. He's not appealing to uh what we can do or what we can accomplish, but he's appealing to the riches of God's giving glory, his giving grace And then he says these words, to be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man, that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith That ye being rooted and grounded in love may be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breadth and length and depth and height. And to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled with all the fullness of God Notice these requests right here. He said, I pray that you would be strengthened with might. Verse 16, strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man. I've had people pick up their phone and call me and give me on the phone just an encouraging word. Preacher, I wanted you to know I was thinking about you today. I love you. I hope you have a wonderful day. Or someone will sometimes send a card, and in the card they'll put just a very encouraging little note Have you ever had that happen to you? The encouraging word of a friend is sometimes a wonderful thing, isn't it? Kind of gives you a little boost and gets you along for the day But I want to suggest that if you would pray that your friend would be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man, we can go a lot longer on that. If the Lord would strengthen me in here, I can go a lot farther than your encouraging word would ever take me or encourage me to go. Then notice he says that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, and being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend. The very fact that Paul would make this request indicates to me that we don't really comprehend the love of Christ. He says here, may be able to comprehend the breadth and length and depth and height and to know the love of Christ which passeth knowledge. Do you what do you think your life would be? What do you think your life would be like if you really understood the depth of his love? If you really understood how much Christ loves you and the sacrifice he made for you, we talk about it all the time. We talk about the cross and the shed blood and Jesus coming to earth and dying for us. But Paul says here that this kind of thing is it passes knowledge. But my prayer for you is that you would be That Christ would be so full in your heart, that you would be so rooted and grounded in this love that you would understand just how much God loves you. I think it would change my life, don't you? If I understood that. And then he says here at the end of verse 19: that ye might be filled with all the fullness of God. Boy, wouldn't that change your life? If Jesus just filled up your heart, if you were filled with his fullness, if if every thought you you had, every thought of your mind was of Christ. and his love and his work in your life and what he wants to accomplish through your life and the glory that he wants to receive from your life. If if if every thought was dominated by the fullness of God in my heart, my life would be better. These are substantive prayer requests. These are far greater than just God bless Jim. This is God fill Jim with all the fullness of yourself Show him your love. Help him to understand your love and strengthen him in the inner man so that in those times of weakness, in those times of discouragement or despondency, that he'll have the strength to go on. I was sitting in my office one day and I was thinking about a missionary in Tunisia, Africa, a good friend of mine, and I I I I the Lord put a burden in my heart for him, and so right there sitting at my desk, I prayed for him right through this passage of Scripture. I said, Lord, would you please strengthen Michael by your spirit in the inner man? Michael's in a place where it's illegal to pass out a gospel tract, it's illegal to witness, it's illegal to give someone a Bible. It's illegal to hold a worship service and try to convert people from other faiths. It's a Muslim nation. And Michael means your strength. And would you fill Michael with all the fullness of God so that the Muslims who live around him can see Jesus Christ in him and be drawn irresistibly to the power and the love of God? That's substantive praying, isn't it? Look at Colossians chapter 1. Turn just a few pages to Colossians chapter 1, verse 9. Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians. You can find several of these examples in the Scripture. We're just looking at two of them this morning. Colossians 1, verse 9 says, For this cause also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you. Look at this, and to desire that ye might be filled, filled with the knowledge of his will and all wisdom and spiritual understanding. Why I wish every single time I have a decision to make, I would know exactly what God wants me to do. Now, the will of God is found in the Word of God. Can you say amen right there? There are a lot of things you don't need to pray about, you don't need to wonder about because God's told us what to do. But in in life and ministry, there are a lot of things, in your pastor's ministry right here, there are a lot of decisions that have to be made that he needs to know the will of God in this matter. What would God have our church to do? And I want to be very honest with you right here. I'll come back to this in a moment, but I don't understand sometimes how we can expect a pastor to feed us and lead us and visit us when we're sick and and uh and uh celebrate with us when we're rejoicing and be there to help us and counsel us when we have problems, but we don't take the time to pray for it. And if I'm going to submit myself to the authority of a local pastor and sit in a local New Testament church, I want my pastor to be filled with the knowledge of his will. The previous passage we read, I want my pastor, every time he stands behind this pulpit, I want him to be filled with all the fullness of God. I want when he preaches that the Spirit of God speaks in power. I don't want my pastor to stand behind this pulpit and give me a psychology lesson because he's out of touch with the Spirit of God. I wanted to preach the Word of God to me in power and in the fullness of the Spirit. Can you say amen right there? So if you want to come to church and be fed from the Word of God, pray that God will fill your preacher with the fullness of God. In verse number 10, Colossians 1, that you might walk worthy of the Lord in the all-pleasing. You know, it'd be a wonderful thing. If we would pray for each other that God would help us walk the right path. Do you struggle sometimes? You don't have to say amen right there. Do you struggle sometimes? Do you do you deal with sin and temptation sometimes? Do you get frustrated by the limitations of this body and the and the temptations sometimes that you fe you want to give in to? Boy, if you had people around you praying that you would walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing. Being fruitful, it says, in every good work and increasing In the knowledge of God, strengthened. Here it is again with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience with long su and long-suffering with joyfulness. Would you pray that I will have the joy of the Lord? Wouldn't that be a wonderful thing if we're praying these substantive prayers? I want to move on from this, but but do you get the point? Instead of just saying, you know what, I prayed for you, well, what what'd you say? Oh, I prayed for God to bless you and help you. Well, I pray that you'd be filled with the knowledge of His will. I pray that you'd be filled with the fullness of God. I pray you'd understand the love of God. I prayed these substantive requests for you, and I'm asking God to do these wonderful things in your life Isn't that good? I encourage you to pray for each other like that. So Paul is saying here, pray for us. Now, this is one, let's go a little deeper into this request. Go back to 2 Thessalonians 3 now, if you would please. This is one of six times where Paul asked other people to pray for him One of those is Romans 15, 30, where he said to the Christians there, he asked them to strive together with me in your prayers for me. So six times Paul asked people to pray for him. Now, my question here is, who would think that the Apostle Paul needed prayer? He was such a bold Christian, wasn't he? Have any of you ever stood in the face of persecutors and preached the gospel? Have any of you ever been in a place where they pick it they're picking up rocks to stone you and you just keep on proclaiming the the truth of the Lord, the the word of the Lord? He was so bold with the gospel, he was so courageous even to face the strongest opposition. He said in Acts 20, 24, speaking of all the persecution and the threat to his own life, he said, but none of these things move me. Neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy, and the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus to testify the gospel of the grace of God. Who would think the apostle Paul needed prayer? He was an apostle. He was called of God. He had seen the resurrected Christ. Who would think he needed prayer? But can I suggest to you that if the Apostle Paul needed the supporting prayers of Brothers and Sisters in Christ, how much more do we need it? Have you ever felt this great weight of the need for people to pray for you? I can say that a year ago I felt the need for people to pray, but I was so sick and out of it I really I really didn't know a whole lot of what was going on during many of those days. But once the situation was over, I realized the wonderful value of people taking your name to the throne of God when you can't do it yourself. Have you ever felt that kind of a weight? You're struggling with something, you've experienced a loss, you've been diagnosed with an illness, and you just feel this great weight. Why, would you please pray for me? That's how Paul felt right here. He said, brethren, pray for us. And we need prayer more than we know. We we need prayer more than we know, j more than just when we get sick or we lose a job or we lose a loved one. We need prayer every day. To help us live in the fullness of God and help us walk in the knowledge of His will. We need the prayers of each other. You need my prayers? You have burdens and needs that I don't know about? You need my prayers. Your pastor needs your prayers. We need each other. Most churches, I'm sure yours does too. On Wednesday nights, perhaps some form of a prayer list. that is that is passed out or prayer requests are taken and we all pray together, those times should be taken seriously. Because listen to this. If we don't pray for each other, who's going to pray for us? We need each other. And Paul, I believe, in this simple four words, brethren, pray for us, is expressing this great weight, this deep need for help from his brothers and sisters in Christ And may God impress that on our hearts this morning. But there is more here. I want us to look deeper into this request, and let me give you some background on it before I give you point number two. Paul is writing 2 Thessalonians to a persecuted church. He's writing it to the Church of Thessalonica that is going through very difficult times. Hold your place again in 2 Thessalonians there and go back to 1 Thessalonians 1. 1 Thessalonians 1 and verse 6. Paul is writing to this persecuted church, and here's some of the evidence of it. And hold your place here. We're going to read some more in a moment. But in verse 6 it says, And ye became followers of us and of the Lord Notice this phrase, having received the word in much affliction. So I'm trying to set the stage here. Paul's writing to a suffering people. Paul is writing from a very difficult place of ministry called Corinth. I mentioned in Sunday school this morning that it was one of the most difficult cities Paul ever preached the gospel in, the city of Corinth. You can read about it in Acts chapter 18, where Paul became so discouraged in the city of Corinth that Jesus himself appeared to Paul in a vision just to encourage him to keep preaching. Paul, we read it this morning in 1 Corinthians chapter 2. He characterized his own church planting ministry in Corinth as one as one characterized by weakness and fear and much trembling. So get this now. Faced in Corinth with the enormous task of preaching the gospel, the challenges of the gospel. Paul says to the church in Thessalonica that is also suffering, he said, brethren, pray for us. Now look back at your text. Hold 1 Thessalonians 1. Go back to 2 Thessalonians 3. Finally, brethren, pray for us, verse one. Notice the next part of the request. That the word of the Lord may have free course. And be glorified even as it is with you. Now think about this. Number one, I said, we need to pray for each other. Number two, we must pray for the gospel to advance. We must pray that the Word of the Lord may have free course. And I want you to see this morning that that is the heart of the Apostle Paul in this prayer request. That is his heart's cry This is the heart cry of the missionary. Although Paul said, Pray for us, it's a very unselfish request He's not asking you to pray for his sore back or his his uh knee replacement. Nothing wrong with asking for help with those things But Paul's request is more spiritual than that in the fact that he says, My request for your prayers is that the word of the Lord may have free course. Now, what does this mean right here? This phrase, free course, is uh is a picture of an athlete pressing himself to go faster in a race. This means to spread rapidly, to run, to speed ahead, to make progress. A as an athlete coming to the finish line of the four hundred meter race and pressing himself in the final sprint of the race to get to the finish line first. Paul is not just saying, pray for me, but he's saying, pray that God will use me in the advancing of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Pray that it will go forward. Now, notice he said, even as it is with you. Go back to 1 Thessalonians 1. If you held your place there, 1 Thessalonians 1, verse 5. How was it with them? He says, even as it is with you, how was it with them? Verse 5, for our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power. Notice, in power and in the Holy Ghost, and in much assurance, as you know what manner of men we were among you for your sake, and ye became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction With joy of the Holy Ghost? And what happened when they received the word? Verse 7. So that you were in samples to all that believe in Macedonia and Nikaiah. For from you sounded out the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but also in every place your faith to Godward is spread abroad, so that we need not speak anything For they themselves show of us what manner of entering in we had unto you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God And to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus which delivered us from the wrath to come. You know what Paul was saying? He said, Would you remember how it was when the gospel came to you? You receive the word in power and with joy. And it makes such a change in your life. It made such a change among the people of Thessalonica that all over the place, when I would go to other cities, I didn't have to tell them what happened to you. They were telling me what happened to you. Because the gospel came to you in power and you received it and it changed you. It changed your country. It changed your city, rather. Now go back to our text. Paul is in Corinth. And he said, remember Thessalonians, what happened with you? Would you please pray that that will happen here? Paul's preaching the gospel and he's discouraged. Nobody's getting saved. Every night a thousand prostitutes from the temple uh on the top of uh the Acropolis would come down and ply their trait in the city. It was a most it was a most immoral city Paul had ever been to I can't not imagine the satanic opposition he was facing. Brother Pastor Leatherman was talking to we were talking last night about Kazakhstan and and visiting there in that Muslim-dominated country And feeling the satanic opposition, the satanic presence. And I can't imagine what Paul felt in that most wicked, immoral city that he had ever been in. And he's saying to these people who have received the Word of God. Would you please pray that what happened with you will happen here? What he's asking is this, would you please pray that when I preach the word of God, people will receive it? Would you please pray that the power of the enemy would be bound? Would you please pray that there will be no hindrances to the the the deliverance of the gospel, that it will find hearts that are receptive? That it will have impact in people's lives. Would you please pray that as you receive the word with power, that God would empower my preaching here in the city of Corinth? I've been a preacher for 26 almost 26 years. And there have been a lot of times, Pastor, when I stood behind my pulpit. As a pastor for 16 years, I stood behind my pulpit and preached. And when the service was over and I sat back down in my seat, I thought, it probably would have been better if I just hadn't even got up there this morning. I don't know if I did it too much in the flesh. I don't know if I didn't prepare well enough. But sometimes to me it just seemed ineffective. Seemed like Just I it was a waste of my time. But I have stood behind the pulpit a few times. When I preach a simple message and God takes his word and drives it home in somebody's heart, and a life is changed. When the gospel is received by someone who is lost and they walk the aisle and they trust Christ as their Savior. I've preached when the Spirit of God is at work. In great power. And people are moved and people are stirred, and the word of God has impact in their lives. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is the heart cry of Paul. When I preach, would you pray that God will work? When I was a young preacher, I used to say often when I would pray before I preached the message, I would say, Lord, would you please use me today? I quit praying that a long time ago. Because it isn't about me. My prayer now is, Lord, would you use your word today? The prayer is that the word of the Lord might have free course. Not that my preaching will impress you, not that I will wow you with my oratorical ability, but that when I open the Word of God and read it, The Spirit of God will take the Word of God and reach into your heart and do something in your life. It's the hard cry of Paul. Now, can we apply this to the missionaries you support? I promise you this is true. You don't support one missionary that doesn't desire your prayers. And we can send missionaries anywhere in the world, we can send them with all the training we want to give them, and we can send them with all the money they need. But if we don't send them with our prayers, it isn't going to work. It isn't going to work. We are working, worldview ministers, we're working in places in the world where the devil has a strong hold. And these are dark places. We're working among Tibetan Buddhists that have been held in the stronghold of the devil since about 500 to 700 years before Jesus came. The devil's had those people in a locked vice grip. And we go there and we begin preaching the gospel. And I promise you the devil's not going to let go without a fight. We we were visiting in the pole and we had three of our Indian students from our school in South India. We rented an a uh we have have uh uh rented an apartment there. It's kind of a flat a building with three different apartments in it. We're on the bottom floor. And we've rented that for our translation center where the where the translation of God's Word is taking place. So these three young men we had we had just rented that and prepared the space to begin the project and these three young men came to visit and they were sleeping in that apartment. The first morning, after they slept there the first night, the next morning we were talking to them, and one of them said, During the night, I woke up and there was something on my chest and I couldn't breathe. And he said, I I made enough noise that I got the attention of my two friends who were also in the same room, and they came and knelt by my bed, and I began to scream and they began to pray and it went away. I'm not trying to be spooky or sensational, but I'm telling you the devil's real. Brother Justin Levine, who is our Worldview Associate on that project He was sitting in that office uh uh uh several several weeks later, and he was working on his computer and he had an SD card that You put in a you put it in your camera and it takes pictures or you can put files on it on the computer. So he had this SD card in the side of his computer and he's working on the definitions of some Tibetan words And he typed in the word expel, and that SD card shot out of his computer and hit the wall about eight feet away. His wife walked into the apartment one day. That's where they also homeschool their children and the children of another missionary family. She opened the door, which is two heavy wooden doors that are held closed by a locking, a sliding hasp with a huge uh padlock on it, very thick, heavy padlock. The door the windows are barred so nobody can get in and out any other way. There's no other door, it's just the front door. She unlocked the lock and slid the hash back and pulled the doors open and stepped into the room and over in the corner was a man sitting on a chair. She backed out of the room and closed the doors and she stood on the porch, brave young lady. She stood on the porch and prayed and asked God for help. She opened the doors and walked back into the room and that man was gone. And again, I'm telling you, I'm not trying to be spooky or sensational, but satanic presence and power is real. And so we send a missionary to Nepal in Tibet. And we send missionaries to Kazakhstan, and we send missionaries to Pakistan and India and Indonesia, and we expect him to go deliver the gospel and see great numbers of people saved. But are we faithful to pray for them that the word of the Lord may have free course through their ministry? I want to tell you it won't happen without our prayers. It won't happen. I I I know you're here this morning and you're serious about being in church or you wouldn't be here But I want you to know the work of the Lord is not a game. It's serious business It is about the Word of God having free course among peoples who are in spiritual ignorance and total spiritual darkness. And there is no more important message for them to hear than the word of the Lord. Did you know there are 4,219 language groups in this world today that still do not have one verse of Scripture? 4,219 language groups. And I want to tell you, we're not going to get them the word of the Lord without the prayers of God's people. So I want to close this morning with this application. There's one more point here where Paul says, and that we may be delivered from unreasonable and wicked men. For all men have not faith. We not only need to pray for each other, we must pray for the advance of the gospel through those we send. We almost must also pray for their protection. You know it's the most unreasonable thing in the world for people to reject the gospel of Jesus. You agree with that? If you take the three largest false religions in the world, Islam, Hinduism, and Buddhism. And you you examine their core beliefs, and you examine the lives of those who practice those religions, and here's what you're going to find out with all three of them, and many, many other false religions as well. You're going to find out that every one of them longs to have a relationship with God. They want to know God. Number two, they long to have the forgiveness of their sins because every man has a sense of his own condemnation And number three, they long for a place of eternal peace or bliss or perfection, however they describe it, they long for a place of paradise. And so we come along with the gospel of Jesus Christ and we say, let me tell you about a God who sent his son to earth to become one of you, and shed his blood, and died for you so you could be saved. And he offers you through that shed blood, he offers you redemption from your sins. He offers to save you from the penalty of your sins. And he offers you a home in heaven where you can live with him forever when you die. And they persecute the messenger. That's why Paul said here, unreasonable and wicked men. Matthew Henry said about this verse, Matthew Henry said, those who are the enemies to the preaching of the gospel and persecutors of the faithful preachers of it are unreasonable and wicked men. They act against all the rules and laws of reason and are guilty of the greatest absurdity and impiety. So we need to pray for their protection. Can I challenge you with this? It's easy to give. It's hard to pray. But this is the most important thing. Someone said one time, pray for pray for missionaries and pray for laborers. That's nothing. Give me something important to do. I want to tell you there's nothing more important you can do than to pray for your missionaries. Go back and pray these prayers that we looked at from Ephesians and Colossians, and there's some in Philippians, and there's some in 1 Thessalonians. Go back and pray these prayers, and most of all, pray that the word of the Lord may have free course. Through their lives and through their ministries. I'm learning a lesson I I'm the kind of person that always wants to get it figured out. I'm I'm I have a little bit of a gift of administration, I think, and I want to get it all organized and figured out how it's going to all work. And I want to make it happen. So I'll talk to people and get it all fixed and organized and planned and scheduled. But I'm learning a lesson, I'm still learning it. You can pray that I'll learn it better. But I've come to believe that it's more important to talk to God about people than it is to talk to people about God. You have to think about that for a while. We think if we send a missionary with the gospel in it, and it is the power of God and salvation, people can be saved through the preaching of the gospel. Amen, right there. But if we send a missionary out there and he preaches the right way and he says the right words and he uses the right verses, there's gonna he's gonna reap a great harvest. But sometimes it doesn't happen that way. What we need to do is pray to God for that missionary. It's more important to talk to God on behalf of that missionary than it is for that missionary to talk to those people about the gospel. So I don't know if I believe that. I do. It's proven in Matthew 9, 36 through 38. When Jesus saw the multitude scattered a sheep without a shepherd, he did not say, go get busy witnessing. He said, let's pray. Right? He could have organized the disciples. Looking out at that multitude, he could have organized the twelve disciples into teams. You get that section, and you get that section, and you get that section. He didn't say let's develop better strategies. He didn't say let's get better organized. He said, let's pray that the Lord of the harvest would send forth laborers into his harvest. The greatest thing you can do to cause the world evangelism is pray that the word of the Lord may have free course, even as it is with you. Are you saved this morning? Did the word of the Lord come to you in power? And at some point in your life you responded By bowing your head and your heart and trusting Jesus Christ as your Savior, has the gospel impacted you? Then as it impacted you, would you pray that it will impact the world? That's our prayer this morning. Let's bow our heads together, please. If you're here this morning and you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, The very gospel I'm talking about is for you. If you've never trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, It's not church membership, it's not baptism, it's not good works, it's not believing, it is faith in Jesus Christ. Have you ever trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior? If you've never done that this morning, based on the authority of God's word, I would have to tell you that you're lost and on your way to hell. But the good news is you can come to Jesus right here this morning. If you don't know the Lord as your Savior, if you'll come down this aisle in just a few moments when we stand. Somebody will take a Bible and show you how you can come to know Jesus. Show you how you can be saved from the condemnation of your own sin. And be brought into the family of God. I urge you to come this morning if you're lost. I want to challenge you as a Christian. If you are a Christian this morning, would you please commit yourself to praying substantively for those who are spreading the gospel? Maybe God's calling you to the mission field, but but not everybody gets called to the mission field, and here's the alternative. If you don't go to the mission field, you need to help the ones who do go. And your greatest help is your prayer. You don't have to spend three hours a day at it, but take three or four minutes And pray that the word of the Lord will have free course through those who are preaching the gospel. Lord Jesus, we pray that your word has impacted our hearts this morning. I pray that we'll respond in faith. We'll respond in obedience to whatever you're saying to us this morning. Whether we need to adjust our budget so we can be more involved financially, or we need to adjust our schedule so we can spend more time in prayer. Whatever you've spoken to us about this morning, may we obey and do in Jesus' name. Our heads are bowed and eyes are closed.