23. Pastor Matt read the the entire Psalm here. I just want us to read together in unison, if you would, verse number six, the last verse of Psalm 23. Read that together. Are you ready? You got it there? Let's read it. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. I want to talk about the house of the Lord. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we come to you in this hour with grateful hearts for how you blessed us. We thank you for The good service this morning, or that song the ladies just sang, reminding us that you live and we can face tomorrow. And then the choir Congregational Lord, it's just been a good to be in your house today, and my heart is blessed, my heart is full. I ask now that we have our Bibles open before us, that you would speak to us, that your Holy Spirit Would take the truths and the principles that are given to us here in this passage, and I pray your Holy Spirit would apply it to our lives. We're all different stages. We're all different circumstances. And so, Lord, we need to hear from you. And again, by your word, as you know we have need. To do that, I believe I need to be yielded to you. I believe my body needs to be presented to you, Father, so you can fill me And your Holy Spirit can teach your word through me. And so I do that. I give to myself to you anew and pray that you would be the teacher, the preacher. in this hour. And so I ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. I think Psalm 23 is, without a doubt, one of the most well-known passages of all scripture. It's one of the most beloved psalms in all of Scripture. Charles Spurgeon called Psalm 23 called it the Pearl of the Psalms. We love Psalm 23. We memorize it. Many of us here, if I ask, I'm sure, could memorize, could quote Psalm 23 from memory. We read it at weddings, at funerals, special occasions, and we love Psalm twenty-three. Now if you look at verse number one very carefully, right above it, we are told who the penman is. As you know, especially in the Psalms, always try to find out who God used to record it, what the background is, what the circumstances are And we know who the penman is because he tells us. God tells us. A Psalm of who David. David. Now what we do not know about Psalm 23 is this. We don't know when David penned it or what the circumstances are behind this Psalm. We don't know what may have prompted him, or how what God may have used to prompt him to record this down. We know it's given by inspiration of God, but uh we're not told, and we we really have no idea Some Bible scholars suggest that this was penned later in David's life. And they give certain events in the life of David that perhaps He penned this down. I tend to think, in fact, I'm fairly convinced in my mind that Psalm chapter 23 was penned early in the life of David. I'm fairly convinced, I'm fairly confident that God inspired David to pen this, perhaps as a young teenage boy. We know that later in life David was a king. For most of his life, he was king. We know his shepherd as a young boy is when he was a shepherd. And I don't know about you. I can't read this, Psalm 23, without picturing a shepherd sitting and penning this down. This is very accurately described as a shepherd's song. And so I'm convinced that David penned this as a young boy, maybe uh early, mid-teens. He's out on the wilderness, out uh in uh in Judea, in uh Israel He's got his flock of sheep that he's responsible for. His daddy made him responsible. And he's watching these sheep. And as time goes by, the years go by, he becomes a very experienced shepherd. And he knows the sheep and he knows the dangers they face and the the care that's required to keep these sheep alive and healthy and and uh uh valuable really they were a commodity to uh his daddy and to the family And so I'm convinced, as I said, that David was a, this was penned by David as a young boy, young shepherd boy in the hills there. Which gives which leads me to consider this. Uh young people can be used of God. Dave, I'm correct, and David is a young teenage boy, maybe fourteen, fifteen, possibly younger than that, maybe a little bit older, but in that range, I'm thinking, uh if that's the case, if I'm correct, then God used A young boy to record one of the most beloved psalms in all the Bible and all of history. God used a young boy to do that. I'm convinced God can use young people These young people sit down front here. I just thank God for our young people. God can use them in profound ways. Never write off our youth. They are vital to our church, and God used them in great ways. Yesterday I had those juniors. What a hoop! And uh I'm telling you, they come up with the most amazing stuff. And I gave them a little challenge. We stopped, we hiked around, and um we uh we we stopped at a little picnic area, I gave them a little challenge And I tried to emphasize those young people. God created them for a purpose. God has a plan and a place for them. There's something he wants to use then. And they need to be submissive to the Lord. Let God work in their life. Let God mold them and correct them where we we wander off, get corrected, back in line. Let God do that. But God used them. So uh if if I'm correct, as I said, if uh I'm correct, and David was a young man, uh perhaps a boy when he wrote this Then that tells me God can use young people in significant ways. And I am grateful for the youth ministry of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church I believe, and to some extent, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is having an impact on the spiritual well-being of the next generation. I'd like to believe that. That also leads me to this conclusion. Young people can have a deep and dynamic faith in God. They can have a strong faith in God. They can have a dynamic relationship with God. So David is the penman, no question about that. We're told very clearly. The timing, we're not sure. I believe it was as a young man, perhaps out in the field, sitting, watching his sheep, and these thoughts come to mind at the direction of the Lord Psalm 23 is a simple psalm. Maybe that's part of its appeal, is it's not difficult to understand. We can relate to what David is writing. It's sympathetic. We can relate to having our soul restored. We can relate to going through dark valleys. And God's goodness and God's mercy. We can relate to all of this. So it's a simple psalm. It's not difficult to understand. It's a sympathetic song. It's easy to relate to We love Psalm 23. Verse number one, I believe, gives the theme for this short psalm. He says, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. That's pretty much what the whole psalm is about. There's a key truth there in verse number one, and that is this The Lord is the shepherd of the believer, and he will care for, he will guide, and he will protect us throughout life. The Lord is our shepherd. The Lord is our shepherd. And so David makes two things very clear in Psalm 23. As I just look at the Psalm as a whole, I notice this: it's possible to know God in a personal and intimate way. In other words, what I mean by that is God is not just some far away being, some uh far-off deity That we can know a few things about, but we don't he doesn't interact with us. He doesn't we don't have any interaction with him. I tell you, that is not the God of the Bible, and that is not the God of my experience We can know God. Man can know God in an intimate way and have an intimate relationship with him. I love the old song. He walks with me and he talks with me and he tells me I am his own. That's our God, the God that created this universe. We can know him. We can walk with him and talk with him. And so Psalm 23 makes it very, very clear. I noticed what David says there. I circled this word in my Bible. Verse number one: the Lord is my shepherd. He doesn't just say the Lord is a shepherd. He doesn't say the Lord is our shepherd. He says the Lord is what? My shepherd. It's personal. He's me. He shepherds me. He cares for me. He protects me. He guides me. Let me ask you this question. Do you have a relationship with Jesus Christ the Good Shepherd Let me ask you this. Do you have a personal relationship? In other words, have you come to the point in your life Where you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, the good shepherd that cares for his sheep, trusting him for the forgiveness of sins, for the care of your soul, for the guidance throughout life, trusting him in a very real, practical way. Do you have that type of relationship with Jesus Christ? If not, you can It's a simple, it's what it's uh it's just a decision away that I'm going to put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. He is my shepherd. Genuine Christianity, and we say this often, genuine Christianity is not a religion There's a lot of religion out there, but we come to the Bible. We're not talking about religion. We're talking about a relationship with a living Savior. A relationship, a personal relationship. I hope you have that. It's my prayer that it's dynamic and real and consistent I say this, I know folks are sick of hearing me say this, but you ought to take some time every single day and spend a little bit of time with your shepherd, Jesus Christ, the good shepherd. Let him talk to you. Let him feed your soul. Let him direct you. Give you direction. Then pour your heart out to him and tell our shepherd. Tell your shepherd what you need, what your concerns are, what your fears are, what your desires and dreams are. Talk to him. Let him talk to you. A personal, dynamic, intimate relationship with the shepherd. That's what David has. That's what he's expressing in Psalm 23. That's a whole lot different than some religion coming and cross your heart and hope to die and go through these ritualistic things. No, no, no. We come directly to the Lord. And we can talk with him. So it's possible to know God in a personal and intimate way. David makes that very clear in this psalm. That's what he had. That's what you and I can have Second thing David makes clear, I believe, that we as believers can have complete confidence in God's personal concern and care for us. In other words, Psalms 23 makes it very, very clear that Jesus Christ, the Good Shepherd, our Lord, cares for you and me personally. He cares about us. I tell you, one of the greatest truths, the most encouraging truths to me, is the fact that God's paying attention to what's going on in my life God knows, He sees, He cares, He pays attention. The God of the universe, you say, preacher, there's 8 billion people in the world. How can He pay attention to me personally? I'll tell you how. He's God. And that is a God thing, and he is all powerful, and he's ever-present, and he can be just as intimate and personal and active in my life as he is with millions of other people simultaneously. I like there's a song and I don't know it. I would sing it for you this morning, but I can't remember it. But uh there's a song and uh the Marshall family used to sing it and it and it goes something like this and I'm butchering it But it goes something like this, that he it he he makes it seem like I'm his only child. You know what I'm saying? My relationship with God, it's like nobody like there's nobody else, it's just him and me. That's true for millions and millions. Anybody that'll come and trust him as Savior can have that personal relationship. You follow what I'm saying And he cares about me. He cares about you. Did you ever say this? Or did you ever at least think this? I don't think anybody cares about me. Have you ever been there? I just don't think there's any. I think I'm alone. I feel like I'm alone. I'm here to tell you there is someone that cares about you. He's your shepherd. And we're not alone. You're not alone. I'm not alone. It feels like it. Somebody put it this way. Sometimes I'm lonely, but I'm never alone. I'm never alone. What a great Psalm 23. Our personal intimate. He is my shepherd And uh uh and uh I can be confident, I can be sure that he cares about me, he pays attention to me, just like that shepherd David. He watched those sheep and he's paying attention. And one starts to wander off over to where the wilderness and the lions and the tigers and the bears are. And um he he go and he goes and gets that and brings it back And uh, oh, the sheep, a storm's coming, and he gets them and he puts them in a safe shelter. That's the way our good shepherd is for us. Sometimes we're prone to wander, aren't we? And Jesus, our good shepherd, he doesn't just let us go. Thank God for the chastening hand of our shepherd. Thank God for that rod and that staff. And oh it comes. I find great comfort in the fact that God will not let me wander far. He'll chasten, he'll step in and work. Amen. What a great psalm. Confidence in God's personal concern and care for us. Now I come to verse 6. This is I read through this in my devotions all a week or so ago. And read it hundreds of times, no doubt, Psalm 23. But that last verse and that phrase at the end of the last verse caught my attention. And I jotted down in my little calendar, my notes in my calendar. I wrote it down. I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. The house of the Lord forever. And I want us to consider, first of all, this morning, I want to clarify what this house of the Lord is. What exactly is he talking about when he says, I will dwell in the house of the Lord? So I looked up the words and everything, and I didn't get a whole lot of more, just means basically what it says And so I went to see what some other people smarter than me uh are what they thought the house of the Lord was, and uh probably the majority of uh Uh the commentaries I read and whatnot suggested that David was referring to the tabernacle. The house of the Lord would be the tabernacle. That's where God dwells. In fact The tabernacle is referred to numerous times in scripture as the house of the Lord, the place where the Lord dwells, and that was his where he would manifest his presence to the children of Israel. And so they say David is talking about the tabernacle there. Or is he talking about heaven? I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. I, and I know these guys are way smarter than I am, but I think they're wrong. I really do. I think he's talking about heaven. In fact, I don't think. I'm confident. He's talking about heaven. You say, how how how are you so sure about that? Well, look what he says He says, there's surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. All through my life from beginning to end, as I go through my life, all the days of my life, sure uh uh goodness, uh surely Goodness and mercy are going to follow. No, not surely. Surely. Goodness. You guys are slow this morning, I'm telling you. Surely goodness and mercy. He's talking about his lifespan that Godness and mercy followed him throughout his lifespan. There was a I read about a preacher had a lady in his church that she was real paranoid. And she was just super paranoid. And she kept coming to him and she says, Preacher, there's two men following me all the time And he says, no, there isn't. That's just your imagination. He goes, no, really there is. He goes, no, there's no. And uh then the next week she'd come back. Preacher, I'm telling you, there are two men follow me everywhere. And he says, uh ma'am, you're s you're imagining this. It's not there's no men following you. And this went on and on and on. Finally, one day she came and says, Preacher, these men are following me everywhere He says, you know what? I did a little research. You're right. I found out who they are. She goes, who are they? He says, I found here in the Bible, it's goodness and mercy are following you everywhere you go. She says, really? That's who it is? And he says, yeah. And from that point on she was happy and uh content that goodness and mercy were following her all the days of her life And so David's talking about his span of life. And then he mentions the house of the Lord. And he says, I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. So he's saying this all as I live my life Uh goodness and mercy, God's goodness and God's mercy are following me, taking care of me, all the days of my life, implying that At the end of that time, at the end of the days of my life, when my life's days are over, then I will dwell in the house of the Lord. Forever. There's only one place that can apply to. That's heaven. That's heaven. By the way, nobody dwelt in the tabernacle. Nobody lived. That was God's dwelling place. David isn't going to dwell in the tabernacle, and not forever, that's for sure. By the way, you and I have no permanent dwelling place down here Someday that house you're living in, someday somebody else is going to live in it. You understand that, right? I'm not going to dwell in the house at a thousand Broadford Road forever But thank God there's a house of the Lord that we can dwell in forever. So I don't believe he's talking about the tabernacle here. I'm confident he said he's talking about heaven And he says, I will dwell there. That word dwell. I will dwell in the house of the Lord. That word dwell means to abide in. It's someplace I stay, it's where I inhabit. I live in it. Nobody dwelt in the tabernacle. Nobody lived in the tabernacle. And then he says, forever. And I looked up that word forever. Anybody want to guess what the word forever means? It means forever and ever and ever and ever in unending I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Forever. You and I are not going to dwell in any earthly house forever. We are temporary. This world is not my home. Just to pass and through. We're not going to live here forever. We're not going to live here forever. So when David says the house of the Lord He's talking about heaven. He's going to dwell in heaven, in God's house. In John chapter 14, verse 2 and 3, Jesus talking to his disciples, said this. He says, I go to prepare a place for you And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will. Let me back up. I got too far ahead. Jesus is talking to the disciples. He says, Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also me. In my father's house. The house of the Lord. In my father's house are many mansions. And I go to prepare a place for you. And he says, I will come again, receive you unto myself, like the lady sang about, or we sang here a little bit in the congregational, maybe today. And so the Lord's house will dwell there. That word mansion means mansions, means beautiful things. And I'd love to stop and talk about that, the mansions of heaven. But they talk about, when he says I have many mansions, he's talking about places we live in. Structures, buildings that we dwell in and live there, mansions we live there. And so when David says, I will dwell, I will live in and inhabit the house of the Lord, my father's house. Forever, forever. It's the same thing Jesus was talking about. And every person that knows Jesus Christ as Savior, without exception, will someday dwell in the house of the Lord. Forever, forever, forever. And so we need to clarify what is he talking about here? Is he talking about the tabernacle or is he talking about heaven? Well It's very, very clear in my mind. I don't have any problem. See, and he's talking about heaven here. Heaven. Then the next thing I want us to consider is the certainty. Of the house of the Lord. We clarify what it is. He's talking about heaven. But now the certainty of it. Look what he says. Look at his wording here. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. Now look at this. Notice carefully Uh and I, what's the next word? Will. Did you know you can learn a lot in the Bible by paying attention to what it doesn't say? Sometimes as much as what it does say? Notice what this David does not say He does not say I might dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Would you agree with me? There's a big difference between I will and I might Notice, he does not say, I hope to dwell in the house of the Lord forever. There's a world of difference between saying, yes, I will, and I hope He doesn't say, I think I will dwell in the house of the Lord. He doesn't say I might dwell in the house of the Lord. He says, I will, I will I ask folks sometime, I'll say, well, could you could you help with this other next one day this week we got this going on? And um uh could do you think you could help me here and help and they'll say something like this, well maybe I don't find the God of assurance in that. I'll be there, preacher. You can count on me. I'll be there. That's what David's saying. I'm going to be there David had certainty of his home dwelling in the house of the Lord I want to say, and we've said this a thousand times over the years. I want to repeat it again. Bible salvation is a no-so salvation. I cannot find anywhere in Scripture a hope-so salvation, a maybe salvation, a could-be salvation. I find only a no-so salvation. You and I, as believers in Jesus Christ and anybody in the world, will put their genuine faith, they'll turn to Christ, trust Him as their personal Savior For sim uh salvation from sin and hell, if they'll put their faith in Jesus Christ, they can know they're on their way to heaven Don't have to hope so, don't have to think so. Paul put it this way in 2 Timothy 1. 12. He says, I know whom I have believed and am persuaded. That he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. May 7, 1979, I committed my trust, my faith, my soul into the hands of Jesus Christ, and I am persuaded that he is able to keep me. until the day of redemption. Jesus put it this way. He said in John chapter 5 and verse 4 24 Verily, verily I say unto you, now listen carefully He that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life and shall not come into condemnation, but is past, already done, all transactions done. as passed from death unto life. You know what that is? That's assurance. That is certainty. That is confidence that it's true. David said, I will dwell in the house of the Lord. He didn't say, I hope so, I think so. Maybe if I hold on and hang out, maybe. He says, I will, I will. Listen to what John said in 1 John 5, under the inspiration of God. He says, These things have I written unto you God's word. These things have I written unto you that believe in the name of the Son of God, that ye may hope that you have eternal life. Does he say that? No. That ye may uh think. No. He says, These things are written unto you that believe in the name of Son God, that ye may Know that you have eternal life. We can know we're saved. Hey, if you don't get anything else out of this message this morning, I hope you get this. You can know that your sins are forgiven. You're going to heaven, not to hell. Certainty, the certainty of the house of the Lord. Um I tell you, there's great peace in laying my head on my pillow at night, not having to worry whether I'm going to go to heaven or hell or not. There's great peace getting up in the morning, whatever happens today, and we all understand that we don't know what tomorrow holds There's appointed unto man once to die. We don't know when that appointment is. It could be this afternoon. It could be tomorrow. It could be ten years down the road. But there's a comfort and a peace of heart and mind that I know that I'm accepted by God and my destiny is secure in Christ and that I have a home in heaven. David said, I will dwell in the house of the Lord. I don't hope, I don't think, not maybe, I will dwell in the house of the Lord. David had a two-fold basis For his peace and confidence in his life. One is God's goodness and mercy will be with him all the days of his life. I don't know what you're going through right now. You may be in one of the lowest points in your life, but I know this. If you know Jesus Christ as your Savior, He's your good shepherd, I tell you, God's goodness is with you. God's mercy is there. I don't know if it's just me, but the older I get, the more I appreciate the mercy of God. He says, they'll dwell with you forever, forever, forever. We're not on our own. We don't have to go through this valley struggling. Yea, though I walk through the valley of shadow death, I will fear no evil for Thou art with me. And so David had this confidence as he went through life. And uh later on he's going to learn this firsthand. Saul's going to turn on him. Fear is trying to kill him He's going to face the Philistines. He's going to have an uprising by his son. He's going to have to deal with his own tragic personal failures. But he says, God's with me. God's with me. The goodness of God. And thank God for the mercy of God. So he had that confidence. that uh God's goodness and mercy, and then he had the assurance and confidence that when this life is over, he'll dwell in the house of the Lord forever. And you and I, as believers, we have that same confidence. We should. We can, it's available. This past Thursday. Uh Harry Miller Jr. out in Arizona. He'd been fighting cancer for years. This past Thursday, the old body uh succumbed to the cancer, and Harry Miller Jr. went to be with the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And uh sometimes we say stuff like this, well we're sorry that the family lost their brother. Sorry Harry lost his son I'm telling you, he didn't lose them. They know exactly where he is. He's in the house of the Lord forever, back with family, mama and all the others. Listen We're not disregarding the sorrow that comes with a passing a loved one. That's real. The Bible acknowledges that. But I tell you, we have a hope and a comfort that unbelievers do not have. We have the assurance of a home in heaven. We have assurance of the house of the Lord. So the certainty of it. Then I want to end with this. Number three, the character Of the house of the Lord. What in the world is it like? David had heaven on his mind. I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Let me ask you a question. Do you think much about heaven? You think about that very much? Oh, the older folks we do, the older we get, the more we think about it. But David, as a young boy, I'm no doubt in my mind, this is a young man Early mid-teens, you know what he's thinking about? He's thinking about the house of the Lord. He's got heaven on his mind. Someone said the less Christians think about heaven, the more enamored they become with this world. I believe that's true. Um when I was in Bible college, I had my first year there, the school was booming. And they ran out of uh dormitory room. They had huge dormitories, and they ran out of dormitory rooms so they would buy these apartments in the neighborhood there where the school was. They'd buy these apartments and and some of them they fixed up a little and um and uh they would just cram kids uh into these apartments. I lived in the first uh my first year I lived in what was called Holly Hall. Holly Hall And uh I tell you, it's more like holly hole. And um it was rough. I'm telling you, I didn't care. I was so excited, oh praise the Lord And uh but it was a one-bedroom apartment, had a little living room area, had a kitchen, it had one bedroom, a small bedroom, and it had a bathroom, no shower, just a bathtub, and it had about 400 cockroaches And um but uh that was where they put us in. And that that's right. And in there was eight boys in that One bedroom apartment. They put two bunk beds in the living room area and two bunk beds in the bedroom area and one uh claw tooth bathtub And uh that's where I lived. And uh at the time I was like, wow, praise the Lord, this is exciting, good, this is great And so we're crammed in there, you know. You get up in the morning, you got eight guys around. You go to bed at night, eight guys. I mean it was crammed in there. And uh one fellow We got talking about so when it was su we were several months into the semester and uh we got talking about things and one fella uh he came to me and he said this and I can still see him I can still in my mind hear him saying this to me He said, Leatherman, he said, you're so heavenly-minded, you're no earthly good. I wasn't sure how to take that. He was being critical of me. He said you're so heaven all you think about is heaven, all you're worried about is people going to heaven. You're so heavenly minded you're no earthly good. Now I didn't know how to take it. Just didn't really respond much. Later on I got thinking, I I I thought, well maybe he's so earthly minded he's no heavenly good And I've found that people whose mind is on heaven do more good for here on earth than those who are so wrapped up in this earth and never think about the fact there's an afterlife The truth of the matter is there is a heaven and there is a hell. And everybody's going to spend eternity in one of those two places. And I'm telling you, you better think about that. And you better consider that because eternity is an awfully long time. And hell is an awfully horrible place. And to not give consideration about that for my own self and to not care about where other people are going is pretty cold-blooded. And so David had heaven on his mind. Young boy. But he was thinking about dwelling in the house of his father. in the house of the Lord forever. So what is heaven like? This place David's writing about, he's thinking about. What is heaven like? I'll tell you what it's like. It's exactly the way God's word says it is You know that the spiritual, well the Bible says that, but it don't really mean it. Yeah, the Bible means what it says and says what it means. What is heaven like? I put this down. Heaven is an honest place. Say what do you mean by that? By that I mean this. It's exactly what the Bible says. The Bible presents heaven as a real, literal, actual place with real ground, real streets, real buildings, real sky, real light, real people. Just as real as this building you and I are sitting in, that's exactly how the Bible presents it, and the Bible is honest. We believe heaven is exactly that. It is. All scripture refers to heaven as a real, actual, literal place. David viewed heaven as an actual, real, literal place. Jesus Presented heaven as an actual, real, literal place. Paul presented heaven as an actual real literal place. John, and you go all through scripture, heaven is a real place. If you're going to reject heaven as a literal place, if someone's going to reject heaven as a literal, actual, real place, then they have to reject the words of the Bible. Because you and I, you cannot take this Bible literally and reject a literal heaven. So if you're going to reject a literal heaven, then you're rejecting God's word. You're rejecting the words of Jesus Christ And by the way, if you're going to reject a literal hell, then you've got to reject the Word of God also. I've heard of some famous evangelists who God used in years gone by in great ways. They get to the point in their life where it seems like almost they know more than God about some things. And they I heard one fellow said made the statement on national TV. He says, Well, I don't know if hell is literal or not. Well then what you're saying is you don't know if the Bible's true or not The Bible says heaven and hell are actual, real, literal places. And so heaven is an honest place. And like I said, by that I mean this. It's real, it's literal, it's actual. Number two, I put this down. Heaven is a happy place. Heaven is a happy place. And we don't have time to go to all these verses. I wish we did, but Psalm 16, 11 The Bible says that in God's presence is fullness of joy. In the presence of God, which is what heaven is. Paul said, my desire is to depart. And be with Christ in the presence of God. And Psalms tells us that in the presence of the Lord is fullness of joy. What is fullness of joy? If it's fullness of joy, it means what? Yeah, it means what? It means there's no room for anything else. We had uh we took the kids uh did I tell you we took the kids Blackwater Falls, yes. And um we stopped at the pizza place up there in Davis and uh got four large pizzas. Man, those How in the world? Those little kids just devoured it. And they had pictures of of of drink and soda pot and different things, water. And I had a glass of water. The lady came over, she goes, Would you like I was drinking water. She goes, you like some more water? And I said, no, thank you. My cup is full. It was fullness of water. There's no room to put anything else in. It was full. And God tells us in His Word that in the presence of the Lord there is fullness of joy. There's no room for sorrow. There's no room for weeping. There's no room for sadness. It's joy. Can you imagine? Just think with me. Can you imagine having perfect, full, genuine joy? And no sorrow mixed in with it. We can have joy here on earth, but it's always tainted with some sorrow, isn't it? It's always tainted with some disappointment. But I tell you, when you get to heaven, we get to heaven, I'm telling you, it is fullness of joy. Fullness of joy. That's what Psalm uh Psalm chapter sixteen, verse eleven tells us. Psalm chapter thirty-six and verse eight says that we are, and I'm putting in my own words here, abundantly satisfied in God's house. He says there are pleasures forevermore. Completely satisfied. Did you ever notice something down here on earth? It's hard for people to be completely satisfied. What happens? We get a we get a car and we like it, but then we want something a little bit nicer. Then we get that car and then we want something a little bit nicer. Uh when uh uh years ago I s uh uh I enjoy fishing and years ago I started getting into fishing way back and uh uh always had had this I could I didn't have any money, I was in Bible college, I had this little Zebco reel. Mmm I thought, boy, if I could just have one of those nice reels those guys had, boy, that's a nice spinning reel. And uh finally the day came where I I could get I got one of those spinning reels. Woo! And then I saw that guy had a bait caster reel. Man, if I only had one of those. And so then I say that and lo and behold I got that nicer reel. And then I was oh I looked out and that guy had a boat Man. If I had a boat, I could and so I saved up money and uh got a boat, I got out there and had my nice little boat and fishing, and that guy had a bigger boat. You follow what I'm saying? It's hard to be satisfied down here. We always want just the next thing, and then the next thing, just something a little bigger, something a little nicer. I tell you what, we get to heaven, there ain't nothing nicer to go to We're at the pinnacle. Complete satisfaction, complete fulfillment in heaven. Heaven is a happy place, pleasures forevermore. Uh if you would, take your Bible, and I want to end here in this, back here in Revelation 21. Now don't get too caught up in that word end there. Revelation 21 and verse number 4. It's a great passage here about the house of the Lord, about what it's going to be like. And the place that we as believers are going to dwell forevermore. Forever. Look at Revelation 21 and look with me if you would at verse 4. Now I have this underlined in red in my Bible. Let me back up. Verse 3. I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold the tabernacle of God, the dwelling place of God. Is with men. And he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their God. That's dwelling in the house of the Lord. Now notice what he says. And God shall wipe away all what? Tears from their eyes. I'm telling you, heaven's a happy place. Tears are wiped away. All tears wiped away. Notice he says, and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, no more sorrow, no more crying. I tell you, this life is filled with a lot of sorrow. This life is filled with a lot of crying. Am I right or wrong? But in God's place, in the house of the Lord, no more sorrow. No more crying. Heaven is a happy place. I put this down. Heaven is a healthy place. A healthy place. Look again at verse 4 there. Wipe tears from the eyes, and there shall be no more what? Death. And then he goes down, neither sorrow crying, neither shall there be any more pain. Heaven's a healthy place Uh in 1 Corinthians 15, verse 52 through 54, again, we don't have time to go there, but he says that we're going to have incorruptible bodies. Immortal bodies, bodies that do not get sick, bodies that do not break down, bodies that do not have arthritis. Bodies that do not have diabetes. Bodies that do not have liver disease and heart disease and tumors and and uh uh illnesses and viruses and and uh What else? Huh? Oh all that. None of that. We'll have perfect health in heaven. How many people, uh I know we got a little older crowd, how many people would like just one morning get up and your knees not hurt? Just one morning, my back doesn't hurt Just go one week without a migraine. I tell you what, house of the Lord forever. Get up. Phew! Ow. Um, I'm not sure. Revelation 21, 4. No more death, no more pain. In Philippians chapter 3, verse 21, we're told we will be made like Jesus' glorified body. That body that came up out of the grave when Jesus resurrected from the dead, he walked out of that grave, our bodies are going to be just like that body. And I'm telling you, that glorified body never gets sick. He never gets a virus. He never gets CO C O P D? Never get COPD. Never get stomach virus. None of that. Perfect health. Listen, our health will be exactly the way God originally created and designed our bodies to be. Isn't that something? Oh, no wonder David was thinking about heaven. Listen, don't you come and criticize a Christian because they got heaven on their mind. Heaven is a wonderful place. Heaven is a happy place. We used to sing with the kids. Heaven is a happy place. Happy place. Happy place. Heaven is a happy place. Hall Helia I thought I'd get a standing ovation for that or something. Heaven is a healthy place, healthy place, healthy place. Isn't that something? No wonder David's got heaven on his mind. I put this down. Heaven is a holy place. Look at chapter 20, look at verse 8. The fearful, unbelieving, the abominable, murderers, whoremongers, sorcerers, idolaters, all liars. That sounds like our cities Sounds like this whole world shall have their part in a lake of fire which burneth with brim fire and brimstone, which is the second death. None of that in heaven. Look at verse 27 There shall be no wise. Enter into it, the house of the Lord. Anything that defileth, neither whatsoever, worketh abomination or maketh a lie. Heaven's a holy place, holy place, the very presence of our perfectly holy God. And then heaven, I end with this, and I mean it this time, heaven is our home place. For the believer, heaven is our eternal home. For the child of God, heaven is our eternal home. Ecclesiastes Solomon put it this way: it's our long home. It's our home. It's home. It's home. One of the greatest truths in all of Scripture is that as a believer, heaven is my home. Not home yet. I like my house. I like it. It's home for me. We go on vacation, we go well, I was down in West Virginia preaching this week, got back. I like to come home. But my home here is not my heavenly home We got a home in heaven. We'll be there forever. We'll be there forever. Jesus said, I go to prepare a place for you. I got a place for you. For the unsaved. The unsaved, heaven's not their home. I hate to say this. It's one of the most disturbing facts in all scripture, but it's a fact. The unsaved hell. Is their home forever. But for the believer, heaven is my home. When we arrive in heaven, we'll be with our Lord. We'll be reunited with loved ones, and we'll be home. We'll be home. I got study in John 14 where Jesus said, I go to repair a place for you. And I came to this conclusion. When that day comes and you and I enter the house of the Lord where we'll be forever, when that day comes, I feel like I have a sneaking suspicion It's not going to seem new to us at all. I think we're going to walk in and says, I feel like I'm home I feel like you know what I'm talking about? I feel like I'm home. Little girl and her daddy were walking late at night. The stars were out and they were admiring the stars. And the little girl said to her daddy, Daddy, If the bottom side of heaven is this beautiful, what must the top side be like? I'll tell you what it is, it's home. It's home. Father, help us to be heavenly minded. God help us to live in light of eternity. Help us to share the message of salvation at home in heaven with those around us. We thank you for your goodness. We thank you for your mercy. And we thank you that we'll dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many people would say, Preacher, I got to get my eyes off my problems? And get them back in the Lord and remember what God has in store for me. Is there any like that? We get so caught up in the world's condition. Oh, our country, oh, and I know, but praise God, this world's not our home I wonder how many would say, preacher, I need to do better in telling others about this home in heaven. I need to do better in sharing the gospel with other people. Is there anybody like that? I need to do better, sure. We always do And maybe there's some here who say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven. I hope I do. I want to. I'm telling you, you can know, and we can show you from the Bible how you can have that settled and know for sure your sins are forgiven. A home in heaven. I hope you come, let us do that. Father, bless the invitation I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together