Where's Mary? Verse number thirteen and fourteen Solomon, who is preaching this message, it's a message he preached in Jerusalem. And he finishes his message with this. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Everything I've been talking about, my whole message, everything I've addressed. Here's what it this is what it leads to. This is my conclusion. Now this is the statement of the wisest man that has ever walked the planet. And this is a statement made towards the end of his life after he had walked with God and after he had gotten so far from God. And now he's come back and he's making a statement. And I'm emphasizing this because what he's about to say is incredibly profound And is incredibly important for you and I as human beings. He says this. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Right, what's the conclusion? Fear God and keep his commandments. Very simple. Fear God, keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. Then he gives a reason. For God shall bring every work into judgment with every secret thing, whether it be good And whether it be evil. You notice he says the judgment of God there, it's not just on the evil. We think of the judgment of God as God knows what you're doing, and that's true God knows your sin. You can't you're going to be judged for that sin. That's true, but God also judges for the good we do. And nothing's left out And so the conclusion of the whole matter, let's pray, and I'm just going to give you some final thoughts from verse number 14 there. Father, Lord, it's been a good day. It's been a great week. And your presence was here. It just sent it so evident. And the impact that this last eight days has had upon so many people, young people, and Lord, only you can do that. And today, you've met with us today, and we finish out this Lord's Day and we start off a new week. I just pray that you would stir our hearts and that we could walk out those back doors here in a little bit. close to you and prepared spiritually to be a witness for you this coming week, to be a testimony in this whole world, to bring glory to you. So please fill me with your spirit. Lord, I yield my will, present my body with all my heart. I ask for your filling and your power Speak through me, Lord. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Solomon's tone, Solomon's message, I guess I should say, at the end of the book of Ecclesiastes, is very, very different than his message was at the beginning. Of the book of Ecclesiastes. He repeatedly said, he made this statement repeatedly in the first chapter, actually the first several chapters, Vanity of vanity, all is Vanity. Then he'd say vanity and vanity and vexation of spirit. And the first half of the book, he was giving testimony of his life uh of his attempt to find purpose, to find fulfillment in this world at the exclusion of God. And if you remember early on he had various areas of life that he pursued with his whole heart. I mean, he threw everything he had at it And everywhere he tried to find fulfillment and meaning and purpose without God, he came up empty. He could not fill the hole in his soul that only God can fill. So now he's at the end. He's preached his message. He gave his testimony of his pursuit of meaning and purpose apart from God. He came up empty. He could not find it. And now he's giving the conclusion of the matter. We already looked at verse number 15 a couple weeks ago, uh Solomon's conclusion, and as I emphasize that, this is his his whole summary of what he's trying to say. This is what he's good at. Then we noted our concern. He says the whole duty of man is this. Number one, fear God. And I put it this way, fear God, and then follow his instructions Keep his commandments, do what God says. The Christian life is really not that complicated. It's a very simple thing. Fear God. Get yourself off your throne. Get Die to sell, get self out of the way, put God where he needs to be, and then simply do what he says. Follow his instructions. And that's what it boils down to. Now the last Point here I see in these two verses, and let verse number fourteen particularly is God's court. We have Solomon's conclusion. Our our concern And now God's court he says for, and he gives the reason for his conclusion, God shall bring everything, every work into judgment. The reason we are to fear God, the reason we are to obey His commandments, is because there is a coming judgment of God. There is there are numerous themes throughout the Bible that are very, very clear, very simple. There's several in particular that are very very clear. What would somebody help me here? What would be What comes to mind, a theme that is from Genesis to Revelation, a theme that's clear in the Bible? Somebody help me. What would be a theme through the Bible? The second coming of the Lord. I had that written down. All the way through. What about this? The atonement of the Lord Jesus Christ, the blood atonement. You see that all the way through Genesis, all the sacrifice in the Old Testament, through the prophecies, New Testament, the blood of Christ, the blood of Christ We are only saved. Sins can only be forgiven through the shed blood of our Lord Jesus Christ. That's a theme. I put this one down, the compassion of God. You cannot escape. That is clear all through Scripture. From the moment man sinned, the very first thing God did when Adam and Eve sinned is he came down and took the steps to restore that relationship because he loves us. He has great compassion for us. But there's another theme. And this theme isn't as popular as the atonement, as the compassion, second-coming. And this is the theme through Scripture: is this there is a coming judgment. There is a coming judgment. Now that truth, that doctrine, is neglected. In so many churches and so much preaching, the judgment of God. Or it is minimized. Can I be very honest with you? I don't think it's as true now as it was before, but it's still a factor. But there's some there are some truths in Scripture that I used to, and maybe still do a bit, but I used to more so I would pause a little bit before I'm going to preach on that because I know Sometimes there's kickback from it. There's resistance to it. And I'll be honest, preaching on the judgment of God, the coming judgment of God, in many circles is not very popular, and people will resist it. And actually give the preacher a hard time. But the fact remains, whether it's preached or not, whether it's appreciated or not, whether it's neglected or not, the fact is there is coming judgment of God upon mankind. And I believe, my conviction is in studying the scriptures, that ought to be preached from every single pulpit in the United States around the world. It ought to be preached clearly, emphatically, and repeatedly. There's a coming judgment. There's a coming judgment. There's a coming judgment. And Solomon gets to the end of his sermon and his and the summary of what he has learned in life. The wisest man in the world, this is what I learned in life. This is the conclusion I've come to. Fear God, keep his commandments, because There is going to be a day of judgment. We will be held accountable for our lives. For the decisions we've made and how we've lived our life and what we've invested our lives in and how we've used this gift of life that God has given to us. We will be held accountable. We will be held accountable. God's judgment is based upon His holiness. Our God, we must never forget, our God is a holy God. I was reading, I think it was my wife or somebody, uh was showing me, or I was reading somewhere, how these some of these liberal uh churches are um putting people in uh putting uh uh uh people into position living perverse lifestyles, living wicked, wicked lifestyles and they're putting them in as leaders in the church and putting them in as pastors and preachers and and teachers and they're living wicked, wicked, abominable lifestyles, and they're putting them up as spiritual leaders I tell you, that mentality is completely foreign to the truth of God's holiness. God is holy. And any denomination and any religion, quote unquote, that thinks that that is acceptable to God, that any of this is acceptable to God, they are completely blind to the fact that Of who and what God really is. And the judgment of God is based upon God's holiness. Can I say this? The judgment of God is the core of the gospel. We're studying in Sunday school, 1 Corinthians 15 right now, in the first several verses of 1 Corinthians 15, Paul very clearly gives a very simple, clear definition of what the gospel is. How that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, that he was buried, and then he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. The very core of the gospel is the judgment of God. Christ died for our sins. Listen, can I say a word to our teachers and our soul winners? If we're sharing the gospel with someone, if we're trying to tell somebody how to be saved, We are not giving the gospel if we neglect to emphasize the fact that they and us are sinners We've broken God's law. We're under God's judgment. We're under His wrath. We're condemned already apart from Christ. And that is judgment. And because God loves us, of course we know this, Christ came down, and he was judged in our place. He took the wrath and judgment of our sin upon himself so that we could be freely forgiven, so the bondage and power of sin could be broken, and we could live clean and pure, righteous lives. And so when Solomon says, fear God and keep his commandments, because all things are going to be judged, our deeds are going to be judged, whether good or bad. He's referencing the holiness of God. He's referencing the very core of our gospel message, the fact that there is judgment. I believe one of the most profound facts of life, one of the most important truths to be understood is that someday I personally will stand before Almighty God, the creator of all this universe and give an account of myself to my God. Now we won't take time about the various judgments of the Christian. This is the judgment seat of Christ, for the unsaved, is the great white throne judgment. You have judgment of nations. It plays out various ways, but nevertheless, each and every one of us must give an account of ourselves. Look here with this verse with me, if you would. For God shall bring Two things he mentions, God shall bring, number one, every work into judgment. Now I put it this way. God's judgment, uh we'll stand in God's court and give an account, number one, for our public actions. That word there, every work, has to do with our deeds, our outward deeds, the things we pursued in life, what I did with myself. How many people understand life is a gift? Are you with me? Everybody with me tonight? Life is a gift that's given to us by God. And we talked about this previously. It's not ours. He gives it to us for us to use. We're stewards of this thing called life. And how we use that, and what I do with my life, and what I do with this body that God entrusted me with to live in and dwell in during my years here on earth, I must someday give an account to God for that. Our public works. And then he says this: God shall bring every work into judgment. But look, he adds this on then. With every what? Look at it. What's it say there? With every what? Secret thing. Secrets. I like one thing I like about Bible Time is the kids are doing stuff, and Bible Time is designed to play on the curiosity of kids. If you haven't picked that up. And we got a missionary secret. And we got a secret bag and a secret. And the kids are going nuts. Calvina secret. They're going insane. And we hide stuff and we put something here and we keep it a secret and nobody knows about this and this is just between you and me and I'm gonna hide this and this is a secret But the fact of the matter is there's a day coming when every secret will be revealed. Now we all know this is true. Every single one of us, listen, every single one of us have secrets Every single one of us have something, have things. And we said, boy, I don't want people to know about that. I want that, what it what what do they call that? Skeletons in the closet Stuff hidden, stuff secret, stuff we hide. Listen, we better br we better deal with that stuff. We better come clean with that stuff before God before we stand before the judgment seat of Christ, because there are going to be no secrets there. Listen, young people, you can hide it from mom, you can hide it from dad, you can hide it from the teacher, you can hide it from Pastor Matt, you can hide it all you want. But we're not going to hide it from God. And you can hide that secret from your husband, you can hide that secret from your wife, you can hide that secret from your kids, you can hide it from your boss, you can hide it from the preacher, the preach can hide it from the church But someday those secrets are going to be uncovered and revealed. And we're going to have to give an account for it. When we take Lord's Supper, we read from 1 Corinthians chapter 11, and there's a significant statement. I don't have the verse reference There, but it's towards the end of the chapter, but he's addressing not coming, taking part of the Lord's Supper flippantly. He says, Come worthily. And he makes a statement, he says this: if we would judge ourselves. We would not be judged. Now, what does he mean by that? I believe what he's saying like this, listen, there's a judgment coming someday. We're going to give an account. And what we need to do is come to God now while we can. Acknowledge that, confess it, forsake it. And then I can then I don't have to worry about that judgment of God. I can find that cleansing and forgiveness. Am I making sense? Are you with me? If God have I've got aught in my heart towards a brother or a sister And I'm walking around, running around behind uh uh behind their back and talking about them and saying hateful things about them, and I got this little secret that I'm gonna tell you that so-and-so did and she didn't do that and he did that and she's this way and he's that. Just run our mouth, run her mouth, run our mouth. I'm telling you, Jesus said in Matthew, he said every single word we're going to have to give an account to someday. I was talking with my wife this afternoon. We preach against abortion. Amen? And we should, amen? And we're going to keep on. We preach against unholy lifestyles, sodomy, and all that type of lifestyle, and adultery and fornication. We preach against all of that, and we ought to, and we're going to Say preacher you'll go to jail, preach against some of that stuff, then we'll preach against it in jail. And Tom will give me secret treats he'll spring into me when I'm in them He'll give me a little favorit favors. My wife and I were talking today I tell you, wicked, ungodly, speaking evil of other Christians has done more damage to the church than sodomy ever has. It's destroyed more ministries, hurt more Christians. When I was youth pastor, it shocked me. I learned something early on, and it's proven itself true over the years. You get some young person on fire for God. And they're trying to live for God and they're trying to do right. And they're not perfect, but they're trying. And you know what I observed early on as youth pastor? It wasn't the world out there that gave that kid the hardest time. You know who it was a lot of times? Other Christians would start trashing them and pointing out the little failures of me. Are you listening, young people? The little failures they make, and they'll magnify that. You know, I found out a lot of times it was the kids' own parents I wonder how many young people are not living for God got discouraged because of evil speaking. And failed to live for God like they could because they let it get to them. And my message to young people has been since early on in my youth ministry and when I traveled as evangelists with youth Bible time. My message to them, listen, you get on fire for God, you mark it mark it mark it down right now. People are going to give you a hard time And the people you least expect it from are the ones that are going to criticize you and try and discourage you. They're going to run their mouth behind your back. If you keep your eyes on Christ, you live for God. And this is what I'm trying to get at. All of that is going to be brought out of the judgment seat of Christ. Secret things. Secret things. So we need to be very, very careful. Jesus referenced the judgment of God repeatedly. I already said it in Matthew. He said, about every idle word you say, words that have no value. Paul referenced the judgment seat of Christ in Corinthians and Romans. He said repeatedly, we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. I believe with all my heart that that is an event, a future event that must never get far from the forefront of our mind. Brother Matt, do you know what so-and-so? I'm gonna have to give an account for this to God. Never mind. Never mind. Dale, you should hear what sister. Oh, oh. I'm gonna have to give a judgment. I'm gonna have to give an account to God for the word. Never mind, Dale. Never mind. I'm not gonna say that Listen, if somebody's not living up to your standard, if somebody is not as good as you are as a Christian and you feel obligated to point out the fact that they're not living the way you are living. They're not as good as you are. Rather than going to other people who can't do anything about it, why don't you hit an old-fashioned older and lift them up in prayer to somebody who can do something about it? Am I right or wrong? I know I'm right. And I tell you we need to be very, very careful. And I'll tell you one thing that will protect Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And I'm telling you, we had an amazing week in Bible time. God did a powerful thing this week. We saw testimony this morning. And Satan doesn't take that laying down. I've seen enough. He'll retaliate. And one thing that can help us and help our church and guard our homes and our own individual testimonies is to remember the conclusion of the whole matter. So we'll come into judgment for our public deeds and these secret little things that we have, these secret at night and when it's dark. And uh behind closed doors and when no one's home and when I'm somewhere away and no one else knows. And you remember. God knows that's going to be dealt with. How many people remember when Clayton Schumpert was here? Hold my mule while I shout. Anybody remember that? And the handkerchief, he'd have that handkerchief, and he's putting the fire out. Remember that? What a hoot. That was 20 years ago. We're still going on about it. He told a story that stuck in my mind. He said he was traveling, I don't know, somewhere he was flying, he was in the airport. He thought there was nobody around in the world that would know him. And he's looking for something to read while he was going to fly. And he got there. He says looking at the books and the magazines. And he said a magazine, a nasty, wicked, ungodly magazine, caught his attention. And he said for one split second the thought went through his mind to get it down, look at it. And he thought, no, I c that's wrong. I mean the thought went through his mind. He said, No, I'm not going to do that. And he didn't. And then you know he never responded to that thought of temptation. And he said he no longer made that decision and started to walk away. The fellow came up and said, Hey Brother Clayton, I thought that was you there standing there. I've been watching, wondering if that was you or not. It's good to see you, preacher. I don't know if you remember that. You know what he did? He said, I went like this. Now here's, how come when we know someone else is watching us, we're very, very careful, but we completely forget about the fact that God is watching us We're going to have to give an account to that. Solomon's the wisest man that ever lived. Humanly. He pursued what this world had, all the wickedness, all the prosperity, all the pleasure, all the wealth, all the success that this world had to offer. And he says it came up empty, just ashes, nothing. So I learned something in my life I learned that I need to fear God. I need to do what he says. Because when it's all said and done, I'm going to have to stand before God and give an account of myself. That's good advice for you and I. That's good advice for you and I. Life is not a party Solomon tried to see it as a party. Vanity. Life is not a party. Now I'm all for having fun. You know that's true. Good night. I horse around Bible time this week. I about killed myself We can have all the fun we can have fun, that's fine. But life is not a party. And life is not something to trifle with. And right and wrong, truth and lies are not something to be trite with. And I tell you, this world is in darkness. This world is spiritually blinded, and they're playing with morality, and they're twisting what is right and wrong and they're and they're distorting what is good and evil and they've got that whole thing all a mess They fail to realize very profound, eternal truth, that every single one of us are going to have to stand before God and give an account. They can play with it and they can toy with right and wrong, this stupid male and don't even trans weirdos How are you gonna stand before God? What are you gonna say? What are you gonna say? That's the conclusion of the whole matter. Don't we we can't play with sin. Life isn't a toy Right and wrong is just not something that, like a TV show, oh, I'll pick this and I'll pick that. No. This is serious business. This is eternal. There was a fellow, D. L. Moody, was preaching up in Brockton, Massachusetts. They were having testimony time. There was a lot of decisions made A young man stood up, he was newly saved, but he had committed his life to Christ. He had made a decision. That because Jesus loved him enough to die and suffer hell for his place, buried, rise again, he's going to commit himself. I'm going to live for Christ And they were given testimony, and he shared that truth, and he made this statement. He said, I'm not quite sure about many things in life. But I decided I'm going to trust God and just obey Him A fellow by the name of Daniel Towner, he was a song leader for that meeting. He heard that statement. I'm just going to trust God and obey him. He went back to his house that night and he wrote the song. Trust and obey. Trust and obey. For there's no other way to be happy in Jesus. But to trust and obey. Say, what's Ecclesiastes all about? What's it trying to tell us? What are we supposed to learn from this book? Solomon said, learn to trust. And obey. That's where fulfillment is. That's where purpose is. That's where meaning is. We stand before the God of all creation. Can you imagine that? Hear him say, Well, darn, you trusted me. You did what I said. Father, bless us now. Help us to apply to our lives these tremendous truths from the book of Ecclesiastes. And I pray on this Sunday night as we finish out your day, Lord, and we go into a new week, that our hearts would be yielded to you, that our minds would be submitted to you, and we would just decide with this young man. We don't know everything. Lord, we're just going to trust you. We're just going to obey you this coming week. I believe, Lord, you'd bless that. I really do. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, I've got to I've got to take seriously this matter of just trusting God Just doing what he says. Is there anyone like that with join me? I just need to trust God. Just do what he says. Maybe there's some areas there in our life that we've tried to cover up secret. We've got them Little hidden things. We got we think we got these things under control. Maybe somebody never even really thought about it. Now the Spirit of God has spoken to me and said, you know, that ain't right This needs to be in place and this needs to be adjusted. I want to urge it tonight, humbly, at the altar before God, at God's throne, make those adjustments. Submit to the Lord. Confess sin that needs to be confessed. If you need to go to somebody, go and make it right. It's not worth it. It's not worth it. Father, bless our invitation, I ask now. Make it a time of revival in our lives as individuals, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.