You have it there, follow along as I read this. If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God If any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth. Then this last statement, he kind of gives the reasoning behind it, the motive For speaking as the oracles of God and ministering with the ability that God gives. He says that, in order that, you could say, that God in all things may be glorified through the Lord Jesus Christ, to whom be praise and dominion for ever and ever. Amen. Amen. I've called this, I've entitled this, the ultimate end of man. Or in other words, our ultimate purpose in life. What are we working towards? What are we doing? Why are we doing what we're doing? So let's pray together, ask the Lord to speak our hearts tonight. Father in heaven, We come to you again on another Sunday night, and as the Heimballs just sang, how quickly the days go by, and the seasons, and the years. And Lord, we have this moment now that we're assembled together in your name and we're looking into your word. And I pray, dear God, that your Holy Spirit would speak to us And help us to see our purpose. Lord, help us to see what this is all about, what we're all working towards. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray that you would speak through me and every church member, every Sunday school teacher, every worker, every musician, everybody, all of us, myself. That you'd stir our hearts and clear our minds on this matter. And I ask this now in the Lord Jesus Christ's name. Amen. Peter's writing about the end times is the context, as we pointed out every time we looked at this verse, we go back up to verse 7 for that. The end of all things is at hand. And Peter was saying this 2,000 years ago, and we are in the end times in the church age. He's also writing in the context of persecution. Now I don't know about you, but and well we've I've never been persecuted in a biblical sense of the word. I've been harassed a little bit. I've been uh mocked a little bit, many of you the same. I've never been persecuted. So I can't speak first hand. How I might respond to genuine persecution. I know what I'd like to believe, how I would like to believe I would respond, but I don't know. But I would imagine in the midst of persecution you might start second guessing your Christian life. Anyone know what I'm talking about? I mean sincere, intense, life-threatening persecution. It might say, saying, you know, why am I doing this? Why am I living this life? What am I doing? And Paul and Peter is addressing that for these believers who are intense persecution. And he wants them to understand that there is an end in mind here. That there is something, let me put it this way, there is something bigger than ourselves that you and I are a part of. There's something bigger than us, there's something beyond us that you and I are involved in when we're serving the King of Kings and the God of all creation. And so he addresses that, and we noted two things so far. I see three in this verse. The first one is that we are believers ought to give attention to our speech. We saw that in the first part of the verse 11 there. If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. And again, just briefly review what we said was, I believe what he's saying here is When we speak, we ought to speak with the same characteristics that God speaks. We went back to Proverbs 8 and we noted there that God speaks Speech is excellent and we said a positive way. Our words ought to be positive, be excellent, noble, dignified, not crude. And dirty and um and uh uh crude. We said our speech ought to be pure. We emphasize the importance of Christians saying the truth speaking the truth and not wickedness in our words. And then we said God's speech and ours ought to emulate that is plain. And straight and right, not twisting words and uh manipulating people and situations with our words. So we said our speech, we ought to give attention to how we speak. Number two, last week we noticed we need to give attention to our service. Look there again at verse 11. It says, if any man minister, let him do it as the ability which God giveth. We noted that that word minister means to serve. We said that ministry for the believer is a duty. God expects us to serve him, be involved. In some capacity in serving him, advancing the gospel. We said that our ministry is diverse. It's different for all of us. We have different ministries We're divinely enabled. God gives us the abilities, and it's always directed to others. So now the third area we want to give attention to. This is my message tonight. And maybe I could have used a better word, I'm not sure, but I use the word stimulus or stimulus. And again, I get that from the last part. If any man minister, let him minister as the ability which God giveth, that in all things God may be glorified. For the purpose. And I use the word stimulus for this reason. The word stimulus means that which excites us, that which stirs us to activity. One of the definitions was this, and this is what I'm after, that which motivates us. That which motivates us. We mentioned the beginning of the uh lockdowns and and pandemic and all of that. And during that time, of course, all the businesses were closed. You know, they shut everything down. It's unprecedented. What took place. And in order, in the government's idea, in order to keep the economy moving to some extent They sent out stimulus checks. How many people remember the stimulus checks they sent out? And uh really, just a little aside here, you know that was your money they're giving back to you Right. They weren't giving us a gift. It was simply their giving back what was taken. But the idea behind it, whether it was successful or not, I'm not sure. The idea behind it was to motivate the economy, motivate to spend some money, keep the economy alive and functioning. That was, I believe, their idea behind that. I'm curious, don't uh I'm tempted to ask, I'm wondering how many people bought guns with their stimulus. Yeah, I know So here's my question. I think this is what Peter is addressing here. Here's my question. Why do you do what you're doing for the Lord? What's your stimulus? What's your motivation? What is it? That prompts you to do what you're doing for the Lord. Whether, why are you teaching that Sunday school class? What is it? Why do you sing in the choir? Why do you work in the nursery? I mean just fill in the blank. Any capacity in the church here. What is my motive? What is my reasoning? What is that that stimulates me to want to do that, to be a part of that, to invest the time? and energy and effort into this ministry. That's what Peter's addressing here. I think, according to the text here, he gives us a threefold motive For us to be honest in our speech and speak the way God intends for us to speak, to serve God with the abilities He gives us, and really anything we do. I think there's a threefold motive here. Now, I want you to notice, I'll share this up front as we go through, look at these three, I want you to notice none of these have anything to do with self-promotion None of these have anything to do with self-attention, drawing attention to myself. Preacher gets up and preaches According to this verse 11 here, our motive for standing behind a pulpit and standing in front of people and preaching the word of God Nowhere does it even remotely suggest it's for the purpose of drawing attention to the preacher. It's not to promote the preacher. And I know, you know, you man, I I I know some guys, and they are just obsessed with promoting themselves. Lifting themselves up and man, they're all over social media. It's me, me, me, me. It's all about themselves And so, as I look at this list and I look at Scripture, I find nowhere that our ministry to the Lord, our service to the Lord And even our speaking is in order to draw attention and exalt me and lift me up in any way I notice here as I went through this list, I notice that none of these, as we look at this in other places in Scripture, none of them have anything to do with financial improvement. Now, there's nothing wrong with being reimbursed for ministry. The church provides for myself and Pastor Matt. Provides very generously, in my opinion, make it possible for us to devote full time to serving the Lord here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. And that's a scriptural thing if you study Timothy and And Corinthians, Paul references that. That's a scriptural thing. That's good. But at no time, and we have a few secretaries and folks that help and we reimburse air a little bit. But nowhere do I find in Scripture that ministry is to be used to enhance my financial riches. And no aspect of the Christian life is for that purpose. I know some preachers in our circles, and I disagree with them. And they kind of present this idea that if you tithe, and if you give generously financially, well then God will make you w wealthy. You'll drive fancy trucks and you'll wear fancy clothes and you'll live in big fancy houses. Now if God chooses to make it possible for me to drive a fancy truck, hey, I'm all for it. You know, God blesses you and you can do that. God bless you. There's nothing wrong with that. I would imagine Abraham drove a fancy chariot. He was very wealthy. Job was very wealthy. But my point is this: that is not our motive. For giving or serving in any capacity, it's not to advance ourselves, our own intention, or exalt myself, it's not to advance myself financially I noticed something else here in this list. And now this one you might have to think about a little bit with me, but I believe this is true. Our motive on serving in the ministry in whatever capacity. Is not even for because of our love for our fellow man. Question, should we love our brothers, sisters in Christ? Yes or no? Yes, absolutely. It's tied to the very first commandment, the greatest commandment, love thy neighbor as thyself. Shall we love the unsaved? And all around the world love them and want to reach them for the gospel. Yes. But that must not be our motive We're going to see here in a little bit what our motive is. You know what the problem with having my love for another person, making that my motive? You know what the problem is with that? Because our love is very fluid. If you don't understand what I'm trying to say. Our love is not very consistent. There's some people, I love them one day, the next day I want to choke them. You know, one day, man, I'd lay my life down for them. The next day I want to lay their life down And so I gotta be careful that my motive for you know some of you Sunday school teachers, God bless you One day, man, these kids are so cute. They're just the sweetest thing they rip my heart. The next week you want to rip their heart out. They're brats. So our motive for serving the Lord, we are to love others, and we're to love them. Greater love is no man this, a man laid down his life for his friends. We ought to love them to the extent of giving ourselves But that, we're going to see, is not our motive for serving God and for living the Christian life. Notice he says here, look here at verse 11. He says, if any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. If any man minister, let him do it as the ability which God giveth that God in all things. That little word that tells us what our motives should be. The word that means in order that, to the intent that, or toward this end, or for this purpose. We do what we do for this purpose. And I see threefold purpose here. Number one, God be glorified. Do you get that? Everything I do in my life is to be done for the glory of God. Not for myself. Not anything about me. It's all for the glory of God. Look what he says: that God in all things may be glorified. Now the question is, what does it mean to glorify God? What is he talking about? We use that word a lot. We're familiar with it, but what does it actually mean? The word glory means that I like this definition. I like to bring it home where I can grasp it. The definition of the word glory, that in all things God might be glorified, means this. To ha uh that people to produce a high opinion of. Um it means to display the honor of Or display the magnificence of. So everything I do, whether it's standing behind a pulpit, preaching, or assembling Romans booklets, or running a vacuum. Changing diapers, driving a Sunday school bus, everything I do ought to be that people Because of what I'm doing, people have a very exalted opinion of God You follow what he's saying? That people see God as a magnificent God, as a God of honor by the way we talk. And our service to others, our ministries that God enables us to do. It's not for our glory. It's not so people think, man, Brother Leatherman's really something. Boy, brother Pastor Matt is really something. That's not what it's about. We want him to say this. Man, God is really awesome. As a result of what we're doing. You with me? It's for God's glory that in all things God may be glorified. And he says, in all things. I looked that up. I got, and there's very specific definition for that phrase, in all things. It means in each and every circumstance. In every action I take, in every word I utter, God be glorified in it. Now, I put a list down here, doing all to God's glory. First of all, I put this down, was Jesus' motive while he was here on earth Now, do you got your Bibles? How many people brought your Bible to church tonight? Amen. I want you to follow with me. We're going to jump around here real quick. I want to look at a bunch of verses. Go to the Gospel of John. Most of these are going to be in John. But the glory of God was Jesus' motive while he was here on earth. Look at John chapter 7. Let's start out there. And I thought it was interesting that John is the gospel that emphasizes the deity of Christ, and yet Jesus' whole motive in the book that Emphasize his deity was to bring glory to God the Father. Notice chapter 7 and verse number 18. Notice what Jesus said. Now, this is, I have this underscored in my Bible. I have for years. He that speaketh of himself. Seeketh what? His own glory. Now, Jesus is referencing himself here. He says, listen, he that speaks of himself seeks his own glory. But He that seeketh his glory that sent him. This the same is true and no unrighteousness in him. You know what Jesus was saying? Jesus was saying, I didn't come down here to seek glory for me. As a man, the humanity of Christ. Listen, I'm not here to speak about myself because to bring glory to me. By the way, if we catch ourselves talking about ourselves a lot, We might want to stop and ask ourselves, whose glory am I really seeking? Did you get that? He that speaketh of himself seeketh his own glory. And so Jesus is making this emphasis. I'm not here to bring glory to me, I'm here to bring glory to the Father. Turn over with me, if you would, to chapter 8 of John. And look with me at verse 59, 49, and 50. John chapter 8, 49, and 50. He says this. Jesus answered, I am not a devil. And they were accusing Jesus of being possessed of a devil. I am not a devil. But I honor my father, and ye do dishonor me. Now look at verse 50. And I seek not mine own glory. He said very emphatically, I'm not in this, I'm not here to bring glory to myself. And by the way, every child of God Regardless of what we're doing, we ought to be able to honestly say, I am not doing this for my glory. I'm not doing this for people to have a high opinion of me. I'm not doing this for people to think I'm really something. We ought to be able to say, I do all this for God's glory. Now let me remind you, you and I could do nothing if it were not for the Lord. You say, well, I work hard at that's great, that's wonderful. Who gave you the ability to do that? In fact, who gives us the very next breath to breathe? It's God's glory. One more verse here, real quick. John chapter 17. And uh verse number four, John seventeen four This is the Lord's great prayer. Sometimes we refer to the Lord's Prayer, our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be the name. We call it the Lord's Prayer. This 17 is actually the Lord's Prayer. This is where the Lord is praying. The other would be a model prayer. But look at verse 4. He's praying to God the Father. Look what he says. I have glorified thee on earth. I finished the work that thou gavest me to do. I have glorified thee on earth. Now I'm emphasizing this, and I'm spending a little time here because this. Believe and I desire as a pastor and as an individual Christian That my ministry and every single ministry of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, every aspect of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church brings glory to God. That we point to the majesty of our God. We point to the awesomeness of our God. We point to the honor of our God. Everything is done to that end. Everything. To God's glory, God's glory, God's glory. We have to be very, very careful when we start saying, I, I, me, me, this is mine. This is not my ministry. This is God's ministry. And He has enabled me and given me the unbelievable privilege of serving Him in this capacity, and whatever capacity God gives us. I still can hear Brother Charles B. Holmesher's voice. He was the founder and director of Neighborhood Bible Time. I can still hear his voice as we would just in conversation, he would say something like this: Brother Dennis Bible time is God's ministry. It's for his glory. And that's true. Brent Pastor Matt and I, we pray Saturday nights. We come over about 10. By the way, if you'd want to join us, you're more than welcome. Just about 10 o'clock every night we'll kneel and we'll pray. And I try to, I've done this from day one, 1993. I try to say, God, this is not my church, this is your church. I want you glorified in it. I want you exalted in it. Not in the individual. So when we do what we do for the glory of God, we are awfully Christ-like. When we do it for God's glory, because that's what Christ did. Let me give you others real quick. Notice chapter 14 of John. Come back there real quick. I want you to notice some. I thought this was interesting. One of the reasons Jesus answers our prayers is so God be glorified. Look at verse 13 of John chapter 14. He says, and whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do. How many people agree with me? What a promise But look, he tacks on the end there. He makes this statement. Whatsoever he shall ask in my name, that will I do. Why? That the Father may be glorified in the Son. How many people here ever had a prayer answered? Anybody here ever have a prayer? Yeah. I've had some just this week And you know, every time we have a prayer that's answered, you know who gets the glory for that? God. Jesus says, I answer these prayers so that my Father be glorified. My Father be glorified. Jesus' instruction to his disciples was to give glory to God. And we won't turn there. Matthew 5. 16, he says, Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. He says, listen, you guys serve God, and you guys get after it, and you serve people so that people can see what you're doing and bring glory to God. Bring glory to God. It's in God's instructions to all believers. I'd like for you, if you would, go real quickly one more verse to 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Now maybe some of you were waiting for me to get to this verse. 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Again, this is a good text to underscore in your Bibles and commit to memory. 1 Corinthians 10, look at verse 31 with me, if you would. This third last verse of the chapter. Now look what he says here. Whether therefore ye eat, Or drink. Now it next he encompasses everything. And whatsoever ye do, do all what? To the glory of God. To the glory of God. What's the ultimate end of man? What's our purpose? Why are we here? What do we do, what we do? I'll tell you what it is: it's to bring glory to our glorious God. So Peter writes these persecuted believers, and he's saying, listen, make sure you talk the way God talks And you serve God and minister to others with the ability God has given you. And you make sure your motive behind all of it Is not your pleasure, is not your fame, is not attention for yourself, but is for the glory of God Almighty. And he makes two other statements, and I'll very quickly end with these. That God in all things may be glorified. Then he says this. Through Jesus Christ to whom be praise and dominion. I think there's a second part of our purpose in life, and that is that Jesus be praised. To whom be praised. That word praise is very similar to the word glory. It means to produce an excellent opinion of, an honorable opinion of. To cause others to think highly of Jesus Christ our Savior. So we need to talk and act and serve in such a way That people think, man, his savior is something else. Her savior is something that would do this in a life. When I got saved, you know my testimony, how what a just a fantastic transformation of my life was. There's no uh I'm still dumbfounded to this day. And people would say, what in the world? I mean, just a week ago you were this and now What what got into the one friend of ours, my dad's, she said to him, she said, what in the world got into Denny? He said Jesus got into. It wasn't man. Man, Dennis cleaned his life up. Man, he's something else. Look what he did. No, no, no. Everybody says there ain't no way he did that. I say, man. Look what Jesus did. Look what Jesus did. And we ought to do that. We ought to focus that. Remember when the disciples, the people that hate them, the Pharisees were persecuted them? And it says they took note that they had been with Jesus. There was something about their behavior. There was something about the way they talked. There was something about their countenance. There was something about their atmosphere that caused others to think about Jesus. About Jesus. You can put it this way, this is modern terminology. If you say this, they had Jesus all over them That's what he's telling them here. That Jesus be praised, that God be glorified, Jesus be praised. And then he says the third part of our purpose is that Jesus be promoted. And I get that from the word dominion. Glorified through Jesus Christ to him be praise and dominion. The word dominion means supremacy above all else. And we want people to see our lives, and we want people to see what's happening at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, and we want people to read our literature and listen to our radio broadcast and hear our singing. And experience our fellowship, and we want them all to think Jesus Christ needs to be Lord of my life also. That he becomes supreme in my life when they see him supreme in our lives. When Christ has dominion in our homes And then others see that, and we want Christ to have dominion in my home. You follow? That Christ would have dominion. They see Jesus Christ, dominion, and how we operate as a church, and we do our business and we interact. And we deal with issues, and they see that, and they see Christ has dominion over this. We want Christ to have dominion in our circumstances also. But we're fussing and fighting and acting like twelve-year-old girls in middle school. I'm not talking to her and I don't like him. I just need to avoid them, and I tell you what, I tell you what, that is a shame on the name of Jesus Christ. We ought to do for his glory. And he has dominion. And he's in control, not me, not you But Christ. Christ. You know, when we do all to God's glory, when we do all for Jesus' praise, when we all do all for the exaltation of Jesus Christ. That brings dignity to what we're doing. Maybe, and I don't mean to single out our cleaning ladies, but this is a good illustration. Maybe I'm cleaning a commode for the glory of God. You know what that makes? That makes that ministry, that service, that gives it dignity. It's for God's glory. Washing dishes. Cleaning up the saint. Changing a little bus kid's diaper. You know what that gives a great k dignity? This is for God's glory. God's glory Imagine somebody in the White House and their job is to keep the restrooms clean in the White House. Do you think they would consider that awfully important? Man, this is a significant place. This has to be right. This is, you know, this is the White House Hey, I'm telling you, the restrooms in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church are more important in my mind than the restrooms in the White House because these are God's restrooms. And these are God's children, and these are God's buses. And this is God's choir, and this is God's pulpit. And those are God's little chairs downstairs. And the children come in there, and they're God's children. And what we're doing is for the glory of God and not for ourselves. On me. It's God's. It brings dignity to everything we do. And by the way, it never disappoints. You say, well I'm a little disappointed. I just this is all I have. Listen, if it's done for God, it doesn't matter what the results are. If I'm doing it for God's glory It's going to be all right. I study this book pretty carefully. I continue. I'm not a scholar of the book, but I'm a student of the old Bible And I can't find anywhere where God rewards us for our results. The results are on his end. But God rewards us for our faith and our obedience and our motive. Why am I doing what I'm doing? If I'm doing it for God's glory, there's never going to be any disappointment there. It's for God's glory. I did my best. I did it for His glory. Whatever the results may be, that's in God's hands. And I don't mean this in a proudful, sinful way, but when we're serving God for God's glory, we can hold our head high. I'm serving God. I give myself to that. I'll end with this illustration. I just think it hopefully it captures what I think Peter's saying here. Dr. Williams. He does these drawings. Would you agree with me? He's pretty good. The guy is gifted. I mean, phenomenally. And you know what people say? They say what I just said. They'll come up and look at it and they'll say, Man, you're amazing. And they'll look at the prince back there and they'll say You're amazing. They see what he does with some chalk and paper, and they stand in awe. What takes place, how people respond to Dr. Williams' drawing with chalk and paper, that's what we want people to respond about our God. What he's doing in our life. You follow how I'm trying to illustrate this? They see what they see what's happening. They don't come and say, boy, uh, you know, Pastor Matt, he's really something. And Pastor Matt really is something in my mind But they don't come and say, Pastor Matt's really something. You know what they say? God's really something. And they see what God's doing in his life. You and I are the chalk. You and I are the canvas. God is the artist. And we're displaying his glory. And when we get to the point, we start, we're the little chalk up there on the paper. Ah, look at me! I'm the chalk! People say, that's weird. Well, we wanted to look at us and they say, he's great. He's great. He's great. He's great. Father in heaven, help us to do all to the glory of God and the praise of the Lord Jesus Christ and the dominion of the Lord Jesus Christ. Help us. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how he would say, Preacher, I need to get my motives in line. I gotta adjust my motives a little bit and get it back on track. And do all to the glory of God. Any like that uplifted hand, preacher, that's what I need. Oh, sure, my hand's raised. We've got to check this all the time. That old flash wants to get the attention. We got to die to self, put that aside. Do all to the glory of God. Father in heaven, bless our invitation now as we prepare for Lord's Supper. Stir our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation hymn, how about we find a place this old