Psalm 37. Down in the Psalm, verse uh let's see, where are we? Verse 23 is where I want to begin reading. The Bible says the steps of a good man Are ordered by the Lord, and he, that is the good man, delighteth in his, that is the Lord's way Though he, the good man, fall, he shall not be utterly cast down, for the Lord upholdeth him with his hand. I have been young and now I'm old, yet have not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. He is ever merciful and lendeth, and his seed is blessed. Now, Betty and I have uh six grandchildren, four of whom are married. And uh we only have one little great granddaughter. Just one. We have another one, another little great grandson that's due to be born in a few weeks. But uh the little great granddaughter is three years and three months of age. Three years, three months of age. About a month ago, maybe five weeks now, she was at my daughter's and son-in-law's home, grandmother and uh grandfather to her And somebody in the conversation used the word improvise. And uh nothing was said about it except uh the word was used, improvise And just last week, well be a week and a half ago now. Um Little Quincy was having a conversation with my daughter, and uh and my daughter said to her, she said, uh Quincy, I I I I don't I don't think what we're talking about here, I don't think that's going to work out So little Quincy says, well, I guess I'll just have to improvise. In fact, she had asked when the word was used, what does it mean? And she used the word and used it correctly. Reminded me of how preachers are. We like words. We we get into words. Sometimes we you know we we let our vocabularies build and development develop. And uh and uh based based on the inspiration I got from my little great-granddaughter on that, I I thought I'd share a couple of important vocabulary words with you all this morning. Some that I learned very early on. For example, I learned very early on that there were a lot of things that would come down the pike, a lot of things that would come from the Lord, his instructions and stuff, to which I could say yes. Yes. Yes. But I learned that with every one of those questions to which there was appropriately an answer of yes Every one of those of the world has an option, an alternative. That's another one of Quincy's words. She uses that one, option. The world has an option to every one of them. The world has an alternative. It has a strategy to try to get us away from what we ought to say yes. And so I I also learned early on that I can't say yes to everything the world's up to But I've got to have another word for that, and so I learned another vocabulary word, and it's the word no. No No. Now a lot of times we get so oh we get so polished, we get so sophisticated Uh we get so well what's the next step, so uh tolerant and so compromising that uh even though the world's offering things we like to move it in a little closer and push that out a little further. And so we don't say yes as often as we ought to, and we say we we don't say no as often as we ought to, and sometimes we say no to what we ought to say yes and yes to what we Now, Psalm 37 lays this picture out very clearly. And whether you got much of a vocabulary or not, And yours may be as simple as mine is with yes and no, but Psalm 37 lays it out very clearly. Uh in fact it doesn't do it with a big par uh uh uh let me give you another example. Psalm one Verses 1 and 3 talk about the god 1, 2, and 3 talk about the godly man. Verses 4, 5, and 6 talk about the ungodly man. One paragraph on godly, one paragraph on ungodly. In Psalm 37, it's godly, ungodly, godly, ungodly, godly, ungodly, all the way through this chapter. A little bit about the godly, a little bit about the ungodly, a little bit Father Godly, little bit about the ungodly And in the bottom line, I mean it says it again and again here: the wicked shall be cut off. They'll be like a green tree that grows up, but they're going to fade. They're not going to last And all of that picture is drawn out there very, very clearly in the Bible There is a distinctive difference between the way of the world and the way of the world's Creator. There's a difference between the God And the man-made so-called gods, there's a difference between the religion of works and the salvation that comes by faith. There's a difference between truth and error, principled and unprincipled, godly and ungodly. I mean, you know, straight and crooked are two different things. Uh hetero and homo are two different things. Moral and immoral, two different things, honest and dishonest, right and wrong Wise and foolish, loving and hateful, daylight and dark, sweet and sour, two different things. Now, in this passage that I read here a moment ago in Psalm 37 It says the steps of a good man. Every once in a while I I'll I'll go somewhere like coming here and I'm scheduled to preach. I walk in the lobby, I begin to meet people, and somebody will say, Well, how in the world are you? And I say, Oh, I'm good, I'm good, I'm good And then some person, and again they're not they don't mean to be unkind or they're not trying to be a smart aleck or anything, but they they respond with say, Oh, oh no nobody's good, nobody's good Now, the fact is they're partially right. Partially right. See, Romans 3 does say there's none good But now that's the remember what that's talking about. It's talking about an unsaved person. The same Bible, right here in this passage I read, says the steps of a good man. Now, as long as we're unsaved, I don't care how beautiful the picture is you paint, God looks at it and turns his nose up at it. No matter what we offer to the Lord, I mean it may be clean, it may be polished, I mean it may be an example of human perfection. But if if we as an unsaved person, everything we good stinks like a pile of rotten rags. But when we get saved and God begins to perfect us and work on us Then it's possible that we could be referred to as a good person. The Bible does that here in this passage. So it depends on what we're talking about, obviously. In this case, it tells us some things about a good man. And here's what I got from it. Number one, it tells me about his ordered steps. His ordered steps. You know, my feet take me places And what I'm learning from this is I ought to be careful about where my feet are planted. There's some places in town that I really just don't feel like that I should take my feet there. Well, I was in Westminster years ago We had a gentleman come to the church. He had been a Maryland state trooper. At the time, he was chief of police in one of our neighboring towns. And uh led him to the Lord, baptized him. He got in, was very active in the church. He kept saying to me, uh, why don't you come ride with me some Friday night or some Saturday night? Ride with me in the patrol car I kept putting him off, putting him off. I mean I just uh but finally, you know, I said, all right, all right. So uh I put on a little uh jumper type of jacket, had a tie on and a white shirt and a tie, but I had a little jumper jacket, not a coat like this, but a little jumper jacket. And uh and uh I met him about nine o'clock in the evening on a Friday night And uh he was he was dressed in uniform and we got in the patrol car and we were just riding around in town, cruising around, and it was a town we've I knocked on doors in that town many, many times, only about eight or nine miles from Westminster And uh and he was telling me, I got a little problem here. And over here, you know, I've got to watch this, you know, and he knew where the the the bad spots were. And in a little bit we pulled up in front of a place that I would call a honky tonk, a beer joint, a saloon, a tavern, and he said, let's go in Well, I was traveling with his chief. So I got out of the car and we walked in. Now, I gotta tell you, he was a whole lot like an Andy Griffith type of policeman. Very very much like that. He wa he was like a uh he wasn't all that old. I mean he was probably sixty at the time, but but but he wa he was I mean he was like granddad to everybody Except when he needed to be tough. He walked in, and as soon as he walked in, people said, Hey Chief, hey chief, hey chief, and I'm standing there beside him wondering, What in the world am I doing in this hellhole? He held his hand up. He said, everybody, listen up a minute. He said, I want to introduce you all. He said, this is Dr. Smith. He's my pastor over to the church in Westminster. And then he said, and he's got something he wants to tell you. He never said a word to me. I didn't know that was coming But thanks the Lord I had a New Testament in my back pocket, Brother Hummel. And I just I just stepped up and smiled real big and I said, folks, I didn't know I was going to get to do this, but yeah, there are some things I want to tell you. You know, before the night was out, I mean that was that was like 9 30, maybe 10 Before the night was out, I spoke in six beer joints. And we just kept going to another one, going to another one, and he did the same identical thing every place. Now, I actually saw some people I knew Thankfully none of them were from my church. But now listen. I I d I mean he he led me in there and and I I took advantage of the situation and did what I've just described to you. But I'm also going to tell you I never got comfortable in that I never got comfortable. I'm not gonna walk into a place like that, just drift in and say, I think I see what's gonna no. I'm not I'm not going there. Not going there. Now, you say, what's the deal here? With all of us, we need to let our steps be ordered by the Lord. You just heard both of these men earlier ha hammer on the fact. I mean the word of God is a big deal. It is a big deal. And listen, I I don't have to guess about a lot of stuff I don't have to guess about a lot of things. There's some things you say, well the Bible doesn't mention about well it'll there's principles there. You latch on to the principle and and and plug it in at the right time, and it'll keep you out of places you don't be it need to be in, and it'll put you into places where you ought to be So when we look at this good man, first thing we see are his ordered steps. And by the way, the Lord does have rules. And we've been talked out of rules by a lot of folks who don't come to me with rules. Well, there's a lot of rules in the Bible. Book of Proverbs has got more than a thousand of them. Not to mention that Big Ten and Act Exodus twenty. You know what we call the Ten Commandments Sermon on the Mount. That a lot of these softball folks, you know, this is like, oh yeah, we like the Sermon on the Mount. They haven't read it. There's a lot of rules in the Sermon on the Mount. And the epistles are full of rules as well And by the way, every last one of the things the Bible says do, we ought to do. We'd be good for us if we did. And the things it says don't do, we're messing with ourselves if if we if we do it God's got it right. He never misses a call. Alright, so his ordered steps. This good man, we see his ordered steps, and then also in that 23rd verse, we see his borrowed delights. His borrowed delights. It says, and he, the good man, delighteth in the Lord's ways. Now, I I get the impression in in reading this that maybe this guy, I mean, he's he's headed right, but uh But I'm not sure he's thought up all this stuff on his own. I don't think he has. No, no, it's the Lord's delights that that this guy is is tying on to Uh ever every once in a while, uh uh I don't know, maybe maybe as many as a half a dozen times through the years, somebody who's gotten saved, they're in church and they're struggling to kind of figure out what to do And some, well, Pastor, I don't know how I'm supposed to feel about and they'll mention something. Maybe it'd be the hair issue or something. They'll mention something like that. And I've said I've said to the guy, I said, tell you what Uh you you probably need a little time to figure this out until such a time as you get it figured out. Why don't you borrow my convictions on it? I will loan you some convictions For you to work with and uh and let's see how it works out. Uh every time I've done that, give the guy a few weeks, few days, maybe a month or two. Next thing you know, he comes and say, Pastor, I got it figured out. Got it figured out. You're right. And I just loaned him some convictions for a little while. And this guy, this guy, he I mean he he's getting these steps ordered. Uh Yeah, don't you don't you love it when whenever um you got children and grandchildren if you say uh uh you know take those flowers and move them over there, don't you love it when they just go do it Sure we do. But I tell you there's something I like even better is whenever you tell them to do it and they say, oh yes sir, I'm glad to do that. And they they delight in the doing of what you've asked them to do. That's another step, a new step And the Lord's looking to us not only to do what we're supposed to do, but to delight in the doing of it. That's another step and a good step. So we learn from this good man about his ordered steps. We learn about his borrowed delights. And then in verse 24, we learn about his promised rebound. Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down. I mean, that tells me this guy's not perfect. In fact, the Bible says a just man falleth seven times, yet riseth up again Say, well, we had a guy who came, joined our came, said he was saved, joined our church, got baptized, and he lasted about three months, and and man, he's back out in the world drinking, carrals and doing all kinds of crazy things. I'm telling you, if he stays there, he didn't get salvation. The Bible says a just man, he may fall, but he'll rise up again. He won't stay down He he may he may he may go to the he may go to the far country, he may he may wallow in the pig sky for a little while, but he'll not stay there, not if he's born again He he'll get there and and uh in the middle of the night some night he'll say, What in the world am I doing in this hog pen? And he'll say, I'll get up, I'll go, I'll I'll I'll say to my father, I've sinned, and he'll crawl back To the father's house. By the way, that prodigal son, that whole story, he was a son. When he got restless, he was a son. When he walked down the road, he was a son the whole time. He was in the pig pen. And he was a son when he made his way back home. Old story. Now, this man That's the good man, he uh may fall down, but he'll rebound. He'll get up. We also see how that he gets up. Verse 24. We see his supernatural assistance. It says that the Lord upholdeth him with his hand. You know, I I I like I like the fact that we got somebody on our team, on our side, that's bigger and more powerful than we are. And whenever we are weak or faltering or failing, oh we can lift up and when our hands are weak The mighty hand of God, it's always strong, it's always there, it's always able to enable us. And we can see how that this man, this good man, he may have stumbled and may have gotten some egg on his face But he got up because he had the help of the Lord. Every pastor in this room, or assistant pastor, or missionary, or or bus worker or soul winner. There there are times, there are times, I mean, whenever we look at everything and we say, how in the world are we going to handle this? We handle it because we've got the assistance of an Almighty God. We've got the assistance that's supernatural. It's way beyond our fleshly ability. Mentioned last night, this week, we're celebrating the 90th anniversary of the Ministry of the Sword of the Lord. When Dr. John started the sword. He didn't have a mailing list. He didn't have a pile of money. He was pastor of a local church in Dallas, and they were You know living uh month to month, paycheck paycheck to paycheck. But he did what he believed God wanted him to do, and every single day, every single day For 90 years that ministry has survived on supernatural assistance. Supernatural assistance. I walk out of those buildings on my way home day after day after day. And as I walk out of those buildings many times, I lift up my voice and it trembles when I do, and I say, Dear Lord, thank you for helping us. Thank you for keeping things rolling here. Dear Lord, thank you for giving us the privilege to touch and impact so many people around the world. every single day. And I thank him for every provision he makes for us. His supernatural assistance is the difference. And not only that, but you get to verse 25 and you see his glowing testimony. He said, Oh, I've been young and now I'm old, yet I've not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. Telling you something. It's pretty special. Betty and I were first married. I was we were just barely out of high school. We married and I was pastor of a little church and we moved uh to uh another location so I could uh continue beyond the junior college to go to the university and and uh uh immediately got a pastorate there in the well, fifty miles out really from the university. I was driving round trip a hundred miles a day while I was in school and The little church was almost bankrupt and they they the salary they were paying me, I've often said you you didn't have to use that whole word salary to describe it. It was just This is about all it was. But I'm going to tell you, during those days, our our little daughter was born during that time We didn't have hospitalization, no insurance. Brought that baby home from the hospital, the bill was paid. I gr the day I graduated from the university, I didn't know the university had died. I took six years to get through. And I worked some jobs and did whatever I needed to do to pay the bills. But the Lord gave me strength, the Lord gave me health, the Lord gave me the drive. uh to do it, to go for it, to see it through. But uh whenever we whenever we got done and over and over again through the years, time and time again we've been able to say, God is so good, like you sang a little bit ago, brother God is good. He provides. He's taken care of us. He every step of the way. And we can testify to the goodness, the grace, just the absolute generosity of our wonderful Savior. He said, I was young, now I'm old. He said, I've not seen the righteous forsaken nor received begging bread. And then you also see in that 26th verse, not only his ordered steps and his barred delights and his promised rebound and his supernatural assistance and his glowing testimony, but in verse 26 We see his ongoing compassion. Talks about his mercy. He is ever merciful. The good man The good man looks through eyes of compassion at the other people he sees. It may be somebody homeless, or it may be somebody living in a mansion. The subdivision where Betty and I live, basically three and four bedroom homes, and just uh three, four, five, six, seven, eight, about ten blocks from us Somebody has built an absolute mansion. I'm telling you, it's it's bigger, it's bigger than this church building. And it's painted white. And every once in a while, with some of my preacher buddies, I'll just drive down Sulphur Spring Road, which is where it's where it's at. And and I and I'll I'll dial the phone just at the right time so that when they answer the phone and they'll say, Where are you today? I say, Oh, I'm at the White House Just being boyish uh and mischievous. Now hey, it it doesn't it doesn't matter whether that person is living in a shack Or in a mansion like that, through the eyes of the Lord, if you and I see them as we ought to see them, we will see them with mercy. They may be arrogant, they may be hateful, they may be mean, all of that, but you and I will remember to show compassion to them, just like the Lord showed us. And then the last part of that talks about his long-term influence when it says that, and his seed is blessed. I'm telling you. If you think about your offspring, your children, grandchildren, etc. , and if you have influence with them, and if you've influenced them sufficiently so that they too are walking with the Lord You're a success in life. You're a blessed success. Nothing any greater, any grander than that. Now, I know a lot of things happen. A lot of things go sour. A lot of things don't work out like we thought it was going to. But I'm telling you something, folks. This passage tells me that even though you may be down, if you're born again, the Lord will help you to get through. One little illustration. When I was uh when I was uh about uh twelve, I think maybe thirteen years of age We we were living in Detroit for a while. Dad got a job with Cadillac Motor Company and we lived in Detroit, lived up there in the inner city off of the famous Grasshead Avenue in Detroit. That summer there was a big fight, a boxing match that took place in America. I mean, it was the big sporting event of the year. It was hyped and promoted all over the place. Now I know boxing's a terrible sport. Probably ought to be outlawed, but until it is, I watch it every once in a while. And especially the heavyweights. This particular deal, the heavyweight champion of the world was an Italian guy named Rocky Marciano. Rocky Marciana at that point was 48-0. He had never been defeated, and only one time had he been knocked to his knees. The light heavyweight champion of the world was a black man named Archie Moore. Archie Moore had had uh over 200 fights and he had lost uh just a handful, about a dozen fights through the years, but he too was a great, great fighter. And he decided he wanted to be heavyweight champion So he gained a few pounds to get out of the light heavyweight division. They scheduled the fight. And this particular night I sat on a curb down at the foot of the little apartment we lived in I sat on the curb and listened with the door open to a car radio. The only means I had for listening to it. And when that's I mean it was it was on all over the country. I mean it was the talk of America Marciana and Moore. The second round of that fight, and remember Marciana's undefeated. The second round of that fight, Archie Moore clipped him with a with a left uppercut And dropped him to his knees. Didn't knock him down. Didn't knock him out, but he knocked him to his knees. And I'm telling you, it it rings in my ears even now. I can hear the announcer as he said, Martiana's down, Martian is down, Marshanna. He must have said it 20 times. Martiana's down, Martian is down, Martian is down. He took the automatic eight count. But he got up. He got up. I said, he got up. He didn't stay down. And I think it was like the ninth round that he TKO'd Archie Moore and won his 49th fight. Which turned out to be the last one he finished his career 49-0. Now, I tell you that, saying, Why'd you tell us that I like to hear it? But I'm gonna tell you something, there have been some times when I've been knocked to my knees I've been knocked to my knees with disappointment. I've been knocked to my knees when I couldn't figure out how to pay my bills or whatever. I've had some times when when I I mean I've gotten a gut punch. But I didn't say them. I mean I I remember some things like that. I remember some of these things from the Bible. And I know that whatever comes, whatever hurts, whatever heartaches, whatever burdens, whatever defeats come to us, if we're born again, we've got God on our side And we indeed are on the winning side. So you want to be a good man. Let me tell you where it starts. It starts with a choice. With every one of us. It starts with a choice. We have to decide, we're going with God or are we going to go with that crowd that's running with the world? And if we decide to go with God, it's a choice and then a commitment. A commitment. I mean, daylight or dark Money or no money, sink or swim, live or die, get fat or die skinny, whatever the deal. We're going with God. And of course, all of that starts with a conversion. We get in, trust the Lord. And then began to walk with him, and that's where we just might someday be entitled to be called a good man. His ordered steps. Bar delights all of that. Precious indeed to me, and I trust to you as well. Stand up with him and we'll pray. You've heard some messages this morning. The Hummel's message encouraging us to keep our heart for souls. Dr. Allison just hammered on some things that we all need to hear. Just to be straight as an arrow. Rightly divide the word of truth. Just cut it straight. And you've heard what I've said to you just now. And if God spoken to your heart in any of these messages, or maybe in the songs that were sung, the prayers that were prayed. Don't leave without making a choice. It may be some tiny choice. Yeah, I mean you you you you may have had one little thing over here with this worldly crowd to which you've kind of given tolerance Dave Watt, I think it'd be a great thing to surrender that right now this morning and say, I'm gonna I'm gonna learn to say no. And say it again and again and again when I need to say it and in the and in the other side of the equation I'm going to say yes and yes and yes every time that I need to say yes And I'm telling you, it'll make a difference. A big difference if you'll do it. Lord help us, I pray, may the Spirit of God so work and move in this service That nobody will leave here outside the will of God. That we'll all do what will be a help and a blessing to us. And Lord, if they're unsaved folks, under the sound of my voice Lord, I pray this would be the morning. They'd say yes and trust the Savior. Put their trust in him for salvation. We'll thank you for what you do in Jesus' precious name. Amen. The music begins