25. Our last message on the tabernacle. You could just go on and on and on and study the tabernacle. There's so many things there. I have some books in my library that uh just go into such incredible detail. on every aspect of um of the tabernacle, every little ring and uh every color and everything. And and uh there's a lot of fascinating things there. What I've tried to do is um in a study is focus on the furniture primarily that is part of the tabernacle and the reason for that is uh did I tell you what reference to go to? Exodus twenty-five And uh the reason we zeroed in on the furniture is because that is the the rest of the tabernacle, the curtains and the and the tent itself the timer itself was all to facilitate the furniture and the furniture was to facilitate the sacrifices and ceremonies. So that's why we zeroed it on that The last part piece of furniture is the mercy seat. And notice in chapter 25 of Exodus and verse number 17, the Bible says, And thou shalt make a mercy seat of pure gold, two cubits and a half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof. And thou shalt make two cherubims of gold, of beaten work, shalt thou make them, in the two ends of the mercy seat And make one cherub on the one end, and the other cherub on the other end, even of the mercy seat, shall ye make the cherubims of the two ends on the two ends thereof And the cherubims shall stretch forth their wings on high, covering the mercy seat with their wings. Their faces shall look one to another, toward the mercy seat shall the faces of the cherubims be And thou shalt put the mercy seat above upon the ark, and in the ark thou shalt put the testimony that I shall give thee. Now look what he says in verse 22. And there I will meet with thee and will commune with thee from above the mercy seat From between the two cherubims which are upon the ark of the testimony, of all things uh which I will give thee in commandment unto the children of Israel The mercy seat. We've arrived inside the Holy of Holies. Let's pray and um uh we'll look at this. Father, bless now as we bring this study to a conclusion. I hope Lord, and I pray that all of us that have um given attention to this and and uh taken what we've given here would have a clearer understanding of the tabernacle the significance of it and the message it's communicating to us. And fill me with your spirit tonight as we look at this most sacred object and uh uh use me and help us, Lord, to have a Greater understanding, greater appreciation for the relationship we have with you, Lord. Help me, Lord, now and and speak our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen. If you remember I pointed out early in the series that um There are 50 chapters in the Bible that are either devoted completely to the tabernacle or reference the tabernacle. Now when you have that large portion of Scripture devoted to one object or one structure, that tells me that structure is important. Would you agree with me? Uh I like to say this often, you know, if God mentions something one time, it's important. Uh amen? If it's one time, it's all how many how many folks ever told your kids, I'm gonna tell you one time Did you ever say that? I'm not going to say it again. Why? Why do you say it? You say because it's important. When God tells us something one time, it's important. If God references something fifty times Sounds to me something we ought to know about. Would you agree? Something we ought to be aware of, God's people. So that's the case for the uh for the tabernacle. Um As I said before, just a moment ago, we're focusing on the furniture of the tabernacle. And not long into our study of this tabernacle, as I was preparing the messages leading up to preaching these. My whole perspective of the tabernacle changed, my understanding of it. Casual reading and just in Bible college and whatnot as we studied it. I got the impression in my mind that the tabernacle was a picture or an object lesson of our salvation. That's an object lesson of how we're saved. And it is to some degree But the more I studied this, I found out the tabernacle is more than just an object lesson of our salvation. It is an object lesson, it's an illustration of our ongoing relationship with God. How to maintain that relationship with God. If you remember, you come through the door. Remember we talked about that veil outside the court and the only one entrance in. Of course, that's a beautiful picture of salvation. Christ said, I am the door. Then you come to the brazen altar and there the offer was sacrificed. We pointed out that you can't get anywhere close to God or into the Holy of Holies without first something dying And that's a picture of salvation, the fact that we can't approach God except for Jesus died for us. And uh so you have the brazen altar, then you've got the labor is next where the priests would wash themselves and uh you know after all the mess and everything and uh they would keep themselves clean and we talked about that. Then you enter into the tabernacle itself, the first compartment uh is the holy place, and you go in there and you've got the Table of showbread on your right, you got the uh go golden candlesticks on your left, you've got the altar of incense right there in front of you, then you have the veil Remember the veil that tore in the tabernacle when Jesus Christ was crucified? That was uh that's what this here is, and it's early in the tabernacle form of it And you enter into the Vale, and that is the most sacred place in all of Israel, the Holy of Holies. There you have the Ark of the Covenant, and on top of the Ark of the Covenant, you have the mercy seat. Now just looking at the ark and the mercy seat, it appears to be one piece of furniture. It looks like, but when you study it, you find out it's actually two The ark is built. That's the last message we had. And the ark is built. And in the ark you had the law and the rod that butted, and the bowl of manna. And you had that in the ark made of solid gold. Then you have as a separate piece. The mercy seat, but that is placed perfectly upon the ark. And it sets on top And so, uh this is what makes it up. Uh it's the final piece, it's the most sacred item in all of Israel's history the mercy seat. Now here's my outline. Number one, I want us to consider its construction. Look at verse 17 with me, if you would, in uh in our text. Verse 17. And thou shalt make a mercy seat of what? What's it made out of? Pure gold and uh uh extremely expensive. This isn't just gold. This stuff this gold's been purified seven times And uh it is interesting thing is, it's one piece of gold. Uh these aren't various, you don't have the two cherubim and then the mercy seat uh attached with screws and rivets and holding them in place and then you uh get a wing uh nut and you put on the the wings of the cherubim and uh attach them and then you screw the head of it on to there like that. It's not like that at all This is all one piece of beaten gold. This is a phenomenal piece of handiwork. I I we I don't think we can know for certain, but it's been suggested and uh that Bezaliel well we we do know that Bezaliel made the ark in other parts. He was a The Bible says he was wise-hearted in these types of things, handiwork. And this no doubt was his uh was tremendous handiwork of Bezaliel. He's a neat guy You get your concordance out. Look up Bezalil, neat guy. And so anyway, uh this is very ornate, uh solid gold. Each part, it's all one piece of gold uh beaten out and uh uh uh uh made. It's three foot nine inches uh long this way It's two foot three inches deep. It fits perfectly flush on top of the Ark of the Covenant there. Now The mercy seat has three components to it. It has the seat itself, which we're really not told a whole lot about what it looks like. But on either side of this seat, are cherubims. And uh the Bible actually spends about three verses here, three or four verses. Telling us about these cherubim, one on each side. Let's read them again, beginning in verse number 18. Notice what it says about them. And thou shalt make two cherubims of gold Of beaten work shalt thou make them in the two ends of the mercy seat, and make one cherub on the one end And the other cherub on the other end, even of the mercy seat shall you make the cherubims on the two ends thereof. Alright, so you got the mercy seat On this end over here, you got the length, three and a half foot long, got a cherubim here, and over here you got a cherubim. Alright? And then he goes on. Um and where did I end reading? Verse 20, and the cherubim shall stretch forth their wings on high, covering the mercy seat with their wings. So picture this in your mind. You're in the Holy of Holies. Got the ark, the mercy seat on top of us, and you have these cherubim on either side, and they're facing each other. We're going to see that in a minute. Their wings come up. and touch each other right at the tip, and this mercy seat is completely covered by these cherubim. Alright? Read on. And you shall make, and verse twenty, they shall stretch forth their wings. And um uh towards the mercy seat shall the faces of the cherubim be, so they're facing in. And thou shalt put the mercy seat above the ark there. So we have these cherubim, and I thought, well, these things are fascinating What are these cherubim? Well immediately you assume they are what? Pictures of what? Of what? Angels. I thought, well, these are some sort of angel. They got wings and they're right there over the mercy seat and all this. And so I looked up the word cherubim and I thought it would say angel I looked up the word cherubim, did some study, got several different uh Hebrew dictionaries and whatnot, and you know what they told me the word cherubim means? They don't know. The there's no clear definitive definition of the word cherub or cherubim, and so we get no information, or let me think about it, we get very little information about these creatures. from the meaning of their word. Uh the meaning of their name. There is a word, the one Hebrew dictionary is looking at, uh looking up And they did say the word for cherubim is very closely associated with a word that means to praise or to exalt I thought, well that's interesting, because that is the responsibility of the cherubs as we study them in Scripture. We find that in many cases it was to praise. It had to do with the presence of God. They had to do with the throne of God often. So that would make sense that their responsibility would be to praise and exalt the Lord Alright. So I got digging. I got to do a little more study. I found out that the cherubim, anybody want to guess? When is the first time the cherubs are referenced in the Bible? The Garden of Eden. They are given responsibility. When Adam and Eve fell, sinned against God, they were driven from the Garden of Eden, and God established some cherubs there to keep them out. They had flaming swords, and their job was to not let sin back into the Garden of Eden. They are, as we said in Exodus, they're referenced here in the mercy seat. They are actually on the walls uh uh the the curtains in the tabernacle when Solomon built his temple. Uh they were ornate all throughout the temple. He had uh images of the cherubim throughout the temple And when we get to Ezekiel, Ezekiel had a vision of cherubim in the millennial temple that's rebuilt after Christ comes back. And again, they uh they adorn the walls there. So uh that's all we know about that. Apparently there are actual beings, obviously there are actual beings that are in heaven right now as you and I sit here and speak. There are in the presence of God these cherubims that are uh represented here on this here. So that is the construction of the mercy seat. We as I said we're told very little about what the mercy seat itself looks like, but we have these cherubim poles. Number two, what is the function of the mercy seat? What is this thing here for anyway? The g the raisin labor, that's easy to figure out what it's for. Raisin labor is for what? It's full water, it's a bowl full water, it's for to cleaning, to washing up. It's a sink basically And so that's easy to figure out what that's for. The brazen altar, that's easy to figure out. Burn stuff on, put sacrifices on, right? Table of showbread, that's easy. It's to hold the showbread. Candlestick. What's that for? To light the place up. That's very simple. The all the altar of incense. That's easy. It makes the place smell good and we found out it represents the prayers of saints. But what in the world is the mercy seat for? What do you do with seats? You sit on it. So I got studying. I said, all right, what exactly is the role? I looked up the term mercy seat And this was fascinating. I urge you to get your strongest concordance out and look that up. What is the definition of the word mercy seed? The word mercy seed itself, this was the definition I came across To atone by offering a substitute. The Hebrew term mercy seat means to atone by offering a substitute I thought, wow, that's strange. I thought it would be uh well actually uh um uh anyway, it's a tonac, uh the New Testament word The Greek word for the Old Testament word mercy seat, the Greek term is the word propitiation. How many folks have ever heard that word before? Propitiation. If you read your New Testament through, you've come across that at least two different places in the New Testament. Propitiation. It's not a word you and I use every day, it is a legal term. The word to propitiate means to appease something or to satisfy some demands. We think of the idea of appeasing something. I don't know about you, I get a negative connotation. Um how many when you were in elementary school there was a bully in the school Anybody come to mind a bully? Maybe you were the bully. Um but uh the boy and uh uh you're everybody's scared to death. Oh no, the bully's coming. And he's gonna beat me up. And so you take your lunch money And you say, here, here's some lunch money. Don't beat me up. You know what you were doing? You were appeasing him He was selfish. He wanted what you had. And so you would offer that money as a sacrifice to appease his selfishness so he's not mean to you. Anyb everybody follow with me? You look like you have no clue what I'm talking about here. Um uh and so you do that. Well that's the negative connotation. The word mercy seat and its New Testament equivalent propitiation means to appease, but not a bully. It means to appease a holy God. And the holy God, because God is holy, that's what he is. It's not something he chooses to be, it's what he is. He's holy. And that holiness is intolerant of sin. Holiness demands the eradication of sin. Intolerance, it cannot be accepted And so you have a sin, a sinful man, and he needs to propitiate, appease that Demand from this holy God, the holiness of God. And that's what the word opitiate means, or propitiate. So it's the function of the mercy seat First of all, it is there's three functions for the mercy seat that I've found in Scripture. Number one is to appease God is to appease God's holiness. Contemporary Christianity has a very manly God Now, by manly, I don't mean masculine, strong, like that. By manly, I mean human God. Our modern version of Christianity is bringing God down to man. You follow what I'm saying? It's making God like man. I put it this way over the years. I put it this way. Modern Christianity maximizes man and minimizes God. And more than that, you have this tendency to to m to appro to view God The way you do man. God's no different than man. He is the same things as man. And that is not the case. The Bible says very clearly: God is very distinct from man. God is high above man. God is not a man that he should repent, the Bible says. God is holy. And we as men are, though we're created in God's image, we are not anything at all like God. We are sinful beings, we are fallen beings. And the holiness of God, as I just said, the holiness of God cannot tolerate the sinfulness of man. And we learn this through the tabernacle and other teaching. God is infinitely holy. This is something God's been stirring my heart about. You and I, think about this. You and I, right now, are in the very presence of God. God is here. He's omniscient. God is omnipresent. We are now, right now, in the very presence of God. You say, well, we get to heaven, then we'll be with God. No, no, no. He's here now. You can't escape this presence. David said, If I if I go to the farthest star, thou there, if I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there. And this God that you and I right now are in the very presence of, and we live 24-7, in the very presence of God, we can't see him, we can't feel him, we can't touch him We can't audibly hear him. We are sinners. We're separate from God. But nevertheless, God is right here. We are in his midst. That's a humbling thought. You live your life like that, and then come to find out that this God, in whose presence I am, is holy. And cannot tolerate even the most minute sin, must be judged and damned, and condemned for all eternity. We need somebody or something to appease that holy God. Or we're done. We're dead. And that's where that mercy seat comes in. That was the role, that was the function of the mercy seat in the Old Testament for the Jews so that they could interact, they could have a relationship with this God that was so holy. Even though they were sinners. And so something or someone made appeasement, made propitiation, appease that holy wrath of God. Is this making sense On the mercy seat, they would take the blood of bulls and goats, they would sprinkle that out, that pleased, that satisfied the judgment of God on their sin on a temporary basis. The next year they would come back and put it on again. And the holy wrath of God said, Alright, the judgment for sin has been poured out on these bulls and goats, and that, and that will satisfy temporarily Now, keep your place here if you would. Come real quickly with me to Hebrews. I tell you, when you start realizing what's taken place in Exodus Leviticus, and then you come to Hebrews, it becomes alive. Um Hebrews chapter 9. Would you turn over there real quickly with me? Now we're going to get back to Exodus in a minute or two. And I'm actually coming up to the end of the message here. It's about an hour down the road. And um not really Hebrews chapter 9, look at verse 11 with me. Now keep in mind, God is holy, man is sinful, that wrath of God has to be appeased, or word cooked. And the mercy seat there is the place to the priest to put the blood on so that God is temporarily appeased. Now look at Hebrews 9. I'm going to begin reading in verse 11. But Christ Being come a high priest of good things to come by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building. Neither by the blood of bulls, of goats and calves, but by his own blood, he entered once into the holy place. Now What holy place did Christ enter into? Not the one made with hands down here on earth, but the literal, actual holy presence of the immediate presence of God. Look what it says. With his own blood, he entered into once, into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. You could write substitute. For if the blood of bulls and goats and the ashes of an heifer sprinkling, the unclean sanctifieth to the puring of the flesh. In other words, he's describing what took place in the tabernacle. How much more? Shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God? What's he saying? He's saying in so many words that the old that's mercy seat that the Jews were so sacred to the Jews Once a year the high priest would go in a very elaborate, specific ceremony, and he would sprinkle the blood on that Merced of bulls and goats. That was a temporary appeasement of God's holy wrath But Christ came, and Christ on the cross offered himself to God what those bulls and goats were. But it was the perfect sacrifice. It was the divine, sinless blood of God that was taken and applied in heaven on the mercy seat of heaven. To once for all appease the wrath of God. God's wrath has been folded. No more. There is now, therefore, no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus, because that wrath has been mercy-seated. That wrath has been propitiated. That wrath has been appeased. And it's been satisfied. And so the bully, and I uh this is uh uh maybe it's almost irreverent, I don't mean it this way, uh but the bully walks away satisfied that he got your money, so he's not going to beat you up. God's holiness, now this is the other end of the spectrum, but God's holiness is satisfied in that Christ suffered and was judged for our sins for us. Therefore, I'm no longer judged. That's what the mercy seat was about. That was its function. To make a way so that mankind up at that point did not Fear the wrath of God. This blood was put on there. It appeased the holiness of God. That's what the word itself means. We won't take time to turn there. You jot this down. 1 John 2. 2. For he hath made him, Christ, to be sin for us. And uh wait, no, no, that's not the verse. Um tell you what, turn over there anyway. For he is something. John chapter 2, look at verse 2. Let me read it for you. Little children, these things write I unto you that you sin not. Alright, question. Does God want us to sin? Do so if you're sinning, stop it. Amen? That's good preaching right there. These things write unto you, little children, that ye sin not. And if any man sin, alright, God doesn't want you to sin, stop it. But if you do sin, We have an advocate with the Father, even Jesus Christ the righteous, and he is the, what's that word? Propitiation. He is the mercy seat. He is the thing that appeases the wrath of God. And look what it says. And not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. When Jesus died and offered himself as that sacrifice, his blood, he didn't just die for a select group of people He died for everybody. Every person, the most vile person living in the backstreets, perverts of Taiwan. Jesus Christ already appeased God's wrath on that man's sin. The most wicked drug cartel leader thug down in Mexico that tortures without remorse Jesus Christ already appeased God's wrath on his sin. Now does that mean that everybody's saved? No. But that does mean everybody's sin has been paid for. And all that person has to do is come and accept it as a gift. And God will forgive them. Isn't that something? That's the message of the mercy seat. The papitiation. Uh uh and first John four ten makes the same very similar statement. So One of the functions of the mercy seat was to be just that, to be a mercy seat, to appease the wrath of God. But there's another function I find in Scripture, and that is this. Not just the appeasement of God, but the enthronement of God. Now we've got to come back to Exodus 25. And there's a statement made here that I'd be honest with you, I missed it until after I was almost finished my message. Exodus 25, are you back there? Look look with me. You brought your Bible, you might as well use it Um look at verse uh twenty two. Exodus twenty five twenty-two Now speaking of the mercy seat, this is God telling Moses, he says, and there I will meet with thee on the mercy seat. Look at this. And I will what? Commune with thee from above the mercy seat. I looked up that word commune. I got curious about that. It means this: to make pronouncements. What do you think of when you think of someone making pronouncements? What type of person do you think of? Somebody is making pronouncements. What? Somebody in charge. I heard somebody say a judge. A king. Pronouncements. Huh. God says, make this mercy seat, and from there, I'm going to make pronouncements to you. I'm going to commune with you. I'm going to tell you how it is. But read on. I thought, well that's interesting. That's a little different than what I pictured it. Then I read on from above the mercy seat. I'll commune with you above the mercy seat from between the two cherubim which are upon the Ark of the Testimony Of all things I will give thee commandment. Man alive, this mercy seat sounds more like a throne. This sounds to me like a king, someone in tremendous authority, from the mercy seat, giving out pronouncements, giving out commandments. In other words, you have the appeasement of God taking place here, but you also have the enthronement of God. Both these words imply authority. And God is saying, well, I'll get to what he's saying. Then the third function that I've found is it provides boldness to approach God. Now, if that high priest once a year was doing everything right, he did exactly the way God said, he had nothing to be afraid of to go in there. He's going to go in, he'll approach the very present God, most sacred piece of furniture in the world, most sacred presence in the world. He's going to apply the blood like he's supposed to. He has nothing to fear if he's doing it exactly what God says He can come in there boldly if he comes the way God tells him to. Now if he's not dressed right or he's not doing something right or he didn't do the process right, he'll be dead. Now this is where I'm going to end with this passage. Come back again to Hebrews, chapter 4. So this the function of this mercy seat, number one, two, is appease God. It's the enthronement of God, but it also gives me boldness to approach God. Hebrews 4:16. This is where I start getting excited. I was excited on all of it, but this part here I got really excited. Hebrews 4. 16. Well, this is a great passage to memorize, by the way. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace. Can I tell you what I think that throne of grace is? I think it's the heavenly mercy seat. I think it's the place of God's throne. Let us come boldly to the throne of grace. Why? That we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in the time of need. You know what happened? Jesus died on that cross and that veil in the temple ripped from the top to bottom. God was saying, Alright, you have full access to my throne. You have full access to my resources. You have full access to my personal attention. You have full access to my mercy and my grace. Full access to God. Prayer should be very common for the Christian. But prayer should never be common. Follow what I'm saying? It ought to be a continual, it ought to be something we're not strangers with But we ought to remember, every time we pray, we are coming into the very throne room of God. We are coming into that holy of holies, to that mercy seat. That a great, great price has been paid for. Now, this verse tells us because of Christ, and you read the context of the chapter, because of Christ, you and I that know Christ, we can come just boldly in there. And that's the function of the mercy seat. When Christ put that blood on the altar, I think that's that that veil split. And once for all we have access. So this is the lessons. We built all this for a couple months now, we've built all this up leading to this mercy scene. And this is what we walk away with. One, salvation has been accomplished. There's nothing more for you and I to do. It has been accomplished. All a person does is accept it. I can uh it's accomplished. Number two, God is our final authority That's what the mercy seat. This whole thing is God is the authority. And number three, we have unbelievable resources At our disposal to live for God and please Him with our lives. Mercy seat. What a what an amazing thing. Our body is now a tabernacle, in a sense. We're the temple of God. And all the price that was paid to make all these things available, we commemorate when we come to the Lord's Supper. The broken body of Christ, the shed blood, so that I living in the very presence of God It's holy God, yet I don't have to fear his wrath or his judgment. By the way, if by chance there be someone here that's never been saved, you have every reason in the world to fear God's judgment. You need to be saved. You need to flee to the cross and find that, have that judgment on you appeased. But those of us who are saved, we don't have to fear that. We can come boldly to God, all because of the price that was paid. Isn't that something? Lord, we ask you'd help us to love you. Help us to grasp the greatness of our salvation, the urgency of this matter of salvation. God, as we come to the Lord's Supper, I pray you'd search our hearts. How foolish it would have been for a priest to go into the presence of God with sin in his life, disobedience. Oh, been awful. And God, you've provided so abundantly the blood of Christ that we can be forgiven and cleansed. There's no reason for us to come to the Lord's table with unconfessed, unrepentant sin in our life. What a presumptuous thing to do. Help us, Lord. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. It's between you and God as we come, Lord's Supper. I think a great thing to do is just kneel at an altar and say, God, search my heart, try me, God show me, maybe do business with God. There may be some things that we just need to uh straighten up before we come to the Lord's Supper. But as Jennifer plays Why don't you slip on out? Find a place at an altar tonight. God's paid an awful, awful price, Christ has, so that we have this available to us What a tremendous thing it is to be called a Christian. What a tremendous opportunity it is to come to an altar and say, God, thank you for forgiving me and cleansing me. In a moment, have my sin forgiven and cleansed. And then have that resource to live for him, to come to him boldly and find the help to live for him on a daily basis. Oh I mean, I'm not going to be able to do that.