Would you please turn to a very familiar passage? Hebrews chapter twelve. Hebrews chapter twelve, and once you found your place, if you're able, if you would join me and out of reverence and respect for the word stand, I'm going to read just a couple of verses And to have prayer and then you may be seated. Hebrews chapter twelve Starting in verse number one, familiar, it says, Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses. Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us. Looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was sent before him, endured the cross despising the shame, and is sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Let's pray, shall we? Once again, Father, we're so thankful for this opportunity to be here. Thank you for this dear church and Lord, their faithfulness. Even in the midst of Lord inclement weather, they were willing and made the choice to come to church this morning, not because of this preacher, not because of maybe the music program, but because they love you And they want to praise you and worship you. And Holy Spirit, I thank you today for the filling of the Holy Spirit. And I ask you Would you guard me this morning? Would you once again give me what you have for these dear folks? Help me to be only that a spokesman. You will use the words and give me that which needs to be thought and in the way that it needs to be said. And then, Holy Spirit, work in the midst of all of us And Lord, each and every one of us, including this preacher today, needs to be drawn a little closer to you, needs to love you just a little more. needs to be willing to serve you as you would have me to serve. Lord bless I pray the next few moments and we thank and we praise you already for what you'll do. In Jesus' name we ask it. Amen. Thank you. You may be seated. Some time ago I came across again this passage of scripture as I read through it. And uh if you read chapter 11, of course that is the the chapter of the heroes of faith. You know that each and every one of those uh took a chance and a choice to serve the Lord and live for God. Looking beyond this life to something that came be uh that is going to be eternal. When we came down to chapter 2, or chapter 12, verse number 2, I began to look at this verse, and uh the Bible says that, of course, this is where our focus is supposed to be on, the Lord Jesus Christ He is the one who will never fail us or forsake us. But notice, if you will, the little phrase that's in that verse number two. It says, Who for the joy that was set before him He endured the cross. Now think about this. The Lord, nothing caught the Lord by surprise. He knew from the very beginning what was going to happen in his life. He was going to go to the cross He was going to suffer all of that and die and pay the price of sins. He knew all of that. And yet the Bible says that in the midst of knowing all the suffering, all the agony, all the rejection that he was going to receive There was joy that was going to be before him. There was something that he looked at that would make him willing and wanting to do what was required of him and what he volunteered to do. God never made Jesus go to the cross. Jesus volunteered to go to the cross. He was willing to lay down his life for us. And so as I looked at that verse of scripture I began to think about what was that joy? What would cause him to have such joy that after his enduring that shame and and rejection and and torture and all the suffering and the ridicule. What would it be that would give him such joy that would make him go to the cross? That would make him endure those things. that would cause him to bring beyond that something pleasing. And I I came across some things and I I want to just share those with you. I believe this is the joy that Jesus had as he went to the cross. First of all, I believe it was the joy of pleasing his heavenly Father. In John chapter 8, verse 29, it says this And he that sent me is with me, and the Father hath not left me alone. Now look catch this phrase. For I do always those things that please him I do always those things that please him. Three times in the Gospels, in the Gospel of Matthew Mark and Luke. God himself says, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Jesus was willing to please his Father. God's will was that Jesus be the Lamb of God that would take away the sins of the world. It was His will and His goal and His purpose that He would die shedding His blood so that we could have everlasting life And that was God's will. God wanted that, God's desire. Jesus said, Yes, sir, whatever it is to please you, I'm willing to do it. Boy, you know, the Bible says that I'm adopted into families, God. I am God's child. Amen. Aren't you glad for that? When I got saved, I began, I was born into the family of God. Now it's God's child I wonder sometimes, can I say, I do always those things that please him? Can I say in my life That every day when I get up my attitude is right. My actions are right. The ones I hang around, the accomplishments And the acquirements and the things that I do. Can I say that those things are always pleasing to my Heavenly Father? I want to please him above all else. But you know what? The old flesh gets indolved, doesn't it? We have a flesh that we have to live with as well, and we need to realize that our eyes ought to be focused on pleasing. our Heavenly Father. The Lord's joy was that he was going to please his Heavenly Father, to please the will that God had for him in his life And I can only imagine the joy that Jesus had when he heard these words. This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. I remember as a boy growing up, and I think I mentioned this, that my dad was a very stern disciplinarian. He believed in uh the the one verse he wasn't saved, but he believed in the sparing the rod, spoiling the child And so I can remember he would leave certain tasks for myself and my older brother to do when he would go to work. And I can remember there was many times we did not complete those tasks and we had to be disciplined for it. But I can remember also the times that we did do the things and got 'em done and did it right. And I can remember that he would take us and and uh tell us how happy he was for that. It was pleasing my dad That kind of made it worthwhile of what I had to do. My earthly debt. God has a plan for each and every one of us. God has a purpose. You're not here by accident This is God's will for you to be here in this time, in this way, and at this particular moment of history. No Because of that, then God has laid out for us a step-by-step, day-by-day desire for us to do. My purpose is to follow that every day, because then I'm pleasing my Heavenly Father. I want to please Him. Now, do I do it every day? Boy, I wish I could stand up here and brag on how good I was. I'd like to stand up and say, look at me, aren't I good looking? God looks down at me and says, This is my beloved son. Oh, I wish I could say that. But I'm human just like you There's days that I get up and I don't feel like I want to feel or ought to feel. I don't do as I ought to do. But my goal, my above all else, my desire is that I want to please him and not do it. I'll fail him. I don't want to fail him. The Bible says that with our eyes focused on eternity, we are to stand before Him and to give an account of our lives. And I wonder as we stand before him and give an account of everything that we've done, everything that we've said, everything that we thought, I wonder, can we hear him say, well done Thou good and faithful servant. I wonder if it would be fact that he could take us and say, Your life has pleased me as I have tried and endeavored and fulfilled, pleasing my heavenly Father. The Bible says in Hebrews chapter 11, verse number 6, it says, without faith it is impossible to please him. Without faith, it's faith that God is saved, isn't it? Believing in the Lord Jesus Christ and what he did on the cross And then it's faith that he has a plan for us and faith every day as I live. How great is our faith? Can we trust him every day? We go through things. My wife and I discussed it coming up here. I said, well honey, the sun's out The temperatures are good, the roads are dry, I I think we can make it there. She said, Yeah, but what about getting home? I said, Well, we'll have to leave that in the Lord's hands. Because uh we're supposed to be here. This is what we said we would do. And so uh if we're here for the next week, we'll be here for the next week. But But the fact is, is we want to please the Lord. We've got to trust Him in what we do and on it. I have to ask you this morning, does your life please the Lord Jesus Christ? Can you be that one that he says, this is my beloved child, in whom I am well pleased? This is my beloved son, my beloved daughter. Can we say that? We must realize that our purpose is to please him. And I believe that was one of the joys going to the cross. Knowing that he was going to suffer, knowing that he was going to shed his blood, knowing that he would be ridiculed and rejected, and yet, beyond all that, the joy was pleasing his Heavenly Father. By paying the sin debt. And that's the second thing. I believe the joy that he had was knowing that he was going to play pay the sin debt for all things. Yeah, I love that little song, Jesus Paid It All And aren't you glad he paid it all? He didn't pay some of it. He didn't put a down payment on it. He paid everything. Nothing is left. You know, mercy is God withholding from me that which I rightly deserve. That's mercy. God withholding. I remember years ago when I was pastoring in Hagerstown, we were on the way to, I think, make a hospital visit. And uh going down uh the back road, uh country road and there was this big hill and so I just kinda let my car run out, you know, just kinda go and Uh and it got a little faster than the speed limit and right down at the bottom of the hill, sitting in the side, was a fellow that wanted to see me. He turned on his red light He said, I want to meet that fella, and he did, and uh he came and talked with me and in fact he even gave me an invitation to go to court and uh he he just thought this was such a nice guy and so I went to court I had a fellow in my church that says, Well, you ought to go to court, at least maybe you save your points or something. So I went to court and uh I sat there and the judge finally they called my name and I stood up and Uh he looked at me and he said, uh, what do you do? And I was in my suit and I said, Well, I'm a I'm a pastor uh and he said, uh what happened? And I said, Well, we were on the way to make a visit to uh I think it was to a missionary with a missionary And uh I said, I just let it go. He said, That's my fault. I said I did wrong. He looked at me and he said, I bet you want me to give you mercy, don't ya? I said, Yes, sir, yes sir, yes sir. And he did. Now, I didn't deserve that I deserved the fine. I deserved the points being taken off. I deserved all that. But that judge gave me mercy and didn't give me any points. He reduced the fine. He did all of that. Now that's what Jesus did. I deserved to go to hell. I deserve to be out cast out from the Lord, but I want you to understand, he paid my debt. It was a debt that I he did not owe But I owed a debt I could not pay, and he paid a debt he did not owe. There was a song like that one time But the fact is, I am so glad that he paid my debt. He paid it all. He gave me mercy. The Bible says in Romans 6. 23, we know it, for the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life. Oh, I'm glad. I'm glad that he paid my debt. Second Corinthians chapter 5, verse 21. It says, For he hath made him, Jesus, to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God. Through Jesus Christ our Lord. What a joy. What a joy. What a joy to know that I am saved. Colossians 1. 14 says, in whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins. You know, I can only imagine what it would be like to be able to uh maybe save someone who's in in danger of dying. Uh standing in the gap, rescuing them and all the rest that would be Wonderful. I think that would be a great thing. We've been uh had the privilege when we were here for a missions conference. We went up to uh Flight ninety-three, I think it is, the site up there, and uh went through all that and listened to those things and I can only imagine those people that were willing to give their life to spare that aircraft from crashing where it was supposed to go and all the rest. I can imagine that they were willing to do that. And And I think there might have been even a little bit of joy in their life knowing that they're sparing others' lives as well. I want you to realize Jesus paid my debt, and I believe one of the great joys that he had when he went to the cross was knowing that he was the only hope that we all had. He was the only satisfaction of payment for sin there was. He was the Lamb of God that taketh away the sins of the world. And he was willing to lay down his life So that others can. I wonder, are we willing to lay down our lives to serve others? Are we willing to take the gospel across the street to a lost and dying neighbor? Are we willing to tell somebody at the grocery store or hand out a track? What are we willing to do to help somebody else come to know Jesus as their Savior? And then I believe it was the joy of providing for all people salvation. He made it available. I said that great or mercy was God withholding from me that which I rightly deserve Grace is God giving to me that which I did not deserve. God gave me eternal life. When I trusted him as Savior, I want you to realize that moment, as soon as I bowed my head and said, Lord, I want to be saved, would you come into my heart? That moment, that instant, Holy Spirit moved in, took up residence, and gave me eternal life I'm on my way to heaven. And there's nothing I can do to lose that. I want you to realize I'm glad it's an eternal salvation. I'm glad that I didn't have to wake up this morning and say, hmm, I wonder if I did something in my sleep last night and lost my salvation. I wonder if I got mad at my wife in the middle of the night when she elbowed me. She didn't, but I No, I'm glad it's an eternal salvation. Ephesians 2. 8-9 says, For by grace are you saved through faith in that not of yourselves. It's the gift of God. Not of works, lest any man should boast. Titus 3. 5 says this, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but it's according to his mercy he saved us. Oh, what a joy it is to know that we can be saved and saved for all eternity. What a joy. Would you do me a favor? Would you take your Bible? And turn over, save your place here, but turn over to the book of 1 John. 1 John chapter 5. Many years ago, before I was saved, I I had attended a uh chapel, I had attended church. I'd heard about heaven, heard about hell. And I was concerned about where I would go. I was concerned about this idea of salvation. And the Lord brought me to this passage of Scripture. 1 John chapter 5, look at verse number 11. It says, and this is the record that God hath given to us, eternal life, and this life is in his Son. The Bible says this is the record right here. This is the record that God hath given us eternal life. Notice verse 12. He that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son of God hath not life. Verse 13 says, These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life. I said, wait a minute. Wait a minute. I can know. I can know that I'm going to heaven. I don't have to hope. I don't have to think so. I'm glad I don't have to go to the end of my life and say, boy, I hope I'm going to heaven. Maybe I'll get there. It's a no-so salvation. It's a no-so salvation. Let me demonstrate that. The Bible says this very easily. He that hath the Son. He that hath the Son. The Bible says that this life is in his son. Let this little piece of paper represent the Lord Jesus Christ. Then it says this: He that hath the Son hath life. That my Bible represent eternal life. Then the Bible says that he that hath the Son hath life. But he that hath not the Son of God, oh, maybe a church member. Somebody's been baptized. Maybe somebody that's a good, moral, decent person. But it's not those facts. The fact is having Jesus. He's the common denominator. And he's the one that provides that eternal life. He's the one that gives that salvation so freely. To each and every one of us. So today do you know for sure, know sure for sure that you have eternal life because you have Jesus in your life. He provides that salvation freely. Romans 5. 9 says much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. What a joy. And I believe that was the one of the joys that he had when he went to the cross was providing eternal salvation. And then I think he had the joy of preparing heaven. Look in John chapter 14, verse 1 through 3, Jesus says, let not your hearts be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. He says, I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am there ye may be also. I want you to understand what a joy it is to know that He's preparing a very special place for us, for all of eternity. Back in the biblical days, when a uh marriage was going to take place, uh the young groom uh would begin to build their home where they would live Uh he would do it to the best of his ability, what he saw at home with his parents, and he would try to make it as nice as possible. Once he got the house finished He would go and get his dad and bring him to the house and have dad take a look. Dad was experienced. Dad knew how to uh please his wife and what she needed and had a little more uh knowledge and so uh dad would walk through, the father would walk through the house and said, Oh no son, she's gonna need a bigger closet in the bedroom for her shoes and she's gonna need a little bit better kitchen, you know, with a l little board or whatever. And so uh then he would leave and the son would take those suggestions and begin to fix those and implement those in the home. And then once he got those done he would go back and get his dad one more time and bring him to the house and say, Now Dad, here's the the new closet, here's the new kitchen, here's all these things, what do you think? And Dad would look at it and And uh see if everything was to the to satisfaction. And if it was, he'd tell the son, Now son, go get your bride and bring her home. Now let me say something For all of these years, Jesus has been preparing the place for us. And I believe he's called God the Father over and said, What do you think about this? And God, oh no, he needs more diamonds. He needs a lot more gold in here. Put a little more silver up on that wall. Jesus has been doing that for 2,000 years more. One day he's going to call God the Father to the, what do you think now? God's going to say, it's done. Go get the bride. And I believe we're very close to that day. I'm not a date setter. I don't know exactly when, and I'll never say yet when I think it is, but I do believe we're getting close to the end. I can see it in the things that I've seen. The only prophecy that I see left to be fulfilled in the Bible is the rapture. What a joy that's going to be. What a joy. it'll be like. I want you to understand I've read the Bible. I've seen what the heaven's gonna be like. Oh man, what a place that's gonna I don't live in a mansion here But I'm going to live in the mansion there. Can you imagine one that's got deep twelve gates of pearl and each gate of pearl is twelve feet high? Solid pearl. Can you imagine the oyster that that came from? I believe that one of the things we're going to have at the marriage feast is oysters. But what a joy! What a joy. Think about it. No sickness. No sin. No graves, no cemeteries. I was gonna say no lawyers, but uh But the fact is, it's going to be perfect. Because everything Jesus and God is perfect. Perfect. Then I believe there's the joy of giving us this opportunity of positive service First Corinthians chapter one verse eighteen, Paul's writing he says, For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness, but unto us which are saved it is the power of God Romans chapter 1, verse number 16, it says, For Paul says, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation. to everyone that believeth. I want you to realize I'm glad today that we have an opportunity to serve the Lord. And I think that was one of the joys that he had, was that we didn't have to just get saved and sit We didn't have to just get saved and go to heaven, although that wouldn't have been bad. But I want you to understand we have a an opportunity, the possibility And the wonderful joy of serving our Lord Jesus Christ. We have the opportunity to win some crowns, amen. Not for us, not for our glory. I think some people think, well boy, if I win that crown I'm going to have those crowns on my head and we're going to walk around the streets of glory with all these crowns and everybody's going to look at us. No, I'm going to win the crowns and if I do win green crowns It's simply to be able to go and put them at the feet of our Lord and Savior because of all that he's done for me But what a joy it is to be able to serve God. What a joy it is to be able to share the gospel with somebody. To see somebody bow their head and trust Christ as their Savior. To know that they've been born into the family of God. That's a joy. What a privilege it is to be a representative of the only true living God. What a joy. The Bible says in 2 Corinthians chapter 5 that we have been given the ministry of reconciliation. Reconciliation simply means to change our position for Christ. It's a changing. And we have that ministry of reaching out and bringing others to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. What a joy. Jesus had to see and watch his people serving him and bringing other people to Christ. I believe every time the Bible says there's joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth. Can you imagine what it must be? Who's in heaven? Well, we have the angels, of course, but we have God the Father sitting on the throne. We have the Lord Jesus Christ sitting at his right hand. We have the host of heaven standing there. Can you imagine when somebody becomes under conviction in the church as the preaching's going out and and the Holy Spirit's beginning to work and drawing that person? And I can imagine as that person maybe takes that one step and comes forward and trusts Christ, can you imagine the joy that's happening? in the throne room of heaven itself as God himself looks down and says, Hey there's old Joe. By the way, I'm not talking about a Joe here. There's an old Joe. Look at Joe, he's getting safe Look at that. He's coming forward. He's coming forward. He's gonna get saved. Jesus is standing up saying, Come on, boy, what an exciting thing. I paid for the sins of that guy. I hold looking forward to it And the host of heaven, looking around and saying, There's another one being born into the family of God. I want you to realize there's joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth Jesus is right there with joy in his heart. Joy. And then lastly, this morning. I believe the joy that he had as he went to the cross was the idea that he was going to become the presiding sovereign. The first time Jesus came, he came as a servant. When he comes again, he's going to become as the ruler, as the sovereign, the king. I want you to take your Bibles to the book of Revelation real fast. Revelation chapter 19. Revelation chapter nineteen. Look at verse number eleven. John's writing here, and he says this, and I saw heaven open, and behold, a white horse, and he that sat upon him was called faithful and true. And in righteousness he doth judge and make war. His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns And he had a name written that no man knew but himself. I want you to realize that in verse number 11, there we find that little two words, faithful and true. The word faithful means one upon whom we can depend. Aren't you glad you can depend upon the Lord Jesus Christ? If he said it, that settles it. Amen. There's no doubt, there's no question. It's true, and he is true. then to notice that word true. He has the idea, that has the idea of being genuine in contrast to anything that's false or superficial. I want you to realize that's our Savior, and He's coming again, and He's going to conquer. In verse number 12, we have this idea, the phrase that on his head were many crowns. These crowns are are worn by royalty, as we know, that's it. And many crowns emphasizes that his Supreme position over all of the world. I want you to understand when Jesus comes again, he's going to be the ruler. Amen. There will be perfect rule then It won't have to come out of the White House. It won't come out of the Kremlin. It's not going to come out of some Chinese place. I want you to realize it's going to be in Jerusalem. He's going to be the one sitting on the throne, and he's going to be the perfect ruler. Romans chapter 14, verse 11 and 12 says, For it is written, As I live, saith the Lord Every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. So then every one of us shall give an account of himself to God. I want you to realize There's going to come an adjusting day. There's going to come a day that I'm going to stand before the one who is true and faithful. And I'm going to stand before the one Who is the the head, the ruler, the one who's given his life for me, the sacrificial lamb. And he's going to look at me and he's going to say, I'm going to give you, you're going to give me an account And it's going to be all there. Everything that I say, everything that I've done, every thought that I thought, every word that I've spoken, everything that I've done has been recorded, and it's going to be an accounting. If it's not under the blood, there's going to be an accounting. Well that ought to make us desire to live right Philippians chapter 2, verse 10-11 says, that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, of things in heaven, of things in earth, of things under the earth. And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. You know, there's a lot of people today A lot of people today that don't want to recognize the Lord Jesus Christ. But there's going to come a day when even those rejectors are going to bow their knee. And they're going to have to confess that he is the Lord. Well, I don't know about you, but I'd rather do it now than then. I'd rather do it now, willingly, lovingly. And to have to do it when I stand before him at the end. Even as Jesus faced that cruel death on the cross. He looked beyond that suffering. He looked beyond the ridicule. He looked beyond the rejection. And he did it with joy. He did it with joy. So what are you focused on this morning? Are you focused on pleasing the Lord? Can you hear his voice saying, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased? His life pleases me. His actions please me. His goals please me. Can you see that? Have you trusted him as Savior? Do you know beyond the shadow of the doubt that you are one of those that brought joy in his life because you trusted him as Savior? You know that? Are you serving him today? As he would have you to serve? I spoke to the men this morning about a man in the Bible. And one of the things that that man did was that he died to self and was willing to serve the Lord. That's what I'm supposed to do every day. Paul did that. He died to self. He said, Lord, what would thou have me to do? Because I want my life to be a blessing and pleasing and to bring joy to you. Because you certainly brought joy to me. I'm glad I'm saved. There's joy in my heart Do you have that same joy this morning? Are you glad that the Lord loves you that much? Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. Father, I thank you this morning. For your goodness and grace. And Lord, I know that I can only imagine that day as you went through all of that, the beatings, the scourgings, the the ridicule, the mockings, the plating of the crown of thorns. Lord, the actually the going to the cross and and uh being crucified and then suffering there on that cross. And yet, Lord, there was a joy that you had, a joy in your life of pleasing your Heavenly Father, of paying that one, that horrible sin debt Providing for all, every person. There's uh none that you're willing to perish, but that all should come to repentance Lord, thank you, God, for that. Lord, I pray that you would help us today to look at our lives and to see, are we pleasing to you? Are we doing as you would have us to do? Are we helping others come to you as you would have us to do? Are we looking forward to the day? When we'll be ushered into the very presence of Jesus Himself. Help us, Lord, to be what you'd have us to be. Heads are bowed, eyes closed. Let me just ask a couple of questions. I wonder how many this morning would say, Preacher, I know for sure that if I died right now, or if I heard that trumpet and the rapture took place, I know I'm going to heaven. And as a testimony to that, I'd like you to know it. Here's my hand all over the building. I am saved and know it. God bless you. Thank you. May put them down. What a wonderful testimony Out of you that just raised your hand, let me ask you this. Can you say that every day you please the Lord? Is there something in your life Some attitude, some action, something that brings displeasure to the Lord. Are you witnessing as you should be witnessing, handing out tracts, leading others You say, you know, preacher, there's something in my life as Jesus had the joy of giving his life for me. I want to be what God wants me to be. Preacher, I wonder if you just remember to pray for me. Here's my hand. Anyone like that? I want my life to be pleasing to the Lord. God bless you. God bless you. We put them down. One last question, and I'm going to be finished. I wonder if there's somebody here this morning and say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I'm not sure truthfully that if I died right now that I'd go to heaven. I don't know. I maybe, I just don't know. But I'd like to get it settled. I'd like to know that I don't have to fear eternity. Preacher, I wonder, would you just be my friend and pray for me? Listen, I'm not going to come drag you down now. Not going to call your name. Not going to put you on the spot. I just want to be your friend. I just want to pray for you by need, not by name. I wonder if there's one that'll just slip your hand up. I'm not sure, preacher. I hope I am, but I'm not sure. I wonder if you just pray for me. Anyone like that in the building this morning? Anyone at all? I'm not sure Father, I thank you today for Jesus. Oh, thank you that you loved me so much that you were willing to do all of that for me. And I pray, O God, help us. Help us as your people. Many hands were raised today, indicating that they want and desire to be pleasing to you. to be that child that always, always does what they should do, live as they should live. And so Lord, I pray God, help us today. Every hand, every heart, help us, Lord, to be willing to say, Lord, here am I. Help me to be what you'd have me to be. Holy Spirit, work in our midst. Give us victories we asked this morning, and we praise you for all that you'll do. And we ask it in Jesus' name. Heads are bound. I