Or an introduction like that, I wouldn't dare miss a service, I guarantee you that. The next thing you'd be doing is calling me a wimp or a a a a a puss or something like that, you know. But uh I I I love I love Brother Leatherman. I I really do. He's one of my dearest friends and I appreciate him ever so much. And I appreciate this church and what you stand for and what you're doing for the for the cause of of Jesus Christ. And it's a privilege for me and our staff to be able to work with you in reaching this world with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I I really I really believe that we are in the last days. I believe our days are numbered. And I believe the only reason the Lord is tarrying his coming is because there's so many that are outside the fold. And the invitation continues to be given. And I I can almost picture the Lord in heaven uh with open arms and tears streaming down his cheeks, wanting sinners to come and uh receive his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And uh there's so many, so many that have yet to hear about that And one of the great ways that we can do that in reaching the world is through the printed page. I I think I've said this before and I'll say it again. They tell me that the average missionary will be able to influence About 5,000 people in his lifetime. But you put these books in their hand and all of a sudden that's multiplied. That's greatly increased. Because for every one of these books that we send to the mission field, between seven and ten people will read that one book. I'll save a story. We're going to show some pictures tonight. I've got something that I want to tell everybody that was really moving and and I'll I'll I'll share that with you uh when we when we show the pictures. But I appreciate you being here tonight, and uh I trust that the Lord will uh continue to bless in these meetings and that his name will be honored and glorified through it all Tonight I want to bring a message that I've entitled The Enemies of Revival. There are things that stand in our way from experiencing what God has for us. The devil will work overtime to make sure that we don't experience revival. He'll work overtime to keep us away from the good things of the Lord And a lot of the tools and ammunition that the devil uses, we don't necessarily call evil or wicked or licensous. I want to talk about the enemies of revival tonight, but before we do, let's bow our hearts together in a word of prayer. Our loving Father, we do thank you for the privilege of being here tonight. the opportunity that is ours to gather here and worship you and exalt your precious name. We thank you for the songs that we sing and we thank you for the special music that was rendered tonight. We thank you for the good fellowship that we're able to enjoy one with another. And our hearts are open and receptive to you tonight, Lord, to deal with us and bring us to that place of revival. I pray the Spirit of God will work in our midst tonight. Uplift the name of Jesus. Save the lost and encourage and bless your children, and we'll thank you for what you do, because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Revival is used many times in the Word of God. You'll find it repeatedly over and over again in the Old Testament. A word that is akin to revival is the word quicken. being made alive, being brought back from from uh the drifting and and the callousness and the coldness that is entered into our hearts. And I I found that it's very easy to drift away from where we ought to be. I found that it's very easy to vacate the prayer closet, that it's very easy to lay aside the Bible and justify not reading God's Word on a regular basis because we have so many good things to do. So many good places to go. And as a result of that, we hustle right out the door, and we haven't had that good time with the Lord. And as a result of that, coldness begins to set in. As a result of that, we began to drift away from the very place that God would have us and where he wants to abundantly bless us. It's easy to drift. It's easy to get cold. It's easy to become complacent. The Bible tells us in Psalms chapter 85. And verse number six, the verse the preacher read this morning, wilt thou not revive us again, that thy people may rejoice in thee? There's a lot of sorry, sad saints that we encounter in life today. They're saved by the grace of God. They're in the family of God. But something has wiped the smile and robbed them of the joy that ought to be in their heart. And they've got away from the good things of God. drifted away and they become cold and callous to the working of the Spirit of God in their life. Revival is getting back on track. That's what it's all about. There's nothing mystical about it. There's not formulas that we can read over and over again. It's simply getting back to where we need to be with the Lord. It's getting back on that path that he has outlined for us in the precious Word of God. It's getting the right goal in in our our our our direction and knowing that this is the path that the Lord wants us to take. It's getting back with God and walking with God and fellowshipping with God. That's what revival is all about. But there's many distractions that keep us from that. There's many good things that the devil uses in order to deprive us of the best things that God has for us. We don't necessarily look at them as being dramatically sinful and wicked in their conduct. But there are things that drive us away, things that build a wedge between God and ourselves. Maybe you've become cold tonight Maybe you would describe your Christian life as you're kind of complacent. And I found that the older you get in the things of the Lord, it's easier to get into that state. But just kind of take things for granted. I remember when I was first saved, I couldn't get enough of the Bible. When I was first saved, I wanted to be around the people of God. When I was first saved, I want to tell everybody about the Lord Jesus Christ. And I come to a point in my life when I recognize that those things are beginning to wane in my life I'm not as aggressive as I used to be. I'm not as dedicated and surrendered to that as I used to be. God had to deal with my heart and bring deep conviction into my soul That I would go before him and confess that and be willing to forsake that and get back on track with the Lord. It's just easy to get satisfied, isn't it? I've read my Bible, I I I I go to church and I pray occasionally and I'll I'll give out a track every now and then and and we just get self-satisfied with where we are with the Lord. And yet the Bible says that we're to continually be growing in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. We're constantly progressing and wanting to advance We'd have to admit, all of us would have to admit tonight, we're really not where we ought to be. There's still room for improvement. I think I'll step aside and say amen to that myself. There's room for improvement I don't care who you are and how long you've been saved, there's still some room for growth and advancement in the in the good things of the Lord And we need to get to that place that we're disturbed about business as usual in our individual lives. It's so easy to get into a routine. And we know when we're to stand, we know when we're to sit down, and we know when we're to go out, and we know when the preacher's preaching too long. We know when we just as soon he'd shut up and let us all go home. We've got things to do and places to go and we just kind of get disturbed and get down into that rut. Of business as usual. In the book of Matthew, chapter 15 and verse 8, the Bible says, This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth and honoreth me with their lips. But their heart is far from me. It's easy to lip it It's easy to talk about it. It's easy to put it on display. But God knows where our hearts are. I'm sure that you've heard it said they talk the talk, but they don't walk the walk. And I believe that's what that verse is implying. My people, God is referring to his people, the people of God. They draw nigh. They talk a good talk, but their hearts are far from me. What do you really desire tonight? We've heard a few testimonies that have been given as to what you'd like to see God do in your life. I believe one of the problems that we face is that we really don't know what we want God to do. We don't want to admit Where we might be with him, and our our prayer life is waning, or our Bible reading is is become stalled, or our church attendance has become rather sporadic, and we're really not on fire for the Lord. Kind of going through the motions and we're kind of satisfied with that. You really desire to be more godly in your life? Is it your desire tonight to be progressing in righteousness Do you have a burden in your soul that you'd have more joy and more peace in your walk of life? Well what is it that you really desire tonight? Would you be able to say this evening that I want a greater love and devotion? To the good things of the Lord. That's what I desire and want. And I want God to do that in my life. When we talk about revival We're talking about a new, renewed interest in the things of God and a walk of obedience that glorifies his name That's what revival is all about. I recognize I'm not where I should be. I'm not going to be satisfied with where I am. And I want God to deal with me and bring me to that place where He is pleased with me. That's not an easy journey, folks. Because the devil will fight you every step of the way. And I found and discovered that the devil will even use those that are closest to us sometimes. In order to prevent that progress. Friends that we thought were really friends, and all of a sudden they begin to look at you as r being rather dubious, and I'm not sure about their intent and Their desire. People can keep us from really progressing, getting to that place where God wants us to be. Revival involves a disdained hatred, a deep hatred for sin, and an unwillingness to allow it to be in our life We have become so desensitized, so desensitized to sin today, and the devil is using television to desensitize us He's using advertisements to desensitize us. I guarantee us every one of us come in contact with things that we see that we're subjected to that come across our path. That it doesn't make us blush anymore. It doesn't make us grievous anymore. It doesn't break our heart anymore. Why? Because we become Desensitize to the ugliness of sin. We've lost a clear view of Calvary If you really want to know God's hatred for sin, take a good look at Calvary. What Jesus went through and what Jesus had to endure, and the pain and the suffering that was placed upon him was an expression and revelation. Of God's hatred, his absolute hatred, and his unwillingness to tolerate or accept sin in any form, in any life. Revival involves a profound awakening of how holy God really is. You understand there's no flaws with God. There's no mistakes with God. There's no shortcomings with God. The Bible says that he's holy in Isaiah It says it three times. Holy, holy, holy. That's our God. We so flippantly sometimes come to that holy God with things in our heart, things in our life, things weighing on our mind. That prevents him from hearing the very cry of our soul. When we come to a realization of His holiness, it also helps us to see our absolute sinfulness. Now listen to this very carefully. We are as much to blame as the people of God for not living a revived life. as people are that are lost and on their way to a Christless eternity because they refuse to accept Christ as their Savior. Can I run that by you one more time? We are as much to blame for not living a revived life. Being on fire for God, being in step with God. We are as much to blame for that as people are that refuse to accept Christ as their personal Savior. And pave their way to a Christeless eternity. I want you to take your Bibles this evening and go to the book of Hosea. Now, before you panic, If you know where Daniel's located, you just need to turn a little bit left to that, and you're you're going to, or I guess you'd have to go right to that. If you go a little bit right to that, you'll find the book of Hosea. And I want you to go to chapter number six. The book of Hosea, chapter number six. If you know anything about the book of Hosea, it's a very interesting book in that God is dealing with his people, and his people are living very sinful lives, and he uses Hosea and the woman that he marries as an illustration of how he's going to deal with the people of Israel. In chapter number six and in verse number one, the Bible says, come and let us return unto the Lord. For he hath torn and he will heal us. He hath smitten and he will bind us up. After two days will he revive us. In the third day he will raise us up, and we shall live in his sight. Then shall we know if we follow on to know the Lord His going forth is prepared as the morning, and he shall come unto us as the rain, as the latter and former rain unto the earth. The word come stands out to me. Hosea is issuing a call for the sinful people of Israel to get back to the Lord, to get where God wants them to be. This was a people that was laden down with waywardness. They were a people that was living an ungodly life of idolatry. The people of Israel had so drifted away from the Lord their God that they were self-indulgent and doing anything and everything that pleased them rather than pleasing the Lord. They'd lost contact with God. And the clarion call of Hosea to his lips, to the nation of Israel, was come. Come. It's a great invitation, isn't it? And I believe that's where revival really starts, when we're willing to come. And we're willing to allow the Lord to deal with us and probe our hearts and probe our minds and get to the very depths of our soul. He probes and he deals with us. And we're willing to come to him. I believe that's the way revival really starts. As I look at this passage of Scripture These people had drifted away, and God's answer to that, come. Come. Isn't that grace? Isn't that marvelous grace? Isn't that wonderful grace? Isn't that unbelievable grace? In all of our sin and degradation, in all of our running from God, in all of our rejection of Him. Come, just come to me. Let's deal with this. Let's make it right. Let's get in step. Let's make sure that we're where we need to be. What a gracious invitation from a holy God to a sinful people that he would say. Come, come. I I notice also the words let us That means simply that there's more in the boat of despair than just you or just me. Let us implies that there's more than just one or two that need to come. Those that are drifting, those that are away, those that are not instead with God. Let us, let us come. That's a great identification. It's pinpointing the people that need to get right. And Hosea is addressing the people of God He's not talking about lost people, people that didn't recognize God. He's talking about God's people. He said, You need to come. You need to come. Revival is for the people of God. I know we talk about, boy, our nation needs revival. No, our churches need revival. Revival is not for the lost. Revival is for the people of God. And I believe when we're right with God, it has a profound effect on everybody around us. And so God begins with you and he begins with me. But I also notice a third word in this passage of Scripture. The first one was come. The second one was let us. And the third one is return. Return. That's a great admonition. Return. Return. That means that you and I are willing to recognize where we ought to be, and the fact that we are not there And we're running toward that direction. We're returning. That's what revival is all about. It's a recognizing that I'm not right and things are not right in my life, and I'm returning. I want to make it right with God. What keeps us from that? What stands in the way of that I believe you're honest and real when you say, I want revival. If I were to ask you to raise your hand tonight I honestly believe that every one of us that are saved by the grace of God would say, I want revival. I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand and identify you. But I I I I I have good feelings about you. And I I think that you would say, I want revival. I hear more people talking about revival and the need of revival than in this day in which we live than I've ever heard before. We recognize something's not right. We we recognize that the path that we are following is not right. It's not pleasing to the Lord. But what's preventing us, if we want it, what's standing in the way of us having revival? I'm convinced with all of my heart, preacher. I'm convinced tonight that God wants to give us revival. And that's where it comes from. It comes from God. But he has some conditions. And if we don't meet those conditions, we're not going to experience revival in our life. If you take your Bibles and you go to the book of 2 Chronicles, chapter 7, those of you that are familiar with your Bible, you know exactly where I'm going. 2 Corinthians chapter 7 and verse number 14, a very familiar passage of Scripture. This was pinned at the time that Solomon had built the temple and he was dedicating the temple to the Lord. And he wanted the blessing of God. The Bible tells us that God began to speak, and he told him that he would not tolerate rebellion and disobedience. But if you follow the way that I have prescribed for you Then good things are going to come your way. God makes the promise in this passage of Scripture. If my people there there's where it starts, if my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways Then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their land We've all looked at that, and I'm sure you've heard messages preached on that. Here is the prescription or the steps Of revival. Here's what we need to do in order to experience revival. And may I say to you this evening: the very steps that bring revival are the very steps we refuse to take that keeps revival from us. The first enemy of revival that I see is pride. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves The opposite of that is pride and arrogance and a refusal to admit that I even need God. Pride is a deadly sin and a sin that God absolutely hates. That's why people won't get right with God. It's pride. If I bend my knee and recognize that I need something spiritual in my life, and I'm not where God wants me to be, and I know I'm not where I ought to be, what is others going to think about me? I'm a pillar of the church. I'm one of those distinguished members of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, and if I walk that aisle and I then by me and I deal with something in my life, what's others going to think? Pride keeps us away from the altar. Pride keeps us from bending our knee. Pride is what keeps us away from where God really wants us to be. Pride's a terrible thing. The Bible tells us in Proverbs 8 and verse number 13: the fear of the Lord is to hate evil. And he begins to name some things pride. arrogancy and the evil way and the forward mouth and God says that's what I hate That's what I hate. These six things do I hate. Yea, seven are abomination to me. And the first one on that list is pride. God hates pride. Proverbs 11 and 2, the Bible says, when pride cometh, then cometh shame. Pride refuses to listen. People that are filled with pride always want to interrupt someone else's conversation because they want to be the center of it all. They want the spotlight on them. When you talk about pride, you're talking about people that like to brag and struct on themselves. Pride has an intense desire to be noticed. Talk about pride Pride believes that it deserves everything that it gets. And they're filled with a heart that has no gratitude. Pride has no thanksgiving in their life And yet the Bible repeatedly talks about being thankful and grateful for the good things that God does for us. Prideful people can't be corrected They're stubborn, they're rebellious, they're stiff-necked, and it's never a message to them They're the ones that will poke in the side and say, are you listening? Prideful people They're the ones that go out the back door and say, Boy, I sure wish so-and-so was here to hear that message. They really needed that. Rather than accepting the message for them. That's what pride is all about. Pride doesn't like to follow instruction. They have their own way. Do their own thing. Irregardless of what it might mean to someone else and what hurt it might bring into their life. You know anybody like that? Ever encounter someone like that? Prideful people exalt self and becomes easy for them to brag. And one of their favorite words is I, I, I. Pride. Pride. I did this. I accomplished that. Pride. Pride criticizes others in order to make themselves look pretty good. That's what pride is all about. Pride thinks of its own needs first, regardless of who else might be hurting or in need People that are filled with pride and dominated by pride have a demanding spirit. And if you don't attend to that, you're going to pay the consequences of that. Pride. Pride finds it hard to say, I'm wrong. And would you forgive me? I learned early in my ministry when I was a young pastor, I made mistakes I'm not like your preacher that never makes a mistake. And I discovered in those early days that when you went before a people and would say, I was wrong Would you forgive me? You know what I discovered? They were more than willing to forgive you But it's the belligerent and bull-headed and stiff-necked individual that refuses to admit their wrong and tries to justify their wrongdoing that's going to have a hard road to hoe. A hard road to hell. We we need forgiveness from time to time. We need to ask our mates to forgive us from time to time. As hard as that might be sometimes, we need to admit I wasn't right there, and I didn't treat you properly, and would you please forgive me? That needs to be easily coming forth from our hearts. Or pride will take over. Pride is blind to its own desperate condition. Can't see beyond its own wants and its own needs. It's pride that keeps you from the altar. Pride. Pride. God's way is humility. And the best way that I know how to describe humility is bend the knee. Bend the knee. Just bend the knee. Get down before God. Get down before others. Bend the knee. And accept the position of humility and seek the forgiveness of the Lord. Pride, I believe, is the number one enemy of revival But the instruction of the Lord to Solomon didn't stop there. He said, If my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves, and what's the next word? Pray. If there's ever an ingredient that is missing and causing us to miss out on revival, it's prayerlessness. There has never, ever, ever been revival and a refreshing time from the Lord that didn't commence in the closet of prayer. And yet we are so prone to forget the need and to establish the priority of prayer in our individual life. You know, the Bible is constantly admonishing us to pray I think of that passage of Scripture in Luke eighteen one. Men that ought always to pray and not to faint And I believe the reason that we are so frail and so weak and we stumble along the path of life is because we failed to pray. The devil will do everything in his power to keep us from the cause of the fear. And do you know why? Because he knows when we pray, we are getting a hold of God. We are tapping into the resources of heaven. We are getting connected with the one that is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think. And the devil doesn't want us there So he'll do everything in his power to minimize the importance and the value and the need, the necessity of prayer in our individual life. Prayer is an enemy. Prayerlessness is an enemy of revival. The Bible tells us in the book of Colossians, chapter 4, and verse number 2, continue thou in prayer. It ought to be something that is repeatedly being exercised and used in our individual life. The Bible tells us in Philippians chapter 4 and in verse number 6: in everything. By prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your request be made known unto God. God's people need to pray Right. Matthew 7, 7. Ask, and it shall be given to you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you Why don't we pray? Why have we minimized the importance of prayer? Could it be that we have loved ones that are still lost simply because we don't pray for them? Could could it be that we're going without simply because we don't pray? If God has placed such a high premium on prayer, we need to pray. Leonard Ravenhill said the church is dying on its feet because it's not living on its knees. I think that's pretty good. That's pretty convicting. The church is dying because it's standing on its knee. It's dying because it's standing on its feet and it won't bend its knee. Prayer is the way that we defeat the devil. Would you say amen to that? When the Lord instructed us about the armor that we need, he concluded that by saying, praying always. It's a piece of our armament that we're able to go up against all the fiery darts of the devil. We defeat the devil through prayer. Prayer is the way that we get wisdom. James chapter 1, verse 5. If any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally. And on braideth not. You know what that onbraideth not means? You're not going to get upset with you because you're dumb. He knows we're dumb. We know he knows that we need his insight on these things. He knows that we need his help on these things. And so he's not going to get upset and angry because we're constantly knocking on his door, saying, Lord, I don't know what to do about this. Please help me. Please give me wisdom Please give me direction. And he just doesn't get upset about that. He dishes it out liberally. Anybody that'll ask him. Prayer is the way the saints of God are strengthened. Jude verse number 20 tells us that we can go to God and we're going to be strengthened by him When we pray, when we pray. Prayer is the way that new laborers are enlisted in the work of the Lord When you see the great harvest fields, and this is something that just was deeply impressed upon my heart when we went to Mexico. The missionaries stood there and he said, there's over 2,000 villages in this state alone that have never been evangelized. And then to go into some of those areas and begin to distribute the book and the people looking at it as if they've never seen anything like that before. Being able to give that to. Stop and think about it. 2,000 villages in just one state. There's 110 million people in Mexico. 95% of them are engulfed and enslaved in Catholicism, blinded to their need of a Savior. Entrance of God's word is what brings life. And we need to be praying for laborers to go to the great harvest fields of the world. I believe the only reason God is carrying his coming. It's because he wants to see more souls saved. And we are the only means by which that job gets done Prayer is the way that we accomplish the impossible. If something seems too big and too overwhelming to you, get in that closet of prayer and begin to talk to God about it. That which seems impossible can become a reality in your life. Because faith reaches out into the distant future and that which seems so unattainable and unreachable Faith is what lay holds of that and brings it and makes it a present living reality today in our life. And it all comes as a result of prayer. You mark it down. If you want God to do something, it's going to be done through prayer. Through prayer. Anything and everything that we do that's worth doing has to be bathed in prayer. You you have a bus ministry here. You better be praying about that You have a radio ministry here. You better be praying about that. You have a youth ministry here. You better be praying about that Praying that hedge of protection around each of these ministries. You have a fingerprint ministry here. You'd better be praying about that Everything that is worth doing has to be bathed in prayer for God's hand of blessing to be upon it. We'll never accomplish what God wants us to accomplish without urgent, intense, effectual prayer. Prayer. How late do you go tonight? Till I'm done? I I'll give you one more and then we'll we'll go to the movie house, I guess. We're gonna see slides tonight. I believe with all of my heart the very prescription that God has given us to experience revival are the very things that are standing in our way to get revival. Pride. Prayerlessness. And how about this one? Priorities. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves And pray, what's the next one? Seek my face That's a priority. That's a needed priority in every one of our lives When we talk about seeking the face of the Lord, we're talking about focusing upon Him. And what a beautiful picture that is. When you focus on him, you can't help but shout the praises of the Lord. Because he's a God that is full of mercy and grace. His mercy is new every morning. And when you begin to unfold through the scriptures the character of our God, and the love of our God, and the mercy of our God, and the grace of our God, you can't help but shout the praises of the Lord. And I believe one of the things that we need to do in this hour in which we live is focus our attention upon Him. And let me just say to you that our God is bigger than Oral Roberts' nine-foot-tall image that he wanted to build. Our God is bigger than that. Why? He makes the world his footstool. He's great. He's awesome. And our attention needs to be focused upon him. That means that we're turning toward his direction. He needs to be a priority in every one of our lives. Is your reading and study of God's Word a priority with you? Is it really a priority? Is it so important and so valuable and such a priority that you dare not skip a day? Getting into God's Word. That's focusing your attention upon Him. Could I ask you this? Is meditating and memorizing the Scripture a priority in your life Do you know why the preacher has a verse of the month? Because it's important to memorize the Bible. And he knows if he gets the word into your heart and into your mind. You begin to meditate on that. And you never know. When you're going to need that verse, and the Holy Spirit will call it to your attention, it needs to be a priority. That's focusing our attention upon. Do you realize that God has elevated his word above his name? Is coming to church a priority? Coming and worshiping the Lord? Coming singing the praises of the Lord? Coming exalting Him and adoring Him and expressing our love to Him? That's what church is all about. It's coming into the house of the Lord and God's people in a corporate way begin to worship Him and love Him and adore Him, focusing their attention upon Him. And as we do that, God is so pleased and blessed that he wants to bless us. That is a priority. We want to exalt him and honor him for who he really is. If you want to know what your priorities are, ask yourself three questions. What activities during the course of any given week do you spend the most time on? Let me run that by you one more time. If you want to know what your priorities are, ask yourself this simple question: What activity am I spending the most time on? Second question. If you want to know what your priorities are, ask yourself the question: on what do I spend most of my money on? Boy, it's getting awful quiet in here. The third question If you want to know what your priorities are, on what do you focus your thoughts during the course of any given day? Priorities is an enemy or a blessing And if we don't have proper biblical priorities, we miss out on what God wants to do. Do you sincerely want revival? Are you a candidate for revival? I think the first thing that we have to ask ourselves when it comes to that is, am I in the family of God? Because No one outside the family can be revived. Only those that are in the family qualify as a candidate for revival. I think we also need to probe the question are, are any of the enemies of revival dominant in my life, present in my life? Is there any pride that needs to be rooted out? Is there prayerlessness that needs to be dealt with? Is there misplaced priorities that need to be changed and rearranged in my life? Is there any unconfessed sin that I've just kind of been holding on to and refused to give up? And then we need to ask ourselves this question, am I really willing to meet the conditions of revival? If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves, bend their knee If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and bend their knee and begin to pray and seek my face and confess their sin, then and only then will you ever, ever hear from heaven. We stand desperately in need of revival tonight. Are you willing to pay the price? Let's stand with our heads bowed and our eyes closed Every head is bowed and every eye is closed. In just a moment, the penis is going to play I would venture to say that probably most, if not all, are saved here tonight, but just in case there's someone here that needs the Savior. God has confronted you and He's dealt with you and you realize that you're not in the family of God and you need to be saved. We want to pray for you. We want to help you to come to the Savior and know Him, whom to know is life eternal. With every head bowed and every eye closed and God's people praying. I wonder if there's someone here tonight that would say, Preacher, I need to be saved. I need to be saved. Please pray for me. But you just flip up your hand and put it back down that we might pray for you. Is there someone like that tonight? Someone like that. As I speak to God's people tonight, I wonder how many here this evening would say, Preacher, the The Lord has put his finger on something in my life that I need to deal with. Pray that I'd be willing to do that. Do you slip up your hand and admit that tonight? Yes, yes. God bless you. God bless you. Thank you for your honesty, your sincerity. Whatever it is that prompted your hand, the altar is open, the invitation is given. And only as we seek the face of the Lord and His mercy will things ever change in our life. You need to get back on chorus and get back to where God wants you to be. We're going to pray, and the pianist will begin to play, and when she does, you come. Father, in Jesus' name, bless this invitation. We stand in need of you tonight, Lord.