But have removed their heart far from me. The problem was their heart. But look, there's more to it than this. There's an effect from removing your heart from what God has. Look in verse 14. Therefore, this is the result. of removing your heart from God. You could take your heart and remove it far from God, what happens Well, verse 14 tells us, therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work, and a wonder, for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish. And the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid. In other words, God's wisdom is not being revealed to them because they've turned their heart away from what God would have. They don't know what God has for them. They can't see it because they have this heart problem. What's the effect of their own internal decision to choose something other than God? Now they can't see what God has for them Now they're blinded to it. So what's the bottom line? Jerusalem's got a problem. It's got a problem with false worship. It's got a problem with their heart. And the hammer is about to come down But they've gone so far that they can't even see it coming. Even when Christ is standing there warning them they can't see it coming. So now let's look, speaking of Jesus. Jesus, look at the person of thy visitation. We know that Christ has many names given to him in the Bible, among them Emmanuel. That's such a special word spoken of in Isaiah, again prophesied in Isaiah. Emmanuel, God with us Jesus Christ, God the Son, God in the very flesh, God incarnate, is the person of the visitation of Jerusalem at this point. He's coming to Jerusalem. Look again, if thou hadst known even now, and least in this thy day the things which belong unto thy peace. Here, it's Christ coming. It's Jesus coming to the city. It's God coming to his city. It's he's the person of the visitation. The Messiah declared in God's Word. Question, did the did the Pharisees in Jerusalem, did the folks in Jerusalem who studied the temple Did they hear about the Messiah? Of course they were well versed in the Messiah. They knew about the Messiah. They knew that he was going to be their visitor, even He's referred to as the lion of the tribe of Judah. Out of the lineage of uh of David, the king of the Jews. In fact, if you go up just a few verses up in Luke, Luke chapter 19, verse 38 says, uh here are folks in The outskirts of Jerusalem, saying, Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven and glory in the highest. This was actually the second time that they had declared Christ to be the king In fact, the first time, it's interesting, sometimes you read over, you read over the Bible, you read it, and sometimes you just miss certain things. But there was a time If you go back, I forget which gospel it's in, where Jesus had fed the multitudes, and he had to actually slip away from they were ready to make him king right then and there. And he had to get away. He had to take off. They were ready to make him king. What were they doing? Why were they? This is what we the some refer to as Palm Sunday Um why were they saying, uh uh blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord, blessed be the king? Why were they saying that? Well, some of them recognized who the person was that was visiting them. But they had a little bit of a mistaken idea what he was going to do. Remember they're under Roman occupation. What are they thinking he's going to do? They think he's going to, man, finally we can get ourselves rid of these Romans who are driving us nuts and, you know No, no, no, no, no. Christ had bigger work to do, much, much bigger work to do when he came. But man, they missed it The bottom line is, you know, this is a special time. This is the first advent, the first appearance of Christ. Right? Christ comes, the manger. Right? In Bethlehem. And he spends his life on earth. Sets aside his glory. This is a very special time in history. God incarnate on this planet. But so here's the person of their visitation, of Jerusalem's visitation. I mean, can you imagine standing next to the person Jesus? And here they are, standing right next to him, and here he is, he's coming into the city. Can you imagine if somebody called you and said, hey, Jesus is coming into Oakland? I mean, imagine that. The person of thy visitation. So the bottom line is: this is a very special time. Jesus, God Himself, incarnate, is coming to Jerusalem. Now look at the power of their visitation. The power of their visitation. You know something? It boggles my mind how much Christ's power was demonstrated during his lifetime, in particular during his ministry. We saw that he had power over natural objects. He took water and he turned it into wine. Now these are things that people witnessed, and they wrote about them, and thank God we can read about them You know, John tells us, I believe it's the book of John tells us, if you know what, if we'd have written all the miracles, we'd we couldn't stop writing. We would just keep writing, and you'd never be able to finish the book. Thank God they've recorded some of the miracles so that we can see them You know, we know that he had power over, for example, the weather. The disciples, the guys are hanging out with him, know him best. They're even stunned when he just says, Peace be still. Like, man, what man Man is this? That he has power over the waves and the sea. Man, stun. But they saw it and it gets recorded. There's a witness. What about illness and injury? You know, you get Peter's mother-in-law. Sometimes I question Peter's uh wisdom sometimes in uh asking Jesus to heal his mother in law. I can I can only say that 'cause my my in laws are living it up down in Florida right now. Peter's mother-in-law gets gets made well, like boom, right away. Uh the woman with the issue of blood. She has a serious injury of some sort. Jesus, all she has to do is touch the hem of his garment, and then it's taken care of. Virtue goes out of him, it's taken care of. Healed and recorded. A miracle for us to read about later. What about the palsy? Healing the palsy. So they had blind people from birth, from very birth, never even knew what sight was. And Jesus just heals them. Um the guy with the withered hands, you know, I can just imagine how difficult it'd be. I mean, you know, we really take our hands for granted Imagine you know trying to go through life with withered hands and then all of a sudden the Messiah, the this Jesus Christ, the power of God, comes and heals his hands, and now he can use his hands, the way we use our hands. How amazing, how miraculous. What about death? Power over death. Documented power over death. Lazarus, but that's not all. There was the little girl, the little 12-year-old damsel. Documented power over death itself. His even his own death is it, I have the power to raise my own life back up Totally amazing. And totally clear to everybody that was around him. Why were so many people following him? Because he was doing these miracles. It was it was so strong that again with the lady with the issue of blood, she just knew that all she had to do was just touch. That was the strength of Jesus on earth. That was the power of that visitation in Jerusalem. The power over devils. The power over Satan himself. You know that that that story of the the the the or the history I should say of the of the uh uh the the guy who's possessed the devils and the gatherings, right? That's a creep Creepy story. I can just imagine a bunch of swine running down the hill and jumping into the water for these devils to get away from Jesus. But you know the devils, man, they recognize Him right away. We know who you are. You're the Son of God. He says, shut up, don't talk, don't tell anybody who I am, just go on and get out. Power over devils Power over Satan, to resist Satan in the time of his temptation. Power over sin. He's going around forgiving people. Boy, didn't that stir up Jerusalem He didn't like that at all. But he had the power to do it. In fact, he shows him, he says, you know, but just so you understand that I got the power to do it, I'll go ahead and make the guy healed too. And boom, he's healed So there's power in the visitation of Jerusalem that they it's irrefutable Now, did they try and refute it with logic? Yeah. In fact, I love what the Pharisees try to do. They try and anybody familiar with the concept of the red herring? Okay, this was uh where you'd throw uh an old fish off to the side of the trail to to uh to make the dogs uh follow a different path while you go el elsewhere. That's uh red herrings now are all through advertising And you can see it when uh you know you get you get misled, you get thrown off the track, and you won't see what the main gist of some advertising is. It's called a red herring technique But the Pharisees used red herrings as well. They would say, they would forget about the fact that Jesus had just healed a guy's withered hand What would they say? They would turn everybody's attention to the fact that it was a Sabbath. Good grief. Forget about forget about, oh yeah, you know, yeah, he might have healed that guy, but look, he's doing it on the Sabbath. Are we going to stand for this? Trying to misdirect. They couldn't deal with the truth and the power face-on, so they had to try and misdirect the people Bottom line is it was undoubtedly in front of Jerusalem that the the person of the visitation Of theirs was God Himself. It had the power of God. It was unquestionable. Didn't fit their scheme, so they had to deal with that somehow. But now look at the last P-word, the purpose of their visitation. Uh if you're in the book of Luke, just turn a few chapters back to chapter thirteen. And uh chapter thirteen, verse thirty one And the Bible says, the same day there came certain of the Pharisees saying unto him, Get thee out and depart hence. Now Why did they want him gone? Well, because he's messing with their program. But look at the reason they give. For Herod will kill thee. Give me a break. But here's what Jesus said, and he said unto them, Go ye and tell that fox, Behold, I cast out devils and do cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I shall be perfected, nevertheless. I must walk today and tomorrow and the day following, for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem. Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killeth the prophets, and stoneth them that are sinned Unto thee, how often, and I can see I can hear grief in how Jesus is saying this, how often would I have gathered thy children together as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings. And ye would not. He came to gather his people unto him To take them under his wing. He came to restore what had been lost. But look what he said, ye would not Refused. The purpose was in front of them, but they didn't want it. I know also from from uh John that uh Of Jesus' visitation to Jerusalem, he was just doing the will of the Father. He was doing what pleased God, the Father. He only sought to please the Father. So Jesus' drive, his purpose for everything that he was doing was to please the Father. By the way, if we are to be conformed to the image of Christ, ought we not to do everything that pleases the Father? He came to fulfill the law and the prophets. Clearly. You read back, you know, it's it's stunning to me how people these days, you know, there's no dis there's no Uh this uh no uh no argument about the Masoretic text of the Old Testament. Not a textual critic will argue the fact uh that uh that the Master that the Old Testament is set up and the the Masorites kept it spotless and clean by the way that they protected it. And then we know from history of Christ himself. And so if you look from from recorded history And compare all the fulfillment of the prophets in the Old Testament, you can't help but understand that he was the Messiah indeed. He was who he said he was. He came to fulfill the prophets, but he also came to fulfill the law, more importantly. He came to fulfill the law. How is it that I can be made clean? before a holy God. Only if the law is fulfilled. And Jesus did that at Calvary for me. To be, I know from Hebrews, that Jesus came to be the author and finisher of my faith. Not only was he the author, he showed me how to do it. He showed me how to have faith. He showed me how to be faithful. But he also finished the work at Calvary. He finished it so that I could have effective faith. It wasn't enough that I just, you know, I hear people who say, I have faith in it. that thing. I mean I have faith in my car sometimes. Is that gonna save me from the judgment of God? No, of course not. I don't think if Ford made a model that would save you from the judgment of God, they probably wouldn't be in this sort of the financial issue. They have had, right? So only Jesus can fulfill that part, right? I Jesus showed me how to have faith. And he finished that faith for me. What about what about uh what was he doing right there and then? Well, he was doing the right thing. He was righteously Offering God's children what they had a claim to. Remember, this is the nation of Israel. They have a promise from God. They have a promise from God, so what does Jesus say? In fact, look at our memory verse for this month, Romans 1 16. For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first. Jesus reiterated that time and time again when he was on this earth. I have come for Israel. I've come for the nation of Israel. But remember, they would not have him. They were the ones it's funny, you know, we we like to put Pilate in some sort of position where Pilate was the bad guy. You know, I keep reading over and over again at the Gospels Tyler was almost doing everything he could to stop this from happening. But what did the Jews say? Crucify him! Crucify him! Give us Barabbas? What? So the Jews didn't want anything to do with him. What's Jesus doing there this day? He's selling in this in this passage. He's there to warn them of the train wreck that is headed their way. Imagine if you're out and you see somebody that you love dearly standing on a railroad track and there's a train coming. And you know it, and you can see it, but for whatever reason, the goofball that's on the train track can't, for whatever reason, just can't come to terms with the fact that there's a train coming down the way. Right? You say, get off the tracks, man. What are you doing? Get off the tracks. Well this is the situation that was going on. Jerusalem was on a crash course with some bad stuff coming their way. And Jesus is letting them know, warning them. He tells them, verse 43 and 44, there's all kinds of bad things going to come your way. But they couldn't see it. Again, for the days shall come upon thee that thine enemy shall cast a trench about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee in on every side, and shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy children within thee And they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another, because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation. You couldn't see the train coming. So the bottom line is: God had a specific plan regarding Jerusalem. This is his city. As his name. And through the divine person of Christ, he fulfilled the very purpose of warning them, trying to lead them in that plan. With absolute perfection, Christ did it perfectly, including giving them ample warning about what's coming their way. So just a recap, the problem of Jerusalem. Jerusalem is the city of God. It's undergoing major backsliding, I would say. And flat out rejection of God. You have the person. God intervened And the most amazing act of love ever recorded by giving his only son to the world. Christ came with clear authority. They recognize it from man when he was twelve years old, that he's teaching. They recognize his authority, his power, teaching, his healing, he's restoring life. And he has it's a purpose to it. He sought to bring Israel back into the fold. He wanted to gather them up. But Jerusalem was blind to that visitation. Now here's where I want to relax. We have a page and a half. think we can do it. Here's what I want us to question. Just think about this. Question in your mind right now. How many of us think that we would recognize backsliding like Jerusalem's backsliding. Put yourself again in the days of Jerusalem. How many of us think that if we were there, we would recognize the problem? What was going on I'd like to think we should be able to recognize it. Now how many of us think we would have here's a good one. Connie sang about this, I have seen him How many of us think we would have recognized Jesus for who he really was? I mean think about that for a second. You'd like to think that Now I'm not talking about because we're saved, we'll know his voice. I'm talking about if we were in Jerusalem, how many of us think that we would have recognized Jesus? For who he really was. Put yourself back then. Think about that. How many of us would have tried to explain why Jesus' miracles were working? How many of us would have said, well, maybe he knows some kind of CPR or something Maybe he's got like a defibrillator in his in his cloak or something, you know. Maybe he's maybe he's some kind of crazy surgeon and he You can just restore that withered hand. Maybe it's just smoking mirrors, I don't know. How many of us would have tried to explain how those miracles work I can't help. Sometimes I believe it's Satan working on me. When I read in God's word and I read something, I think, how could I explain that some other way? But God tells me how it's happening, and I can accept I should accept that because that's God telling me that's how it happened. It's our own it's our own fault that we go and question How many of us could have seen what Jesus' purpose was for Jerusalem or for Israel or for the world? How many of us think we could have been on board with that plan? How many of us could have seen that plan? Not the whole thing. I'm gonna talk about the whole thing. But how many of us think we could have seen it How many of us have we heard what Jesus said about Jerusalem? Listen, if thou hadst known, he says in verse 42, even thou The things which belong unto thy peace. There are things that you have a right to take if you want them. How many of us would have if we'd have heard what uh Jesus was saying about Jerusalem, how many of us would have intended to change our path, to do something different, to line up with what Jesus was saying How many of us would have done that? Think about um uh here here's a good one. Because I do this all the time. Do you ever look back Something you were doing, you're like, what was I thinking? I'm such a moron. It's so stupid. Now don't raise your hand, but But here's the thing that's funny. I came to this conclusion years ago because I kept looking back and looking back and looking back. No matter when I looked back, I always felt like I was being a moron So what's a natural conclusion? If you're a scientist, you're poking around with something and you test it and it's this way, and you test it again it's this way, you test it again it's this way. Well, what can you say about its future condition? It's gonna be the same way. So if I keep thinking to myself, man, what an idiot What does that mean about me? I must be being an idiot right now. Right? So that's an important conclusion you can come to. Just look back in your life and think about how how goofy you are Works for me anyways. Brother Dale. Amen. All right. But you know something? It makes me think When I think I'm ready to just hang those Pharisees up and Jerusalem up, you goofballs, what were you thinking? Here's Jesus coming to your city. And what are you thinking? You guys are just dumb. Remember the story about Nathan and David? And uh Nathan comes to David and he says there there was a a rich person in the kingdom and a poor guy in the kingdom and the rich guy had all kinds of sheep. And the poor guy had one little baby ew that he and one little lamb he loved. And uh so the rich guy, what was it, a stranger came in, I think, and they needed to make a sacrifice to the rich guy. Instead of sacrificing one of his own, he goes to the poor guy and takes his only lamb And sacrifices that. And what does David say? Oh man, that guy's gotta die! That's wrong. And what's Nathan say? That was you, David. That was you. So I think that if we look at the Word of God like Nathan, remember Nathan's the Word of God to David At this point. But if we look at the Word of God, our Bible, and we look at this condition of Jerusalem, I think that there are certain connections here. Let's think about our visitation. You know, there is a problem with our visitation right now, the time of our visitation, and that is the world is rife with sin I heard some I mean every time I turn on the news it seems like I hear something more disturbing, even to the point where I'm wondering Why do they allow that to go over the airwaves? I don't even want to hear about that. I just don't even want to hear about it. Man, it makes me I feel dirty just listening to the news This world is rife with sin. And all the problems that come along with it. At the core of those problems The heart's desperately wicked. It wants nothing to do with what God's got. Man wants nothing to do with God. God's leadership. Why? Because man thinks he's smart. He thinks he's got it all figured out, and there's no telling him anything. He he knows what he needs to do. Doesn't need to listen to man Man's liberally separated himself from God. He can't undo the problem with broken fellowship. You know that? I can't undo in and of myself, I cannot undo the broken fellowship I caused by my sin. I can't undo it. But Jesus could undo it for me. Man can't see the wisdom of God without some kind of Help, and maybe you see where I'm going with this. Here's something. Even those who claim to know Christ as their own personal Savior show signs of some kind of heart trouble. Think about this If you see witnessing as a chore, there may be a problem. If you uh uh when you seek God in his word and in prayer and you don't have joy out of that, then maybe Maybe there's something going on that you need to address. Well maybe you don't even seek God in prayer and in His Word. I you claim to know Jesus your Savior, well why don't you seek him joyfully? When everything about your Christianity is outwardly focused, I'm wondering if there's some sort of an issue going on Christianity starts in the heart and goes outward, not the other way around. How about when being a child of God just isn't special? When it seems like the world has more to offer than what God has to offer, and being part of God's family, you know, when it's not special anymore, I'm starting to wonder if there are problems with your heart. But think about this. We we don't have Jesus on earth right now. We don't. He's not on earth right now. We know where he is. He's at the right hand of the Father. So, who is the person of our visitation? The Bible tells us it's none other than the person of the Holy Spirit of God. The Comforter. Jesus told the disciples, I will send the Comforter for you. The Comforter, the Holy Spirit, is the person of our visitation. Is there a problem that needs addressing? Is there a problem that requires the Holy Spirit of God's visitation? Yes. So the person of God comes in the form of the Holy Spirit, the so-called third person of the Trinity. Our visitation is also direct involvement with God. But this time It's with the third person of the Trinity, the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit has been declared by God's word, just like Jesus was going to be declared, was declared by God's word. They knew the Messiah was coming. Jesus told us the Comforter was coming. The Holy Spirit resides in every believer. So the person of our visitation is in ourselves. If we know Christ our Savior, the person of our visitation is right in us. So consider the power of the Holy Spirit's visitation on us. Consider the power of our visitation, our visitation. You know, if I read uh let me let me just go to it. I'm gonna read to you verse uh just one verse from the book of 1 John. 1 John, uh let's see Yeah, 1 John 5, 7 tells me, for there are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and these three are one. If the Holy Spirit is in you, and it just tells me that these three are one, the Father, the Word, and other words Christ, and the Holy Ghost are one Then the Holy Ghost is God. God is in me. Is there- do I need to say any more about the power of my visitation? I don't think I need to go into any more detail. We already know about God's power. Say enough said. But think about how many times we've seen God's power in our lives. I I mean I could tell you with faith promise I've seen it over and over again again. Over and over again. Almost weekly. Man, I don't know where this money's gonna come from. Man, it's provided. When I when I am in desperate need of comfort Boom, it's right there. God provides it. Now consider the purpose of our visitation. Now we just hung up Jerusalem to dry, and maybe you're sitting there and dumb Pharisees. Now Turn it on ourselves. Consider the purpose of what our visitation is about. I know that the Holy Spirit's come to teach us of all the things of God. He teaches us how we can know about God. He keeps believers abiding in hope. I can give you verses for these if you like. He seals believers to the day of redemption. His work keeps me clean to the day of redemption. It's him, not me, to deliver God's word to us That's the Holy Spirit's job, his visitation. For the believer, he guides us in truth, and he guides us to glorify Christ. He warns, now here's a great parallel. In fact, let's just go there. Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 3. And I really am winding down. I see what time it is. Hebrews chapter three, verse seven Says, wherefore, as the Holy Ghost saith today, if you will hear his voice, harden not your hearts. As in the provocation in the day of the temptation in the wilderness, when your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my works forty years. Question The people wandering in the wilderness. A picture of saved folks or lost folks? It was a picture of saved folks. They had been taken out of Egypt, out of the bondage of sin. They were saved, but they were not living very victoriously. And so the Holy Spirit's job is to soften us. So what God would have for us. He says, harden not your hearts. He's warning us. Wherefore I was grieved, it says in verse 10, wherefore I was grieved with that generation and said they do always err in their heart, and they They have not known my ways. Take heed, brethren, it says in verse 12. The Holy Spirit warns us. Warns us. to get back in line with God. When you're sitting, you're listening to uh uh uh God's word being preached or taught and the Holy Spirit pricks your heart, that's what He's doing. He's jarring you to attention, saying, hey, this needs work. Listen to this one. In fact, I really, I really would like if you'd turn there. Go to 2 Corinthians. You know, I'd never I just never really Saw this before until the other night. 2 Corinthians chapter 3. Listen to what Paul says in chapter in verse 2. 2 Corinthians verse 3. Or chapter 3, verse 2. Ye are our epistle written in our hearts, known and read of all men. Now listen to this: for as much as ye are manifestly declared to be the epistle of Christ. Ministered by us, written not with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God, not in tables of stone, but in fleshy, in fleshy tables of the heart. Here's the beauty. The Holy Spirit of God writes an epistle of Christ in our heart so that we can serve as a testimony to this world. We provide Christ's epistle, his letter to the world about the power of God. And where does it happen? It starts in our heart. The Holy Spirit writes it in our heart. That's the purpose of his visitation on us. And we all know, in fact, Titus 3. 5 tells me that it's the Holy Spirit's job to regenerate the dead in spirit. We restore the life to those that are bound for an eternity, separated from God. It's the Holy Spirit's job to uh to regenerate. That regenerative work is done, the blood of Christ is applied, the work is done by Christ, but the application is done through the Spirit. Applied to our account by the action of the Holy Spirit who renewed us at our spiritual birth. Now Go back to Luke, and I want to reread what we read. And I want us to think now not about Jesus approaching Jerusalem. I want us to think about the Holy Spirit approaching our Jerusalem, our city, our heart. Listen, and when he was come near he beheld the city and wept over it. I think the Holy Spirit weeps over our hearts. Sometimes, saying, If thou hadst known even thou, at least in this thy day the things which belong unto thy peace, if you are saved, if you have accepted Christ as your personal Savior You are adopted into the family of God, and you have promises provided to you by the Creator of this world, of this universe, of you and me and everything. And He's given you promises. The things which belong unto thy peace, we can just take them. But now they are hid from thine eyes. Are we letting something blind us to what we can receive? Now listen to the warning, for the days shall come upon thee that thine enemy shall cast a trench about thee, encompass thee round, and keep thee in on every side. And shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy children within thee, and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another. Decimation Is coming. Why? Because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation, because we didn't see the Holy Spirit working in our in our hearts, coming to Jerusalem here. All of us have been besieged. I guarantee you, all of us have been besieged. Siege, just like Jerusalem, taken over time and time again. Our hearts have been taken over time and time again by people who would want it to do something that you don't want it to do and God doesn't want it to do Tarnished. Our hearts have been besieged by a long history of people who would rule it. But God has given us a victory Visitor. Visitation is upon us. So let's give him the city of our heart. Let's yield to the warnings and let's give him The city of our heart. I hope this has been a blessing to you. It was definitely a blessing to me. Let's let's pray. Father in heaven, God I thank you. For your word that can open up to us and show us areas of our life where perhaps we have need of your help. And God, I thank you for uh this message That uh in particular that you can show us from your word how you visit time and time again. You don't give up. Father, I thank you for that. We don't deserve it. Jerusalem certainly didn't deserve visit Visitation from Christ. But we don't deserve your visitation in the form of the Holy Spirit. God, I thank you for the fact that you have not given up on us. And I wonder If there aren't some of us who are laid waste at this point and who need that visitation, who need that restoration, that regeneration, I wonder among the This crowd today, if there isn't somebody who recognizes perhaps that the visitation this morning is needing to know that they have a home in heaven. Or visiting them and saying, you know, I need to restore fellowship with God. I know I don't have it, and I don't know that I have a home in heaven. But you know what God's word tells us we can know For sure. Father, I thank you for the chance you've given us to look in your word, moving your children, I pray. Now, as the piano plays I uh wonder if we all might just uh stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed and uh