Chapter four. Oh hey Mark, while you're back there, um back to spreads. Anybody tomorrow these things kick in for February for March and April And we've got probably ten, it looks like, back there, something like that, ten or twelve. Is there anybody that uh needs one of these? Or you could use one. You have somebody that uh you'd be able to share one with. Anyone at all Alright, back there. Anyone else? Please don't be afraid to get these because they just set and go bad if we don't use them. Alright, we'll try again Sunday. And uh Brother Kurt was down with uh Brother Chip and and uh Betty and Frey and them and came back with one of their Burmese Bibles Chip had sent back. This thing's amazing. And it's all in the Burmese language. How many did they send? Chip 27,000 put together and shipped over to Burma and uh just an amazing thing. And so we praise the Lord For that ministry there. I'm going to need a couple guys to help me give out some papers here. We are looking at the rapture. And I have here, I just picked this up. Someday I'm going to make my own But this is just a simple little uh timeline, a prophetic timeline. I know I've mentioned this before, but years ago Churches, and and we've done this a couple times since I've been here, but it was very common back in the sixties and seventies, uh early eighties, to uh uh for churches to have prophecy conferences and real big confusy conferences and they would give out um uh different charts and different things. Some of these are so complicated Uh you know, you have to be a Bible theologian to really follow through the whole chart. If you ever come across, Brother Brian's probably familiar, B. R. Lake uh not B. R. Lakin, um Uh Larkin, uh what was his first name? Larkin, he was a tremendous on dispensationalist and on prophecy, and he has a whole book, just of these intricate charts of prophetic things, and they're good. But this one I came across and it's very simple. And actually what I did was if you look at this in the bottom right hand corner, I had two charts. I was undecided which one to use And so the one had more of a scripture along with it, so I stuck that in down in the bottom right hand corner, but it came out so small. Is there anybody here that's able to actually read that thing? Uh it would look better on the computer than it did once I printed it out. So maybe next week I'll get that little tiny one and uh print it out a little larger. But this gives you an idea Uh if you know you've been attending here any length of time, you've seen me try and illustrate a timeline up here, you know, the cross and all that Here you have it basically in print form. Now let me get to where we're at. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. We are actually getting into one of the most thorough uh descriptions, I guess I call it, of the rapture in the Bible. And we're going to begin reading in verse number 15. And I'm going to read down through the verse, end of verse 18, end of the chapter, beginning of verse 15. The Bible says, For this we say unto you, by the word of the Lord, That we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep. For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout. with the voice of the archangel, with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore, comfort one another with these words. The rapture is what we're going to look at. Let's have a word of prayer. I want to say a few statements and touch on this chart here a little bit and then uh get into at least the first part of the message. Father, I pray now that you would bless our study. I yield myself to you and ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit and help this to be a a learning time tonight. uh maybe uh reassuring what we believe is true, but just uh shoring it up and adding some strength to it. And uh speak through me, I pray, and help us be prepared Now, if you would take your little chart there, and you'll notice kinda in the middle to the left, you have the cross. Of course, we understand Christ's crucifixion, burial, and resurrection, which initiated the church age. And so you have this period of uh of going on a little over two thousand years now, what we call the Dispensation of the church. Sometimes you'll hear people call it the it the uh uh uh dispensation of grace I hesitate to use that term because it's always been grace. Everybody's always been saved by grace. So I like to refer to it, and some people do, refer to it as the dispensation of the church, the church age sometimes. If you'll notice right beyond the cross on your little timeline, what happens? What takes place right on the uh just beyond to the right of the cross? There's an event takes place Destruction of Jerusalem. That was the final, that was the final act, I believe, in God setting Israel, so to speak, aside. Um there's references in the Bible, Daniel particularly, that reference the the destruction of Jerusalem by the J uh the Romans came in and just slaughtered it. It was awful. In fact, it was so bad that 70 AD That event was so horrific for the um uh the Jews that some theologians viewed the book of Revelation as describing that event And uh just because it was so horrific and and all that. But that too, in many ways, I view that as God setting Israel aside Now he's no longer working through Israel. He is not done with Israel. But they're put aside for right now, and he's working through the church. The next event on our timeline here is the rapture of the church. And that's what's being talked about here. Now here's where some confusion comes in for some folks. You have the rapture of the church, you have the seven-year tribulation period, then you have the second coming Sometimes people will confuse the second coming of Christ with the rapture of the church. Those are two very distinct, separate events. In fact, here in in First Thessalonians verse fifteen, for we say unto you by the word of the Lord that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord Now, if you're not careful, you could take that to mean the second advent of the Lord But the coming of the Lord is in two distinct stages. And many of you are already familiar with this. One is the rapture of the church where we meet him in the air, and the other is when he comes completely back physically to earth At the end of the tribulation period. This is just an aside, but I think this is interesting. Notice underneath your timeline, after the rapture of the church, a name appears again Israel. God begins working with Israel. The tribulation period is primarily God preparing Israel, bringing judgment on Israel, and preparing them, purging them for the millennial reign. And so the uh tribulation period is very much uh uh Israel's focus, although the entire world is affected by it and is included in God's working there. So, uh, and then you have the uh thousand year reign millennium and uh something I didn't add on to that, after the the thousand year reign uh millennium, what is the next event? Anyone take a shot at it? The Great White Throne judgment, where the unsaved are brought back up out of the grave, uh out of hell, they stand before God, Revelation 20, and uh and then uh then you have after the great white throne judgment the final thing given to us in the Bible. New Jerusalem or the new heaven and new earth. Yeah, you go out into what's beyond that? We have no idea. The Bible doesn't tell us. Once God creates a new heaven, new earth, we have no idea how it plays out after that. That we'll just have to uh uh wait and see So there you have the chart. It's very simple. It's not original with me. I just grabbed one uh real quick. Actually it was just before the service. I thought, you know, I'd like to have a chart And uh I found this and put it on there so uh just to be able to visualize what's taking place. So we're smack dab in the middle of this chart The rapture of the church is what's being talked about here. The word rapture, you've heard this so many times, the word rapture is not found in Scripture. You get your strongs and coordinates, look for it, you will not find it. But, as we've said so often, it is clearly taught in Scripture. You don't need a Bible code to come up with the teaching of the scriptures. How many people remember uh it was about ten years ago or so, whatever, they were coming up with these Bible codes, they put all the Bible letters in a uh computer and they'd mash them all together. How many people remember hearing about that? Listen, that let me say this, that's nonsense. It's obviously that it passed by the wayside. You don't need a Bible code to find the teaching of the scriptures in the Bible. It's re it's it's veiled, it's referenced in the Old Testament, but in very Very veiled forms in uh um uh Daniel. You get just a hint, just a little teaching there that This side, we know what the rapture is. We look back and we can see it in there a little bit. But when you get to the New Testament, it becomes very clear. Now here's what I want us to do. I want us to look at a few verses in the New Testament that teach us about the rapture. Would you turn with me, please, to Matthew chapter 24? Matthew 24. And we're going to begin reading in verse 36. Matthew 24, verse 36. When we're done there, I'm going to go to Luke chapter 17. Matthew 24 and verse 36, if you would. And then we're going to go over to chapter Luke. Chapter Luke. I mean the book of Luke. Chapter 17. Alright, are you there, everybody? Matthew 24? Anyone there? Shake your heads a little bit if you're there. Okay, good. Notice in verse 36. Now pay attention to what's being said here But of that day and hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels of heaven, but my father only. But as the days of Noah were, so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be For as in the days that were before the flood, they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until the day that Noah entered into the ark. and knew not that uh until the flood came and took them all away. Who who was being who's being referred to when it says he took them away? Careful. The people outside the ark were taken away by the flood. They were destroyed. They were snuffed out. Alright? Keep that in mind. Let's read again. Let me read verse 38 again so you can see what we're saying here. For as in the days that were before the flood, they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage. Who's that? People in the flood out in the ark or outside? That's outside. That's the world. Until the day that Noah entered the ark and knew not until the flood came and took them all away. All the people out there eating and drinking and marrying and giving and marriage They're taken away. So shall also the coming of the Son of Man be. Alright, now that's very significant statements here to help us understand what's taking place. Then shall two be in the field, and one shall be taken, and the other left. Two women shall be grinding at the mill, the one shall be taken, and the other left. Verse 42. Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come. Now, I'm not going to ask the question, but a lot of people mistakenly take verse 40 and 41 to refer to what? The rapture. Can you see where those verses in and of themselves look like it would refer to the rapture? Yeah. One's taken, the others left. Um uh what's that song? Uh What's the song about the last days? One's taken. They use this verse in the song as part of the rapture. This verse is not dealing with the rapture. This verse is referencing, you got your little chart here, this verse is making reference to the second coming after the tribulation period. This is when the Lord comes back, judges the world, the nations of the world, and the unsaved are taken away. They're destroyed. They go into everlasting judgment and punishment. And those that are saved go into the millennial reign To rule with the Lord. So the reason I'm pointing this out, and I had a back and forth with uh another, he's a lay preacher in town here. If I said his name, most of you folks would probably know him uh goes to another church, another denomination. Good man. I believe he's saved. I like him. He's helped us on a couple of things. But he was trying to convince me you can lose your salvation And he was using these passages, referencing them, and in our process of our ongoing discussion, referencing these as part of the rapture taken place. And he was mistaken, and I tried to explain that to him. But anyway, that is not the rapture. Now come over to Luke chapter 17. Alright, I got a cheering squad down here. Praise the Lord. Yeah, I like it. Uh Luke seventeen. And look at, man, my head's swelling up here. Verse 24. For as the lightning that lighteneth, is everybody there? Luke 18, 24. For as the lightning that lighteth out of the one part under heaven shineth unto the other part under heaven, so shall also the Son of Man be in his day. What would that sound like it's referring to? The rapture or the second advent when Christ comes back down to earth Question, when the rapture takes place, is everybody going to see uh the sign in the sky and everything uh when the rapture takes place? No. It's just gonna be out of here. So this is talking about the second advent on your little chart, there after the tribulation period, second coming, every eye shall see him. That's what's taken place here. So read on. But first must he suffer many things, be rejected this generation, that's his crucifixion. And as it was, here we go again In the days of Noah, so also shall it be in the days of the Son of Man, Second Advent. They did eat, they drank, were married, they married wives, they were given in marriage until the day that Noah entered into the Ark the flood came, destroyed them all. That's the ones taken away. Likewise also Oh, it was in the days of Lot. When they did eat, they drank and bought, they sold, they planted, they built it. But the same day that Lot went out of Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all. Even thus shall it be in the day when the Son of Man is Revealed. Question, at the rapture, is the Son of Man revealed? No, that's secret, that's hidden, that's unseen. At the second advent, every eye shall see him. I wrote in the margin of my Bible, we cite verse 30, I underline verse 30, and I wrote this, Second Advent. Just to not get confused that this is talking about the rapture of the church. Alright? So for many of you, uh if you've been through Bible Institute, you uh know all this stuff. And uh but nevertheless these are not speaking of the rapture. So when you go and you hear a preacher and he says, Alright, turn to Matthew chapter 24, verse 36, 42, we're going to preach about the rapture of the church. You can right away say, oh, he doesn't study his Bible very much, because that's not talking about the rapture of the church. It's talking about after the rapture, after the tribulation period. How many folks are glad you learned that? Raise your hand All right, that's the majority. Good. Now let's go to some verses that are referencing the rapture. Go to 1 Corinthians chapter 15. I tell you eight semesters of Bible Institute. My favorite is on second coming prophecy. And that's what a lot of this here is. 1 Corinthians chapter 15. And notice with me verse 51. First Corinthians 15 Verse 51. It's interesting. Remember last week we looked in our study in 1 Thessalonians. What was the event that we addressed last week? Sleep? Okay, that was a couple weeks ago about soul sleep and all that. But last week we looked at event that's closely related to what we're talking about tonight. The resurrection. The resurrection of the believer and the rapture of the church are tied together. You cannot separate the two. So it's interesting, you get to 1 Corinthians 15. First part is very much the resurrection. Resurrection. Resurrection. Now look at verse number 51. Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. What's that referencing? The nursery. No, I'm kidding. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. Can you get it? We won't all be dead. All the Christians won't be dead. Yeah. Right. But I was joking that this goes to the key. He is no sense of you. Alright, let's look at it again. Let's come on, quit horsing around. Right. This is talking about we shall not all sleep, but we all shall be overchanged. Now let me read the next verse and we'll find out In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump, for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. You could write in the Marjorie Bible, you could write this. Rapture That is a clear, distinct, absolute reference to the rapture of the believers. And it gives us, this portion of scripture here gives us I think a picture, just a snapshot, maybe a little blurry, but just a snapshot of that instant That we're raptured out of here. Look at it again. With that in mind, this is explaining to us. Just it's not talking about what leads up to it. It's not talking about what happens immediately after it. But that instant that we're raptured out of here. Uh we shall not all sleep. Now that's referencing the being dead that brother uh Dane said a few moments ago. We talked about that before. We're not all going to be dead. Some people are going to be alive at the t at the time of the rapture But everybody's going to be changed. Their bodies are going to be changed. We're going to get our glorified bodies. Now look at this. In a moment, now that could be any That's subjective. That could be a a moment, could be ten minutes. You say, wait just here a moment, ten minutes later, come back. Could just be thirty seconds But the next statement tells us what he means. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye Wow, how do you measure that time frame? Doesn't say the blinking of an eye. How long does it take to take you to blink? Time it, Sarah. Ready? But it doesn't say the blinking of an eye, it says what? Twinkling of the eye, just the light glancing off your, is it your retina? Would that be your retina? Just the light glancing off your eye, just that microscopic second. Poop. It's done. In other words, we're sitting here. Floods. Some people couldn't make it tonight. Uh, you know, it's just handful of us here tonight. And if the rapture took place, somebody, if an unsaved person was sitting here watching us, it would be so fast you would not see the change take place. It would just be born. And a twinkling of an eye, just vanish. Um read on. In a moment, the twinkling of an eye at the last trump. For the trumpet shall sound, and the dead in Christ shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. So here you have A picture, I think I c I call it just a m uh a moment uh uh like a freeze frame almost of uh of uh the rapture. Just that one little phrase there we catch where we out of here. Now come over to Philippians chapter 3. Philippians chapter 3 and verse number 20. Now there's not a whole lot of information given about the rapture here in this verse, but I believe it is referencing. The rapture. Philippians chapter 3 and verse number 20. It says this for our conversation. Let me read it and I'll come back and Elaborate on some of this. For our conversation is in heaven. From whence cometh wet from whence also we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Now look at this. Who shall change what's that next word? Hour, that's important, tells us who's being talked about here. Paul's writing this, so the hour is referring to what? People. Believers, saved people, alright? Who shall change our vile body, this old sinful, corrupt body that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body. 1 Corinthians 15, 52, we shall be changed. So what's taking place here? We are fashioned like unto his glorious body according to the working whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself. So here you have just a glancing reference to the rapture of the church and the moment when we get raptured out of here and this old body is changed into the glorified body. So a little veiled reference there. Now let me look at I do I do want to spend a moment here on verse 20 For our conversation is in heaven. When you hear the term conversation, what do you think of? Talking. Yeah, having coffee together or uh getting lunch together and uh uh you remember years ago when people would go and sit down and have lunch together and they didn't have cell phones and chop texting on cell phones And they actually talk to each other while they're there. That's what we think of on the conversation. Uh Kathy and I go out and we text. I text her, hey, how's lunch? She text, yeah, it's pretty good. How's your plate And um, but uh anyway, uh this that we think of that, but that's not what's being talked about here. The word conversation uh has the idea of our citizenship. But it's more than that. He used the word conversation for a deliberate reason, I believe, and that is our lifestyle as citizens. Of where? According to this verse. Heaven. So he's saying our conversation, our citizenship is heaven, but it's not just the fact that because we're saved, we're citizens of heaven, our name is uh El Narrow in heaven. But it's our lifestyle that we live because of the fact that we are citizens of heaven. The best way I know to h illustrate this is um Uh you go we go on mission trips and you go to a foreign country and inevitably, not always, but often you have someone come up and they'll say something like this, you're American, aren't you? And there's something about the way we talk, our mannerisms, uh the way we're behaving, it gives away the fact that we're from the United States of America. Well that's the idea he's saying here. Our citizenship is heaven. There's something different about the way we live. There's something different about the way we talk. It's not just a legal term, but it's something that actually is affects the way we live our lives. The idea would be this. An unsaved person come and say, You're a Christian, aren't you? Follow what I'm saying? Why would they say that? Because my citizenship is in heaven. The fact that I'm a citizen of heaven affects the way I live. It it comes out in the in how I talk and my appearance and uh my demeanor and my behavior And so I thought that was fascinating for our conversation, our lifestyle as a result of our citizenship is in heaven from whence also we look for the Savior. So now let's get to our uh back to our text here. And I just want to look at the first part of verse 15. So I gave you some scriptural basis for the rapture. I think 1 Thessalonians 4 and verse 15 down is the most thorough explanation of the rapture in the Bible. He gives us a good bit of detail here. And uh three things. In verse 15, I notice Paul's anticipation of the rapture. And that's what we're going to look at just for a moment. Next week, Lord Wilwin, we're going to notice verse the last part of verse 15 down to verse 17 And we're going to notice the rapture specifications. Paul's anticipation, then the rapture specification. In other words, he gives us some specifics. About what takes place in the rapture and what all would involve. And then the last thing we're going to look at, the last point of the message, which will be probably two weeks away, is verse 18, and that is sorrow's elimination. So we have Paul's anticipation of the rapture, the Bible's specifications of the rapture, and then sorrow's elimination because of the rapture. Alright? So let's look at this. Look at verse 15 with me For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep. I see here Paul anticipating the rapture in his lifetime. And there's one word used in there that gives me that impression. Anybody want to take a shot what that word is? We Paul said, look at again with that this in mind, for we believe that Christ dies and wrote, even so, even so them also which sleep in Jesus. Well, wait a minute, I'm reading the wrong verse. Verse fifteen. For this we say unto you, by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain. Get this, Paul fully expected to be alive when the rapture took place He fully expected in his life, we were to our alive and remain. If I stood here tonight and said, listen, this is what the rapture is going to be like, and those of us alive when it comes You would assume that I believed what? I would be here when it happened. So that's what Paul's saying But the thing is, look what he says here. He says, For we say unto you, by the word of the Lord, Paul always based his doctrine on scripture. He's constantly appealing to Scripture, and that is so important. Spiritual realities and the things of the future, prophecy must be based squarely on the Word of God. There is no room for speculation when we talk about prophecy. This guy last year that came out on the radio that Jesus coming back in May, then later he changes to September. He was so far off of Scripture and made a fool out of himself. And so Paul was very, very careful. Everything, all of spiritualities, all of the things of the Lord must be based on scripture. For instance, I put this down We must make sure our salvation is Bible salvation. Right? We've got to be sure it's Bible salvation. We can't think so. I hope so. Knock on doors. No for sure if you die now you go to heaven? Oh, I think so. How do you know? Well, I think this, that, and the other That's not going to cut it. We've got to have scripture for it. The second coming, we must have a scriptural basis. So Paul's anticipation of the rapture was grounded on scripture. His anticipation of the rapture affected his outlook on life. Again, verse number 15. For this we say unto you, by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep. The thought that Jesus Christ was going to rapture the church up in Paul's lifetime had a profound effect on him. I think you read through here in other passages of scripture, the fact that Jesus was coming again, when he was in prison, when he was being persecuted, his anticipation was the Lord can come back any day. It's not going to be this way all the time. The Lord's coming back. I think he's coming in my lifetime. And it affected his entire outlook on life In fact he's talking what is the subject here that introduced the idea of the rapture? What's what's the whole subject of this passage? Yeah, the death of believers. And Paul's whole outlook was, hey, listen, don't have to sorrow about it. The Lord's coming back. The rapture's going to take place. And he goes explains how the dead in Christ, how are uh or their relationship to the rapture, it affected his entire outlook. And I'm telling you, and I I'm preaching it myself as much as anybody If we get a hold of this truth that Jesus coming back again, the rapture could take place in our lifetime. It would affect the way we lived. I guarantee it. Suppose we somehow would know for sure, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that Jesus was coming back at 8. 30 tonight. If you knew that, without a doubt, it was absolutely certain How many people might do some things different on your way home tonight than you would just normally? Sure. I'd get some people I'd be calling up. I'd be trying to make some last-minute visits Uh, you know, I'd probably uh get alone with the Lord for a little bit and uh make sure everything's you know clear with the Lord. Uh of course living in that anticipation that any moment the life could the Lord could come back definitely affects our lifestyle. When I was a young teen, my parents were separated, and uh my dad drove truck, he drove over the road for a period of years. And uh he would leave Sunday evening, sometimes Sunday afternoon, get back Friday, occasionally get back Saturday Um, when he'd leave, sometimes, not always, but sometimes he'd have a list of things he expected me to get done during the week around the house How many people think that list affected my behavior on Monday very much? Didn't affect it at all. I got all week Billies coming back, you know, who cares? Tuesday, what list? Uh Wednesday, huh? Who's dead? Um Thursday, hmm tomorrow's Friday. Friday, my life is very much affected. My behavior is very much affected by the fact that dad's showing up in maybe a few hours within a day. You follow what I'm saying So that concept in my mind, he's coming back, he's coming back, I'm going to be held accountable, I I've got responsibilities to do, suddenly that has a powerful effect on my life. And that's the way it is with the second coming. Titus talks about the fact of the Lord's coming, that blessed hope causes us to live godly lives, to search our hearts and be prepared. I came across an interesting story about the South Pole British explorer Sir Ernest Shackleton. Anybody ever hear him? Really? He left a few men on Elephant Island down on the South Pole. He promised him he would return later. Later, when he tried to get back, huge icebergs blocked the way. So these guys are trapped on this island in the South Pole. He's trying to get in there. Suddenly, as if by a miracle, an avenue opened up in the ice, and Shackleton was able to get through to his men. When he got there, I mean this is weeks later than they anticipated arriving, when he got there, his men were ready and waiting. And they quickly got on the ship, turned the boat around, and got out of the island, and miraculously all the icebergs came back together again. They had one little window. The captain, Captain Shackleton, said to his men, Men, it was fortunate that you all happened to be packed and ready to go. We would have never had time for you to get ready and get out of here. We'd have been destroyed. Their answer was this. Sir, we never gave up hope Whenever the sea would clear of ice, we rolled up our sleeping bags, packed our things, and were ready, and we reminded ourselves of this. The boss may come today. Isn't that something? Weeks and weeks and weeks went by. Every time there was a clearing, hurry up, pack everything up. He may come in today. And the day he did come, they were glad they did that. They were ready. Now we've had a lot of people, we've been talking about the Lord coming for a long time. There's been a lot of phony and dates set and all of that, but I'm telling you, it behooves us to every day be ready for the Lord coming back. Because like the old little uh uh lapel pins says, perhaps today. It could be. That's what Paul expected. And that's the way we we're to live. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray that this truth would uh would grip our hearts. I pray it would not just be some Bible lesson or a Bible story, but Lord, every day the reality of the fact that the rapture could take place, let that grip our hearts. Help it affect our lives, our treatment of one another, our witness to the unsaved. and our relationship with the world and Lord uh just blessed. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Pastor, pray with me tonight? There's some areas of my life where I'm really not ready for the Lord to come back. If the rapture did take place tonight Boy, uh that wouldn't be real good. And you'd say, pray with me, that God can help me get some things straightened up. Is there any like that? The uplifted hand, preacher, pray with me. There's some areas really need attention. God bless you. Number of hands around Well, let's ask the Lord to help us. That's why it's so important that we walk with the Lord daily. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.