I'd like you to take it and turn to the book of Colossians, chapter number one. And I want to bring a message from this portion of Scripture. On the subject, the impact of the gospel. When you find your place in Colossians chapter 1, would you stand with me together for the reading of God's Word? Colossians chapter 1. I'd like to commence reading with verse number three through verse number eight. We give thanks to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you. Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus, and of the love which ye have to all the saints, for the hope which is laid up for you in heaven Whereof ye heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel, which is come unto you as it is in all the world. And bringeth forth fruit, as it doth also in you, since the day ye heard of it, and knew the grace of God in truth. As he also learned of Epaphoras, our dear fellow servant, who is for you a faithful minister of Christ, who also declared unto us your love In the Spirit. I want to preach this morning and challenge you on this subject, the impact of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Let's bow our hearts together in a word of prayer. Father, we do thank you and praise you for this special day that has been designated as Scripture Publishing Sunday We thank you for the involvement of this church in coming together and assembling these scriptures and getting them ready to go to the field in service of reaching lost souls for Christ. I pray that you would abundantly bless them and meet their every need. I pray, Father, that as we work and labor together That you would pour out your blessing upon us, and that we would see great and mighty things done for the cause of Christ. Bless this service this morning. Uplift the sweet and precious name of our Savior. Save the lost and encourage and bless your children. And we'll thank you for what you do because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, may be seated. It's evident from this passage of Scripture that we've read this morning that the Apostle Paul is talking about the impact that the gospel has on people's lives when they hear the gospel and when they believe the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now it's important to you, and it's important to me and it's important to the people of the world that we know the true gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ There's good reason for that. I I believe we ought to know the right gospel because it's the only way to heaven. Jesus said, I'm the way, the truth, the life. No man comes to the Father but by me I I've seen an interview or uh words that uh one of uh uh I guess it was Bernie Sanders that was saying recently and grilling an individual because of his love for the Lord and his stand for Jesus Christ and badgering and and bartering with him as to whether Muslims are saved or are only Christians saved and so forth I want you to know that the only way a person is going to be saved is through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ and Jesus openly and without compromise Said, I am the way, the truth, the life. No man comes to the Father but by me. So it's important that you and I know the right gospel, because it's the only way to heaven. I believe it's important for you and I to know the right gospel because there are false gospels that are being proclaimed in this day in which we live. The Bible makes it very clear that if another gospel is preached unto you, you're not to believe it, you're not to embrace it, because the curse of God is upon that false gospel that is being proclaimed around the world. So it's important that we know the true gospel. I believe it's important that we know the true gospel because we have been commanded to preach that gospel to all of the world If we don't know the real gospel, then we can't preach the gospel to individuals that need to hear what Jesus Christ has done for them. And the gospel in nutshell is Jesus died for sinners around the world. Not only did he die for sinners, but he was buried on their behalf. He suffered their punishment and to took on him the just dues that were dirt due every sinner and took it upon himself. It becomes sin for us who knew no sin that we might be made the righteousness of God In addition to that, not only did he die for sinners and was buried for sinners, but praise the Lord, he was resurrected for sinners and now offers to the world his eternal plan of salvation. The Bible says, But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. When we talk about that word believe, we're talking about committing one's full trust to another The day that you were saved, you heard the gospel, you believed the gospel, and committed your full trust to the one that made the gospel possible, the Lord Jesus Christ, to do in you and through you what he promised. He would do. So when we talk about believing, we're talking about committing one's trust to the Lord Jesus. We're talking about fully trusting him and him alone for this wonderful gift of salvation. And may I say to you this morning, When a person believes the gospel, it results in a changed life. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature Old things pass away and behold, all things become new. There's no exception to that. No exception whatsoever. And so there's tremendous impact that the gospel has on an individual's life. For those of us here this morning that have believed the gospel, And receive Christ as our personal Savior, may I say to you that it produces a life that can never be forfeited? That's what the gospel will do for you That's the impact the gospel will have on you. The Bible says in John 10 and verse number 28, I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never Never, never perish this false doctrine that is being promoted that You can get it and you can lose it and you can get it and you can lose it. Has no foundation in the Word of God whatsoever. When you come to Christ, When you come to Christ, he gives you a brand new life that can never ever be forfeited. When you come to Christ, it produces a relationship that can never be broken. Never The Bible tells us in Galatians chapter 3 and in verse number 26, for ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. We might not like all the time what our kids do. But the relationship that they have to you and the relationship that my children have to me can never be Forfeited, it can never be broken. Those are my kids entrusted to my care by God Almighty. Are they perfect little angels? Only the grandchildren They never do a thing wrong. They're sweet little apple dumplings that are just beyond human comprehension and imagination. But those other ones They're not perfect. But there's not a thing that they could do. There's not a thing that I could do that would break and nullify the fact that those Are our children. And the same glorious, wonderful truth is also in the family of God You and I are securely kept by the power of God, and that relationship can never be broken. The impact of the gospel. I'd also say to you this morning, it produces a righteousness that can never be tarnished. The Bible says that he becomes sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God. It'll never dim its luster, it will never lose its power, it will never be tarnished or contaminated because it's not yours or mine. It's all of Jesus who has become right. Oh, I feel the shout coming on right now. He's become our righteousness. The impact of the gospel. I'd also say to you this morning, it provides a peace that can never be destroyed. In the book of Ephesians, if you turn back just a few pages, into Ephesians chapter 2, and in verse number 14, the Bible says, For he is our peace. Who hath made both one and has broken down the middle wall of partition between us. There's no longer Jew and Gentile. He's made of himself one new body He's broken down that wall of perd, and he's given us and bestowed upon us a peace that can never ever be destroyed. The impact of the gospel That's why we have Scripture Publishing Sunday. That's why we're challenging this church this morning to give abundantly, to give. To give consistently, uh to give over and above board your regular giving to your church. We're asking you to give that this church might continue to produce the scriptures and and get them out to the field of service, winning the loss to Jesus Christ. The impact of the gospel, it produces an acceptance that can never be questioned. In the book of Ephesians, chapter 1 and verse number 6, to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved. No one likes to be on the outside looking in. You like to be included? You like to be a part of the fellowship? You want to take part in the party? You don't want to be on the fringe of that You want to be accepted. And when you become a member of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, you don't want to be excluded. You don't want to be overlooked and forgotten. You're part of the family. And you're accepted. And the same thing is true in the family of God. We're not on the outside looking in. We are in the inside, accepted in Christ Jesus. And that wonderful, marvelous truth can never be questioned. We're part of his family. We're his kids. Loved by him, kept by him, watched over by him. The impact of the gospel. It produces an inheritance that can never fade away In Ephesians chapter 1 and verse number 11, in whom also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestinated according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will. I'm rich. Let that sink in a little bit, folks. You're rich if you're in Christ Jesus. My father owns the cattle in the thousand hills. All the wealth and all the land belongs to him. Don't act like a pauper. Live like a king. Praise the Lord for what we have in Christ. And we haven't even we haven't even dreamed of what's waiting for us on the other side. We have an inheritance already prepared, already put together, just waiting for us to step in And enjoy the abundance that we have in Christ Jesus our Lord. That's the impact of the gospel. And Peter comes along and he says, now, folks, the inheritance that you have is incorruptible. Have you noticed that the value of our dollars goes up and down? What you have today might not be worth it tomorrow. And what you thought was your cushion and your soft pillow and your means of security can all be destroyed overnight. But what we have in Christ Jesus is incorruptible. No one is able to steal it or take it from us. It's secure because it's undefiled. Reserved in heaven, never to fade away. That's the impact of the gospel. It provides a title that can never be disputed. In the book of Revelation, chapter 1 and verse 6, and it's made us kings and priests unto God and his Father. And he grants us direct access into his presence. That, my friend, is the impact of the gospel. And when you read in this book of Colossians, chapter 1, there's results that come as a result. Of the impact of the gospel. When people believe it, when they embrace it, when they have it, there's certain things that are going to be true in that individual's life Do you realize that the gospel is received by faith? That's what Paul was saying in Colossians 1 and verse number 3 and 4. We give thanks to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you. Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus, you can't buy your way to heaven You don't have enough money that's acceptable to him. You and I don't even have enough good looks in order to make it through the front door. If you don't believe that, you ought to see it from my perspective. We don't have the sufficient righteousness in our own in order to enter the pearly gates. That message and that gospel has to be received by faith. In Christ Jesus, who said, I am the way, the truth, the life. No man comes to the Father but by me. I want you to picture yourself walking in the portals of glory And when you get to that wonderful gate that opens wide for you, Jesus takes you by the hand and strolls over heaven with you. Well, if that doesn't make you want to shout a little bit and jump up and praise the Lord, I don't know what will. We are going to be warmly welcomed into heaven because by faith We've received the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. When I talk about faith, we're talking, and the Bible talks about faith. It's talking about being fully persuaded and absolutely convinced of what it says is true. That's what faith is all about. We're absolutely convinced and fully persuaded that what it says is true. Salvation is not based upon my feelings. My feelings fluctuate. There's days I feel cold. And there's days I feel warm. And there's days I feel hot. There's days that I feel like a cup of coffee would just do me fine. And there's days that a nice steak would really be great. But my salvation is not based on how I feel when I get up in the morning or when I go to bed at night. My salvation is not based upon my baptism It's not based upon my church membership. It's not based upon my looks. Praise the Lord for that, Jerry. Control yourself now. It's not based upon my works of righteousness, which is nothing more than filthy rags in his presence. It's based upon faith and faith alone in the provision that he's made for us through the gospel. That he provided. The impact of the gospel, it's received by faith. I'd also say to you this morning that the gospel results in love. Do you notice that? Paul said, I'm rejoicing and happy and thrilled. Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love which ye have to what's that next word What is it? All. A double L, all the saints. Not just a few of the saints, all the saints. Now you poor wretched souls that have something against somebody that's sitting on the front row or on the back row or in between those rows, something's not right in your life. My Bible says the impact the gospel has on an individual's life who by faith have received what Christ offers results in love for all the saints. Not just a few of them, but all of them. You say, preacher, do you agree with all of the saints today? Nope, I don't. And neither do you. But I still love them. I still care about them. Do you know that one of the distinguishing characteristics of a true Christian is the love that he has for the brethren? Jesus was with his disciples, and he was informing them about his departure. It was just before his departing. And as they assemble together and he begins to unfold to them the things that he wanted them to know. One of the things that he says, Men People are going to know that you belong to me by the love that you have for all the brethren. Love is not an option. Love is a command. And people will know that we're saved by the grace of God when we're able to display that love and express that love and demonstrate that love for one another. By this shall all men know that you are my disciples by the love that you have for one another. The impact of the gospel. So Paul says it's received by faith. It results in love. And then he tells us that it provides hope. The gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ gives to us hope. That's the impact of the gospel. In verse number five, for the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, wherefore ye heard before in the word of truth of the gospel. Hope is not wishful thinking. Hope is certain. Hope is sure. Hope is absolutely confident And when you search the scriptures, you discover that hope is an anchor to the soul. When people lose their hope, they're at the bottom of the barrel But God's people never have to be concerned about that, because our hope anchors us to his timeless truths. Not only is hope an anchor to the soul, but I would have to say to you this morning that hope is an everlasting consolation. 2 Thessalonians 2 and verse number 16 bears record and testimony to that, and what a tremendous and powerful verse it is in Scripture. In 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, and in verse number 16, the Bible says this. 2 Thessalonians 2 and 16. I'm looking at 1 Timothy. No wonder I can't find it. In verse number 16, now our Lord Jesus Christ Himself and God, even our Father Which hath loved us and hath given us everlasting consolation and good hope through grace What a blessing that is. He said, I've provided for you eternal hope and consolation through the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. There's good reason for you and I to shout the praises of the Lord. There's good reason for you and I to be ever so thankful because we have everlasting comfort We have everlasting hope. We have everlasting stability because of the hope That we have in him. So hope is like an anchor to the soul. Hope is our eternal consolation And then hope is the helmet of our salvation. The Bible says in Ephesians chapter 6, put on the helmet of salvation. What does that mean? To make sure that you know and understand and comprehend and are fully persuaded that in Christ Jesus you're safe and secure. Put that helmet on. Wear that helmet into the battles of life. Because of the Savior's work on the cross of Calvary, we have hope. A sure, certain, confident, undeniable future. That is already reserved for us in and through Christ Jesus. The impact of the gospel. That's why Scripture Publishing Sunday. We know the power and we're fully convinced and persuaded that when someone reads that book, they're going to be confronted with their need. And they're going to find the answer and solution to the need of their life that is found solely in Christ Jesus. Do you think that's worth giving to? Do you think that's worth investing in? If you're thankful for your salvation, you ought to thank God that He gives you the privilege to help someone else find those same truths. and rejoice in that same hope. Because another impact of the gospel is that it's meant for the whole world, not just America. Not just North America. It's meant for the whole world The Bible tells us in verse number six, which is come unto you as it is in all of the world. The gospel is to impact the entirety of the world. Not just a select section, just not a certain people, but it's meant for every extremist. Islamic extremist? The gospel is meant for them. Every Russian that I don't know whether they undermined our election or not. I'm so confused about that that I don't want to listen to the news anymore. All I know is God raises them up and God puts them down, irregardless of what the Russians might try to do. This gospel is meant for everybody. It's for the entirety of the world. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. There's three things that will be true when you make reaching the world a priority of your life. Number one, the world will be evangelized. The problem that the world is not evangelized today rests in the church that has not made world evangelism a priority. The second thing that will be true, the workers involved in world evangelism are going to be energized. The world will be evangelized. The workers will be energized. For those of you that weren't here, I wish you could have seen the faces of those that were putting those scriptures together. Wish you could have seen their face. I wish you could have seen their hands carefully assembling and collating those scriptures. And the delight and the joy and the enthusiasm that they had. Were they tired? Oh yeah. I could see it as soon as I walked in the door. Do I get tired? Oh yes, I do. The days are getting longer and the days are getting harder, but I'm energized. I'm energized because we want to reach a world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. So when we make world evangelism a priority, The world will be evangelized. The workers are going to be energized. And the word of God is going to be emphasized. There it is. We're emphasizing the importance and the value of God's word, which He said will never return to Him void. Do you believe that? Do you really, honestly, sincerely, down in the depths of your heart believe that? That wherever it goes? His purpose will be accomplished. His will will be done. It'll never return to him void. That's the impact of the gospel. And then I see this. The impact of the gospel results in fruit. In verse number 6, the Bible says, which has come unto you as it is in all the world, and bringeth forth fruit. There's no such thing as a fruitless Christian. We're all fruity. If you're saved, I mean you're in And you're involved in producing fruit. Remember what Jesus said? Some seed will fall on certain ground. But some seed is going to find its way into productive soil and bringeth forth fruit, some thirtyfold, some sixtyfold, some a hundredfold. And what he did not say Is that there will be zerofold. Every born-again blood-bought believer in Christ produces fruit to some degree in your life I asked you this morning, what fruit do you have to point to? What fruit do you have to point to? There's many things that the Bible talks about the fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, meekness, faith. Are those things evident in your life? Fruity Christians. The Bible also talks about the fruit of righteousness. Philippians chapter 1, verse number 11. Fruity Christians. The Bible talks about in Hebrews chapter 13 and verse number 15 the fruit of praise, our lips bringing forth praise to Him. Are you fruity in that area? The Bible talks about the fruit of soul winning, winning others to Jesus Christ. Are you fruity in that area? The Bible talks about fruit, fruit, fruit, the fruit of holiness. It's part of every believer's life. And what the Bible is simply saying is that the scriptures, the word of God, the gospel, has impact upon a person's life and produces fruit. Is your life evident with fruit? Are you involved in reaching the world with the gospel? You have opportunity to do that today. You might not have been able to come to the assembly or been able to put scriptures together But you can give. And you can pray. Are you involved in world evangelization Are you firmly anchored in the hope that we have through the gospel of Jesus Christ? The events of the world don't shatter you. The outcomes of bombs dropping do not deter you. Because you have a hope. That can never be snuffed out. Are we known by the love That we have for one another. When people think about Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, do they think about a battleground or a love station? Where people really, genuinely, truly love one another. I heard about a preacher this week that said when he first took over the church They were known for the battles that they had in their business meetings. It would break out in fistfights and Foul language and condemnation among the brethren. And they had to announce the first ramification of such actions. We'll stop all business meetings from this point on. Where's love? Are we so filled with bitterness and grief Anger and animosity that we display such actions among the brethren Love is the distinguishing characteristic of a true child of God. Stay in love with one another, church. Express that love and be appreciative of what God has done for you And then this last question. Have you by faith received the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ? It'll have impact upon your life and where you go from henceforth. All God's people said, Amen. Would you stand with me, please, for prayer? Every head is bowed and every eye is closed, in just a moment we'll have a song of invitation. But I wonder how many here this morning can honestly, truthfully, in the house of God say, I've been born again, I've been saved by the grace of God, I've believed by faith the gospel. And I'm trusting in Christ and Christ alone to get me to heaven. Could I see your hand if that's your testimony? Amen. God bless you. Can put your hands down. Maybe you're here this morning and you couldn't raise your hands with the others and you'd say, Preacher, please pray for me. I'm really not sure about that. I'm a little bit confused and bewildered by that. Would you please pray for me that I'd know the truth? And that truth would set me free. Could I pray for you this morning? I couldn't raise my hands with the others. Here's my hand preacher. Please pray for me. Is there someone like that this morning? Someone like that. Maybe you're here this morning as a Christian and you say, preacher, I really haven't made world evangelization a major priority in my life. I sure want to be involved and not miss out on the blessings that come as a result of that. Or perhaps you're here, and yes, it is a priority, and I believe I could even do more if the Lord would enable me to do so. I want you to pray, preacher, that I'd be able to make world evangelization a priority in a number of ways in my life. If that's the earnest desire of your heart, Did I see your hand this morning? That's me, preacher. That's me. God bless you. Thank you. Can put your hands down. I trust that you'll be open to the Working of the Holy Spirit in your life. Don't try to snuff out and refuse what He wants to do in you and through you. Ask yourself the question, what impact has the gospel had on me? Father, I pray this morning that you'd bless. Thy precious word. May it speak to every heart in this building. Speak to my heart Help us, Lord, to walk in obedience to your word, fulfilling the very thing that you would have us do. Save the lost. Challenge every believer. In Jesus' name. While our heads are bowed and their eyes are closed and the pianist is playing