That's what they do. John chapter 3. I'd like for us to read together, as I said, verse number 3 in unison, and then also verse number 7. So if you have your place there and you'd read with me. Verse three, here we go, all together. Ready? Here we go. Jesus answered and said unto them Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Now down to verse number seven, all together in unison. Ready? Here we go. Marvel not that I said unto thee, ye must be born again. I'll talk a little bit this morning on the new birth. Had a lot of babies here. We're thinking about newborns. We're talking about the new birth. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now our look in your word. Pray stir our hearts. Help us to understand this matter of the new birth. It's important, and uh I pray that you would please uh fill me with your Holy Spirit, speak through me, I yield my will, present my body anew again. That you could speak our hearts from your word through me to our hearts. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We have a tendency to talk about the things that are very important to us. We have a tendency to give attention to things that affect us. And uh we think about it, we talk about it, we give attention to it. For instance A few months ago was took a mission trip uh down Brother Lewis Howe down in New Zealand. Everywhere we went down there were in several different cities preaching five different meetings, and everywhere we went, I had people coming up to me and asking me about the elections here in the United States of America. They were wondering about the candidates, one in particular, and uh what I thought about this fellow and what uh this, that, and the other. And they were talking about that because they understood that America has a profound impact on their country, profound impact on their world. And so they were very concerned about that. I was flying back. There was a lady from Canada sitting next to me and we introduced ourselves. We were talking a little bit. Her and her husband were there. And uh we had fifteen hours, so we just talking and um Uh one of the first questions she says, well what do you think about Donald Trump and what about Hillary? And they're just going on and so I tried to uh nicely without getting in a fight tell her uh uh my thoughts and my approach and why would she say that? Uh because she knows that it will affect her country America is profoundly uh influential in the world. And so these are things that affect people. The election, we're talking about it, and it's coming up so we talk about it. People all the time. I'm getting messy on my phone, questions and different things And so we very uh it's important to us because the election will very much determine what kind of nation we are becoming. Uh very much affect and and anymore, very much affect how you and I are going to live our daily lives. I really believe that. There are profound changes coming unless something happens. Now uh I have not voted for a president in a long time. I voted against people a long time. I always vote. I always vote. If I'm unwilling to vote for the lesser of two evils, then I'm guaranteed to get the worst of two evils. And so you have to give going. One of these two people are going to be our president. One of them is. And so if I can maybe sway that some way or another and by uh uh using my vote, I certainly am going to do that. So why are we talking about this? Why are we there? Because it's important. It affects us. And uh we give attention to it, we talk about it. Several years ago the gas prices were rising. Remember, getting up three, four dollars a gallon Man, we're talking about the gas rate. You have to get a loan to fill the tank up, you know, and it's getting rum. And everybody's talking about it. It's in the news and people talking, talking. Why? Because it was important. It affected us, our budgets, how we spent our money. things we did and did not do because of its effect on us. Um uh uh parents, uh newborn parents, what do they all want to talk about Talk about their babies. Oh, this baby and uh that and they just that baby's important to them. They're precious, they want to talk about it. Uh grandparents, anybody by the way, I just happened to have a picture of uh little Kinley right here And uh if you want to see me afterward, I'll show you a lot more pictures. And uh I love talking about little Kenley. Why, she's precious to us And you want to talk about your child or your grandchild. Why? They're important and they're precious to us. My point is this. We tend to talk about, give a lot of attention. To things that are important to us, things that are of great value to us, things that affect us. So with that in mind, you'll understand Why we here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church talk so much about Jesus Christ. He's important to us. He's precious to us. You understand why we talk so much about salvation, being saved. We had a fellow years ago, I tell this story often, but we had a fellow years ago, he's come to a church for a little while and then he kind of faded out and we didn't see him. Then we a couple of ladies were out visiting out uh uh King Wilderson Road, Brother Paul, out in your area And came across the fellows living out there and says and they said, Well, we haven't seen you in church lately. He goes, Yeah, I ain't going back there no more. And they said, Why not? He says, Every time I go there, all I ever hear is you gotta get saved, you gotta get saved, you gotta get saved says that's all I ever hear. I go Sunday morning, gotta get saved. Wednesday, gotta get saved. People come out of my house, gotta get saved. And they said, well, that's because you gotta get saved. It's important. It's vitally important the salvation of a soul. I want to suggest to you, and the Bible bears this out, the most important issue in all of life. Is the salvation of my soul. My standing before God, my relationship with God. And it's vitally important. And so we address that. It's the most important thing in life. Jesus spoke continually about salvation. You go through the gospels. And pay close attention to the subjects that Jesus discussed, the issues that he addressed. He continually spoke about salvation. Eternal life. He spoke in very graphic detail about heaven and hell and the importance Of knowing for sure that my sins are beginning on my way to heaven, not to hell. By the way, just a side note, Jesus spoke far more about hell than he did about heaven. Jesus was strong, strong in his warnings about hell. In fact, several places he made statements like this. He says, if your right hand offends thee, It's better for you to cut off your right hand and go to heaven with one arm than it is to go to hell with two. If your right eye offends thee, pluck it out. It's better to go to heaven with one eye. than to hell with two. If your right foot offend thee, cut it off. It's better to go to heaven with one foot than with go to hell with two. What's he saying? He's not saying epic, pull your eyes out and chop your limbs off. But he's emphasizing the importance of knowing that my sins are forgiven, that when I die, I go to heaven and not to hell, and be willing to do whatever is necessary. To get that settled and have that clear in my mind and before the Lord. Jesus spoke passionately about salvation of the soul. He spoke strongly. He used strong terms, as I just said. And if you pay close attention when you go through the Gospels, he spoke of salvation to both the young and old. He spoke of salvation to the rich and poor. Jesus spoke strongly of the need of salvation to the quote-unquote good and the bad. Folks that the world consider to be very, very good people, religious. People, surely they're going to heaven. Jesus said, except you repent, you'll also likewise perish. He spoke to some of the most wicked people you can imagine, publicans and sinners, harlots, drunkards. And he told them they needed to be saved. The Pharisees needed to be saved just as badly as the publicans needed to be saved And he emphasized the importance of this matter of salvation. And our text here, John chapter 3, is a classic illustration. Of how our Lord was completely focused on man's need of salvation when he talks about the new birth. As I said, all through there, he makes statements like the Son of Man has come to seek and to Save that which was lost. He said, that's my whole purpose. That's the most important thing in life is knowing That Jesus Christ is my personal Savior. My sins are forgiven. I've been saved from hell. I have eternal life. I go to heaven when I die. I have new life now. I want us to notice several things in Jesus' conversation with this man named Nicodemus. We read most of the passage here in our scripture reading time. And I want us to notice first of all the concern of Nicodemus. Look with me again, if you would, at verse number one and two. Now I don't know we already read this, but I want to look at them again a little more closely. Verse number one of John chapter three. There was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. The same came to Jesus by night and said unto him, Rabbi Now that term rabbi there is a term of respect of title. It's a teacher. He's referencing Jesus as a teacher. So he's recognizing Jesus as authority, that Jesus has answers. He said unto him, the same came to Jesus by night and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God. For no man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him. Now, what do we know about Nicodemus? He comes Lord Jesus Christ. He's obviously very concerned about something He addresses Jesus as rabbi, as someone with knowledge, with authority, with answers. And he approaches them. Well, what do we know about Nicodemus? We know this. He is a very religious man. You notice in verse number one, it says a man of the Pharisees. The Pharisees were extremely religious. They strictly observed God's laws, at least outwardly. They were very, very careful on the things they would touch and not touch. They were very, very careful about how they dressed. They were very, very careful about the places they would go and not go. They were very disciplined in their uh religious observations and their conduct in their daily life. They were loyal and faithful to the meetings in the synagogues, the regular worship services. They were uh very very careful in their daily lives and the things they would do. And they tried very hard to follow the letter of God's law, again, at least externally. So Nicodemus was a very religious man. Now we have religious people in our world. Some would refer to you and I as very religious people So Nicodemus was a Pharisee. We notice he was a religious man. I put this down. We notice also that he was at least humanly a righteous man. It's no indication that he was a drunkard. There's no indication that he was immoral in any way sexually or anything like that. There's no indication that he was any kind of thief or a murderer. No doubt people respected him tremendously. No doubt people would say, Nicodemus, oh yeah. He's a good man. He's a very righteous man. So he was religious. He was righteous in a lot of ways. He was basically the best kind of man that religious, that the Jewish ceremonies could produce He was religious. He was humanly righteous. He was highly respected. The Bible says he was a ruler. Now you didn't get to that position in that society, you didn't get to that position without at least having some people's respect They no doubt, the people of the city and the society there, the community, no doubt looked on Nicodemus as a very honorable man. No doubt he walk in. Folks would pay attention and be respectful. So he was a very respected man, but I noticed something else about Nicodemus. You'd think he's pretty much everything we would desire a man to be. He's religious. He has at least a appearance of fearing God. He's uh very righteous, he does right, and no no doubt he did right by others, he was highly respected. Uh uh the Bible doesn't say this, but I have a sneaking suspicion he was a fairly wealthy man, perhaps a rich man. He was in a position like this, and for the most part the Pharisees were not poor. But there's something I notice here. He was a restless man. Something was bothering him. There was something, no doubt, missing in his life. There was something, though he was religious, respected, thought highly of, yet down in his heart and soul, something was wrong There is an emptiness there. And so he comes to Jesus Christ. And did you notice what he says? We know that art a teacher come from God, for no man can do the things thou doest except God be with him. He sees in Jesus Christ something that is missing in his life. And he gets the idea that Jesus has something he needs. That Jesus can answer questions he has down in his heart and soul. And so he comes to Jesus Christ. No, he's religious, he's respected, perhaps rich, he's very righteous man, but something's missing There's an emptiness there, there's a loneliness in his soul that none of this righteousness, none of this religion is meeting that need. And Jesus Christ, he senses God's hands. There's something about Jesus Christ that is different than everyone else. There's something about Jesus Christ that he believes can answer the emptiness in his heart and soul. And so he comes to Jesus Christ. But do you notice it says he came to Jesus Christ by night? Now that stirred things up among Bible scholars. Why in the world did he come to Jesus at night? Why wouldn't he come during the daylight hours and we don't know what time of night it was? Why didn't he come during the daylight hours and Jesus is out and about? Well the first assumption is on most people's heart is that he was just afraid of what others would say And so he comes to Jesus under the cover of night, and he's maybe fearful, he's a little timid, and he doesn't want anybody else to know that he's coming to Jesus Christ. That may or may not be the case. The Bible doesn't tell us I wonder if maybe he didn't come to Jesus Christ because he had some respect for Jesus' ministry Jesus was incredibly busy. In fact he was so busy many times he was hard for him just to get away to get a breather and get a little break and maybe he thought, you know, during the day He's serving all these people, these mobs of people around him. I'll wait till the end of the day when things come down, and I can respect that and not interrupt his his regular ministry and I can just get a little bit of one-on-one time with him. Maybe that was what he was thinking. I thought maybe with him being a Pharisee and a ruler and no doubt many responsibilities, maybe it was the only time he had available. Maybe it's only when his schedule would allow to come to Jesus Christ at night. We don't know. The Bible doesn't tell us. We speculate. Maybe he was timid and fearful and went at night. Maybe he was trying to be respectful to the Lord. Maybe his schedule wouldn't allow. I got my own theory. I wonder if Nicodemus didn't come to Jesus by night because he was restless and couldn't sleep. I wonder if he hadn't heard Jesus preaching his sermons, what should it profit a man if he gains the whole world? and loses his own soul. I wonder. I'm just me speculating, but I wonder if maybe Nicodemus didn't lay in the bed at night And the words of Jesus Christ concerning salvation and the words of Jesus Christ concerning his standing before God, if those didn't ring in his ears, and maybe he just tossed and turned and finally says, enough of this I've got to settle the questions of my heart. I've got to meet this need in my life. I'm going to Jesus now and talk to him about my soul. Now I don't know that that's the case. It could be any one of these, and maybe another situation that we're not even aware of. But no matter what the reason was, something was heavy on Nicodemus's heart. And he was prompted to go to Jesus to find the answer. Listen, no matter how polished our image may be, No matter how disciplined I may be in my life. And by all appearances, you've got your act together. And by all appearances, you have this polished image of a man or a woman that really knows who they are and knows where they're going and knows what they're doing. But I know this, without Jesus Christ, down inside your heart and soul, there is a vacuum that nothing in this world can fill. I know that without Jesus Christ, regardless of how successful a person may be in their family, in their community, in their business life. Regardless of how successful they may be, without Jesus Christ, there is an emptiness in the heart and soul, and there's a restlessness there. Person may be a total failure in life, may have messed up over and over time and time again. But I'm telling you here, I'm here to tell you, Jesus Christ still loves you and still meet the needs of your life and give direction in your life. Amen or not? Here's Nicodemus, by all human appearances, a successful man. By all human appearances, everything that we would think a man should be. But down inside his heart and soul, he knew there was something he did not have. There was something he needed, and that was eternal life. So he comes to Jesus Christ, very concerned. He says, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God. For no man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him. Did you pick it up? He'd been paying attention to who Jesus was and what he was doing. He'd been thinking About who Jesus was. And he comes to the conclusion: this man has to be of God. This man has to have the answers to the questions in my heart. And so he's very, very concerned. Second thing I'd like for us to notice is the confrontation of the Lord. And that's really what it looks like to me. The Lord confronts Nicodemus, right exactly where he is. Look with me at verse number three. Now I want to read verse two and three together because I want you to pick up, well, at least the way I see this. The same came to Jesus verse 2 by night and said to him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God, for no man can do these miracles, do thou doest, except God be with him. Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. I think Jesus understood exactly Nicodemus' condition. He knew exactly that standing here before me on this night Saying these making these statements to me, this man is a lost sinner. As good as the man thinks he is, as accomplished as he has been in life. As successful and outwardly in his life he has been, he is still a sinner in need of a savior. And Jesus understood that. Jesus looked at Nicodemus and he saw before him a good man, humanly speaking, that was on track to eternity in hell. And so it's almost like Jesus interrupts him. I get the impression at the end of verse 2 and Jesus' statement of verse 3 that Jesus almost interrupts him. He never really gets to the point to ask a question. He never really gets to the point where he's able to state the reason that he's there. Rabbi, we know that thou art teacher come from God, for no man can do the miracles thou doest except God be with him. And Jesus steps in. Verily, very last saying to ye, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Jesus knew exactly what Nicodemus needed. Jesus knew exactly what his condition was. And I'm here to tell you this morning, Jesus Christ knows exactly what you need in your heart and life. He knows exactly what your condition and my condition is. Listen, we may fool people, but we cannot fool God. No doubt everyone thought Nicodemus was fine. Nicodemus was good. Nicodemus knew he wasn't good. Nicodemus knew things were not fine. That's why he's at Jesus. And Jesus knew things were not fine. And he doesn't even give him opportunity to finish his statement, and he says, you must be born again. It's almost like Jesus said, I know why you're here. I know what your need is. And this is it. This is it. Nicodemus' spiritual condition was extremely important. The Lord didn't even give him a chance to finish his statement. The salvation of a soul is the most important issue in life. You say, I'm tired of hearing that. I'm going to tell you, in that case, the salvation of a soul is the most important issue in life. Anybody here ever go to a doctor? Anybody here ever go to a doctor and he told you something you didn't like? Every time I go in, he'd say, Brother Leatherman I appreciate you, I respect you, but you've got to lose weight. My response was, I hate you. No, I didn't say that. What do we say? I know, I know. Every time I went in, Brother Lehman, you gotta lose weight, Brother Lehman, you gotta lose weight. I said, Oh shut up, I'm not coming back here anymore. Every time I go in here, you gotta lose weight, you gotta lose weight Why was it? Because that was important. To the doctor, my health was important. And Jesus Christ says to you and I, and to all of mankind, over and over and over and over, you must be born again. You need to be saved. What will it profit you if you gain the whole world and you lose your own soul? What should a man get in exchange for his soul? Jesus interrupts Nicodemus, doesn't even give him a chance to finish his statement. Says, Nicodemus, you need to be born again. Everything else is secondary, everything else is peripheral. You need to be born again. If we fail in the matter of salvation, we fail for all eternity. We are the babies here today. I'm a father, now a grandfather. The influence of a parent over a child is profound. And the older I get, the more I realize. How what I am and what I was and what I am as a father has a profound impact upon my children. My grandchildren. And the most important thing in the life of any child is that they know Jesus Christ as their Savior as soon as possible in life. And the influence that you and I as parents have over our children and as grandparents over our grandchildren is profound. And I cannot introduce to my children something I do not have myself. I cannot share with my grandchildren something I do not have myself I'm suggesting to you one of the most important things a child needs is a saved mommy, a saved daddy, a saved grandpa, a saved grandma. Because of our influence. Notice Jesus says in verse 3, Jesus answered and said unto him, Barely, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born again. Come up to verse 7. This is what I want. Verse 7. Marvel not. And Nicodemus responds and asks questions. We'll look at that. But Jesus says, Marvel not that I said unto thee, ye must be born again. That word must has the idea of absolute necessity. I get as pastor, and no doubt this is true for everybody, but it seems a little enhanced for my position as pastor, but I get people all the time for many, many years, have told me things I must do Well you need to do this. Anybody here have people tell you, well you need to do this, you need to do that. I had a person recently uh sent me a message, they said, uh please pray for this, and don't tell me what to do. Everybody already is. So I'll pray for you. I've had a lot of people tell me things I must do. Some of them were correct, many of them were incorrect. But when Jesus says that I must do something, when Jesus says something is absolutely necessary, You better mark it down. It's absolutely necessary. When Jesus says ye must be born again Then I must be born again. It is absolutely necessary. So the Lord interrupts. He confronts Nicodemus before he even has a chance to finish his statement. He says, Verily, verily, I stand to thee. Except a man be born again, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. He's telling Nicodemus, this subject of your soul salvation is extremely important, but he's also saying this, it's intensely personal. Again, verse 70 says, ye must be born again. As an individual person. You need to trust Jesus Christ. You need this new life in Christ. I thank God for a Christian daddy and for the tremendous testimony. That's good to have my dad down again for a couple weeks. I thank God for him. We talked A lot of his testimony, his witness over these years, his prayers have have profound. I am what I am because of him. But one thing my dad could not do for me, he could not make me a Christian. My daddy could not impart to me salvation. That was something I must personally as an individual settle. We say this, I use this term often, I like it. To accept Jesus Christ as your personal savior. This church cannot save a soul. Can't do it. That baptistry will never save a soul from hell. That's a testimony of someone that has been saved but doesn't save a soul. Taking Lord's Supper, whatever ritual you want to come up with, it is a personal decision that I make as an individual between me and the living Savior. To put my faith, my trust, my hope, my confidence in the Jesus Christ, the one who died for my sins, was buried, and rose again, I as an individual make that decision. It's intensely personal. Salvation is between God and myself Not a parent cannot impart to me salvation, no ritual, no church. And by the way, simply saying words in a prayer does not make me a child of God, does not save my soul. Now we I oh have for as long as I can remember from someone wants to call on the Lord I help them with a little simple prayer to repeat after me, but I try to always emphasize simply Saying these words does not save your soul. You must from your heart put your faith and trust and confidence in the living Savior Jesus Christ. It's just helping express that decision. It's a personal, intensely personal, putting my faith in the living Savior. So Jesus interrupts Nicodemus before he has a chance to finish. Verily, verily I say unto ye, you must be born again. He says again in verse 7. Well verse 3 he says, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of heaven. Verse 7, Verily, verily I say unto thee, ye must be born again. It's extremely important. It's intensely personal. And this matter of salvation is expressly spiritual. That's where it threw Nicodemus. Lord, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God. No man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him. Nicodemus, verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. I can see the gears working in Nehemiah's mind. What? If it was my brain, smoke would start trickling out the ears. Woo woo, what's he talking about? And Nicodemus asks a question that makes sense considering his ignorance, so to speak. Look at verse 4. Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he's old? Can he enter in the second time into his mother's womb and be born? What is Nicodemus thinking? In what realm is Nicodemus thinking? He's thinking in the what? Physical realm, the flesh realm. Jesus says you've got to be born again. All Nicodemus is thinking is physical birth. Now what in the world? That doesn't even make sense, Lord. Listen, you're a teacher from God. What are you saying? This is nonsense. I go back in my mother's womb and be born again. I understand. Nicodemus was thinking in the physical realm. And so Jesus, being very gracious, explains to them. And it's really not complicated, and some Bible scholars over the years have really convoluted what the Lord says. It's very simple. Jesus answered verse 5, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit. He cannot enter the kingdom of God. Now, if the Lord had stopped there, there may be a little confusion what he means by water. Some Bible scholars, quote unquote, have suggested the water there is baptism. They are wrong. Baptism has nothing to do with this. It's not in the subject context at all, whatsoever. Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit. He cannot enter the kingdom of God. So then the Lord goes on and explains what he means. That which is born of the what? Flesh. is flesh. The word flesh in verse number six corresponds to the word water in verse number five. That which is born of the flesh, that which is born physically, is physical. That was born of water. Medical terms, and I'm certainly not a medical doctor, and I uh when my when our boys were born, the doctor said, uh, I guess back in the day when I was born, I think it was around Abraham Lincoln's days or something like that. But um Did you see they found a selfie of Abraham Lincoln. Oh no, I'm kidding. But uh uh when I was born I guess back in those days they didn't let dads back to the moms. Am I right? Is there there was a day the dad couldn't go back and be with the mom. He had to wait out here so he'd be tasting Oh, you know, waiting for mom. Well I showed up, that's what I was expecting. They said, Do you want to go back and see your wife give birth to the baby? I said, No. Oh come on, it'll be great. I said, I got a bad cold. That's fine, wear a mask. All right. And that's right. That's my medical experience in birth giving birth. But anyway, um I understand, and we understand believe when a child is about to be born, the water breaks. Right? That was just born of the water. And of Spirit. When Jesus says, except a man be born of water in the Spirit, he's not talking about baptism. That's so far out of context. He's talking about the physical birth. I'm looking out at this crowd. One thing I know about every one of you, you've all been born physically. I can tell. So he says you've got to be born physical, but that's not enough. Not if you want to get to heaven. You've got to be born of the Spirit. And that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. When Jesus says you must be born again, when he's talking about salvation, he's talking about a spiritual truth. Now it affects the physical. And thank God, because of salvation, we trust Christ someday we'll get a glorified body. These bodies will be glorified and we'll physically be with the Lord. But what he's talking about, salvation here, is not a physical aspect, but the spiritual birth, being born spiritually. That's where that emptiness in your heart and soul is coming from. That's where that vacuum is. There's no spiritual life there, and only Jesus Christ can give that spiritual life through the new birth. It's a spiritual reality. Nicodemus was confused. Flesh and water was the physical birth, being born into the human family. Being born again, being born of the Spirit, is the spiritual birth being born into my spiritual family, the family of God, becoming a child of God. Now I don't have the object lessons up here I would like to have just because of everything else going on, I didn't think it was a good idea. But uh yesterday, the last couple weeks we've been going to the store and been buying plants. I got some little flowers to put out. I got some pepper plants, some tomato plants, I got zucchini, I got some green beans, we're putting them out, and um we're planting these plants. And the reason they're not growing, because I read on the directions they need sunlight. Where do you go to find sunlight around here? But if I want a tomato plant, I need to get a tomato plant that is, now I'm using the term very loosely here, that is born a tomato plant, right? If I want a tomato plant, I've got to get a tomato seed that's germinated, let it grow. That's where you get a tomato plant. Now, if I want a puppy dog, I have to have one that is born as a puppy, as a doggy, right? Suppose I got a tomato plant and I said, you know, I'd really like to have a puppy dog. So I take that tomato plant and I put it in a doghouse. And I put dog food there, I put a little leash on it, and I name it Fido. Not trying to teach it tricks. Is that tomato plant ever going to become a puppy dog? No. Because if I if it's going to be a puppy dog, it has to be born a puppy dog. A tomato plant, it has to be quote unquote born a tomato plant. I got my son. And uh want a son, so we have a son born a son. By the way, this is so stupid I can even say this. By the way, you're either male or female. Duh! What in the world? So I have a son. Suppose we go, you know, I think we'd rather have a puppy dog So we take our son, put a leash on him, put him in a doghouse, beat him dog food. There was a certain phase of his life where you couldn't have told much difference, I think. But uh No, he's not going to become a oh we want a tomato plant. So we stick them in the ground, put plant food on them. It's not going to become a tomato plant. They are what they are because that's what they're born. Now here you have an unsaved sinner, you've got Nicodemus. For him to be alive spiritually, he has to be born alive spiritually Take Nicodemus. We're gonna all right, we want him to be a spiritual, we want to have eternal life, we want him to be saved, be a child of God. He was born a child of man. We want to be a child of God, so we're gonna dunk him in the water. We're going to make him a member of a church. We're going to put a title on him, Christian. Is he a Christian? Is he saved? Does he have spiritual life? No. No more than that plant is a dog when I give it a dog name and put it in a doghouse. Has to be born. And that's what Jesus is telling Nicodemus. You can do all the religious stuff you want. You can get baptized how many times you want. You can be a member of the best church in town. You don't have spiritual life. You have to be born spiritually to be a child of God, to have eternal life. It's a spiritual birth. Say, preacher, how do I do that? Well, they tell me I was born May sixth, nineteen sixty. I don't remember personally. My dad was there. He verifies that that's the case. I had no choice in that matter. I had no say. I just bing, here I am, and all the world rejoiced. At least some of the world. But on this spiritual birth, the second birth, I do have a choice. I can choose to accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, confessing my sins, acknowledging my sins. turning to him from my sins, trusting him to come in my life, birth me spiritually, give me eternal life. Give me a whole new life to live. Forgive and erase my past and future sins. Make me a child of God. And when this body dies, I go immediately into the presence of Almighty God to dwell forever. With my heavenly father. But that's a decision I made. You may be a member of a church. You may be as respected as Nicodemus was. You may be very, very religious. But if you've not trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, been born again by faith in Christ, you do not have eternal life. You're lost. And that is the most important thing in the world. Thank God for these little babies. That physical birth is an amazing miracle. You'll never convince me there's not a God. Just think about the birth of a child. But what about the new birth? Do you know for sure that your sins are forgiven? That when you die you go to heaven, that Jesus is your Savior, God is your Father Or are you just a good person, a good man, a good woman, good mom, good dad, good grandma, good grandpa? And praise the Lord, I'm glad you are. I don't want you to be a bad one. That's not enough. You've got to know Jesus Christ as Savior. Does this make sense? Let's pray together. Father, I ask, Lord, you would take these statements of our Lord Jesus Christ And I ask your Lord that you would challenge every one of us. I pray you would disturb us like Nicodemus was disturbed. I pray you'd convict us like he was convicted. Or we didn't have time, but I really believe Nicodemus made the decision to trust you as Savior. It's born into the family of God, born again. Today, there's no doubt, it's in your very presence. And I pray that would be true for each and every one of us here this morning. Father, some of us have folks that we're concerned for that need to be born again. I pray you'd help us to be the witness and testimony to them. That they need to see. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many this morning say, preacher, there's no doubt in my mind. I know I'm safe. My sins are beginning. I've trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. I know that in my heart of hearts That that is a settled fact based upon biblical truth, and you'd say, Preacher, I thank God for that. Would you slip your hand up all around? I know I've been born again. There's no doubt about it. God bless you. Many hands around If you're here this morning and you cannot honestly say, yes, I know I'm saved, yes, I know for sure, based on the Bible truth, that my sins are forgiven. When I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. And you're concerned about that like Nicodemus was. And you'd say, preacher, I'd like you to pray with me that God would help me settle that. And I want to know that I've been born again, that my sins are forgiven, and I'm going to heaven and not to hell when I die. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I am concerned about that. Any at all? Uh how about it? All around. God bless you. How about it, others? I want to be sure. I'm not sure and I want that settled. I need that in my heart and life. How many this morning would say, preacher, I know someone that needs to be born again. I'm not trying to be judgmental. But it's just a fact. It's very obvious. They've never been born again. They've never trusted Christ. Maybe a family member, a friend, spouse, neighbor, a loved one You say, preacher, I'm very concerned about someone dear to me that they would be saved. Pray with me, that God will help me be a witness, that they'll come to know Christ. How about it? Uplifted hand. How many like that? All around. God bless you. My hands raised. I tell you, prayer is a powerful thing. Pray for loved ones. And then living, making adjustments. Let the Lord have his way. We're going to have an invitation, old-fashioned alternate. Maybe some Christians just want to kneel and say, thank you, God, for saving my soul. Thank you. Maybe some want to come, pray for a loved one, a family member. Maybe some parents would want to come and just pray that you'd be that good, godly mom and dad that God would have you to be. And God will help us. Tell you this old fashioned order is a good, powerful place. To do business with God. Father, our hands have been raised, our hearts have been touched. And I pray you'd help us now to respond in faith and to trust you and come to you in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are crossed.