Psalm chapter thirty two, I'd like for us to read together verse one and two. Psalm thirty two And read together in unison, if you would, verses 1 and 2. Ready? Got it there? Read it together. Here we go. Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile. Wow, what a great passage, huh? The blessings of being forgiven. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for the opportunity we have to assemble together here on the Lord's Day. We've met in your house, Lord, and we ask now that your presence would be here in our midst in a very evident way. We know you're omniscient or you're omnipresent, Lord. There's nowhere where you're not But we ask that you would help us to be sensitive to your presence here today, be aware of your presence, and I pray you'd use your word and speak to every one of our hearts. God, maybe we're speaking to someone this morning that does not have assurance of sins forgiven, still in their sin. The guilt and the weight of sin. I pray that today they would find forgiveness. And Lord, those of us that know you as Savior, I pray you'd stir us. to live for you and please you. And to um uh if we've if we've gotten away, if there's some that are backslidden away from the Lord, that today would be a day of restoration, coming home like that old prodigal son Lord, I can't accomplish this, anything I have to say. So I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you I present my body with all my heart. I pray you be the speaker. You speak through me to our hearts and minds and help us to trust you and obey you when you do speak to us. In Jesus' name we pray Amen. Up in New York City, I mentioned this before years ago. I came across a uh article or something, and they mention about up in New York State, the northern part of New York State, in some rural town way back In the back side of a cemetery, out by a big old oak tree, they said there was a uh a tombstone And they said the tombstone had been there, no doubt, for maybe hundreds of years. The name was faded off, the weather had worn the name off. The dates of the birth and death we couldn't hardly make out But whoever was writing this article said if you would kneel down at just the right angle and you'd look at that tombstone, you would find below the name and below the birth and The dates of their birth and death, right below that, there's one word. So if you looked at it very, very carefully, you'd see it was the word forgiven. Forgiven. I don't know who that was buried there. We don't know anything about them, but apparently they knew that they were forgiven. There is a blessing in knowing that I've done wrong, and yet the one that I have wronged. Has forgiven me. There's a blessing that comes with that. Here we see in Psalm chapter 32 and Verse 1 and 2, David writing under the inspiration of God. David is the penman of this psalm, God of course being the author, and the the context of this, the circumstances behind David penning this psalm, was uh after, we believe it was after he had committed adultery with Bathsheba and had her husband murdered. How many people agree with me? Adultery and murder is bad. David had sinned and sinned grievously. And surprisingly, perhaps, what we know of David He covered, he saw it, he tried to cover that sin for over a year. He acted like he'd done no wrong. He uh put on a facade That he those sin had taken place, but in reality he had committed adultery. Bathsheba conceived from that act of adultery. She had Uriah, her, he had Uriah, her husband, killed And David tried to act like everything was clean, everything was good. You know, we can hide sin from mankind. We can hide sin from family members and church members and the preacher and co-workers. But I'll mark it down this morning. Mark it down this morning. We can never hide sin from God. And God saw, and God knew. And for a year, David lived with that weight of guilt on his conscience. For a year, David lived with that conviction of God that he had done wrong, and he never came clean about that. He's leading up to this. Last week we preached from Psalm 51. That was David's prayer of confession as a result of this sin. But Psalm 32 is leading up to David's repentance. And he makes this statement here. He's going back and he's writing about that time, that period of time when he was hiding his sin and under conviction. But he starts off with the word blessed. Blessed is he whose transgression is what? Forgiven. Whose sin is covered. Blessed. is the man to whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile. I looked up that word blessed. It's a very common word in the Bible. Sometimes it can be used very shallowly, in other words, just a happiness, a shallow happiness. But as David is using it here under the inspiration of God He's referencing a deep, I'm calling it this, a deep seated happiness. Down deep in the heart and soul Of a person is this happiness. I put it this way: planted deep in the soul and unaffected by its environment. David said, the man that has been forgiven, the man whose sin has been covered, of course, we know from the New Testament by the blood of Christ. There is a deep-seated peace. There is a deep-seated joy. There is a deep down in the heart and soul, unchanging blessedness of God. And that comes through knowing I'm forgiven. You know what the world considers a blessing and what God considers a blessing are two very different things. In fact, you won't hear the world use that word blessing very much. Seems like I don't know if I'm just getting cynical in my old age. I mean in my not old age, my um growing years I I'm I'm trying to deny the obvious, but um uh I don't know if I'm getting single, but it seems like you don't hear people use that word blessing much anymore. You know, oh, what a blessing. Boy, this is a blessing. What a blessing. You're not going to hear the world use that term too much. But the world's definition of what they would consider a blessing and what God considers a blessing are two very different things. For instance, the world would think that prosperity would be some sort of blessing Well, if I just had a bigger house, then I I would be happy. If I just drove a nicer car. If I had finer clothes If I had a higher income, if there were just a few more digits on the end of my annual income, boy, that would be a blessing. And then I would be happy. The sad fact, sad truth is, uh that thinking has infected some of Christianity Listen, it is possible to be the most prosperous person in a community and still be the most miserable person in a community. In fact, I've found many cases, those that have the most stuff are often those that have the most Frustration, the most unhappiness. And so the world says, oh, if I was just prosperous, a little more prosperous, if I just had a little bit more stuff. Then I would be happy. Then I would be blessed. The world would say that having great health and beauty would be a blessing. If I just was healthier, if I have good health Now don't misunderstand me. It is a blessing if God prospers us and God gives us things. We ought to be grateful. Amen And that is a blessing of God, there's no doubt about it. But that is not where we find our joy Oh, if I just had health and beauty, then uh I would uh boy then I would be happy. Now, health and beauty uh uh uh is uh God's blessing. If somebody's healthy, we ought to be grateful. Amen. But I tell you, some of the most physically fit people, some of the most beautiful people physically speaking in the world, are some of the most unhappy people you'll ever find. Health doesn't bring happiness necessarily. Beauty doesn't necessarily bring happiness. I tell you, and this is true of the young people, but I think it's not just young people But will go to great length to try and appear beautiful to the world and compromise what is best for them in order to appeal to the world. Follow what I'm saying? And so uh the world says prosperity is a blessing, health and beauty is a blessing. Oh, an education, if only I can get that that another degree, then I'll be happy. Listen, there's nothing wrong with education. Oh, if only I was the most popular person on the job, if only I was citizen of the year. If I was just the most popular kid in school. I tell you what, popularity does not necessarily bring blessing. Are you with me? Everybody with me this morning? However, those that are prosperous and those that have what the world says is such a blessing are often very unhappy. There's a gnawing conscience down inside. They have anguish of mind, bitter, angry, and frustrated. In other words, what I'm trying to say is this: the world's basis for happiness and blessing is very, very shallow. Is very, very shallow. America has been blessed of God, amen or not? We have prosperity. We have the best health care you can find in the world. We have the greatest education institutes, some of them in the world. America has everything pretty much that the world says is necessary to be happy. But let me ask you a question As you look out on our country today, would you describe America as a happy country? I don't think so. I think there's a lot of happy people in our country. I don't want to br use too broad of a brush But if you watch the media at all, if you look what's happening in our cities and our society, I would not describe America as a happy country. I would describe America as a very frustrated, angry, bitter country So what I'm saying is this, David, under the inspiration of God, is telling us it is possible To have a deep-seated joy and fulfillment and purpose and happiness That is not dependent on these things that the world says is necessary to be blessed. The world and God's definition of blessings are two different things. What does God say is blessed? What does God say brings true, deep, and lasting happiness? Well, one thing we know, God tells us that this world can't produce it. It comes from something the world cannot give us. I put three things down, this is just by way of introduction here a little bit, three things that I believe God says that will produce Deep-seated blessing and joy. Number one, I put this down: a pure heart. A pure heart. Second, I put down is a clear conscience. I'm telling you, there are folks all around us. I may be talking to some here this morning, that you would give just about everything you own to have a clear conscience. I'm telling you, a guilty conscience can drive a person into the ground. God says we can have a clear conscience. We can have a pure heart. God says that blessedness comes from a clean mind. Pure heart, a clear conscience, and a clear mind. All the money in the world cannot buy a clear conscience. Do you know that? All the popularity, you can be the most popular person in the world. That's not gonna bring a pure heart and a clean mind. Cannot produce any of that God says that that which brings true, deep, and lasting blessing and happiness cannot be produced by this world. Pure heart, clean conscience, and a clean mind. Let me ask you this morning. How's your conscience? Can you say your heart is pure? Mind is clean God says that's possible and it's necessary if we're going to be blessed. Now, as I study Scripture and I've been knowing the Lord now for over 40 years, I've found that there is one thing that is the greatest enemy to real joy and deep happiness, blessedness, there's one enemy, and it is this: sin. Sin is our great enemy. It will steal our joy. It will lay, it will lay, it will uh weigh down our conscience It will muddy up our mind. Sin is our great enemy. Internal sin. My sin. Here's our problem is We think if I could deal with everybody else's sin around me, then I would be happy. Fact of the matter is, I can have the joy of the Lord regardless of how people around me react. My sin is what steals my joy. Jed's sin doesn't steal my joy, and my sin doesn't steal his joy. It's the sin in my heart that takes away that blessedness. And that's where it has to be addressed. Sin is the great enemy, the enemy of God's blessings. Internal sin, my sin. I study the Old Testament, I find the Old Testament uses 15 different words, 15 different terms to describe how destructive sin is. In my own heart, in my soul, in my mind. Fifteen different terms. We see about four of them here in our text. So let's look at them here real quickly, if you would. Look at verse number one. I want to notice these terms. That God uses through David to describe this sin, this destructiveness that must be addressed. First of all, he says, blessed is he who's what? Transgression is forgiven. Here's a term the Bible uses to describe what we refer to as sin Transgression. The word transgression means to miss a mark, or it has this, or I'm sorry, it means to rebelliously trespass Into forbidden territory. Anybody here have some property and you put up signs, no trespassing? Anyone else Uh anybody here do that? A few people. Anybody here have neighbors that have no trespassing signs up anywhere? Any hunters here? You went on to property that had signs uh no tr no, don't raise your hand if you did that In other words, the word to transgress, as it's used here, blessed is the man whose transgression The word transgression means to cross over a boundary into forbidden territory. You know what sin is? Sin is stepping outside of the perimeters God has established for us as human beings. Now you say, well, why would God restrict us? Oh, God's just No, God's not restricting us. God, you and I are created and designed by God to operate Within specific moral and spiritual perimeters. You follow what I'm saying? And when we step outside of those boundaries, those moral boundaries that God has said Things begin to break down. I guess what I'm trying to say is this: we were not designed by God to live in sin. Our mentally, spiritually, physically, we are designed to live holy lives. We're in the image of a holy God. But sin came in, and man stepped across that perimeter into forbidden territory, and things began to break down. And so one of the terms he uses here to describe and define sin is transgression, to rebelliously trespass into forbidden territory. In other words, There are some things that God says we should not do because we are not designed to handle that. We're designed to live holy. A second word he uses here, if you would notice, is the word sin. Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Now the word sin means to miss a mark, to fall short of a requirement. Our God is a holy God. He's created us in his image. He's created us to live holy lives, mentally, emotionally, physically, spiritually, to be pure and holy. And to sin is to fall short of that expectation, that requirement that He's designed us to live by. A third word he uses here in verse number two: blessed is a man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity. The word iniquity is an interesting word. It means this, to twist or bend, or pervert that which is right and wrong. Iniquity is taking that which is right and twisting it and to present it as if it's wrong. And take that which is wrong, morally wrong, that which is wicked, and twist it and make it appear like it's good. Our world, I say this often, our world has perfected the ability to take that which is right and good and pure and make it seem so bad. And take that which is evil and bad and wicked and make it seem so good. In fact, we have in our society we have months that are dedicated to wicked perversion We have a celebration of that which God forbids. We have an exaltation and an admiration for that which God says is an abomination. And that is iniquity. Iniquity, twisting of what is right and good, and pure and natural, and twisting it into that which is wrong. He uses the term transgression to step across the line, to trespass into forbidden territory. He uses the term sin to fall short of that which God uh requires of me. He uses the term iniquity, twisting what is right and good, and making wrong seem right and right seem wrong. And then he uses another word that you don't hear a whole lot, the last part of verse two. In whose spirit there is no guile. Now the word guile means this: to be phony, to be treacherous, to be deceitful. In other words, to put on a show. I remember in the months leading up to my salvation in the early January, February, March, April of 1979, I was under such conviction I didn't want to be the person I was becoming. I looked at my life and I saw what kind of man I was becoming. And the sin and all the wickedness that was uh just uh uh controlled me And I began praying to God. Oh God, help me. God help me. I tried to clean my life up, and I tried to straighten things up, and I couldn't. The harder I tried, the worse I became I realized my only hope was Jesus Christ to forgive me and save me and give me a new life. But leading up to that point, I had gotten pretty good at putting on this image That everything was good, that I could live in sin, that I could indulge in wickedness, that I could conduct myself in sinful, wicked ways. And yet I could put this facade out there that I still had my act together. That I was good, that I was everything was right. And in reality, inside I was dying In my heart and soul, there was empty and darkness. But I put this show out that everything was good. And that's what he's talking about. Somebody living in wicked sin. And rebelling against God and doing wrong. And yet putting a facade out there, like I've got Mac there. We were talking in Sunday school, and Dave and I were talking afterwards. You know, the actors in Hollywood are pretty good at that You look at them and you think, man, they've got their act together. They're something else. They're very confident. Boy, they can do these amazing things. But you find out a little bit about their life, and you find out that they are a mess. Can't stay married for more than seven days. Alcohol, drugs, adultery, wickedness. And he says, that's guile. That's guile. What I'm trying to do is take what the Bible says about sin, and pre- and it presents this horrific picture. Of something that steals our joy, corrupts our mind, weighs down our conscience And destroys our heart and soul. Our great enemy is sin. And until we face the sin factor, until we deal with the sin that's in our heart and all our minds. We're never going to have that peace and blessedness that only God can give us. Is everybody with me this morning? Everybody with me? So David says, blessed is the man whose transgression is forgiven. I found if I want to learn something I need to go to somebody that's an expert in that area. Right? Does that make sense? Alright. Everybody okay? How many people are glad you're not in jail today? Amen. How many people are glad you're not in Antarctica? Now Pastor Matt would like it, I think, down there. You're glad you're in church? Me too. I'm glad you're here too. But I found that if I want to learn something, I need to go to somebody that's an expert in that area. When we were growing up, I am not much of a handyman. In fact, when some of the secretaries see me get a hammer out, they all begin calling their husbands, intervene, intervene, this is bad. I try, I really try. And I knew I wasn't much of a handyman, I wasn't much with tools and that type of thing. So what I tried to do with our boys growing up, I wanted them, I would happy and I we'd be trying to get them around people that were good at those types of things So that they can learn from the experts. You want to learn how to sin? You want to learn how to be convicted of sin? You want to learn how to confess and repent from your sin and find forgiveness? I suggest you study the life of David. I hate to say it, but he was an expert sinner. David could sin with the worst of us. Adultery, lying, murder, pride Some of the worst sins you'll find in the Bible, bold, you'll find them in the life of David. Isn't that something? How many people are surprised by that? I am a little bit. David! I'll tell you what, David was an expert. He was an expert at being convicted. And when he did wrong, God worked him over. We're going to see that here in a minute, the conviction that settled in the heart and mind. How many people know what I mean by that word conviction? Man, if you've ever experienced that, you know exactly what I'm talking about. That conviction that took over David. And then his willingness and being sensitive enough to confess and forsake his sin. I'm telling you, nobody could confess sin like David did. Psalm 51. What a prayer of confession. And then to find the freedom and the joy and the blessedness of being forgiven, David's the one to go to. So he tells us that sin is the great enemy of the blessing and joy in our heart and soul. But he says that we can find forgiveness. David tells us under the inspiration of God in these verses right here that it is possible to have our sins forgiven. It is possible to have our sins covered. In fact, if you would look there, blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven. I circled that word. The word forgiven here has this idea. I like this definition. It has this idea to lift off and carry away. Years ago, they used to, in schools, they used to be required to read the book, The Pilgrim's Progress. Anybody here ever read Pilgrim's Progress? Boy, what a classic. I don't think people hardly read it. It's a little challenging to read. But in there you find this fellow Christian. And he carried this heavy weight on his back before he became Christian, carried this heavy weight on his back. It was the guilt of sin. And finally he came up a hill to Calvary and he knelt at the cross of Christ and he said that heavy weight and pack and burden on his back fell off and rolled down the hill. It was lifted and removed. What a beautiful picture. Blessed is the man whose transgression is forgiven, taken away and removed. He uses another term here. He says, whose sin is covered. The word covered there means to be put out of sight, no longer a factor. You know what's possible? Did you know it's possible for God to forgive us our sin? It is possible to have my sin that I've committed To be no longer a factor in my relationship with God. How many people agree with me? That's some good news right there No longer a factor. He says, Blessed is the man whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity. That phrase imputeth not means it's no longer counted against me. It is possible for the worst sinner, David, adultery, murder, lying, deceit, fraud, putting up this hypocrisy And he said, I can come and have that sin no longer be a factor between God and I. It's lifted and removed. God no longer considers it an issue between us anymore. And he says, what a blessing that is. What a blessing to be forgiven. To be forgiven. It is possible to know that my sins are forgiven. In fact, I want to suggest to you, there's no blessedness in a hope-so forgiveness. Nobody says, oh, I'm so happy God might have forgiven my sins. Nobody says that Oh, what a blessing! I hope my sins are forgiven. No, there's no blessing in that. I'll tell you where the blessing is. And I can stand before God, or I can look in the mirror and look at myself, and I know, based upon the promises of God's word, God has forgiven me. I know it! I love the song, Fanny Crosby. Blessed assurance, Jesus is mine. Oh, what a foretaste of glory divine. She doesn't say blessed, uh blessed hope so. No, blessed assurance. These things have I written unto you that believe in my name, that ye may know that ye have eternal life. Sins forgiven. Sins forgiven. And so it is possible to know that my sins are forgiven, not have a hope-so or a maybe forgiveness. Now I want to give you real quickly, we've got a couple minutes here. Let me give you real quickly a few thoughts about this matter of God forgiving us. Number one, the basis of God's forgiveness. What is the basis of God's forgiveness? Does God forgive me because I'm really popular in the community and God will forgive me. Nope, that's not the basis of God's forgiveness. God will forgive me because I've got a lot of money put up. I've got almost a million dollars in investments Nope, that's not the basis of God's forgiveness. Oh, God will forgive me because I've really I work out and uh uh you know I got ellipticals and I work those ellipticals And uh I um I don't even know what elliptical is, some sort of glasses or something. I tell you what, I do a sit up every morning. I get up in bed and I sit up and I go Listen, the basis of God's forgiveness for me is not how I take care of this body. And we should take care of this our bodies. Amen. Amen. We should What is the basis of God's forgiveness? Listen to Romans chapter 5 and verse 8. But God commendeth his love toward us. And that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. You know John 3:16, for God so loved the world And he gave his only begotten son. And whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. That's forgiveness. Forgiveness. From the dawn of our creation, as soon as man, uh our our our first parents, Adam and Eve, as soon as they stepped away from God, as soon as they transgressed. And trespassed into eating what God said they ought not to do. God's very first action was to intervene, confront them, correct them. And forgive them and restore that relationship. You know what the basis of God's forgiveness for you and me is? He loves us He loves us. I remember back 1979, those months leading up to my salvation in May 7th, April, March, April and May. Such conviction, I saw myself as so wicked. I would get on my knees and I'd say, God help me, late at night, early in the morning, four or five o'clock in the morning. I'd come home and I'd get on my knees and say, God help me, God help me God prompted to read this Bible, and it wasn't an audible voice, but it was as real as if it was. Read the Bible. And I got a Bible out that a Sunday school teacher had given me as a young child. By the way, Sunday school teachers, don't ever underestimate your influence in the life of a little child, may only be there for a little while. I thank God for a Sunday school teacher that cared about me and gave me a Bible. I began reading that Bible and I saw that God loved me. I thought, how in the world can God in heaven love someone like me? I've taken his name in me and I've said awful things. I've done awful things. How could he love me? A couple number of years ago we were down on a mission trip. I was with Byron Fox. We were down in Sydney, Australia, preaching in a conference. And in the afternoons we'd go out into the community, into a big plaza they had there, and we'd distribute gospel tracts and witness to people. And we got to witness a lot of people. I had a fellow from India, pray with me to trust the Lord as Savior. And there was about four or five Muslim fellows there, college age, and I'm telling you, they they looked the part. They had the long stringy beards, the big bug-out eyes, and they were like, I mean, they were what you see What you imagine, stereotype. So we went and started witnessing to them, gave them gospel tracts, and boy, they engaged us like that. And it went back and forth, went back and forth, and they agreed That they were sinners, that all are sinners. They agreed with that. No problem there. We've sinned, of course they say Allah. We sinned against Allah. We went on and we explained that the consequences of sin, the wages of sin is death, dying, go to hell for all eternity, separate from God. Oh, yeah, they agree with that. Absolutely. The judgment of sin is death and hell. And by the way, it's what the Bible teaches. But then they had a problem. And we showed them from Romans how that God loved us so much that Jesus Christ came down and took our sin upon himself and died and suffered hell in our place and rose again because he loved us. And they absolutely rejected that. They said, I still remember one guy he pointed his finger at me, he says, that is not so I said the Bible says it right there, for God so loved the world, God commended his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And he said, nobody, listen to this, he said, nobody would love somebody that much. I said, God does. He loves you. And he asked me this question. This is what caught me. He said, would you do that for me? I said, I'd like to think. I'd be willing to die for you if it was necessary, but I can't answer that question. He says, you wouldn't. I wouldn't do it for you, and you wouldn't do it for me. And I said, but God did it for you. And he goes, nobody loves anybody that much. I say, God loves you that much. They absolutely rejected it. We could not get beyond that. They did agree to take our track, and they allowed me to say a word of prayer with them. But they could not accept the fact that God loved the sinner. They said God hates the sinner, God judges sin. I'm here to tell you, our God in heaven loves the sinner. And he paid the price for you and I and our sin and suffered the judgment for our sin. So that we could be forgiven. What's the basis of our forgiveness? It's the love of God. Talking to someone this morning, maybe has a guilty conscience. You know that sin is there. You know you violated God's law. You know you've broken God's commands. I'm here to tell you that God whom we sinned against loves you and loves me so much. And it made it possible for us to be forgiven. The basis of the forgiveness of God is the love of God Look at verse 3 and 4 of Psalm 32. When I kept silence, David said, My bones waxed old through all my roar through my roaring all the day long. For night and day, thy hand, God's hand, was heavy upon me. My moisture is turned into a drought of summer. You know what David is saying? God was working me over. I put in the marks of my Bible, conviction. David said, God was wringing me out like an old rag. I found out the Bible says in Proverbs and again in Hebrews, it says, Whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth. David is saying here in so many words, God loved me enough to not let me go on in my sin. God loved me enough to confront me and convict me and wring me out and get me to the point where I was willing to face my sin and confess it and forsake it. That's the love of God. You know, if God didn't love us, he'd let us just go on in our sin and never confront us. Amen or not? I want to suggest to you the parent that loves their children doesn't let their children just run wild. They love their children. They want to teach them and train them and help them develop them. I love them. God loves us and doesn't let us use it. I get so tired. I don't hear it so much anymore, but I get used to get so tired folks would say, Oh, you believe you were saved? Oh, you believe in a license to sin. Don't say that. God never gives a license to sin. God confronts it. He convicts us. Why? Because he loves us. A God that didn't love us wouldn't care whether we sinned or not. But a God that loves us wants to forgive us. And take that sin away and deal with it. The basis of our forgiveness is the love of God. It's the love of God. The second of all, quickly, and I know I see my time, but the bargain of God's forgiveness You say, what do you mean the bargain? I'm telling you, the forgiveness that God offers is the greatest deal in town. All the money in the world can't buy God's forgiveness. Now I'm grateful for our church, and we had deacons' meeting Friday night. We're looking at the finance. I praise the Lord. I'll tell you, this past year, with all the nonsense that went on. Our church folk gave so generously, and we praise the Lord for that, and our faith promise is higher than it's ever been. And a building fund is growing. We're so grateful for the generosity of God's people. But I want everyone to understand you can't put enough money in that plate to buy forgiveness from God. Won't do it. I fell years ago came and I came one day, been in prison, I'd been witnessing to him. He got out and he swung by here and he had a big wada dollar a big wada of uh money and he handed it to me he says preacher I just want I just want to uh I forget how he worded it something about I want to do right or I want to be right with God and I'm giving you this money I said, woo. I said, you need to understand you can't buy God's forgiveness. You can't buy salvation. You can't buy God's blessing. And he says, no, no, we went through the plan of salvation. He says, no, no, I understand that. It's a bargain of God's forgiveness. Money can't buy it. Good works can't earn it. Sorrow and tears cannot blot out my sin. What I need to do is come clean with God and confess it, and then God will forgive me. Look with me, if you would, at verse number five. David said, I acknowledge my sin unto thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the Lord. And look at this. And thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Phew. David said, I'm wrong. Wrong. I've sinned. I've covered it and I've hid it and I've tried to act like it wasn't there. God worked me over, and I finally came to God and I confessed it and I forsook it. And I said, God, you're right. To confess sins simply means I view my sin as God views it. To confess my sin is I condemn my sin with the same condemnation that God condemns. I say, God, you're right. This is wrong. Lord, the sin is is uh is wrong. And I agree with God as to what my sin is. The bargain of God's forgiveness. And we confess our sin, we acknowledge our sin, and we confess it. God forgives us. What a deal. What a deal. You say, preacher, I don't have much money Uh uh I'm not very healthy. I uh I'm not very popular. Has nothing to do with whether you can be forgiven or not. I acknowledge my sin, I confess it, and God freely forgives. I tell you, been down in St. Lucia, my wife and I were down the other year preaching for Brother Bartley down there, and Faith Ann and Wes Bartley. And I tell you, they go into those uh shiny town, they call it, and you talk about poverty, I'm telling you, there's not one person that lives in our state that lives in the poverty that we saw down there I mean literally little um tin lean twos. You know, we had some of the happiest people in a little town called Bruce Town. We had church in this underneath this cement building and just gathered together just a dirt floor and stumps to sit on. And there's a fellow there that got saved and just and forgiven And the happiest guy in the world, he plays this strange instrument. What was that called, Kathy? Steel drum or a pan or something. He'd rub that thing, he'd play Amazing Grace How sweet the sound and happiest can be. I tell you, he didn't have anything, but he had everything. He's forgiven. He's forgiven. The bargain. I simply confess it, I acknowledge it, I forsake it, and I come to God and God forgives me. 1 John 1. 7 says, the blood of Jesus Christ, his Son, cleanses us from all sin. 1 John 1. 9, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. And to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. I come to God and say, God, you're right. This is wrong. God, this is wicked. I want to turn from it. God, will you forgive me? And God is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. Last of all, I am with this the blessedness of God's forgiveness. Again, there's no blessing in a hope-so forgiveness. Has God forgiven your sin? Oh, I hope so. There's still some, would you agree with me? There's still some fear in that There's uncertainty in that. But I know that God has forgiven me. Based on his promises in his word, God has promised He will forgive me if I confess and forsake it. That his blood shed on that cross will cleanse away my sin. What a blessing. What a blessing. Blessed assurance, Jesus is mine. Unconfessed sin is a terrible burden. Jesus, in speaking to the crowds that were following, in the Gospel of John, I believe it was, he made this statement. He said that, and I'm putting it in my own words here, he said the worst thing that can possibly happen to a person. Listen, the worst thing that can possibly happen to a person is for that person to die in their sins, unforgiven, and out into eternity. If you're here and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, you're listening online, you've never accepted Jesus Christ and what he did on that cross. in paying the judgment of God for your sin. You've never accepted that. Put your faith in that. I urge you today, come to Christ, find forgiveness. If you've trusted Christ, and maybe you've gotten away like that prodigal son, that prodigal son was still a child of his father. Well, he was far from the blessings of the Father, and he came back and confessed, and he was restored. You're here and you're saved, you're away from God, I invite you to come. Confess your sin. Forsake it. God will forgive. God will forgive. Little boy was in Washington, D. C. And um he was looking at the Washington Monument. Big old thing there. He's looking at it, and the guard was there, and guard comes over and he says, Son, what do you think of that? The little boy looked up, he's like seven, eight years old. He looked up and he said, I'd sure like to buy that. The guard said, you want to buy it? He goes, yeah, I'd like to buy that He goes, well, how much money you got? He said, I got a quarter. He goes, well, I don't think I don't think you can buy it with a quarter. He says, well, I got some more. You got digging around He had 12 more cents. He goes, I got 37 cents here. He says, son, 37 cents you can't buy the Washington Monument for 37 cents. And the boy looked real sad. He said, now son, don't worry about it. He says, I want to tell you, they said there's three things you need to understand. Number one, 37 cents is not enough. In fact, if you had 37 million dollars You couldn't buy that thing. Number one, you can't buy it because you don't have enough money. Number two, you can't buy it because it's not for sale. And number three, if you're an American citizen, that Washington monument is already yours. I thought about that. I think you and I sinners need to understand three things about forgiveness. Number one, we can't earn it. You don't have enough money to buy God's forgiveness. Amen or not? You don't have enough money to buy God's forgiveness. Number two, God's forgiveness is not for sale. The gift of God is eternal life. And number three, if you've already trusted Christ as your Savior, you already have forgiveness as a child of God. Isn't that wonderful? The blessing of forgiveness. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask dear Lord Lord, I pray number one for conviction. Lord, if we have sin in our life, don't let us. Don't let us go on. I pray that you would convict us. You love us, Lord, and we ask you. To deal with the sin in our heart, in our life. And Lord, I pray that you'd help us to respond to that, whether as an unsaved person or as a child of God. Help us to acknowledge and confess our sin, forsake it. One come for salvation, or two come for restoration. Lord, we live in such a sinful world. It's killing us, it's killing our homes It's killing our churches, our nation. Lord, it's killing our own selves, our own joy. Help us, Lord I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. I've trusted Christ. There's no doubt about it. I have a Bible basis for my salvation. But you'd say, preacher, I d I have to deal with some sin. Now that's between you and God. We don't we don't want to know about that. But you'd say, preacher, I'd appreciate if you'd pray with me. That God will help me deal with that. And get back and have God's joy and blessings. Is there any like that left with the hand? Preacher, pray with me. God bless you, hands all around. I tell you, the beginning point of dealing with sin is just being honest about it. We don't want to know what it is. That's between you and God. We're all sinners. We all deal with it. But if there's something there that's not been dealt with, I plead with you this morning, as a child of God, don't let that go on. Is there some this morning say, preacher? I don't know for sure my sins are forgiven. I don't know for sure that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell. And you say, I I want to make sure that's settled. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm forgiven So any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about my soul's salvation. And I want to know God has forgiven me. Any at all? Father in heaven, bless our invitation. I ask you to use these thoughts, this passage. To stir us and challenge us to have that deep-seated blessingness that only forgiveness can bring. In Jesus' name