Alright, Genesis 15, and just verse number 26, very last verse of the last chapter of the first book of the Bible. So Joseph died. Being a hundred and ten years old, and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt. So we're talking about the death of Joseph. Let's pray and we'll jump into it tonight. Father, bless our study as we look at Joseph's uh his death and the funeral here and and what the lessons we learned from him. And I pray that you would fill me with your spirit. Lord, I just want to be a conduit For your Spirit to take the truths from your word and just speak through me to all of our hearts, that we could maybe be stronger in our integrity, that our faith in you would be stronger. Lord, our witness in this old world, we'd be more distinct as your people. And so please bless this final look at the life of Joseph. And challenge us, I pray, in Jesus' name, Amen. The death of Joseph, live an extraordinary life Integrity is the word that I kept using throughout our study. Man of tremendous integrity and in uh in uh very, very challenging, difficult circumstances, yet he did write. Uh Boctor Doctor Bob Jones Sr. Uh was he living when you were down there, Jane? He was going to nurse the problem. I slept in his house that he lived in on campus there one time two nights. So anyway, I don't know why I said that. He made a statement, do right till the stars fall. Do right till the stars fall is a famous statement. If anybody in the Bible is an illustration of doing right even if the stars fall, it'd be Joseph. Because the stars were falling all around him for a period of time there. And he did write, and he did write, and he did write. And so now he's dead. He dies. We read the account of his death And we noted several things. A couple weeks ago, we started this actually in verse 22 and 23. We noted his final years and they counted as he wound down there And then we notice his farewell in verse 24 and 25, and he makes some final statements to his brothers, particularly, now we don't know how many of his brothers are still living at this point. He was the second youngest of twelve, so if he's 110, uh there would be very likely that at least some, if not many, of his brothers had already passed away. And so whoever's still living of his siblings, his brothers, he calls them in and he assures them that uh uh that uh they will someday come up out of Egypt and he wanted them to promise him that they would take his body with him whenever they go out, whenever they leave Egypt. Now tonight what I want to look at is Joseph's funeral. Again, verse 26 says Joseph died being 110 years old. We're actually, I say his funeral, we're actually told nothing about any kind of funeral for Joseph. Jacob, we had this tremendous processional going back to Canaan And the dignitaries there, there's a military escort, they get to Canaan, the leaderships uh of the various communities, cities there in Canaan. They come out. It was quite an event when they buried Jacob. Now here we have Joseph. We're not told anything Well, you don't hear of any dignitaries uh attending. I can't help but think the position he held for all these years and the tremendous respect that the Egyptians had for him and the influence he had on them, I can't help but think there wasn't a big to-do I mean there had to have been dignitaries there, no doubt in my mind. But as far as God's concerned, He didn't record it And so we're not told anything about that. We don't know what this and what any kind of ceremonies uh may have been. Now I I could be off base. Maybe he just quietly died, unseen, out of the way, and maybe not. Too much of a to-do, mate. So either case, we don't know. But we are told three things about his death very clearly. Number one, he was 110 years old According to my calculations, he lived in Egypt 73 years after the famine was over. If my numbers are if I have my numbers correct, 73 years. That means he lived over half of his life in Egypt. Now he was a Hebrew. He was born and for his early years at least was raised in Canaan, the promised land. But we know how he ended up in Egypt and all that transpired there and he stayed He never left. They settled in and lived half his life in Egypt. I venture to say he probably knew Egypt better than he knew the promised land. He raised his he met his he was he he found his wife there. He raised his children there. Their children, their children, were raised in Egypt. He was very well-to-do They had uh no doubt great security, both physically, financially. Um and so uh he probably was very, very comfortable And knew Egypt better than he did the promised land where he was born and raised. However, he never forgot God's promise. This is what I took away from this. He never forgot where home was. Though he lived there, he knew it better than promised land. Egypt was not his home. His home was the promised land. Now we can apply that to you and I a little bit. We've lived in this world our whole lives. And uh, in many ways, we know more about this world than we do about heaven. Right? We have some insight to heaven we read in the Bible. But in spite of that, this world's not our home. Heaven is our home. And and Joseph never forgot That his home was not here in Egypt. And Egypt is portrayed in Scripture as a type of the world. And though he was here and he was successful and he had a tremendous testimony, it wasn't home And uh he continually uh spoke of God's promises and never forgot that. So number one, we're told uh uh as a funeral, we don't know anything about any kind of funeral, but we're told that he died being 110 years old. Then we're told something else. It says Joseph died being 110 years old and they embalmed him. Now the Bible does not instruct God's people, the Israelites, the Hebrews, he never instructs them to embalm their dead. You don't find that anywhere. That was not an Egyptian custom Certainly wasn't instructed by God, they weren't commanded by God to embalm their dead, but neither were they forbidden Embalming, and we looked at this a little more detail some time ago when they embalmed Jacob, but embalming was a uniquely Egyptian custom, as I understand it. And uh uh the Egyptians, one of the purposes for embalming was now now the reason they embalmed Jacob, and again we looked at that before. I think one was to kind of uh to respect their customs. That was their custom. Again, God didn't forbid it, but he didn't instruct it either. So they embalmed Jacob. But I think there was a practical side to embalming Jacob They had to transport him three hundred miles back to Canaan, and they had, what was it, thirty, forty days of mourning for him? And um and uh if they didn't embalm him, it would be like Mary said about Lazarus. He by now he stinketh. That would have been a rough trip. So there was a practical reason for embalming Jacob to travel back that distance. But now we have Joseph being embalmed For the Egyptians, they believed in an afterlife very strongly. And embalmment, or what is usually referred to as mummification. Right? Anybody familiar with that? Mummies. Anyone when you're young watch the mummy? We're not showing that on New Year's Eve, so don't worry. So, mummification or embalment or mummification in the Egyptian mind, in their pagan worship. Spiritism. It was very wicked worship. But in their mind, in this afterlife, and I don't fully understand all this is, but in my study It appears to me that they believe that if you did not embalm the body of one who has passed away, their spirit in the afterlife would not recognize their body. And would be very confused. So they would embalm the body and put a lot of personal trinkets in there and personal identification. Sometimes they'd embalm their cat with them. Don't do that for me. And they would do all these personal things with the idea that their spirit in the afterlife would recognize the body and be able to be reunited with it. So there was a religious aspect, there was a spiritual aspect to the embalming in the Egyptians' mind But the question comes, we understand why Jacob was embalmed, as we just said, but why would why would Joseph be embalmed? There's no uh he says, take my body whenever you come out. The only Perhaps they anticipated leaving Egypt a whole lot earlier than what they end up leaving. I thought, well, we'll embalm him because when we leave, we'll take him with us Well, God had told Abraham it would be 400 years. They should have been well aware of that, that they weren't leaving anytime soon. And so maybe they were wanting to appease the Egyptian culture, not offend them, honor the tradition. So they treated him that way. They had treated him so well. So nevertheless, he's 110 years old when he dies. When he dies, the Egyptians take their uh their doctors and they had professional im uh professional mummifiers And they did their thing. And they embalmed Joseph. The only two people recorded in Scripture being embalmed were Jacob and Joseph. And both times in Egypt. Then the third thing we're told about is death, and I'm probably going to be briefer than usual tonight just because I'm recovering. But notice he says Joseph died being 110 years old, and they embalmed him. And then look at this. He was put in a coffin in Egypt. Coffin. That's the only time that term is used in all scripture. We're not told anywhere else in Scripture that they put a dead person in a their body in a coffin. They put them in caves, put them in tombs, they pile rocks on top of them. The pagans would burn their bodies. But this is the only time you have the record of the word coffin, somebody being put in a coffin. So I got studying the word coffin. I thought, well what it what exactly? I know what in my mind what a coffin is, but you know, is that what they're talking about? What is it? And so I got looking up the word coffin, and it has this idea, and it means basically what you would think, a box or a chest. However, I thought this was interesting. The Ark of the Covenant. How many people are familiar with the Ark of the Covenant? The mercy seat set on there. Inside the Ark of the Covenant were a copy of the Ten Commandments and Aaron's rod that budded. And I think there was some manna in there. It's cut the art the word ark and used in the ark of the covenant comes from the exact same word as the word coffin here I mean they both come from that same original word. And so when it says they built a coffin Uh they're building a chest to put him in. Uh years ago I heard a preacher preach. This was forty years ago probably, and he preached on that word, coffin, and he said the word has the idea of a hope chest. How many people here remember years ago, young ladies, they would anticipate getting married someday. You know where I'm going with this? And they would have what they called a what? A hope chest. And they would put things in there hoping. That someday I'm going to get married. And um and so this preacher, years and years ago suggested that the idea behind this was a hope test, not hope in the sense, boy, I hope somebody marries me someday It was a hope in more of a confidence. Biblical hope is not a hope-so, wish-so, maybe so. Biblical hope is a sure confidence. Our hope is in Christ. Our hope is in the Word of God, our confidence, our assurance. And so they built this coffin or this hope chest and put Joseph's body in it. You know, for a believer, the coffin is never our final resting place. Because we have the hope of eternal life. Through the Lord Jesus Christ. And I thought that was a great lesson. So they put Joseph in this coffin. They embalm him, and then they place his body in this ark or this chest, this coffin, and they put him in there. Now, uh, I got thinking about that How did they in Egypt, what we know about Egypt, and this isn't comprehensive, I'm sure, but what we know about Egypt, what did they generally do with their great leaders when they died? They would embalm them. And what would they do with their bodies? Yeah, they didn't put them in a coffin. They put them in a pyramid. Have these massive pyramids over there and there's still ones that they haven't even found yet. They think they're still buried in the sand or whatever. Man, and there weren't all pyramids, there would be different monuments and type stuff Would you agree with me there's a little bit of a difference between a pyramid and a coffin? A pyramid is permanent Brother, they've been there 3,000 years. They're phenomenal engineering accomplishments. They're phenomenal. In fact, to this day, we still don't know how they did it And Joseph was as respected a leader as any leader Egypt ever had. And they didn't build a pyramid for him. They didn't build a monument for him. They didn't put any kind of mausoleum or anything like that. No permanent fixture. For him to be put in. He was put in a coffin. A coffin is a whole lot easier to move than a pyramid And when Joseph died and they were put in the coffin, he wasn't staying in Egypt. They're going to take his bones out of there and they're going to take him back. to um uh Canaan and put him in there. For over four hundred years, Joseph's body Lay unburied in a coffin there probably in Goshen or wherever they were living in Egypt, and there was his coffin. with his embalmed, mummified body inside that coffin. That was a 400-year reminder that they were not staying in Egypt. Someday God's bringing them out of there His b his coffin. His coffin. So uh they put him in a coffin. It was a testimony of God's promise. Every time Joseph's grandchildren saw his coffin there. They're reminded someday we're going to take grandpa's bones, take his body back to the promised land that God promised. Generations go by And they look at that old coffin, and they're reminded that someday we're going out of here. If you would, turn over to Exodus chapter 13. This is 400 years later. Joseph's died, been bombed. They built him, no doubt, a very nice coffin And it's been setting there for 400 years now. Look at Exodus 13, look at verse number 17. Moses is here. They left Egypt. They're coming out of Egypt. Look at verse 17. It came to pass when Pharaoh had let the people go that God led them not through the way of the land of the Philistines, although that was near. For God said, lest peradventure the people repent when they see war and they return to Egypt. But God led the people about through the way of the wilderness of the Red Sea. The children of Israel went up and harnessed out of the land of Egypt. By the way, he didn't send them the easiest way, because the easiest way isn't always the best way. God knew if we go the easy way, it's not going to work out. So they need it sometimes the best way is a little harder. But then look at verse number 19. And Moses took the bones of Joseph with him, for he had straightly sworn the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you. And ye shall carry up my bones away hence with you. For 400 years that uh coffin was setting there with Joseph's now, he's just bones, no doubt. And Moses says, all right, we're leaving. Hey, make sure you bring Joseph's bones. Get that coffin. Now think about this with me. They're about to go through the Red Sea. Phenomenal miracle. God's going to part the waters. They're going to go through on dry land. There's several fellas going through walking on that dry b uh r uh lake bed A seabed of the Red Sea, and they're carrying Joseph's coffin with them That's something. I never thought of that before. But they're going through that Red Sea. They're carrying Joseph's bones with them. They come out the other side. Waves crash down on the Egyptians. Joseph's caskets there on the other side. Then they get the Kateh Sparnia. And they could have trusted God going right in, but they didn't. They wouldn't trust God. They said, no, it's too dangerous. Remember, uh they sent uh twelve spies in, uh ten were bad and two were good And so they go through 40 years in the wilderness. Guess what they're carrying around with them for 40 years in the wilderness? Joseph's coffin. Joseph's bone. Isn't that something? Now, if you would, come with me to Joshua. And the very last chapter, the book of Joshua. Now we know what happens at the end of Deuteronomy. They uh they finish their wanderings, Moses dies. Joshua steps up, God raises up Joshua, he leads them miraculously across the red across the Jordan River, and somebody's carrying that Those bones, that casket across the Jordan River on dry ground, put the memorial stones up. Joseph's bones are there Then they go to war. Jericho. How many people remember Jericho? And the walls came a tumbling down. They come back, they break the place somewhere set in there is Joseph's bones. That whole time. Then they start invading the land of Canaan. They're conquering these enemies of God and they're establishing their terrain and giving up the tribes of Israel. Now we're at the end. Joshua is about to die. And notice verse 32 of Joshua 24. Second last verse. And the bones of Joseph, which the children brought up out of Egypt, buried there in Shechem. And a parcel of ground which Jacob bought of his sons Hamar, the father of Shechem, for a hundred pieces of silver, and it became the inheritance of Joseph. They finally bury him in the land that uh Jacob had. Isn't that something? No formal ceremonies, no big to-do, we don't read about any dignitaries, but one of the most amazing men of God. Who lived a life of absolute integrity, as far as this world's concern, just passed off the scene. But as far as God was concerned, he's going to be placed exactly where God promised he was supposed to be. And so I'd say that's quite a funeral. That's quite a 400-plus year procession from where he's embalmed to where he's finally buried. And God kept his promise. He told his brothers over and over and over, God's going to bring us out of here. God's going to bring us out of here. Someday God's going to bring us out of here. And lo and behold, not on their time frame, no doubt, but God did exactly what he said he would do. And I'm here to tell you tonight, as Christians, someday God's going to bring us out of here. Someday that trumpet's gonna sound, someday that archangel's gonna shout, and boom, we'll be out of here. And um I'd I'd vote if we if we had could make a motion on it, I'd make a motion to happen tonight But we don't have any say in that, do we? The Lord knows the time of that. So Joseph's funeral. Now this is what I want to end with. One last thought. Joseph's faith. Joseph's faith. Go with me to Hebrews 11. Hebrews chapter 11. And I was tempted to just kinda. Go back through his life and displays of tremendous faith, but I figured that would be another eight months. So I just want to take what God says here In Hebrews chapter 11, and notice with me verse number 22. This is God's summary. Of course, Hebrews 11, we call it the hall of faith. Tremendous examples of having faith in God in very trying circumstances. This is all God says. By faith, Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departing of the children of Israel and gave commandment concerning his bones. And we just looked at that and we saw how that was all carried out. By faith, by faith. Now thing is, would you agree with me? Joseph lived by faith. Good night. It doesn't say by faith Joseph endured the prison It doesn't say by faith Joseph resisted the advances of Potiphar's wife. Would you agree with me? That was an act of faith. Sure it was. Good night. It doesn't say by faith Joseph interpreted the dreams of prisoners and of pharaohs. Says by faith he died and made mention of the fact that they're coming up out of Egypt. Now Joseph did live by faith I put down his faith was displayed. He displayed integrity in the midst of injustice. And everyone around him was doing wrong. He did right. When everyone around him was treating them wrong, he treated them right. What a challenge for us I tell you, you want to study the Sermon on the Mound. Love the uh uh bless those who curse you, do good to them that despitefully u use you, you know, or Jesus said, Man, study the life of Jasup, Joseph. He lived that. To the T. And so he had integrity in the midst of injustice. I put this down. By faith he displayed mercy in the midst of mistreatment. Now he roughed his brothers up a little bit there, but he showed them tremendous mercy. Now no none of us will admit that, but I wonder how many of us would have just put the hammer down on the brothers they showed up. Oh yeah, you treat me that way. But he showed mercy, even to those that mistreated him. And then I put this down. He displayed confidence in the midst of confusion. Do you think do you think he ever thought when he was in the pit, what in the world's happening, God? Anybody here think anybody think he might have thought that? Potiphar's wife turns on him, accused him, he ends up in prison. God, I'm innocent. What in the world? Confusion. And then the he interprets a dream for the two fellas, and they go and one's you know one is restored and he forgets all about them for two years. So it's like, what in the world? And sometimes we get in situations and we look at God and we say, God, what in the world? I don't understand But Joseph, by faith, had tremendous confidence in God even when circumstances made no sense. And you get to the end of Genesis, and maybe we should have looked at it, but Genesis chapter 50, I think it's verse 20, he says, Ye meant this for evil, but God meant it for good. And he could see God's hand. Even when he didn't understand what God was doing, God was doing it, therefore he could trust him. God was in this. And God can take the most awful things that people do. And He can turn that and bring good out of that if we'll just trust Him. By faith, by faith, by faith. By the way, God can take the most awful things we do. And our failure, saying, Preacher, I failed so bad I don't think God could ever use me again. Don't you believe that lie for one minute. If God can take a backslidden preacher out of the belly of a whale and use him to bring a revival to one of the most wicked cities in the history of the world, God can use you and God can use me. Now we need to repent. We need to come clean, of course. But we do that, God can still use us. And so Joseph's whole life was a tremendous testimony of what faith in God can get us through, what faith in God can accomplish. And God, in Joseph's case, honored that in spectacular ways. Now we trust God, we don't understand. I'm going to trust God, I'm going to do right, praise God, do it. That doesn't mean you're going to be vice president of the United States. Right? But it does mean yeah, I win one day, God have mercy. But it does mean that God will honor Any man or woman that has faith in him, you trust him, God will honor. In his own unique way, for each individual, God will honor that faith. Of that person. You say, preacher, I just don't understand. We don't have to understand. Most of the time we won't understand. But God understands, and that's good enough for me. I don't know what God's doing. I don't either, but God knows what he's doing. That's good enough for me. And so Joseph lived by faith, by old counts. He was confident God can take man's evil intentions and work good out of it. Most awful circumstances and Bring a lifesaver up out of a prison and save millions of people. God can do it. So he lived by faith, but what Hebrews 11:22 says, he died by faith. By faith, Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departing. I found this interesting. When he is taken by his brothers, betrayed, sold to the merchants, comes down to Egypt Pharaoh buys him like a piece of machinery, farm machinery in the marketplace, brings them home, puts them to work, gives them responsibility. You don't hear Joseph talking about God promising them coming up out of Egypt. Now God had already promised they would. He told his grandpa they would, and he told his father he would, and he told his great-grandpa he would So Joseph knew the promises of God concerning the Hebrews in Egypt, but he don't talk about it. He don't have any mention of it. When he ends up in prison after Potiphar's wife comes on to him, and he ends up in prison We don't hear one mention about, well, someday God's going to get us out of here. But the closer he gets to his death, The older he gets, the closer he gets to death, the more we find him talking about coming up out of this place. You know what I think? The closer the more he grew in his faith, the more he grew in his understanding, the more his heart longed for the place God had for his people. You know what I found a lot of times, and you know, they they do, but don't don't don't misread what I'm trying to say here, but a lot of times the younger people don't talk a whole lot about heaven Right? But as we get up in years, what do we start thinking about and talking about more? Oh, someday we're coming up out of here Someday we're getting up out of here. A lot of times the little down in children's church don't say, how many people want the rapture to happen today? Say up here to all us ol um senior uh folks. How many people want the rapture to happen? Yeah The older we get, it seems like, the long more we long for our future home Joseph had confidence in the midst of chaos. I was reading about a little girl, I'd heard this years ago, and I read it again here recently. And I'm I think it's a true story, I'm not sure, but a missionary had told this many, many years ago. Little girl was in a plane, they were flying across the Atlantic or Pacific, whatever, long flight. And they hit some awful ter turbulence. Anybody here been on a plane when it hits turbulence? Ugh. The last time I was in New Zealand coming back, that got hairy. And I mean that thing people throwing stuff around, that plane's rattling and shaking. And he said the people on the plane were just hollering and scared. There's people crying, holding on to their seats And this little girl sitting towards the front, just sitting there happy as can be, hmm. Things bouncing all around. Finally, the guy next to her said, Sweetheart Aren't you scared? I mean this is going through. Why are you just so happy and content? She goes, oh, my daddy's the pilot. He'll get us through this. I tell you, we might go through some tough times like Joseph did. We can go through some difficult, scary things, but our daddy's the pilot. And it'll get us through it. And that's exactly what Joseph understood. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to help us to learn from the life of Joseph what it means to live by faith To have confidence when all around us is confusion. Lord, I pray you'd help us and teach us to do right when all around us people are doing wrong. Not to be holier than them, Lord, but to have integrity and do right. And God, please help us to show mercy when there's so much mistreatment. And we want to learn from this life of Joseph. I thank you for him and all that we've learned here. I pray as we finish this study up. That our faith would be strong. I wonder, with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if some would say, Preacher, there's some things God taught me through this life of Joseph. There's some areas I've been challenged. And I don't want it to die off with the end of this series. I want my life to be different because of it. I want my faith to be stronger. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. God bless you. Hands all around. My hands raised. I've been challenged Maybe as we finish out the series, just a good way to seal these lessons we've learned is that won't alter and say, Lord, take me here. Burn these deep in my heart and soul that I can live a life like Joseph, and that you could bless and use me. Father, bless our invitation, I ask now in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed