One verse really for our text this evening, John chapter eight and verse number uh twelve. It's been a blessing to have Dr. Williams with us up here and then And we always enjoy having them. And um they like that mission house over there. They get in there and I cannot get them out. Um they're just there. Yeah And uh but actually it's really his, and he just lets us use it when he's not here, I think, is how that works. John chapter 8, uh if you would notice, as I said down verse number 12, then spake Jesus again unto them, saying I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. I want to talk along the lines of the drawing with the with the lighthouse. I want to talk about the light of the world. Let's pray, ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, we thank you for just a good time in your house this evening. Lord, we've laughed, we've sung some hymns. Lord, we tried to praise you with the testifying of the great salvation you've given us. And now as we look into your word, I'm asking, Father, that you would please speak to every heart I pray, Lord, that you would speak to those of us that know you as Savior, that our our appreciation for what you've done for us and our love for you in response would be stronger, would grow. I pray our faith in you as believers would carry us to live a life that brings glory to God and is a testimony to the Lord Jesus Christ. And Lord, uh those that are tuned in or under the sound of my voice that do not have assurance I do not have no confidence that when they die they go to heaven and not to hell. I pray that tonight that light would shine in their hearts and minds. And they would see and believe and find forgiveness of sin and eternal life through faith in your Son, Jesus Christ. So Lord, I yield My mind and my will to you is always, and I pray you take my thoughts and you would just guide them as I speak the message. I yield my body, I present it anew, pray your Holy Spirit would fill and uh and empower me To preach your word and the power of the Holy Spirit, and that it would have effect, uh uh an effect that I can't produce, but only you can supernaturally So meet with us is my prayer tonight. Make your presence known, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Best we can tell, we've uh come to the conclusion Jesus was about thirty-three and a half years old when he was crucified. The last three and a half years of that 33 and a half year life, that last three and a half years, is what we refer to as his ministry years. That is when he began teaching and preaching and performing miracles. At the beginning of that three and a half years, he called together to himself twelve disciples. And that three and a half years consisted primarily of training these twelve men to be the eventually to be the the the leaders in the establishment of the New Testament church. So his ministry consisted, of course there was miracles took place, amazing miracles. And uh all that took place, but it was primarily that three and a half years consisted of a lot of teaching and preaching. Teaching and preaching. And you go through the gospels, and we'll have some miracles. And Jesus would perform a miracle, then there was always a lesson with it, and he would teach something. They'd say, all right, this is what I'm doing. Or he'd see a farmer, or he'd see something taking place, and he'd take that as an illustration for a lesson. He was just teaching and teaching and teaching and teaching He did a lot of preaching. Matthew 5, 6, and 7, the Sermon on the Mount. Powerful, powerful message. Not evangelistic to the disciples, but it's a powerful message. The theme of his messages, and when he was teaching, his lessons as he taught, and the messages that he preached, the theme of them was himself. He spoke of himself. He preached about the Lord Jesus Christ himself. If you would notice here in our text, The very next verse, verse number 13, the Pharisees picked this up. It was very obvious to the people what the theme of his message was. Verse thirteen, the Bible says, The Pharisees therefore said unto him, Thou bearest record of thyself Thy record is not true. And Jesus said, Jesus answered and said, Though I bear record of myself, yet my record is true. For I know whence I came and whither I go. The message of the Lord Jesus Christ was Himself. That was the theme. That was the theme. Now, what was the message about himself? What was it about himself? That he was trying to communicate. What was it about him that he was wanting people to see and understand about himself? And it was this: that he was God in the flesh. Jesus Christ was the perfect sinless Son of God. I say was. He still is, by the way. Jesus always was and always will be. His birth in Jerusalem was not the beginning of his existence. The birth in Jerusalem was the beginning of his time. As God in flesh. He became incarnate. He took on flesh, became a man. And so his message during his three and a half years was the theme was him, the Son of God, the Messiah has come. And the message about that was this Messiah, me, I am the Son of God. He said on numerous occasions, you've seen me, you've seen the Father Jesus stated over and over and over again that he is God, the God man. And we must never forget that The Jehovah's Witness are wrong when they say Jesus is a created being. Jesus is equal with God. So that was his message, uh, was Jesus Christ. His message is clearly emphasized this deity, Christ's claim to deity, and his display of deity is clearly laid out in the Gospel of John. Now you can see it in the other three Gospels, but John it stands out clearly that Jesus is God Jesus is God in the flesh. You say, preacher, you're lifting Jesus up too high. It's impossible to lift God up too high. You say, well, God the Father should be. He says that Father and I are equal. We're one. And so we see that in the Gospel of John. Jesus, throughout the Gospel of John had this little statement he would repeatedly use about himself. Now, on the surface, it might not seem like anything. But when he used this little statement, very significant, when he used that about himself, the Jews knew immediately what he was claiming. In John chapter 6, and we won't take time to turn these, just uh hear me out. In John chapter 6 and verse 35, he made this statement: I am the bread of life. In John chapter 8, verse 12, what we just read here, he says, I am the light of light. I am the light of the world. In John chapter 8 and verse 58, he said, before Abraham was, I am. Now notice just briefly, he did not say before Abraham was I was. He says, before Abraham was, I, what? Am. What is M? That's a present tense In John chapter number 10 and verse 7 and 8, he says, twice he makes a statement: I am the door. Makes that statement twice in three verses. In John chapter 10, verse 11 and 12, two times, twice, he makes this statement: I am the good shepherd. In John chapter 14 and verse 6, he said this: I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Now let me just pause there and point this out. Jesus is the only way to heaven. There's a real heaven, there's a real hell. There's no other options. No other options. Heaven or hell? For all eternity. The Baptist Church is not the way to heaven. The Brethren Church, the Methodist Church, the Lutheran Church, the um help me out, Presbyterian Church. The Catholic Church, no other, no church is the way to eternal life, only Jesus. Jesus He says, I am the way, the truth, and the light. In John chapter 15, in verse number 1, he says, I am the true vine. The Garden of Gethsemane, the soldiers are coming to take him, to arrest him and take him down into the city to be falsely accused and uh and falsely tried and condemned to be crucified. When they came up, he asked them, whom seek ye? And they said, uh, Jesus of Nazareth. He says, I am He And the fascinating thing is when he made that statement, those soldiers fell backwards. The power of the Word of God, I am He. Anyone pick up that little phrase repeated all through there? I am, I am, I am, I am, I am. Now like I said It might be on the surface, just say, well, I don't what's so significant about that? For you and I, or somebody not familiar with Scripture, it might not seem like anything. But to those Jews That was profoundly significant. In fact, they accused him of blasphemy, claiming to be God. And they said, your record's not true. You are not God. You cannot be God. He said, my record is true. I am. I am God. Back in Exodus chapter 3 and verse 14, God is calling Moses. To lead his people out of slavery in Egypt. And I think most of us are somewhat familiar with that event. And by the way, that was an actual historical event. And God called Moses at the burning bush. We're familiar, says, uh I want you to go lead my people out, confront Pharaoh, and all that's going to take place. And Moses, of course, is uh he's balking at this call of God for him to lead them out. And he begins making excuses. And eventually, through a series of back and forth, Moses says this: he says, Who shall I say? They're not going to believe me. I show up and say, I'm coming to deliver you. Who shall I say, sent me? And in Exodus chapter number chapter number three and verse fourteen, the Lord said to him, He says, Tell them, I am that I am. I am has sent sent thee. That was Jehovah, Almighty God, the Father. Identifying himself to Moses as the I am. That is the eternal self-existent God. Somebody says, oh, well, where did God come from? God didn't come from nowhere. He always was and he always will be. From everlasting to everlasting, he is God. God is not dependent. His existence is not dependent on anything. He's the self-existent one, the eternal, invisible, almighty God from everlasting to everlasting. He said, I am. And here we have the Lord Jesus Christ nine times say, I am. I am. I'm here to tell you tonight our Savior is God Himself. Jesus Christ is God. By using that phrase, he is declaring very clearly, particularly to the Jews, that He is God. He is God. Now we come to our text. Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world I'm the light of the world. Now that term, that phrase was somewhat familiar to the Jews. And now we've heard it our whole lives For thousands of years we understood I am the light of the world, referring to the Lord Jesus Christ. But at that time, what this mate statement is made, that term was used in a very restricted way It wasn't the first time that they had referred to someone as the light of the world. The Jews would refer to a great teacher or a great philosopher. As someone, oh, they are the light of the world. They're shedding enlightenment upon the world. Now, of course, any enlightenment that man has to offer is going to be very, very limited. You with me? Follow what I'm saying. Because, man, our understanding is limited. Our intellect is limited And so they had used that term to refer to a select few people that had great influence of people. Oh, they're the light of the world. Jesus stepped up and said, I am the light of the world. Now there's two types of light. One is physical light. And physical light is a form of energy that we really don't fully understand. Dr. Williams is a brilliant scientist. And um he could explain what light is probably far better than I can. But still, there's a mystery at what's that? See him after the service. He's having sessions twenty five dollars in the back there, and you can mute him. But As I understand it, there's a mystery about what light actually is. It's an electromagnetic something. But it's physical light. It enables us to see this room is filled with physical light. Enables us to see where we're going, enables us to see, read the Word of God. We can see it. Physical light enables us to maneuver safely. uh around uh obstacles and what we can see them when it's pitch black. Uh the other night we're in here and the and our we got light switches back there, we got light switches here and they were out of sync You follow what I'm saying? All four of them were down and all four up, but there was like two up here and two up here, and they were out of sync. And that just irritated me to death So I came up here and instead of turning all the lights on, flipping it, I turned them so they're all off, and I'm trying to walk back. So I walked into the easel I knocked the flowers over here, stubbed my toe on the on the pew, and staggered my way to the back. Why? Because there was no light I was unable to maneuver safely. So physical light enables us to see and communicate various ways, helps us to maneuver safely. And physical light is actually necessary for our survival. We need sunlight. And so the one type of light is physical light, and we all understand that, we know what we're talking about When Jesus said, I am the light of the world, he was not suggesting that he is physical light that comes from a light bulb or a fire from the sun. He said, I am the light of the world. He was referring to another type of light, and that is spiritual light. He is the light of the world spiritually. What he was saying was that he is the source of revelation. Now bear with me. Of spiritual truth. I am the light. I reveal spiritual truth. Spiritual realities. He reveals to us as the light of the world, he reveals to us the unseen spiritual realities that exists just as real as the physical realities we deal with continually. Follow what I'm trying to say? In other words, there is a physical world. We're here, we see it, it's very obvious, we can see it, we can hear it, we can smell it, we can uh we we feel it. Physical world. But just as real as this physical world, there is a spiritual realm that we cannot see. It's all around, just as real as you and I sitting here, there is spiritual reality all around us And Jesus says, I am the light of the spiritual truth. I am revealing to you the spiritual realities. Just like physical light reveals to us what's going on. The physical world is the seen world. The spiritual world is the unseen world. And the Bible is very, very clear. Jesus is very, very clear, the unseen world is just as real as the physical world. These spiritual beings That Jesus and the Bible references are just as real as the physical people sitting around us. Angels, Bible reveals them to us. Jesus reveals them to us as actual, real, literal personalities and beings. Devils are just as real as the Bible reveals them, Jesus reveals them, as actual, real, literal beings. Just as real as you and I sitting here. Jesus encountered the devil. In John chapter or Matthew chapter 4, we have a record of Jesus encountering the devil after he'd been in the wilderness for 40 days. And he refers to the devil as an actual, real, literal being that can communicate, that can influence, that has a will and has an intellect. And is opposed to everything Jesus Christ is for. And Jesus says, I am the light of this. I reveal this, this unseen world. Second Corinthians chapter four and verse number eighteen says, For we look not on the things which are seen. Which uh w w which are seen, but at the uh tell you what, let me read it to you, okay? And the thing is, God used this passage in a powerful way when I was leading up to my salvation. I was living in sin, and most of you know my story very well. I was living in just horrendous sin, and I always feel obligated to point this out. I am absolutely ashamed of how I lived my life before I came to Christ. I'm ashamed of the sin, the wickedness That I allowed to get into. And Jesus Christ, in love and compassion, and mercy forgave me. For what I did and how I lived. But God used this as I was God was working on my heart and I was trying to get things right in 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 18, and I know this first, but it says, while we look not At the things which are seen, but the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal But the things which are not seen are eternal. There's a physical realm, there's a spiritual realm, both just as real as the other. One is seen, one is unseen. Both real. Jesus said, I've come to be the light on this spiritual realm. To illuminate it, let us know what this is like, what it is. Now, if you notice here in our text, just before our text, back here in John, And if you notice, just before our text, he has an encounter with the Pharisees. They understood the spiritual realm, but they rejected Jesus as the Son of God. And they were trying to defame him. They were trying to uh diminish his influence And they brought to him in the beginning of the chapter, they brought to him this dear woman. The Bible says they brought this woman, she was taken in adultery. And the Bible goes beyond that. It doesn't just say she was taking adultery, but in the very act, this woman is guilty. And they bring her to the Lord Jesus Christ of all things. They grab her and bring her to the Lord Jesus Christ. No doubt disheveled. Maybe not completely dressed, they bring her to the Lord Jesus Christ. And they reference back into the Old Testament, they said The law says that she should be stoned. What do you say, son of God? What do you say? Now let me just stop there. I think it's kind of interesting. Where's the fellow at? They weren't concerned about the law of God. They weren't concerned about this woman's well-being. They weren't concerned about what was right and wrong. They just hated the Son of God. And they were just using her to try and accomplish their goal. They were just using her to fulfill their agenda, is take Jesus Christ out. There was no compassion on their part for this woman. And if you would notice, let me let the Bible tell it. If you would, it says they they saved tempting them verse six that they might have to accuse him if gee and g uh oh verse five Moses in the law commanded this that us that such should be so and what sayest thou? They were tempting them, they might accuse him. Now look what Jesus does. He stoops down. Now remember he's the light of the world. He stoops down, and with his finger he wrote in the ground as though he heard them Now, I've had several people ask me, what did Jesus write on the ground? And I have studied this and studied this, and I've come to this conclusion. I have no idea We're not told. But he and he acted like he didn't even hear them. Verse 7. So when they continue to ask them, they're pressing them and pressing them and pressing them He lifted up himself and said to them, look at this, he that is without sin among you, let him First cast a stone at her. And again he stooped down and wrote in the ground. What's he doing? He's shedding some light. Look how they responded in the next verse. And they which heard it, look at this, being convicted by their own conscience. Went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the last. You know what Jesus did? He's the light of the world. He was shedding light on the fact that these birds were a bunch of sinners themselves. They were just as guilty before God as this woman who was taken in adultery in the very act. And they were just as guilty before God. Jesus is the light of the world. He's shedding light. He's revealing spiritual truths to us. And one of those spiritual truths is the fact that all men are sinners. All men are sinners. It's interesting we don't have time, but if you study when people encounter God Whenever they saw Jesus uh uh performing a deed that only God could perform, almost without exception, They respond in humility and they say, oh, Peter, so calm the story. He said, depart from me. I'm an unclean man. Isaiah saw the Lord high and lifted up, and the light of the reality of his sin was revealed to him. He says, I'm a man of unclean lips. Job saw the Lord, and he says, I abhor myself, and I repent in dust and ashes. Jesus is the light of the world, and that light reveals to us. That we're a bunch of sinners. We have come short of the glory of God. God summarized his holiness in what we call the Ten Commandments. I believe they're a reflection there of God's holiness, and those Ten Commandments summarize what is required of us to be accepted by a perfectly holy God Not one person ever lived apart from the Lord Jesus Christ has lived up to those ten commandments. Thou shalt not bear false witness. Just one of ten. That means don't lie. There's not one person here who's never told a lie. Am I right or wrong? You say, I never lied. Liar, liar, pants on fire. And over and over and over, and we go through that list and we stop in the light of God's holiness and we see ourselves and we see us ourselves as undone and complete sinners before a holy God. I'll never forget those weeks and months leading up to my salvation. I'm telling you, I got on my knees that night, and my mind, in my understanding, I was the most wicked man that has ever walked the planet Earth. I say, God have mercy on me. I'm telling you, you don't have to be a drug addict to be a sinner. Self-righteousness is just as much sin as shooting up heroin. Taking God's name in vain is just as much sin as fornication and sodomy. And Jesus, the light of the world, reveals to us we're all sinners. Not one person will ever get to heaven until they first acknowledge the fact that they're a sinner. Jesus said, I didn't come to call the righteous. I came to call sinners to repentance. You're here tonight and you don't have assurance that your sins are forgiven. When you die, you go to heaven and not to hell. You need to start off by understanding you and I are sinners before God, and if we got what we deserved, and if we die in that condition, we are separated from God for all eternity in a horrific place called hell. The most important issue in life is knowing, making sure my sins are forgiven. Because if I die in my sins, that is the worst thing that can possibly happen. So he says, you without sin, cast the first stone. They all walk away. He was the light of the world. He shed light on the fact that they weren't nearly as righteous as they thought they were. They weren't nearly as godly as they thought they were. They were a bunch of sinners. The second thing that the Lord's light shone upon them was that He is merciful. Look again there, if you would, at the last part of verse 9. They all left, and it says, and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst. Jesus had lifted up himself, he saw none but the woman. He said to her, Woman, where are thine accusers? She says, Where are thine accusers? Had no man condemned thee? She said, No man, Lord. Now here's my question. When those guys walked off, her accusers were there. They got her surrounded, no doubt. She can't run. They walk away. There's her open door to hightail it out of there. Man, that would have been the time to get out and run and run fast. But she doesn't. She remains standing there before the Lord. All recusers are gone. Why didn't she get out of here? She doesn't She stands there before the Lord. You know what I think? I think she knew that the Lord Jesus Christ was a merciful Man. I think he she knew he's who exactly who he says he was. And he's not going to condemn me. There's forgiveness in Christ. I think the fact that she stayed there was an act of faith on her part that this man can and would forgive her for her sins. Why would she not run away? Jesus had revealed himself, the light of the world. I'm a merciful God. I am glad that our God is a merciful God. Mercy means not getting what we deserve. According to the law, she deserved to be stoned. According to the law, those other guys were under the judgment of God just as much. But God is merciful. God is merciful. When Jesus Christ was nailed to that cross, and by the way, he was not nailed against his will, he let them do that. That's why he came. He was nailed to that cross. And that blood began to flow, and the blood-stained cross and the ground, and that bloody body When he was on that cross, he was taking responsibility for every sin I ever committed. For every unclean word, every nasty word has come off my lips, every hateful thing that I've ever said Every nasty, wicked thing I've done with my hands and things my eyes have looked at, stuff I've listened to that is so blasphemous against God. Places my feet have gone on that cross, Jesus. I'll take responsibility for Dennis's sins. Judge me in his place. Pour out your wrath on me. You know what that is? That's the mercy of God. And he would die for me. And he'd die for you. Nobody in the world has to go to hell. The sins of all mankind have been paid for by Jesus Christ on that cross. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Jesus is the light of the world, He's revealing the love and the compassion and the mercy of God to a sinful world. He reveals to her that he is merciful. And then he reveals to us as the light of the world. He reveals to us that he's the only way to find forgiveness. He's the only hope. Later on in John 14, he says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. And just because Jesus died on that cross took responsibility for the sins of mankind, that doesn't mean everybody's automatically going to heaven. He offers forgiveness. He offers eternal salvation. He offers eternal life as a gift. And you can do one of two things with a gift. I can accept a gift and receive it to be my own and becomes mine, or I can say no, thank you and walk away. And God offers to all of mankind the gift of God, which is eternal life, through Jesus Christ our Lord. When Jesus died on that cross, he was buried, he rose, and buried three days, three nights, he rose again, he ascended to heaven, he is at the right hand of God. And he offers the gift of eternal life to whosoever will. Whosoever will come by faith, believing he died for them, turning to him. Trusting him that what he did was for me personally. And that if I'll put my faith and confidence, trust in him to get me to heaven, trust in him to forgive my sins, trust in him to to give me a new life, eternal life. Trusting him to do that. God says he promises us he'll give us eternal life For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Whosoever. Now I think it's interesting this gal When he he said to her, Has no man condemned thee? She said, No man, Lord. She stood there. She didn't run off. And then the Lord said this to her, Neither do I condemn thee. But he didn't stop there. Go and sin no more. You know what he was wanting to make sure she understood? That what she did was wrong. And it was sin. And I'm here to tell you, God never just overlooks sin. He never plays it down. He never just dismisses it. He forgives it. But our responsibility is to come to him, acknowledge it as sin. Lord, I'm a sinner. That night I knelt by my bed calling the Lord. I came to God as sinner. To be honest with you, for me, now it's maybe different for others, but for me, I wasn't wanting God to save me from hell. I wasn't thinking about hell. As a 19-year-old kid, I wouldn't plan on dying for a long time. I wanted God to forgive me and save me from my sin. For my sin. And when he did that, I found out, oh wow, I go to heaven too I'm not going to hell. He's forgiven me for my sin. For my sin. Thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. And God will save you from your sin. You'll trust Jesus, your Savior. Come to Him, acknowledge your sin. Lord, I'm a sinner. Trust Him. He'll forgive your sin, cleanse you, give you a new name, a new life, eternal life. The light of the world is our only hope of salvation. Years ago, there was a there's a story, I assume it's true, of a battleship. That was making its way through the dark and it was back before radar and all of the stuff they have now. But it was a very, very dark, stormy night The captain of this Navy ship saw off in the distance, he saw a light. And he got his uh signal man to send out this signal. Here was the message he signaled out. Alter your course 10 degrees south To that light out there. Lo and behold, the flashing came back. The signal came back. The response back from that light off in the distance was this. Alter your course ten degrees north. That got the Captain Mad He said, send another message. Alter your course, ten degrees south. I am a captain. Immediately the response came back. Aren't alter your course ten degrees north. I am a seaman, third class, Jones. Captain's furious. He sent a final message: Alter your course ten degrees south. I am a battleship. Response came back. Alter your course ten degrees north. I am a lighthouse. Jesus Christ is the lighthouse. He is not going to alter the course to heaven to fit you or me or anybody else. We come to Christ and we find salvation God's way, or we don't find it at all. God does not alter his course, we alter our course. And the course to salvation is to humble myself. Before God. Acknowledge my sin, myself as a sinner. Under the judgment of God And then in humility and faith, trust that what Jesus Christ did for me on that old cross applies to me, and receive it. Trusting him to forgive me and get me to heaven. And the moment I do that, God gives me eternal life. God gives me eternal life. Do you know for sure? That your sins are forgiven. When you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. Do you know for sure? Well, preacher, I hope so. I think so. That ain't going to cut it. Bible salvation, not a hope-so-thing salvation. It's a no-so. And you've got to get that settled. Please hear me out. You've got to get that settled. Don't play with your soul's salvation. Don't play with your eternal destiny. Get it settled. Get it settled tonight. Amen? Let's pray.