Two and verse twenty-three we're given this uh the f we're we're given the fruit of the Holy Spirit And it says, But the fruit of the Spirit is, and then he gives this list of nine traits of the fruit of the Holy Spirit. Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith Meekness, temperance. Against such there is no law. Tonight we want to look at the eighth trait here, this eighth fruit or trait, however you want to refer to it, but the fruit of meekness. Meekness. Let's pray, ask the Lord to uh Speak to our hearts tonight. Father in heaven, I thank you that we can assemble together here. It sure is a blessing to be with your people. It's a good day, and we're so grateful. I ask now that you would just meet with us again tonight as we finish out the day, the Lord's day, and I pray that you would use the service, the singing we've already had, the fellowship and the testimonies. And now the message, I pray you would use all of this to prepare our hearts for this coming week, that we could be a good witness to for you. And Lord, we could uh we could be filled with your Spirit throughout the week, each day, throughout the day. And Lord, I pray for myself and for our church, individuals that make up our church, that we could Have the fruit of the Spirit, that we walk in the Spirit, and you would bear this fruit in our lives. And we can be a good testimony and make a difference. People come to Christ. So with that in mind, I yield my will to you, my mind. I pray that you would guide my thinking as I preach. Help me only to say. what I should say, God, I pray you guard me from saying anything that would be unscripture or untrue or out of what you'd have. I present my body anew to you, Lord, this hour I ask with all my heart you fill me with your Spirit and speak through me. And so help us to be sensitive, help us to be submissive as you deal with us in this matter of meekness. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I believe it's not only possible for us as believers to live, to have the characteristics of Jesus Christ in our life In fact, it's not only possible, I believe God expects that from us. To have the characteristics of Jesus Christ. In fact, I believe that Christian growth is what God, that's the objective God is working in our lives to, to produce these traits. And the more I study this, the more I'm convinced that what the fruit of the Spirit is actually describing the characteristics of Jesus Christ. Every one of these. You can look at the life of Christ, and they're very evident. Now we touched on this before. I just want to reiterate again tonight. I strongly suspect, and I'm more I study it, the more I'm convinced I'm correct on this That when the Bible says in Genesis that man was created in the image of God, in the image of God That he's not talking about our appearance. All right? God does not have an appearance. He's a spirit. He has no physical being. And we've been repeating this. So what does it mean when it says that God created us in the image of God? I believe that what we're being told there is God created us with the characteristics of Jesus Christ, God the Son. And I believe these nine characteristics here, these nine traits that make up the fruit of the Spirit were natural, were a part of Adam before the fall. These were just natural traits. It wasn't something that needed to be worked up. It wasn't something that needed to be produced. It was just Part of man's nature. Because we were in the image of God, and this is describing God's characteristics And then sin came. Sin entered in, and death by sin, and the death of this fruit in humanity was gone, and the works of the flesh took over. And as we said before, if you watch very carefully after the fall of man in Genesis chapter 3, if you'll notice the works of the flesh become manifest almost immediately. Fear, murder, uh uh the breakdown of home and marriage and purity And it just deteriorates till you get to chapter eleven with uh with uh uh uh with the fall of uh with uh God's great flood. And the whole world was given over to wickedness. The whole world was given over to the works of the flesh. And then God, in salvation, God begins I think part of salvation is God beginning to restore that image back to man, those characteristics back to man. We're told in Corinthians that part of the Holy Spirit's role as indwelling the believer is to restore that image, bring back the image of Christ. And so I said all that to say this. I believe it's possible for us to live with the characteristics of Christ true in our life. Not because of we work it up, not because we are we're such a good Christian, we're so Urrr, we're just gonna make these things through. No, but because we're indwelt by the Holy Spirit. And this is the thing that has gripped me in the study of this of these fruit this fruit Is that this isn't something I have to get or do to produce in my life. These traits are already in me, in the person of the Holy Spirit. They're already there. I have, if you look at the list here, I have unconditional love. That's the word there, copy. It's in me That potential is there in the person of the Holy Spirit. Not in me naturally. In my flesh there dwells no good thing. But in the person and presence of the Holy Spirit within me, it's there. Um Joy. I can uh th m the joy for a believer is not based on our circumstances, our our health, how people treat us, our popularity. It's not based on any of that. The joy for the believer is found in the presence of the Holy Spirit in me. Which means no matter what my circumstances are, no matter how people are treating me, if I'm yielded to the Spirit, if I'm filled with the Spirit of God, if I'm walking in the Spirit, I can have that joy that He produces. Isn't that a wonderful thing? And I just every week as I work, as we're working on our way through here, it just strikes me over and over again that these are all here. I think what we're seeing here being described is the normal Christian life as far as God's concerned. Now, as far as we're concerned, it's pretty rare to find somebody with all these traits. But nevertheless, I think that's the way we were created this way, and we fell, and God's in the process of bringing it back. And so uh it's it's the normal Christian life, I believe. We're cat the we we uh uh and these traits are true in our life not because I have to put something in place to make these To have meekness and to have this love and long-suffering and faith. It's already there. I just, I don't put something in place. I just get out of the way. It's not something I work up, but it's by walking in the Spirit that this fruit is produced in my life. I'm not producing it, the Holy Spirit is. I just get out of the way and let the Holy Spirit have his way. Die to self, yield to the Spirit. Paul said, I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I. But Christ liveth in me. He's the one that brings these characteristics out in the person of the Holy Spirit. It's not me developing a better self. But it's me dying to self and letting God do this in my life. Here's the thing, and we must never forget this: the Christian life is a supernatural thing It's not something I work up. It's not something I can produce. It's not some program I take or some exercise or some yoga meditation and oh I'm I become a Christian. No, it's a supernatural act of God. When I trust Christ, God saves my soul, He gives me a new nature, and then as I allow and yield to Him, He supernaturally produces These characteristics in my life. And I don't know about you, but that encourages me. That I don't have to somehow work this up. I've got to be meek. What are you doing? I'm trying to be meek It's not that at all. I die. I die to self, just yield to the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit produces that in my life And if that's the case, if it is God Almighty and the person of the Holy Spirit producing this fruit in my life, then who gets the glory for it? God gets the glory, not me. Boy, eh, he's such a meek Christian. Well, in reality, if that's true, then God's the one that's producing that meekness in his life. All he's doing is just letting the Lord do it. Just letting God have his way. We get to heaven, we say this often. We get to heaven, we'll stand at the judgment seat of Christ. It's not for our sins, we understand that. It's for our Christian life, how we live, and we have these rewards. Paul talks about it numerous times. And so we're rewarded for various things. And if you study Revelation, and I don't have the reference on the tip of my tongue, but if you study Revelation, we find out At the judgment seat of Christ, when these crowns are given, these rewards are handed out, the very first thing we do with the crown, with the reward, is what? We cast it at his feet because we know it wasn't us. God did it in us. All I did was got out of the way and let him do it. And so the Christian life is a life of surrender It's a life of submission. Not to my will, not to someone else's will, but submission to God, to the Holy Spirit. And I yield myself and my will and my selfishness and all that, I yield it to him, I mortify the flesh, I yield it all to Christ, and then he lives his life through me It's a supernatural thing. So tonight we look at this eighth fruit, meekness. This eighth trait of Jesus Christ, I believe. And we're told, I don't really talk about this a lot in the message. We could, you could spend a whole series on meekness But over and over, we're told about the meekness of Jesus Christ. And so this is one of his characteristics. This is one of his traits that the Holy Spirit wants to produce in my life if I just let him So, meekness. Number one, my first thought is this: what is the definition of meekness? What in the world are we talking about? You don't hear much about meekness in our world today, right or wrong? We don't hear about it in the political world. You don't hear much about it in the business world. Oh, that CEO, he's a multimillionaire. The one thing stands out, he's so meek. You don't hear that So, what in the world are we talking about when we when he says that the fruit of the Spirit is meekness? Well one thing I noticed is and and to be honest with you, uh I sat down and started alright, I'm going to preach on meekness. It's like, what in the world do you say about meekness? And um I gotta come up with an hour and a half message uh on meekness and I'm joking. Sort of. But um so I sit down and I thought, what in the world? And I got studying and the Bible Says a lot about meekness. I mean a lot. Not one place in the Bible, not one time in the Bible in reference to meekness is it presented in anything other than a positive thing. Meekness is never considered a negative trait in God's mind. It's always a positive thing. It's always God is honoring or praising or recognizing somebody that displays meekness in a positive way. It's a good thing. Meekness. So what is it? I got I looked up the word like I always do. I looked up the English word. I looked up the word where it came from. I looked how it's used other places and various sources to try and get the meaning of the word meekness. Came up with the basic literal definition is, I like this one, a humble gentleness. A humble gentleness. Webster's dictionary, 1812 dictionary, said it was one who has a mild temper. Looked at a whole slew of other places where it can uh how it's used in various ways, and I came up with the Dennis Leatherman definition. I'm gonna write my own dictionary, I think. It'll be a bestseller, I guarantee it. So here's what I to my mind came together of what meekness is. I put it this way. The ability to absorb unkindness or injustice from another person, somebody is unkind, they're unjust to me, I can absorb that treatment, I can absorb that injustice, that unkindness, without retaliating. Without becoming bitter, without getting angry and hating that person for how they've treated me, I can absorb it Without retaliation, without anger, without bitterness, and without self-pity. Meekness. Mild, self-controlled temper. That was a pretty good definition, wasn't it? I like that one. I have another one. This is the other side of that coin. The ability to absorb the praises. And accolades of another's, they speak highly of me, they praise me, oh, you're wonderful, you're this, you're that. I can absorb that without becoming proud. Without becoming arrogant, without developing in my mind some self-importance. Look, man, they're praising me, they're saying all this, man, I must really be something Meekness is the ability to absorb either criticism, injustice, unkindness, or praise and accolades. But I don't react. I don't react in a negative way, and I don't get self-absorbed, and I don't become bitter or angry. It's a humble, I like this, it's a humble submission and contentment with the will of God in any and every situation. It's just and by the way, meekness requires temperance Somebody tell me, what what what was temperance? We preached on that. Temperance is what? Self-control, self-discipline. Actually, in this case, it's Holy Spirit control, Holy Spirit discipline. I'm able to discipline myself. By the way, we're not going to be much Christian if we don't learn temperance. If I have no self-control, if I cannot discipline myself in the things God instructs me Uh I'm going to have a hard time. Here's the great thing. You say, preacher, I'm just not much of a self-disciplined. I just don't have much self-discipline. Well, praise God, you've got the Holy Spirit, and He has a heap of it Let him take over. Let him enable me. And so meekness, this ability to control my reactions. In a content, humble way, in the will of God. This is the will of God. I control it. I absorb this without a fleshly reaction to it. And that requires temperance. That requires self-control, spirit control. If you would, come over to Ephesians. We're not far away. We're in Galatians. Next book is Ephesians. Come to chapter 4. I think We see meekness described in Ephesians chapter 4. Now it's not called that. He doesn't use that term. But as I'm studying this, man, this is what it sounds like to me. Meekness is. Ephesians chapter 4, and look with me if you would at verse 26. I'm going to be tempted to go on some rabbit trails, so pray that I don't yield that I yield not to temptation. Look at verse 26. Be ye angry, but what? Sin not. You know what that is? That's meekness. Oh, that makes me angry. But through temperance and the filling and empowering of the Holy Spirit, I don't react. I don't let it turn into sin. I don't act in a sinful way. In fact, he addresses anger a little bit later down the passage here He says, Be ye angry and sin not. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath. Be meek. Neither give place to the devil. Have some temperance there. Don't let the devil you get angry, don't sin with that anger. Don't let the devil get in on top of that and turn things ugly. That requires meekness. Come down to verse 29. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth. Would you agree? That requires some temperance. Anybody here ever say something before you even thought just came out and you're like, oh, what did I anybody here? Hello? Let no communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good, to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hearers. Meekness is the ability to control. What I say and how I say it and when I say it. That uh temper, mild, disciplined temper He goes on, and grieve not the Holy Spirit, whereby you're sealed into the day of redemption. And so again, that's uh if I'm grieving the Holy Spirit, I don't have the fruit of the Spirit, right or wrong. So don't grieve the Holy Spirit. So this meekness. And by the way, these all these nine all these nine traits of the fruit of the Holy Spirit, and I'm I'm picking this up more and more as as we're winding down our study of this. But they're all interrelated. You can't have one without the other. They're all uh uh they all make up a unit And so I need this temperance. I need love to be meek. I need meekness to be long-suffering. And so they're all interrelated. Verse uh thirty-one. Let all bitterness what's the second word on this verse? The second word. The second is the one that comes after the first. I'm telling you, you learn a lot at church here, I'm telling you right now. Let what? Oh, I circled that in my Bible. Not some, not a little bit, not most. Let all. Let all. Now look at this list. Bitterness, wrath. What's the next one? You say, well, it's alright to get angry. This verse says all anger be put away from you. All of it. The word all doesn't have any exceptions it's all inclusive, it's all of it. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking that's work of the flesh. Be put away from you with all malice. Now look at this. And be ye what? Kind to the people that are kind to you. Is that what it says? No. To one another. Whoever, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. I don't know about you, but that sounds like meekness to me That whole list. Wouldn't it be wonderful if those passages, what were just described in these passages here, wouldn't it be wonderful if that was true of every one of our lives? As how we lived What I'm suggesting is not only is that possible for us, God expects it from us. Because He's enabled us to do that. He's given us the Holy Spirit to produce that in our lives. And so the definition of meekness, and you boil it down, is the ability To not respond in a fleshly way to my circumstances, my treatment, my surroundings. It requires temperance, self-control. So number one, the definition of meekness. I hope that helps us grasp what he's talking about when he wants this fruit to be born in our lives. The second thought is this, the display of weakness. What does meet meekness look like in action? How do you recognize meekness in a person's life? How do I recognize meekness in my life if I'm doing this? Well, the Bible has given us a whole slew of object lessons and examples and illustrations of people who displayed weakness, meekness, who displayed this trait in their life. Come back with me if you would to Genesis chapter 13, and we're going to bump jump through here. Did you bring your Bible with you tonight? Let's use it. Oh well, four people said amen. Come to Genesis chapter 13. I always figure if we are a Bible-believing church, we ought to use our Bible. Amen. Genesis chapter 13, and look with me at verse number 8. Here is Abraham and Lot. And God's blessing them, and they're prospering, and a problem comes up. Actually, come back up to uh let's go to verse 5. Lot also, which went with Abraham, had flocks and herds and tents. Now look at verse 6. And the land was not able to bear them, that they might dwell together. So there's not enough room. The land can't feed all their flocks and handle. It's too much. Overgrazing. They can't do this. For their substance was great, so that they could not dwell together. Now look at verse 7. And there was what? Strife. What's that? Conflict, fussing, fighting. Maybe there's a yeah, bickering, maybe there's fistfights breaking out between lots household, his staff and Abraham's, and it's not good. Would you would would would strife be a characteristic of the would that be a trait of the Holy Spirit's filling or the flesh We're told that specifically. So this isn't good. There's strife between them. Verse 8. And Abraham said unto Lot, now look at this. Let there be no strife, I pray thee, between me and thee. In fact, Paul told Timothy, sermon of the Lord must not strive. Whatever I do, I am not to strive. Period. Say, well, how do I get my way if I don't strive? You don't get your way because you don't strive. It's not an option. Whatever it costs us, we don't strive. Let there be no strife, I pray thee, between me and thee, and between my herdmen and thy herdmen. Why? For we be what? Brethren. We're brethren. Is not the whole land before thee? Now look at this. We're talking about meekness. Separate thyself, I pray thee, from me. Now look at Moses, what he says. If thou wilt take the left hand, then I'll go to the right. Or if thou depart to the right hand, I'll go to the left. You know what I think Moses is is displaying there? I think slowing meekness. So I'm gonna trust God. You you make whatever decision you want. I am not gonna fuss with you, Lot. We are not gonna strive It may cost me the best land available, but I'm going to obey God. We're not going to strike. You just have your way. And I'm going to trust God. I'm going to be content with what God's will is for me. You just decide. Meekness. He's displaying meekness. There's restraint there. He's not gonna, he's not gonna, oh yeah, let's go. You want to fight over this land? All right, bring it on. None of that. Unselfishness, God will take care of me. And there's faith. He trusted God. Who got the better end of this deal here? Abraham did. Because he's displayed meekness. And God honored that. It's a characteristic of Jesus Christ. Come with me over to chapter 26. I mean the Bible's full of displays of people that uh full of people who displayed meekness. Genesis chapter 26, and look with me at verse 17. Genesis 26, 17. And here we have Isaac and Abraham's gone, and they got these wells. How many people remember reading through here? These guys keep taking their wells. Let me begin in verse 17. And Isaac departed thence and pitched his tent in the valley of Gerah and dwelt there. And Isaac digg again. He had dug a well, and a bunch of the Philistines wanted it, so he gave it to them. And Isaac dig again the wells of water which they had digged in the days of Abraham his father, for the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham. And he called their names after the names by which his father called them. Sounds to me like he was old-fashioned. Right? We're not calling these modern names, we're going by what daddy named them. And Isaac's servants digged in the valley and found there a well springing water. And the herdmen of Gerah did strive, there we are again, with Isaac's herdmen, saying, The water's ours! And he called the name of the well Esek because they strove with him. And so he went and dug another well. Alright, I'll just go dig another well. And they digged another well. And what'd they do over that one? I want to see if you're with me now. They strove over that one also. And he called the name of it Sitna. And so he removed from thence and digged another well. For that they strove not, and he called the name of it Rehoboth, and said, For now the Lord hath made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land. You know what I think is being displayed there? Meekness It's not going to fuss over this. It's not worth fighting over. Well, I'll just go dig another well. I'll just go dig another well. Meekness. Come with me, if you would, to Numbers chapter 12. Jan's acts of Leviticus, Numbers, chapter twelve. Everybody, okay? You're being very meek. Numbers chapter 12, and look with me at verse number one. Now every one of these so far involves strife. Strife. And Numbers chapter 12, verse 1, and Miriam and Aaron, what'd they do? They spake against Moses. Here's fussing again. Because of the Ethiopian woman whom he had married, for he had married an Ethiopian woman. They didn't like it And they said, Hath the Lord indeed spoken only by Moses? Hath he not spoken also by us? And I like that last phrase, and the Lord heard it. Go ahead, Miriam. Go ahead, Aaron. Crisize Moses. Go ahead. But God hears it. God hears it. Now the man Moses was very what? Here we go, we see meekness. Above all the men which were upon the face of the earth. Moses, apart from the Lord Jesus Christ, Moses was the meekest man that ever lived. And the Lord spake suddenly unto Moses. Now, how did Moses react to Miriam and Aaron, criticizing him, speaking against him? He didn't. And God steps in, verse 4, and the Lord spake suddenly unto Moses and Aaron. And he says, Come out, ye three, unto the tabernacle of the congregation. Boy, when God calls you to the office, you know it's bad. Come out ye three to the tabernacle of the congregation. And they three came out. I would like to see Aaron and Miriam's face while they're walking out there. And the Lord came down in the pillar of the cloud and stood in the door of the tabernacle and called Aaron, Aaron, and Miriam, and they both came forth. And he said, Hear now my words. If there be a prophet among you, I, the Lord, will make myself known unto him in a vision and will speak unto him in a dream. My servant Moses is not so, who is faithful in all my house. Him will I speak mouth to mouth, even apparently and not in dark speeches. And the similitude of the Lord shall he behold. Therefore, then were ye not afraid to speak against my servant Moses. The anger of the Lord was kindled against them, and he departed. The Lord departed. And the cloud departed from off the tabernacle. And behold, Miriam became what? Leprous, white as snow. And Aaron looked upon Miriam, and behold, she was leprous. And now Aaron says to Moses, Alas, my what? He got the message. Alas, my Lord, I beseech thee Lay not the sin upon us, wherein we have done foolishly, and wherein we have sinned. Let her not be as one of the dead, of whom the flesh is half consumed when he cometh out of his mother's womb. Look at this. And Moses cried unto the Lord, saying, Heal her now, O God, I beseech you. Moses was mer was meek, and he didn't react and he didn't fight, he let God take care of it. And here's the thing, and he showed mercy. I'm convinced meekness and mercy walk hand in hand. A meek person is going to be merciful, and a merciful person is meek. I we won't take time. But you could jot down 2 Samuel chapter 16, verse 9 through 12 And David is fleeing from Absalom. You remember the story? He's going out into leaving Jerusalem. And as he's going out, there's this knucklehead. That's walking the ridge as David and his entourage, his team are leaving the city, getting out of the city to get away from uh Absalom. And uh as they're going, this knucklehead up on the ridge is cursing David, and he's throwing dust down on him, and throwing dirt and rocks down on him, and cursing him, thou bloody man. Who is it? Shimei. And David's assistant says, huh, let me go up there. I'll take care of him. I will separate his head from his body. And David said, go get him, son, go get him. No, he didn't. Strife. And David's, and I'm paraphrasing here, you need to read it. But David says, you let him go. If God told him to curse me, then I want God's will to be done. And maybe God will hear it, and maybe God will be merciful to me, and maybe God will help me. You know what that is? Meekness. I'm not going to retaliate. I'm not separating his head from his shoulders. Maybe God's doing this. I submit to God what his will is. And so we see these all through here. We could just go on and on. Of course, Jesus is the ultimate. Example of meekness. We looked at Matthew 11:29 this morning. We referenced it in our morning message. Jesus said, Come unto me, all ye that labor heavy laden, take my eukapen. For I am meek. And lowly. We want to see what meekness looks like, lived out. Look at the life of Jesus Christ. Would you agree when people, when the Pharisees and others turned on him and rejected him and hate him, he could have squished them like a bug under his heel, right or wrong? And he did. And he fed them when they were hungry. He warned them, I mean, he wasn't, you know, he woe is you, hypocrites. But he didn't retaliate. He didn't get angry at him. He didn't get bitter towards them. In 1 Peter 2, verse 23, speaking of the Lord Jesus, Peter, under the inspiration of God, says, When he, Jesus, was reviled, he reviled not again. He absorbed the criticism. He absorbed the accusations without bitterness and retaliation. In Luke chapter 23 and verse 43, he's hanging on the cross, suffering the judgment of God for every sin that has ever been committed by all of mankind. It is so s what he is going through is so stressful that just the anticipation of it caused him to sweat, as it were, great drops of blood. Now he's in the middle of the wrath of God. And he sees people mocking him. He's hanging there in shame. All my sins on him guilty. Take responsibility. All my sins. Would you would you agree with me? If everybody, if all of your sins were made public, would you be ashamed? Anybody here? I would. Good heavens. And all my sins are on Jesus. He's made public. And while he's bearing all of this shame and reproach and wrath of God on him He looks at these people who are mocking him and reviling him. And he says, God, kill them all. No, he doesn't What's he say? Father, forgive them. They don't know what they're doing. You know what that is? It's meekness. Meekness. And so the Holy Spirit dwells in you and me. How many folks here you say, you know it? Say amen. That's true. The Holy Spirit's in you. He's in me. And he says, if you'll just get out of the way, if you'll just die to self-mortify the deeds of place, just get out of the way. Let me fill you, let me empower you, I'll produce meekness in your life. And you don't have to go through life bitter and reacting to everything and road rage and striving and getting back and retaliating You can humbly be content in the will of God. You can forgive people that mistreat you. You can be kind to people who are unkind to you. You can love people who hate you. Meekness. Meekness. Then I end with this, and I gotta end the dynamite of meekness I want to be quick to point out, as we finish this, meekness is not weakness. What I just described is not easy. In fact, humanly, it's probably impossible. It is not weakness. Meekness is incredible strength. Anybody Can retaliate. It requires no strength of character, it requires no strength of spiritual strength, it requires no uh uh uh strength, it requires no charac To retaliate and strike back and fight and hate. The dumbest person on planet Earth can do that. Requires no abilities. But I'll tell you what, somebody treat you wrong, somebody cuss you, somebody revile you, and then have the meekness to not revile back. That is strength. Amen or not? In fact, it's the strength of the Holy Spirit in me that enables me to do that. I put it this way, weakness requires is an inability to control myself. Weakness, meekness is the ability to restrain myself. Uh Abraham. No Lot, I'm not gonna fight you for this. You can choose the best land. You choose, God will take care of me. That takes strength. Weakness flees conflict or has to conquest conflict. Meekness has the ability to face conflict with grace and faith in God and trust God. Weakness responds with fear. Meekness responds in faith. Oh, I'm afraid I'm going to lose this. I got to fight for this land, Abraham, I gotta fight. I lost it. You can't have it. That's weakness. Meekness says, alright, you choose. I'm going to trust God. I'm going to trust God. The strength of meekness. Meakness focuses on self. Meekness focuses on the will of God and the strength of God and the peace of God. This is a superhuman ability that is already in every single one of us. You don't have to fight with your spouse this week. You don't have to go to work and get in a fight with that person that you can't stand at work. You don't have to. You can have peace. You can have meekness. Not in you say, I can't do that. This person I can't. I know, that's the point. Holy Spirit of God enables me to do that. This is a terrible illustration. You say, well, most of yours are, preacher, but But I don't know if you all been watching the news at all or anything. It's blown up everywhere. On Friday night there was a Phillies and Marlins game. Baseball game. How many people know where I'm going with this right now? I I wish I I mean I'm glad you didn't, but if you saw this, you would appreciate this illustration a whole lot more. Those that saw what happened, I mean it's everywhere. It's on all the news. I saw a news article from India. They have an article on this event in India. So anyway, this guy, and I forget his name, hits this home run. He's a Philly, by the way. And um he hits a home run, it goes way out in the stands. And of course, like any time the ball goes in the stands, what does everybody do? They go running to get it and this guy's some big famous guy, I don't know, and everybody and man here's a ball home run hit by this guy. Oh, this is gonna be great And so everybody goes after it. And a a fella, a father, he has a boy about thirteen years old and a daughter a little older, I think. His wife's there, a little family And it goes right into where nobody's sitting, so everybody, whoa, he goes in and he gets the ball and he comes walking back over to his wife. And he and How many people know know Cena? So you still know what I'm talking about. And so he goes back and he takes the ball and all the cameras, the whole world, cameras are zero in on him And he gets back and he gets the ball and his boys stand beside him and lo and behold it's his boy's birthday, thirteenth birthday I think. So he takes him and he hugs him and he hands them this home run ball by this very famous baseball player And the boys all oh and the boy hugs his daddy and they're hugging and instantly there's this woman, I think her name's Karen. Um And sing, she's right in his face, and people around are filming this and it's on national TV. They're all filming it And she's in his face and she's screaming at him, that's my ball! I had it! It was in our area. And she is just laying into him, and he's like, And so finally they go back and he said, I just got it. It was there. I picked it up. It's you know, it wasn't in your seat. We didn't do anything wrong. And she's like And finally goes like this He takes the ball out of his son's hand and he puts it in her hand And she goes strutting off with it. I think right now she's the most hated woman in all the world. And they sat down and the whole world saw it. You know what I think he'd say, now this is a very limited version of it, but that was kind of meekness. They asked him later, so why in the world did you give the ball back to her? And he said, I wanted to teach my son that de-escalating a conflict was more important than having a ball. Now, right or wrong, I don't know. But I tell you, that was a little bit like meekness. Right? You follow what I'm trying to say? He wasn't gonna fight. Alright. Well just whatever. I doubt he was trusting God. I don't know. I doubt he was saying, here I'll give it to you. I'll just trust God. Well none of that. But as it turns out, the whole world saw it. The whole stadium saw it. All the baseball organizations saw it. And within minutes, they were down there presenting this boy with all kinds of gifts and stuff. Afterward, the guy that hit the baseball met with them, took pictures, signed a baseball bat, gave them a bat and a ball. Then they another guy, a millionaire, a bazillionaire, saw it happen. They bought him a ticket to the World Series and an R V to use to go to the World Series You know what the lady got? A ball Now, I'm using a worldly event there. It's a very limited picture of this, but I think you get the idea Meekness. Would you agree with me? That took a little bit of character and strength to say, all right, I'll give this up. And that's what God says. He can empower us. It's there. I don't have to do something to get meekness. I don't have to produce something or inject something in me. It's already in me in the personal spirit. I just die to sell and let God bear this fruit in my life. Father, I pray you'd help us. To get out of the way. And let you do in our lives what we can't do. Make us like Christ. And be peace and meekness and longsuffering and love and gentleness and goodness, not compromise. But meekness. I wonder if heads bowed eyes closed. I wonder if someone would say, Preacher, I know there's areas in my life that grieve the spirit I know there's some things in my life, behavior, attitudes, fleshly stuff, that I know grieves and quenches the spirit. And God's dealt with me And I really want God to help me put that aside so I can have the fruit of the spirit of my life. Is there anything like that by the uplift of hand? My hands raised. And it is a daily lifelong battle. And I have to die daily and be filled with the Holy Spirit over and over and over again so the Holy Spirit can bear this fruit. If you're not saved, you don't have the Holy Spirit, none of this is even possible for you. Until you come and trust Christ. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name, let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed