Like I said, I missed Jonah. I kept going back to Jonah and seeing what he was if he was doing anything and but it was over. That book's over and so We're moving on to the Beatitudes. I'm really excited about this. Matthew chapter 5 through chapter 7 is a gigantic long sermon that Jesus preached, three chapters. And I'm telling you, that is a great, great sermon. We're going to look at the first twelve verses. We're just going to read through the first twelve verses, and then over the coming months. We're going to go through these beatitudes that are listed in these twelve verses. And if you're not familiar with the beatitude, what the beatitudes, what that is, or what we're talking about Just keep coming Wednesday nights and and you'll find out. And I think these will be a real ch real blessing to us, encouragement, but I know this, they're going to be a challenge to us. This is the Lord's message. So look at verse number one of Matthew chapter five. It says, and seeing the multitudes, of course, speaking of the Lord Jesus, seeing the multitudes, he went up into a high mo he went up into a mountain, and when he was set, his disciples came unto him. And he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you. And persecute you, and say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad For great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask now as we begin this new study I pray that you would open our hearts to your word and to your will for us. God, I believe these passages will help us grow spiritually and mature in our faith and our Christian living. But we need you to help us. And so I yield myself, my will, to your will. I present my body anew tonight at this hour, and I ask with all my heart, Lord Jesus, that your Holy Spirit would fill me And that you would be the speaker tonight, that you'd help us make right decisions, that you would help us to understand clearly more about yourself and what your will is and what What kind of Christians we ought to be. So help us, I ask. Use this passage I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Um I read about a fellow by the name of Robert Reed. I don't I know it I know nothing about this fellow other than what was given me in in the article I read about him, but his hands, I'm told in this article I read how his hands are twisted and unusable. He can barely use them, just flop them around. His feet are useless completely. He cannot bathe himself. He cannot feed himself. He cannot dress himself. Somebody else has to dress him. In fact, his shirts, rather than buttons, his shirts, he uses velcro to keep his shirts together. Um, he cannot dress himself, he cannot comb his hair, he cannot brush his own teeth, he cannot drive a car, he cannot ride a bike, he can't even go for a walk. Robert Reed has cerebral palsy. He's extremely limited. But that did not keep him from graduating first from high school Then he graduated from college with a BA in Latin, of all things. He went on and taught in a junior college. Some point in his life, and I don't know the details, I couldn't find the details of this, some point as this process took place and he got his education. He uh had been exposed to the gospel of Jesus Christ and he accepted Jesus as his personal Savior. As it began to grow in his faith and his determination to overcome his handicaps He began going on mission trips. In fact, in his extremely limited condition, he made five mission trips overseas. It finally got to the point where God called him to be a missionary to Lisbon, Portugal. He answered that call. He somehow got himself over there. And the story that I was reading about, and this is what I got to is when he got to there, he found a motel that he could rent a room to live out of He hired the manager of the hotel, he paid him extra, hired him, to care for him while he was there and he would help him dress and and uh help him uh bathe and all these types of things that he could not do himself He hired this man to prepare his meals for him. He learned the language Portuguese Now he's already studied and has a degree in Latin, speaks English, he learned the language Portuguese as an adult. And this is how he started out. He would have somebody push him in his wheelchair down to the park in the city there, and he had gospel literature, and with his crippled hands, he would hand the gospel literature out to people. After doing that for six years, he led 70 people to trust Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. One of those 70 was a young lady about his age, a Portuguese gal, and they ended up getting married, and she cared for him. Now think about that. Now, listen to this statement that he made. He said, I have everything I need to have real joy and real happiness. He didn't have functioning arms. He did not have the use of his legs. He did not have so many things that you and I would consider absolutely necessary. But he said this. I have everything I need to be happy. And his point was this, he had the Lord Jesus Christ as his Savior. Somebody made this statement. I kind of twisted it just a little bit. His shirt was held together by Velcro, but his life was held together by the Lord Jesus Christ. And how many of us, and I myself included, how many of us, we complain, unhappy? We're not satisfied. And we have things that this man only dreams about. And he's a happy man. Isn't that amazing thing? Isn't that an amazing thing? We come to Matthew chapter 5. I thought about Robert Reed, this fellow. And again, I don't know anything other than what I just told you. I don't know anything more about him than what I just told you But I thought of him when I come to Matthew chapter 5, and here Jesus says repeatedly, verse 3 down through verse 12, bless it. Blessed, blessed are ye, blessed are ye, blessed are ye. And Lord Jesus Christ is giving us in this Sermon on the Mound, as it's called, these three chapters. He's giving us everything we need to be happy as a Christian. How many people in the world think if only I had a nicer car, boy, then I'd be happy. If only I had a bigger house, if only I had a cooler Nintendo, if only I had a a smarter smartphone And then I'd be happy if I had all these things. Somebody's, the world says, Blessed are the proud, but Jesus said, Blessed are the poor in spirit. The world says, blessed are the violent who can get what they want and take it. Jesus said, blessed are they that mourn. The world says, blessed are those who will prosper at any cost. Jesus said, blessed are the meek. The world says, Blessed are the unscrupulous that know how to get what they're after. But Jesus said, Blessed are those who hunger after righteousness. The world says, blessed are the pitiless. Jesus said, Blessed are the merciful. The world says, Blessed are the devious. But Jesus said, Blessed are the pure in heart. The world says, blessed are those who are fight and can intimidate others and put them in their place. Jesus said, Blessed are the peacemakers. The world says, Blessed are the persecutors. Jesus said, Blessed are the persecuted. We have, I believe, as we'll work through these beatitudes, we have everything we need. to be genuinely happy given to us here in these passages. I believe the more that we incorporate these uh beatitudes, these principles, the more we incorporate them into our lives, the happier we could be. And I venture to say as Americans, every one of us could use a little bit more happiness in our life And the reason being is we've got a wrong view in our mind of what it is that makes a person happy. We have a wrong understanding of what it means to be blessed. And we've adopted in many ways, I hate to say this, but I think we've adopted in many ways the world's perspective on what it means to be blessed, on what it means to be happy. And so here we come to this Sermon on the Mound and these Beatitudes, and the Lord kind of corrects our perspective. And he's adjusting our thinking as child children of God, as saved people, and he's helping us to understand. The beatitudes here are really, as I've kind of been saying, they're a powerful introduction To a very lengthy sermon. If you'll take the time, maybe tonight before you go to bed, or maybe in the morning you get up, take the time and read Matthew chapter 5, chapter 6, and chapter 7. You'll find that's one continuous sermon And it is powerful. I mean that whole sermon is Jesus Christ correcting the perspective of his people and helping them to see things as they really are. Now I want to point this out and tonight's just going to be introductory. Next Wednesday night Lord will and we'll actually get into the first beatitude and see exactly what the Lord is saying But tonight I want to point out particularly these this sermon, these Beatitudes in particular, are not God's plan of salvation. Now we need to make that very, very clear because there's a lot of churches, particularly of the liberal bend, that will take these and say, you have to do these things. You have to practice these principles that are given here to be saved. Listen, there is only one way to be saved, and it has nothing to do with what I do. It has everything to do with what Jesus Christ has already done. So this is not a plan of salvation. Do not misunderstand what the Lord Jesus is saying here. He's not telling us how to be saved. There's only one way to be saved. That is, first of all, I need to recognize the fact that we're a sinner. I was visiting with a man Monday morning and uh he professed to be an atheist. And as I visit with him and uh talk to him a little bit And uh we have mentioned a few things and he told me that he had some church background up in Canaan Valley and different things and saying different things and I just said the same statement we say to everybody, though we claim to be an atheist. Uh I made the statement. I said, you know, church has its place and it's good and and God designed it for a reason, but uh there's something more important than church, and that is knowing for sure that our sins are forgiven and that when we die we go to heaven and not to hell. You know what this quote unquote atheist said to me? He said, Well, I've sure got a pile of sins. I said, really? I said, can I show you some verses on how you can have those sins taken care of? You know what he said to me? I'd like to see them. You know, when people say they're atheists, I'm at the point now, I don't believe them. I don't believe them. In fact, I'm convinced there is no genuine atheist down in the heart and soul of every person, they know there's a God. And I think down in the heart and soul there's a conscience. They can squelch it, they can hide it, they can pour a humanistic uh educational water all over it, but down in their heart and soul they know they need God. And so I said, can I show you? He said I'd like that very much. And so I took my Bible out and I told him, I said there's a lot of books made up of the Bible, the book of Romans, primarily it's One of the major themes of the book is how we can be made right with God, be accepted by God. And I showed them from chapter three that we're all sinners, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. And I explained to them a little bit just simply what sin is No problem there. He goes, I've got sin. And the whole time I was talking about it, he would just shake his head and and uh and just uh frustrated with himself that he had so much sin I showed him that the consequences of sin is death. And I said uh he I said and I said this, I said uh When the Bible talks about the wages of sin being death, I said, it's not talking about physical death. It's talking about our spiritual being and our separation from God. He says, Does that mean hell? I said, Yeah, as a matter of fact, it does. And I said, Because of our sins we deserve to die and go to hell. And he agreed with me, if he died that that when this was in the hospital, he if he died there, he would he would go to hell. He'd be separated from God. I said, You don't want to go to hell? He said, No, I don't I said, Jesus doesn't want you to go to hell either. And I went on to explain how that God gave his own son, Jesus Christ, suffered hell for us, and our place was buried and rose again. And he took responsibility for our sin. He was judged for our sin. He suffered hell for our sin. I'm telling you, he was glued to me the whole time And so I went on. I said, Jesus died, was buried, and rose again. I said, just because Jesus died on the cross and rose again doesn't mean everybody's going to heaven. He leaves the option up to you to receive that gift of eternal life or to re- or to refuse it. and uh just go on on your own. I said, if you would uh I said Jesus uh loved you enough and cared for you enough to die on the cross for your sins, you'd be willing to call him and trust him as your Savior. Listen to what he said. He goes, I have no way to get to that church up there in Canaan Valley. I said, you don't have to go to that church to call on the Lord and trust him as your Savior. He said, what do you mean? I said, you can do it right here and now. I said, I'd be willing to help you. He said, just call on the Lord. I said, I'll give you a simple old prayer, not magic words. Just call on the Lord. Tell him you're trusting him. You believe he died for you, and bite him in your heart and life. He said, I'll do that. The old guy bowed his head there, laying in his hospital bed, and called on the Lord Jesus, asked to come in his heart and life. Isn't that something That's the way a person is saved from sin in hell. And he thanked me. He took the literature. I was back to see him. That was Monday. I was back to see him today. He had a bunch of family in there. And he waved me. He said, I can't talk right now. I said, I'll come back. I'll go back to see him tomorrow morning That's how a person is saved through accepting what Jesus Christ has done for us. Not by us doing these things listed here. So this list, I said all that to say this, this list is not given to us to sh help make provide some way that we work towards being saved and Boy, if I'm meek and if I'm merciful and if I mourn and I'm poor in spirit, then maybe I'll be able to get to heaven. Maybe God will forgive my sins. That's not what this is about at all In fact, this is not even a list of laws for a Christian to live by. These beatitudes, and this is important again right from the start, these are the characteristics that Jesus Christ is giving that describe someone who is already saved. And someone who has died to self has just completely yielded themselves over to the Lord, and these things will be true in that person's life. These are observations that are given about someone who is fully yielded to the Lord. They're trusting and obeying Jesus Christ completely, and these things will be true in their life. Notice the words that are used here. Look at verse 3. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Verse 4. Blessed are they that mourn. Verse 5. Blessed are the meek. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. These were then you come down. Blessed are the merciful, the pure in heart, peacemakers, those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. This is describing the child of God who is completely yielded to the Lord Jesus Christ, completely sold over. Paul said, I'm crucified with Christ. That's the person being described here, one that has yielded their will to the will of Christ, and these things are true in their life. It is describing the child of God who has died to self and is living for Christ. Now, I want to give a few introductory observations here If you want to take notes on this, I'm going to try and keep it in outline form so you can keep this. Might be helpful down the road. I don't know. But number one, my first thought is this the preacher of the sermon We don't notice who the preacher is of a sermon. Often, a sermon will have a greater impact if we know a little bit about the one who's preaching it. Sometimes the the stature of the man preaching will add impact to the words that he's saying, the respect maybe. that we have for the one speaking will uh make what he's saying have greater significance. I have certain preachers have years gone by and uh for the most part, probably all of them, have died and gone on to glory, men that God used in tremendous ways to impact me, great preachers of back in the 50s, 60s and whatnot And I would hear these men make statements and preach sermons, and just because of who was saying it It had a profound impact on my life. Some of the statements they made, some of the sermons they preached, if I preached them, might sound silly coming from me But because of these men of great stature said it it had a profound impact. For instance, if you came in here and you came up to me and you said, Pastor Letterman, I've got an issue with an apple tree in my yard And I said to you, an apple tree, well just pour some Coca-Cola around the bottom and that'd probably make it get better. You would do what? You say he's a knucklehead, you don't even know what he's talking about. But if you come to Brian Schofield and said, Brother Brian, I've got a issue, I've got a problem with my apple tree, and he told you to do something, his words would carry more weight than mine concerning apple trees. Am I right or wrong? You don't know. Brian has a huge apple tree. You say, I don't know about that. Suppose you walk in and you said, I've got a pain right down here in my side. And I said to you, I think you've probably got a swollen spleen. You would say, that means nothing coming from him. Well if you'd go to your doctor and say, I got a pain on your side, and they the doctor said, I think you've got a swollen spleen, you'd pay a little more attention. You follow what I'm saying? The respect that we have, the stature of the one making the statement, gives significance to the statement being said. Uh if you you come and say, Brother Leatherman, I'm trying to knock this wall out of my house and I'm not sure about whether it's weight bearing and And how do I go about build of knocking the swallow out and rebuilding it? And I said to you, ah, just knock it down, it'll be fine, it won't matter. It may or may not carry weight with you. But if you go to Mark Tyneball or you go to to Ronnie Brandt And you say about this wall, and they ask you a few questions, they say, Oh yeah, you can knock that down. It'll be fine, it won't hurt anything. Have a little more s significance to it, right? You see what I'm saying? Here's what I'm getting at. When Jesus Christ steps up and says, this is what happiness is This is what it means to be blessed. This is what has to be true if you're going to find happiness in life. That has significance Some yard bird preacher on TV gets up and says, You send me $1,000, and boy, God's going to bless him. Blessed will you be if you send me $1,000. I tell you what, that's going to carry weight with me. That man doesn't have my respect. I don't think he knows what he's talking about. Hey, but when Jesus Christ stands up and he says, blessed, I'm going to pay attention. He has some stature behind him. In fact, he is this whole passage here I put down is perhaps the greatest sermon that has ever been preached. And there's no doubt, this is the greatest preacher that has ever preached the Lord Jesus Christ And when he speaks about life, and when Jesus Christ talks about happiness, and when Jesus talks about truth He is the greatest authority on those subjects. And when he says what happiness is and what has to be in place for that blessedness to be true in my life. We need to pay attention because he is the final authority on those subjects. In fact, Jesus Christ the final authority on any subject. But particularly as we look at this subject. So number one, who's the preacher here giving us these beatitudes? It's none other than the Son of God Himself. The Word of God, Jesus Christ, is preaching this sermon. Number two, I put this down: the place of the sermon. Now, this may seem insignificant, and I'm trying to glean a little bit from this, but look at verse number one. And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a what? Mountain, and when he was set, his disciples came unto him. Now when when you and I say mountain, I don't know about you, when I s when I use the term mountain, I'm thinking rocky mountains, snow capped, I mean mountains. Um we say mountains around here we think of the Appalachian Mountains. When they're talking about mountains in the Middle East there, this could basically not be some snow-cap mountain What I think is taking place here, when they say the mountain, he's simply getting up to an elevated position where people can see and hear him Look back at verse number twenty-five of chapter four. And there followed him great multitudes of people from Galilee and and from Decapolis and from Jerusalem and from Judea and beyond Jordan. This is a huge area covered that people are coming from. We're talking Thousands and thousands and thousands of people are gathered around. And so I think all that's taken place here is he's simply getting up on an elevated position And uh he's speaking out so hopefully everybody can hear him. Now this is the point I want to take away from this. The message of Jesus Christ is not something to be given in some dark corner or given in secret. Now, he's going to address a particular group of people. We'll notice this here in a minute. But his message was in a public forum. Listen, Christianity has no secrets. We don't have secret doctrines. Everything we believe and everything we're taught to practice is a public thing. In fact, the very nature of the gospel Demands a public proclamation of it. You think of the gospel, you think of Matthew 28, where Jesus said, Go ye therefore and teach all nations. Everything about it. God has no secret serv secret uh who are the guys take care of the president? Secret service. I was right. Secret service. God has no secret service agents. He says, You're ashamed of me and my gospel, I'll be ashamed of you. And so, Lord Jesus, this isn't some secret doctrine here when you go out in the highways and hedges, don't tell people this about that we believe this. I'm not trying to be unkind, but I'm trying to be honest. The Mormon church does that. They have doctrines that they do not publish. They do not publicize. You've got to be baptized and get in the inner circle before you're ever taught everything that they believe and teach. That's hogwash. You don't have that in Christianity. In fact, we take the doctrines we have, we print them and put them out. We put them on the website. We want people to see what the Bible teaches, what we believe it teaches. So he's up on a mountain. This is a public forum. The very nature of Christian living Is a public thing. Now, I'm not saying that everything we do should be public. Jesus said our primary prayers should be in private. He says our almsgiving and all that, we don't do it for a show. We do it between us and God. But the Christianity Is a very public thing. Um I like, I know some of the guys get on me a little bit, but I like to open the doors up back there. Uh and there's one reason I do that. I like it to be open, welcoming. People come on in. And um but you know with air conditioning and all that in the winter it's five degrees out. It's kind of dumb to leave the door open. But anyway, like my mom used to say Well were you born in a barn? Anybody ever hear that? I uh what I would do is just go Our master and our message is to be publicized clearly and continually. So who's the preacher? Jesus Christ, the final authority on what happiness is The final authority on life. Where's the place of this? It's up on the side of a mountain. Everybody can see him and hear him. Nothing secret. Number three, who are the people being addressed? Now this is important I already touched on a little bit. Look at verse 1 and 2. He went up and seeing the multitudes, verse 25 of chapter 4, these people from all these places, thousands and thousands. He went up into a mountain, and when he was set, look at this, what's that next statement say? His disciples came unto him. And he opened his mouth and taught them. Who's the them referred to? The disciples. Now there's a huge crowd, thousands, no doubt tens of thousands of people are there, and they can hear what he's saying. But his disciples gather around. Now this isn't the twelve disciples we're studying Sunday school. This is there's this could be hundreds, this may be a thousand disciples. But what what I'm trying to say is these are not unsaved people that he's addressing directly. No doubt there's many out in the crowd that have never trusted Christ that are lost. In fact, these aren't even just believers, people who just got saved, that are uh they're just saved. You know what I mean? I don't mean just in time, but that's all they are. They're saved. And not necessarily living for God. That's not who's being addressed directly. Who's being addressed here are the our disciples. And the Lord, in other places in the gospel, had given some very high requirements, qualifications to be a disciple. In fact, several places he makes statements: if this isn't so, and this isn't so, and this isn't so, you cannot be my disciple. You know what some of those qualifications were? You've got to deny yourself. You gotta take up your cross daily. One place he says, if you don't hate your father, mother, brother, sister, yay, and your own life also, you can't be my disciple. Now what is he saying? I'm saying this that these are men and women who have not only accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, but they have left everything to follow him. They have completely dedicated their lives to Jesus Christ. My will is yielded to his will. My will is yielded to the cross. All I want is Christ's will to be done in my life. My plans are laid aside and they're yielded to Christ's plans. I love him supremely. I mean, these are devout people. These are not just saved. These are people who have been saved and have absolutely following the Lord Jesus Christ. And it's to those that he's addressing these beatitudes. The crowds were huge. The disciples, if you'll read the other gospels, the disciples are multiplying, more and more disciples, more and more people, leaving everything and following him and following him. And uh uh dedicating themselves to him, but something was wrong. They misunderstood what he was all about Oh, they forsook all they loved and they wanted, but for the most part, they were anticipating him setting up a kingdom. And they were anticipating a physical kingdom, and they were anticipating physical blessings, and they were anticipating physical prosperity. And he takes three chapters, five, six, and seven, a long sermon, and he addresses his disciples, and he is correcting their thinking about what he is all about. The Jews in the world, blessed are the proud, blessed are the dominant. Blessed are those who rule in the kingdom. And he goes, wait a minute, you got it all wrong. And we need to clarify this. And the this and he needed they needed to understand what Jesus Christ was all about. And so the beatitudes here in much of this sermon is simply showing to them that Christianity is not necessarily what they thought it would be. And following Jesus Christ was not necessarily even what they in their minds wanted that to me. Look with me, look at chapter 5, look at verse 21 with me. We're going to go down. Just look at a statement that's repeated here. Now we're beyond the Beatitudes in verse 21, but we're still within the sermon. And look what he says. Verse 21. Ye have heard that it was said. Look at verse 22. But I say unto you. What's he doing? He's correcting their thinking. Come down to verse 27. Ye have heard that it was said, verse 28, but I say unto you. Verse 2031, verse 31, it hath been said, verse 32, but I say unto you, Verse 33, again ye have heard, verse 34, but I say unto you, verse 38, ye have heard that, verse 39, but I say unto you, verse 43, ye have heard, Verse forty four, but I say unto you You see, living for God and being blessed and being happy in life was not what they thought it was. And the whole purpose of this, his disciples come around and he's basically saying something to this effect: listen, you've got this idea of what it means to be happy, you've got this idea of what it means to be blessed. Let me tell you the way it really is. And don't forget, he's the authority. We've got preachers on TV, we've got false prophets out there, we've got people writing books telling us what Christianity is and what it is to be happy and what it is to be blessed. And I tell you what, if it doesn't line up with the Word of God, they are wrong. And so were these folks, and Jesus had to clarify it. And so the Beatitudes here is a whole clarification of what it really means to be happy. We've got people telling us how to what it means to be happy, and they're miserable. Somebody said half the most of the psychiatrists need a psychiatrist. We will noti we're going to notice here when we get into this, these beatitudes, we're going to notice that these principles Are far greater than anything you and I can work up. You say, alright, I'm going to live by the Beatitudes so I can be blessed of God. Ain't done work that way. This is not something that we can gin up, oh, I'm going to be more meek. Doesn't work that way. These beatitudes, as we're going to notice, are the product Of a life yielded to the indwelling Jesus Christ. These beatitudes are the product Of one who has died to self and has now completely yielded to the Christ who's living within them. Paul put it this way: Christ in you, the hope of glory. This is supernatural stuff here. This is stuff that God, this is a blessedness, this is a life that is lived, not that we work up, but what God produces in us. I put this down. Beatitudes are supernatural, but they're God's normal. This is what God expects. This is normal Christian life as far as God's concern. Little girl was on her way home from Sunday school and uh she was sitting in the back seat and dad was driving, mom was up there, and the little girl said to her mother, she says. Mother, I have a question about something the preacher said today, and of course Mother was glad that she was paying attention and and uh she says uh what's your question, sweetheart And a little girl said, the preacher said in his sermon that God is bigger than we are. She said that God is so big that there's nowhere he can go where he is. In fact, he said God can hold the world in his hands. She says, Mommy, is that true? And she says, Yes, sweetheart, that's true. God can hold the whole world in his hands. She goes, Mommy, I got another question. She goes, okay. She said, the preacher said that when we accept Jesus as our Savior, God comes into our lives. She goes, that's true. She goes, if he is so bigger than us, but we accept Jesus our Savior, God comes into our lives. She says, it looks like to me that God would show through. If he's bigger than we are and he's in us, he would show through. You know what I think the beatitudes are? God showing through. He's bigger than we are. And we die to self and we yield ourselves to the Lord and say, Lord, you fill me with your spirit. You control my life. I'm yielded to you. And God produces this blessedness and he changes our lives So we're no longer proud, but now we're meek. We're no longer contentious, but now we're peacemakers. We're no longer living in sin and hunger and thirst out of unrighteousness. Now we want to be pure and clean and right. When God is in us. So here's my challenge. Number one, we need to know that we've accepted Jesus Christ as our personal Savior. If we're not saved, these do not apply to us. And by the way, if if you're not saved, you need to get saved tonight. It's too risky. It's too dangerous. Die in your sins, separated from God for all eternity. Don't risk that. You need to accept Christ tonight. Now those of us who have accepted Jesus Christ our personal Savior, we need to come to the end of ourselves. We need to come to the point where it's no longer I that lives Christ lives in me. I need to die to self And yield, my well, I've been trying to run this show myself, I've been trying to live this life myself, and I'm unhappy and and uh I'm not blessed in a spiritual sense as God addresses it And I want Jesus Christ to have full reign in my life. Not just save my soul, but control my life. And that's a matter of our will yielding over to Him. So if we're not there, if we're holding on, we're resisting God's will in our lives. Let's let's let go. Let Christ have his way. Let him fill you with his spirit. And boy, he can change us and mold us and make us what ought to be. August 25th, 1985. I nailed, I say this often, but I nailed an old-fashioned order down at Highland Park Baptist Church. I've been preaching, witnessing, winning souls. I was director of a large Sunday school department at Highland Park. But I had never just let go and said, Lord, not my plans anymore, not my will anymore. I just yielded all to you. And that night I did. Now it's a continual work, you've got to work at it, but that was a significant event in my life. I felt like that point I had completely presented myself to Christ, I was his. And that's what I think the Beatitudes are all about. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would help us not live by this world's principles, not live by this world's values, but God help us to see how it really is. I pray that we could incorporate these truths, that they would be true in our life as we trust you and follow you, have faith in you, and let you lead us and direct us. I wonder with our heads bound and eyes closed how many would say tonight, Preacher, you know I know I'm saved, there's no doubt about it. But as far as my total will yielded over to the Lord, there's some areas I'm struggling with, there's some areas that I have a tendency to hold on to and try and run it myself. And you'd say tonight, preacher, I'd like for you to pray with me that God will help me. Just let Him have His way in every single area of my life. No holds barred just everything Jesus Christ, His will and His will alone. Is there any like that tonight? Say, preacher, I just got these ears. I'm telling you, it's an ongoing struggle. It really is.