James chapter five. James chapter number five. We're working our way through the book of James, and um I've thoroughly enjoyed this. I'm going to read I'm actually going to read uh a section of this. We're going to look um my message is actually on verse ten and eleven, but tonight I think we're just gonna look at verse ten, just have the first point of my message, uh rather than giving all three points of I'm just going to look at the first point. Don't get too excited. There's 72 subpoints under that, so um, but I'm going to try and just section it down a little bit. But I want to read through uh beginning in verse 7 And down through verse number 11 and kind of keep the context here. James chapter 5. Got a message here just before the service. Lewis Howe. uh down in New Zealand. Of course for them it's actually tomorrow afternoon down there. Uh it's about uh 1 30 in the afternoon, Monday afternoon there. So uh yesterday for them, which is today for us um is uh was their Sunday service. They baptized his I think it's his first baptism. They had two two young men that uh were baptized And it's exciting. I got to meet the fellas while I was there and actually spent a good bit of time with one of the fellas that uh is um pretty new in the faith and he's really grown exciting And so uh that was a real blessing to see if these guys followed. Of course they don't have a baptistry in their building, they lease a community building type thing there, and so they had to go out into a harbor from the ocean there, a little back harbor And um I just got a message before church that when he was baptizing the one fella, um a crab snapped onto his leg while or his foot while they were getting baptized. And so um the devil was in a crab trying to keep him from getting baptized, I guess. I don't know. The devil took the form of a serpent, you know, so I guess he could be a crab Verse 7, James 5. Be patient, therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold the husbandman which waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth. And hath long patience for it until he received the early and latter reign. Be ye also patient. Stablish your heart, for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. Grudge not one against another, brethren, lest ye be condemned. Behold, the judge standeth before the door. Take my brethren, the prophets, who have spoken in the name of the Lord, for an example of suffering affliction, and patience. Behold, we count them happy which endure. You have heard the patience of Job and have seen the end of the Lord, that the Lord is very pitiful and of tender mercy. Now I want to look at verse ten and eleven is my message And I entitled it Happiness, the happiness of endurance. I get that from verse 11 there, where he says, Behold, we count them happy which endure. But uh I want to uh just zero in tonight and just gonna give my first thought, verse number ten, and uh we'll look at that. So let's pray and we'll uh share some thoughts with you. Father in heaven, thank you again for a good day. Lord, it just seems like The Lord's Day is such a blessing each week and it goes by so quickly. And we ask that the experiences we had today, the lessons we've learned, the messages we've heard, the songs we've sung, the fellowship I pray all this would linger on in our hearts and our lives in the coming days and weeks and months and even years. I pray that you would just continually chip away. at our spiritual well-being and that we would grow and develop and be the individuals and the church that you intend for us to be. Don't leave us alone, I pray, Lord And I ask now as we look at this portion of Scripture that your Holy Spirit would open our hearts and minds, that we would understand what you're saying, and then you would apply it to our lives as you know that we have need. I, Lord, present myself and I present my body anew, Lord, to you. Yield myself and ask that you would fill me with your spirit. I pray, Lord, that you would speak through me To each of our hearts and have your way in Jesus' name, Amen. The more I study the book of James, the more I like the man James I would like to think that in studying this, I would like to think that I know him a little bit, that maybe if I would meet him and see what he's like, spend a little bit of time with James, I might to myself say, you know, I kinda thought he was that type of person. I kinda thought he was that way. And I'm trying to, as we go through here, get a feel for his personality I think, this is where I'm at now as we're getting into the, towards the end of James chapter 5, and the end of the book, I feel like James is a very passionate man. Very passionate man, and by that I mean this. I believe James loved God's people dearly. I believe he had a real heart for the people of God. He uses a term throughout the book many, many times. Brethren, my dearly beloved brethren, my brethren, beloved brethren. That's a term of endearment That tells me that he loves the people of God. And I'm thrilled to hear testimonies of folks and several tonight. And over the years we've heard of folks saying, I feel like this is a family. I feel like we have here is people love each other, that we're welcome, we're accepted here. I'm telling you, that is a result of the presence of God. And James has a heart for that. He loves God's people dearly. And as you look at it carefully, the subjects he addresses I get the feeling that he had a special place in his heart for the brethren, the people of God who were going through trials And going through difficulties. He seems like he has a special application in his writing for those. If you remember back in chapter one, he makes that tremendous statement Verse number um twelve. He says, Blessed is the man that endureth what? Temptation. For when he is tried, you shall receive the crown of life which the Lord has promised to them that love him. It's like, and all through the book, he's like he's given special encouragement. You're going through a trial, you're going through temptations, you're enduring hardness. You hang in there You stay at it, you stay faithful, God will bless you, God will honor you for that. And so I see a man that's very, very passionate for the people of God, has a real love For God's people. But I also see when I study the book of James, I see a man who's very practical. You look at what he says. There's very little theological teaching here. Now it's there underlying, but most of the teaching, most of his writing consists of very practical things. Do this, don't do that. Be like this, don't be like that And very practical in his application. I get the impression that James viewed Christianity as something that is to be lived. Christianity is to be a lifestyle. It is the governor of my behavior. My relationship with God governs my behavior. In other words, Christianity in the book of James and Rowy through the Bible is more than just something we talk about. It's more than something we just sing about, but our Christianity is to be lived out. Monday morning, no different. My Christianity is no different Monday morning than it is Sunday morning. My Christianity is no different in the church house than it is in the house where I live at. My Christianity is to be lived. He's very practical. It's not just being Christian is not just a title I tack onto myself, some sort of identification I use. Well I'm a Christian For James, and really, as I said, all through scripture, it's much more than just an identification, more than just a title. It is a life. It is who I am, it's what I am. And so he's a very passionate man, and he's a very practical man when it comes to living the Christian life. So this book is of tremendous value. So we look at it and study it and read it and memorize it and try and apply it to our lives. Now, as I mentioned, it seems like he has a heart for God's people who are going through trials. And in this passage I read, he deals with this issue of patience. I think one of the greatest challenges in the Christian life is developing patience. Can I get a witness? How many people wish you were a little more patient than what you are? Alright, that's part of the crap. How many wish your spouse was more patient than they are? Yeah, I got a lot more on that one. I thought so Patience. One of the greatest challenges in my Christian life is learning to develop patience. How many people want patience right now? Yeah, we want it right now. Preacher, uh pray at the altar and I'll be patient. There was a young man, went to an older Christian, young man was growing, he was new in the li the Christian life, he got saved, he wanted to live for God, he wanted to be committed to Christ And he realized he was a very impatient person and he knew that wasn't good and he knew I needed to develop this patience and I needed to be uh better at this. And so he went to an older Christian in the church and he said, I have a prayer request. He drew him aside. He says, I would like for you to pray for me. He says, son, I'll pray. What is it? What do you need? He goes, would you pray with me and for me that God would teach me to be patient? And he says, okay. He says, let's pray right now. So they slipped up to the altar and they knelt at the altar. The old man began praying. He says, Dear Lord. My brother here, my young brother, wants to be patient. He needs patience. So I pray that tomorrow morning, first thing in the morning, you would send him a tremendous trial. The boy opened his eyes. And he said, Lord, and then when he after that's over, about lunchtime, I pray you'd send him another horrific trial and difficulty. The boy is thinking, wait a minute. He says, then Lord, before he goes to bed at night, send him another trial and another difficulty. And Lord, and the boy says, stop He goes, what are you doing? I didn't pray for trials. I didn't want you to pray for trials. I wanted you to pray that I'd be patient. And the wise old man said, the way you learn patience is by going through trials. You want to be patient, you need to deal with trials. And that's what James is telling us here in this section. He tells us that patience is a very, very difficult virtue to develop. It's a very difficult Christian character, but it is very necessary. If I'm going to be a strong Christian, if I'm going to be a Christian that God can use that God can bless, that has an influence in this world, that matures and grows, and I'm everything God intends for me to be, I have got to develop patience. It's vital. The word patience, as we pointed out in a previous message, is used five times in five verses here. In fact, I took a little blue highlighter and I highlighted the word patience all down through here. Five times. In five verses, patience, patience, patience, patience. It's important, and it's vital for us to develop it Benjamin Franklin said, He that can have patience can have whatever he wants. You have to think about that a little bit. If I can learn to be patient, I can probably earn uh end up getting pretty much whatever I want if I learn to be patient. There's an old Greek proverb saying, one minute of patience is worth ten years of peace. There's a Dutch proverb, I like this one, there's a Dutch proverb that says, a handful of patients is worth a bucket of brains. Handful of patience worth a bucket of brains. The Chinese proverb says, and this is true, listen to this one. One moment of patience may prevent a disaster. But one moment of impatience could ruin a lifetime. Think about that I could prevent a disaster by being patient, or if I get impatient, I could destroy my lifetime. I've often said this over the years. I can destroy in five minutes a testimony that took me 22 years to establish an impatience is often the culprit in destroying testimonies. I think they're on to something. There is another proverb that says, patience is the ability to put up with people you'd like to put down. Another proverb says, patience is accepting, I like this one, patience is accepting a difficult situation without giving God a deadline to remove it. Putting up with a difficult situation without giving God a deadline to remove it. Patience. Patience. Peter Marshall said, patience, he said, waiting on uh waiting and being patient is often harder than working. I agree with that. How many people are like me, you tend to think if there's a situation, rather than just being patient, I want to get into it, all right, let's fix this, let's go, let's get this taken care of. Can I get a witness there? Anything like that? You know, sometimes waiting is a whole lot better than working. Sometimes just being patient is better than rather than diving in and uh and doing harm. Joni Erickson today, which know her and her uh her uh physical trials she faced, she said this, I like this She said, the times that we have to wait on others are perfect opportunities to train ourselves to wait on God. Did you get that? The time that we have to wait on others for whatever reason, we have to wait on them, use that as an opportunity to train myself to wait on God. To wait on God. So, fellas, Sunday morning when you're out in the car blowing the horn, uh, waiting on your wife to come out, just use that as an opportunity to wait on God. That that was supposed to be funny. Never mind that I want us to notice here verse number 10. I'll get to our first point. Verse number 10, I want us to notice the example of the prophets. And then we're going to look, Lord willing, next Sunday night perhaps. We'll look at the endurance of patience And then we're going to notice the example of Job. But first of all, I want to start to notice the example of the prophets. Verse number 10: Take my brethren. Now the subject is patience. Verse 9, he dealt a severe blow to grudging one another. He rebuked that sharply. But he's back on the subject. He's continuing this idea of being patient. And he says, verse 10: Take my brethren The prophets who have spoken in the name of the Lord, look at this, for an example of suffering affliction and of patience. He goes, here's what I want you to do. I want you to go to the prophets of God and study them and look at them and notice some things about them and use them as an example of how to uh of how to uh suffer affliction as a person of God, a child of God, and how to be patient. The word example there, he says, uh um he says uh uh Spoken of for an example of suffering infliction. The word example there simply means this. Set them up as a pattern to be followed. How many people know what a template is? A template. Use it in art and I think on uh a lot of computer programs I'll have a template. Everything's in place. You just fill in your details on that. And he says, I want you to take the prophets who have spoken the word of God and use them as an example, as a template. On how you should suffer through affliction and develop patience. In other words, take their template, fill in your details And follow the pattern that they have established. I want to suggest to you that, as we're given here The greatest examples of spiritual disciplines are found in the Word of God If you and I want to know how to behave as a child of God, the best place to go to, for examples, is the Word of God. And look at how the people of God recorded in the Word of God behave, and we set that as a pattern for ourselves. In fact, the Corinthians tells us that the whole Old Testament was written for our examples. That we would know how to behave ourselves, that we would know how to live. So he's following this principle and he's going into the scriptures To the prophets who have spoken in the name of the Lord, he says, use them for an example as a pattern. Now who are the prophets We can, just to oversimplify what he's talking about here, the prophets were simply God's spokesmen throughout the Old Testament. That's who he's referring to. Somebody named for me some of the Old Testament prophets, some of the Old Testament spokesmen that God had. Name some. Elijah first comes to mind. Who else? Isaiah, tremendous. Samuel, Jeremiah, think of Ezekiel, we think of Moses is actually referred to as a prophet. David is referred to as a prophet. So he says, I want you. We deal with patience. We're not grudging one against another. I want you to go to these Old Testament prophets, these Old Testament spokesmen for God. And we're going to set them up as a template. We're going to fill our details in on this pattern that they have set for us, and we want to follow that. So let's look at them. Here's my three thoughts under this. These prophets of God as an example. Number one, they are an example of service. Look with me again at verse 10. Take my brethren of prophets who have spoken in the name of the Lord. That was their calling in life. That was their ministry. That was their service to God to speak in the name of the Lord Now God has given to all of us a ministry. You say, preacher, I'm just saved and uh I don't have a ministry. No, no. God has a ministry for you. Whether you're involved in it or not is up to you. But God has a ministry for every single person. And this was their ministry, was to speak in the name of the Lord. That was their service for God. Now, the point I think was being made here is this: these are not men who were inactive. These were men who were actively serving God. These were men who were involved In serving the Lord. Their lives were committed to live for God, to serve God. They were devoted to the Lord. They were not just people who were just idly sitting by doing nothing, uh um uh spectator Christians, so to speak. That's not what they were. He says, don't use them for an example. I want you to look at these men who are actually serving God, who are actually active in the ministry. Who are actually living for the Lord, who have a purpose and a calling in their life, and they're involved in that. I want you to set them up as a pattern. God has nothing positive to say about spiritual sluggards. You read through scriptures, particularly Proverbs, and God has nothing positive to say about people who will not be involved. in the things of God. People who are sluggers that sit on the sidelines and never get involved and are never apart and never contribute. God has nothing positive to say. Now he loves them dearly, as a plan, and get involved and be a part. But when God sets people up for an example for you and I, He says, I want you to follow this pattern I want you to follow this template. He always uses people who are actively serving God, who are actively living for the Lord. I would suggest that you and I stay away from anyone or anything that draws us away from Christian service. If there is somebody that ridicules my service for God, if there is somebody that ridicules my involvement in the things of God and serving the Lord and being a witness If somebody tries to distract me from that or draw me away from that or uh uh hinder me in any way from living and serving uh uh my God, I ought to stay away from that God never holds up inactive, idle, sl uh lazy people. As an example, I want you to follow them. He always beges to those who are actively serving God. We need to be very, very careful. Stay away from anything that discourages Christian service. And you say, oh, nobody would ever discourage you from living for God. Huh. I found when I was youth pastor in Indianapolis, and I'm I don't Trust this isn't the case here. I don't believe it is. I'm not aware of any specific situation, but we saw it first hand we were in Indianapolis. We'd take the young people off on a conference And man, God would get a hold of them. We did basically the same thing that Brother Grant Christa does. We'd take them off the conferences and powerful preaching. I mean to tell you, some of those meetings, God was all over those meetings And I mean conviction would settle down. And those young people, many times we saw them at altars crying and weeping and making decisions. I'm going to change this and I want to do this and I want I want my uh I'm gonna read my Bible every day. I'm gonna get out soul-winning, I'm gonna dress the way God wants me to dress, I'm gonna stay away from places God doesn't want me. And I mean young people would make good, solid, strong decisions For Christ, they want to live for God. They would come back. And to my dismay A lot of times it was other quote-unquote Christians in the youth group would give them a hard time. They would make fun of them and mock them sometimes because they made decisions they're going to live for God. And other kids in the church. In the church. We're trying to discourage them and drag them down. Listen, my suggestion is stay away from that kind of Christianity. Stay away from that. Can I tell you something that's even more disturbing? Sometimes those young people would come home on fire for God, living for the Lord, made solid decisions. Sometimes mom and dad Would pour water all over that. And we would see within days sometimes that fire that God had started in their heart and soul completely extinguished Because mom and dad pour water all over that. Isn't that sad? I'm saying to you, somebody's living for God. They're on fire for God. Don't pour water on it. Man, fan that flame. Don't pour water on it, pour gasoline on it. Get these young people. That's what the world does. You get a you get a young person take one step for the world, and that world will get behind them and say, Come on, let's go with it Let's take this thing as far as we can go. You get a young person make a decision for Christ, and the tragic thing is many times Christians, sometimes even family members, will say, Ah, let's put that thing out We ought to, in this case, follow the example of the world and get behind them and say, listen, you made a decision for great, let's take this thing all the way. Let's take this as far as God will go. Amen? And so James says here, listen, I want you to take these prophets that have spoken the Word of God. They're actively serving, they're doing what God has called them to do, and you use them for an example And what we want to do is we want to be active in the service of the Lord. We want to serve God and be faithful to Him. So the first point I see here, this example of the prophets, under the heading of patience is that we follow their example in service. And I see a second aspect of these guys he sets up as an example for us. Take my brethren the prophets who have spoken in the name of the Lord for an example of suffering affliction So not only do we follow their example in service, living for God, serving, being active, by the way, let me throw this in there. We have a great opportunity to be active in the service of the Lord this coming month with chat month Every single person, Mount Lake, from the smallest child to the most senior citizen, can get involved in track, might take gospel tracts and give them out one way or another. So we can follow their example. We speak the word of the Lord through gospel literature. And so that was my track month advertisement. Now back to regular programming. Now we have the example of service, but we also have the example of suffering. Suffering. I said we don't have any example of men of God, women of God, people of God in the Bible, that God sets up an example who were lazy. I want to take another statement. I see no examples of men and women of God in the Bible who lived a life of ease. Not one that God used. Not one of the prophets of God, not one of the men and women that God used throughout Scripture went through life and escaped suffering. Escaped sorrow. Escaped difficulty. In fact, the ones that God used went through intense suffering. Not one record of a prophet of God serving God in ease, serving God without trials. Not one record do I have here where God holds up a man or woman of God and says, I want you to set this person as a pattern And that person continually made excuses as to why they cannot do what God has instructed them to do. He never puts that up for an example. He doesn't say be like this person, they make all kinds of excuse, and they have all these reasons why they can't suffer and it's too hard to do this and it's too bad to do that and it hurts too much to do this, and I can't do this. He never does that. He says these guys suffered affliction. Now listen, I I want to be careful here. I don't want to come across wrong. I'm not saying if somebody has physical limitations, I'm not discussing that. I'm talking about people looking for excuses not to serve God. Those people looking for a life of ease. I want to live for God, but I don't want it to cost me anything. I want to serve God, but I don't want it to hurt. I want to serve God, but I want it to be easy and pleasurable and luxurious to serve God. I look through scripture, I can't find that. I can't find that You find this idea of God, God's will for every person that they be healthy and wealthy and live in prosperity and live in luxury, that is foreign to Scripture. And there's huge movements within the that that go on in the name of Christianity that are promoting this idea that God wants everybody wealthy, that God wants everybody to be rich. that God wants everybody to have perfect health. That is not true. The people God used went through horrendous trials and suffering affliction. And it is the exact contrary to what is very popular in Christianity today. You have no health and wealth, prosperity preaching from these men and women of God, not like you see on the television today I look through the scriptures. I can't find anywhere where Isaiah tried to raise money up for a $65 million jet. There's a very famous preacher in the United States asking his people, his followers, to donate so he can get a $65 million debt Hmm. That'd be interesting. But um you follow what I'm saying? He's saying these guys are an example not of luxury, not of ease, not of prosperity, not of of uh of luxury. These guys are example of suffering affliction. Take your Bible with me, if you would, and turn to Hebrews chapter number 11. How many folks are familiar with Hebrews 11? The great hall of faith, we like to call it that. Some people call it the Hall of Fame. I like to call it the Hall of Faith. You go through the Chapter 11 of Hebrews, by faith, Abraham, by faith, Abel, by faith, Jonah, by faith, uh, Moses, by faith, by faith, by faith. And all these amazing things that God did through these men and women who just trusted him and followed his instructions, who just had faith in him, then you get to the end of the chapter and beginning in verse number 32. He's going down through this great list of people that trust in God and the things that God did through him. And look at verse 32. And what shall I more say? For the time would fail me to tell of Gideon and of Barak and of Samson and of Jephthah. And of David also, and Samuel, and of the prophets. Look at this. Who through faith, now he gives the positive side of the coin, so to speak. Who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions Quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens The women received their dead, raised to life again, and others. I circled that phrase, and others. Now it changes. And others were what tortured, not accepting deliverance. I will not renounce my faith. You can torture me, and I will not deny my Savior. That was their attitude. That doesn't sound like health, wealth, and prosperity to me. Who are examples, he says in James, of suffering, affliction, torture, not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection and others. I circled that. Had trial, cruel mockings, and scourgings. Yea, moreover, of bonds and imprisonment, they were stoned, they were sawn asunder. They were tempted, they were slain with the sword, they wandered about in sheepskin and goatskins being destitute, afflicted, tormented, of whom the world was not worthy. Wow. He says, I want you to take these prophets who have spoken the word of God without compromise by uh and without uh compromise in any way, being willing to be sown asunder. I want you to set them up as an example of what it means to be patient, of what it means to live for God. So he says, first of all, I want to, these prophets of God, these spokesmen for God, these people who were serving God, I want you to follow their service. They spoke the Word of God. I want you to follow as an example their suffering. Now we know very little of suffering in the United States of America. Who knows? That day may come. I pray it doesn't. I appreciate Brother Chuck Harding. We're with him this week. He'll be with us in August. And he prays every day. And I appreciate this. his heart on this. He says, I pray every day that God will postpone his judgment of America. And I join with him in that prayer. We know little what it is to be suffering. I wonder how many of us, us, would stand faithful in the face of what some of these men and women of God have gone through in years gone by. If we knew what giving out gospel tracts would cost us in this type of situation we just read, would we be so bold? Would we be so courageous if it really cost us something physically, physical suffering to live for God? He says, I want you to set them up as an example. They're a template, they're a pattern to follow in this matter of service, this matter of suffering, and this is the last one, this is what I want to end with, and this is where the real challenge is. In their example of steadfastness. Their service, their suffering, their steadfastness. Come back to James chapter 5 here again. Verse 10, take my brethren, the prophets, who have spoken in the name of the Lord. That's their service. For an example of suffering affliction, that's their suffering, and of what? Patience. The word patience there is translated other places in Scripture and means this? It means steadfastness. What does it mean if somebody is steadfast? It also had the idea of this, of being long-suffering. The word long-suffering actually defines itself. Long suffering means that I suffer a long time. Just stay in it. I'm not going to abandon. I'm not going to compromise. I'm not going to give in. I'm just going to stay in it. And if it means suffering a long time, I'm going to suffer a long time. Steadfastness, long-suffering. I like this idea, and I think this is what he's addressing here in the word patience. Being slow to react. Being slow to react. Somebody says something I don't like, boom, I react on the spot. Patience, the steadfastness, is being very slow to react. Um He says, I want you to follow these prophets of God. They were very steadfast. They were very long-suffering. They were slow to react to the opposition of things of God. They wouldn't give up. They wouldn't quit just on a dye. They stayed at it. They were patient. They were patient. They were patient. What he's saying here is this, and this is my challenge tonight to myself and all of to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. This is my challenge. Determine, let's just determine what the will of God is for us, and then just not quit. Amen? I want to know what God's will is for my life. And when I determine what God's will is for my life, then I'm going to do that and not quit and just keep doing it. And keep doing it and keep doing it. That's steadfast. I'm just going to stay at it. If it's popular, I'm going to do the will of God. If it's unpopular, I'm going to do the will of God. If people praise me, I want to do the will of God. If people criticize me and condemn me and threaten me, I want to do the will of God. That's what these men of God were, these prophets. They couldn't shake them. Jeremiah. They say, if you tell that king what God says, if it's not a pleasant report, we're going to throw you in prison. He says, I've got to say what God says. They threw him in a muddy, miry prison. He almost died until God intervened, had a fellow pull him out. Patience, steadfastness. Actually, I mentioned Jeremiah. Actually, Jeremiah being a man toyed with the idea of quitting. He said, I I I made a decision, I'm putting my own words here, but he said, I made the decision, I'm not going to speak the word of God anymore. I'm getting harassed, I'm getting threatened, I get so much opposition for declaring the word of God, I'm not saying God's word anymore. I'm done. You know what he said? He said, God's word was a fire burning in my soul, and I could not keep my mouth shut. And James says, I want you to follow those guys for an example of patience, steadfast, staying at it. Staying at it. Winston Churchill, how many people recognize that name? Great leader of England, years ago, amazing man. I wished he'd have gotten saved. I don't think he did. But he was an amazing leader, tremendous man in every respect of the word, uh apart from his Spiritually. But he spoke at a place called the Harrow School, and I don't know much about the school. On a uh let's see, what was the date? I think I have it here. On October 29, 1941 World War II was just getting hot and Russia or Germany was doing their thing and uh England was paying a price involved in the opposition to that. And he spoke to these young people. And this was his speech. I love this. Maybe you've heard this. This was his speech to the young people at the Harrow School, October 29, 1941. Never ever ever ever ever ever give up. Never give up, never give up, never give up And that was his speech. I said that's pretty good advice. And later on he went and explained, says, establish your convictions. This was him talking, establish your convictions and never give up. Don't ever quit. Don't ever quit. And I'm saying to you and I, God has set up these Old Testament men and women of God And they would not quit. If it meant being thrown in a fiery furnace, we are not going to compromise. We are not going to quit on God. If it means being thrown in a fire in a lion's den I am not going to quit. If it means being ridiculed and rejected, if it means having the king the queen of the s of the country, Jezebel, threaten me and and I'm not going to quit Steadfastness, steadfastness. There's a lot of things that I cannot do that I am not good at. There's a lot of things I am unable to do. One of them is home repairs. God have mercy on my wife. And uh she has to tolerate that. But uh I I'm there's a lot of things I cannot do. I readily acknowledge that I'm not the sharpest knife in the drawer. And that is not the time to say amen. I just thank God I'm in the drawer. But there's one thing I can do. I can be persistent. I might not can run as fast as a rabbit, but I can keep going. And keep going and keep going and keep going. going. I might not be the greatest preacher in the country, but I can be a faithful preacher. Amen? I might not be the greatest soul winner in the world, but I can be a faithful soul winner. I might not be the most elegant talking to people about Jesus Christ, and I might not be the most tactful at giving out gospel tracts. But one thing I can do, I can be faithful Giving out those tracks and witnessing. And that's what he's saying. You stay fed. Don't quit. Don't quit. Determine the will of God and don't quit I can be steadfast, I can be faithful, I can be persistent, I can go and I can get my nose in this book and find out what God's will is for me and then just do it and do it and do it and not quit. And on my dying day, I'm in the will of God. I'm in the will of God. Amen? I'll say to young people. If your mom or dad's not saved or they're away from the Lord, you pray and you pray and don't you quit praying until God gets a hold of them. If you have a child that's away from God or unsaved or out there, I'm telling you, it's God's will for you to pray that they come to grace. And you just pray and pray and pray and pray and pray and on your dying breath, pray! God save my child. God saved my daughter. God saved my son. A lot of things we can't do, but one thing we can do is be faithful. Be steadfast. Be long. You say, give me a hard time at work. I I try to pray in my lunch, I bring my Bible, I try and live for God, I try and keep my mouth clean. I try and stay away. And they give me a hard time. Give me a hard time. Give me a hard time. Listen, you may not be able to change their behavior, but you can do one thing. You can stay faithful to Christ. You set these men up as an example of steadfastness. Keep witnessing, giving out those gospel tracts, keep serving God, keep doing right. I mentioned this morning, and I stand again tonight, and I say thank God for a daddy who refused to quit praying for his son. To this day, I could call him up right now. I would say, Daddy, did you pray for me today? And as honest as a person can be, he would say, I prayed for you today. Without fail. Listen, a lot of things I can't do. Maybe some things you can't do. One thing all of us can do is be faithful to God. First day of spring. We're coming out of this weather, Lord willing days are getting longer and weather's getting nicer by around July it'll start getting out of frost and snow. Let's just determine as we start out this part of here. Let's just determine I'm going to be faithful to God. Not going to react Just going to find the will of God and just get at it and do it and do it and do it. I'm going to pray. I'm going to witness. I'm going to do right. I'm going to hold convictions. I'm going to I'm just going to stay at it, be patient, steadfast, stay at it. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us, Lord. Help us, Lord, of nothing else, to be faithful. Just not quit. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say tonight, preacher, I want to be faithful to God with all my heart. I want to stay at this thing and grow and be the man, the woman God wants me to be. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Oh, I want to be faithful. I want to be faithful. I feel like a cheerleader tonight just saying to God's people, let's stay at it. Don't quit. Stay at it. We're going to hold to the old book. We're going to hold to the fundamental doctrines. We're going to hold to the good old convictions and standards. We're not going to give up on that. Hands all crossed. Is there someone here tonight that said, preacher, I don't know for sure when I die, I'm going to heaven. I thank God for a savior who didn't quit and endured the cross. The joy that was set for him. Any at all this evening? Say preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm saved. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Any at all? Father, you you know our hearts. A lot of hands went up. I believe all of us, no doubt, want to stay faithful, want to be, and fulfill your will to our dying breath. We need your help, Lord. We need you to stir us, motivate us to be faithful, steadfast. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together our heads about eyes are closed. Jennifer's want to play a few verse of invitation before