Here I don't have the cordless, so I'll just try and I'll get a little leash and tie myself to this thing. Matthew chapter five. While you're turning there, I got a nice letter today. No, actually I believe it was yesterday. Um, from uh State Senator Robert Cassilli. And you know, each week we pray for one of these guys through and uh always send a letter each week let 'em know we prayed for them and Uh we give 'em a tract and offer our services to 'em if we can help them anyway spiritually. I never uh I take it back. I had one other um Senator was a lady, she had her secretary call and thanked us for it. But I never hear anything from him. But this came in the mail from Robert Kissilli from Hartford Hartford County. Is that your old stomping grounds, Betty? Next door. Says Pastor Dennis Leatherman, Congregation of the Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, my sincere appreciation for the prayers you and your congregation are offering for those of us selected to serve in positions of authority in Maryland and throughout this nation. And we kinda explained to them what we're doing. It is especially appropriate during this Christmas season and beyond, at this time in our world events To remember that while we serve our earthly citizens, we must also answer to a higher expectation. I thought that was interesting Knowing your prayers and supporting me and my colleagues as we struggle through the hard decisions we must make helps me feel more confident that we can find a way. Please extend my personal thanks to your congregation. Isn't that nice? And so I don't know anything about the fellow. I can't tell you anything more than I just read, but um that says something to me there that he would take the time and he recognizes the So it makes a difference. And uh we'll keep on praying and we'll keep on uh trying to uh influence impact these fellows and ladies. Matthew chapter five, we're at the end of the chapter. This is the s this is the greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached. The Sermon on the Mount by the Lord Jesus Christ. And verse number 45 begins, he says, That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven, for he maketh his son to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same? And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others? Do not even the publicans so Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. Now I'm taking that verse 48. We're going to look at a couple verses leading up to it, but I'm taking that verse 48. And I'm presenting that tonight as the Christian standard. That is the standard that Jesus Christ gives to us that as children of God we are to live by. Be ye therefore perfect. Even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. So let's pray. We'll try and figure out what he's talking about here. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our time in your word as we finish out this chapter. I ask that uh you'd stir our hearts And that the reality of who we are in Christ would grip us and it would affect our life and our interaction with one another and with strangers. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit tonight I pray I present my body anew and pray that you would just speak through me. Be our teacher, Lord, be our preacher. Preach this message again, Lord, through me. And uh help us to respond in faith. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Keep saying this every time we come back here. We have little gaps in between our study. But um The Pharisees, their faith, their relationship with God was very superficial. I keep saying that. It was surface only. It was outward show. In fact, all through the Gospels, Jesus rebuked the Pharisees sharply because they're just putting on a show. They're getting the praise of man. They're looking good. They're worried about looking good And they're really not concerned about their relationship with God. So their relationship with God was superficial. And because of that, their relationship with other people was very superficial. The relationship with God was superficial, and that translated into a very superficial surface relationship with other people. It's interesting Now remember, we come back to verse number 20, where he tells his disciples, he says, your righteousness has to exceed the righteousness of who? These Pharisees. These guys just putting on a show. He says, if that's all your righteousness is, is what these Pharisees got, you're coming up short. You don't have genuine righteousness Then he goes and he gives six different scenarios here where he's illustrating what genuine he's illustrating how genuine righteousness plays out. Now if you look at each six of these, one begins the first one begins in verse 21, the second one 27, then down for 31, then 33, then verse 38, and the last one is in verse 43 He says, You have heard it been said, but I say unto you, he gives these six different scenarios. Now if you'll look at them very carefully, and I don't know uh I didn't really bring this out as we were going through. Notice every one of them Deals with our interactions with other people. Did you notice that? Every one of them has to do with me interacting with other people. None of them, none of those scenarios, these illustrations the Lord gives, not one of them addresses directly my relationship with God. Now he says, that's interesting to me because he says your righteousness has to exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees. Then he goes and gives seven six illustrations of what he's talking about And every one of them addresses my relationship this way. None of them directly address my relationship with God. And I wonder why that is. Why if if my r if he's addressing my righteousness, it looks like he would be dealing with my standing before God and my prayer life and you know, my holiness and and uh the uh and doing right and not sinning. But he doesn't address that Uh and not directly, it's all getting along, not hating person, uh, not committing adultery, not even thinking lustfully, not divorcing my spouse, uh being kind to those who are unkind to me, letting my what I tell people that my words are true and honest. Every one of them deals with interactions with other people So I come to this conclusion as we get to the end of this section here, I come to this conclusion that this whole passage is showing us how genuine How genuinely righteous people deal with other people. This is how righteous people act This is how righteous people interact. Not only do they not murder people, they didn't even let anger get involved. Not only do not commit adultery, they don't even lust. Not only do they, uh he goes down here, not only do they just tell the truth under circumstances circumstances, they tell the truth all the time. And so, how a genuinely righteous person deals with people. Now, again, I come to this conclusion. The quality of my Christianity And my attitude and my actions towards other people are inseparable. If I understand what he's saying here, and John actually touches on this on 1 John The quality of my relationship with God and my attitudes and my interactions with people are inseparable If my if my if um if my interaction and attitudes with uh my brother and sister in Christ or anybody, even my enemies he addresses, if that's not what it ought to be, then my relationship here, my spiritual maturity is not what it ought to be And so it's very, very much dependent upon our attitude and our action towards others. And so he comes down, he gives these six illustrations. And he gets to verse 48, and as I said at the beginning, he gives us what I believe is the standard for Christian conduct. Be ye therefore perfect. Because of everything that's been said, all these illustrations and uh all this explanation, this teaching, as a result of that, therefore Be perfect even as your Father in heaven is perfect. Now, how many folks, you look at that statement, you look at that, and you say, impossible. Anybody see that? How in the world am I as perfect as God in heaven is? Look at it very, very carefully. It doesn't say be as perfect as God is, does it? Look at it very carefully. It doesn't say that. It says, be ye therefore perfect what? Even as your father, which is in heaven, is perfect. Doesn't say, be ye therefore as perfect as your father in heaven. So the wording here is very, very careful. It is very, very important. Be ye therefore perfect even as That phrase there tells us what he's talking about. When he uses the term even as rather than saying be as perfect It says, be therefore perfect even as. He's talking about not in the degree of my perfection. Nobody can be as perfect as God. Not even the angels in heaven are as perfect as God. God is perfect in knowledge. You know there's some things angels don't know So they're not as perfect as God. The only being in existence that can and that is as perfect as God is God Nothing else. Everything else in existence falls short. So what he's saying here is not the degree of my perfection, but the likeness of my perfection. In other words, um Uh this may come as a shock to you, but I really can't run that fast. I mean I may uh for a man my age and my size, I'd probably do all right, but I really can't run that fast But suppose we had an athlete here, and he's an Olympian, and he says, and he says to me, Leatherman, run as fast as I do. What's gonna happen? It ain't gonna happen. I'm gonna fall short. He's gonna blow me away. But what if he says this? Run the way I do. Follow my form. Run even as I do, in the same way I run, the same form I take, and the same strides and all of that. I can't be as fast as he can But I can do it in the way that he does. Follow what I'm saying? And when so in the Bible, when Jesus is saying to us here, he's saying, here's the sum of everything I'm saying. Therefore, be perfect in the same way. that God in heaven is perfect. You can't be the same degree. There's no way I can be, but I can be perfect in the same way. And of course the word perfect there means uh complete or total. In other words, be what I'm supposed to be in the same way that God is what he is. Now here's the question. Why is God what makes God behave the way he does? God's actions are the fruit of his nature. Let me explain what I mean. God does what he does. Because he is what he is. God only, God only does holy God only behaves in a holy way. Why is that? Because he is holy. And he says, in the same way The things you do, these interactions with other people, don't be like the Pharisees. That's not what they are. They're putting on a show. They're putting on the superficial When you're doing these things, you be them because that's what you are. God does what he does because that's what he is. Let me illustrate what I'm trying to say. Why does God love us? Does God love us because we're lovely? No. I know me. Not that lovely. Does God love us so that he looks good? And so boy, he loves us so everybody looks and says, Oh, God's a loving God. No. He loves us why? Because he is love. It's unconditional. It's what he is. And so let me illustrate this way. Is God merciful to us? Sure he is. Is he mer is he merciful to us because we deserve it? No, we don't deserve his mercies. Um is it because uh he wants to become merciful? Well I'll b I'll show them mercy and then that'll make me merciful. No, it's because that's what he is. And so in the same way, and I I hope I'm able, I was really praying this afternoon that I I hope I'm able to communicate this what I believe is teaching here because I think this is really important in in being a strong in my faith and understanding who I am as a Christian. So in the same way as God is perfect He loves us because he is love. That's what he is. He's merciful to us because he is merciful. That's what he is. That's his nature. It's what he is. In that same way, you and I are to behave as a child of God according to our nature. Look at verse 45, verse A, the first part of verse 45. That you may be, uh Verse 44 says, I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. Why? That ye may be the children of your father which is in heaven. Now he's not saying And if you love your enemies and do good to them, then that'll make you a child of God. That's not what he's saying. But rather that I will behave as a child of God. But I will manifest, I'll be, uh, I'll be behaving the way God behaves. Am I making sense? Uh uh it's kind of a hard concept here. I was trying to hope I can communicate it. That my nature as a Christian, God has put into me a new nature, and that nature is his nature. He's placed into me And when I do these things and behave this way, I'm not doing it for show or just some superficial like the Pharisees, but it's because of what I am. Because what if God has made me And it's a result of that. So be ye perfect, even as your father which is in heaven perfect. I've got two thoughts I kind of squeezed out of this. Number one, a Christian, a genuine Christian. Now you understand there's such a thing as a non-genuine Christian, right? Everybody says they're a Christian doesn't necessarily make them a Christian Christian, that name, a lot of people claim that name. A genuine Christian is distinct from this world. In a lot of ways. You say, right, we're supposed to look different. Yes, and all that. But I'm saying, what I'm trying to say here is more than that, a genuine Christian is distinct and different from this world, not just in how we appear, but in what we are. What our nature is, is so different from what this world, unsaved world is. We are completely, in many ways, completely different beings. Than what this old sinful world is. I think too often we fail to realize how unique a Christian is in this world. We've lived in a quote-unquote Christianized society for so long. Now we've we've a uh somebody put it this way years ago, I don't know who coined this phrase, but It's pretty accurate. It says the world has become so churchy and the church so worldly you can't tell the difference. Now the world's losing its churchiness. But the church is not losing its worldliness. And we've just blended that together that we don't even realize how unique a genuine Christian is in this world. And we've so we're so influenced and we've so adopted the world's thinking and the world's behavior and the world's interaction and the world's treatment of one another that we fail to realize, wait a minute, we are not of this world, we are not the same creature. We have a totally different mat nature. We have a whole totally different makeup than what this world has And uh I'm afraid we fail to realize this. There is no, I like this statement, there is no natural explanation for a genuine Christian. You cannot humanly, you cannot explain what makes a Christian, a real Christian, that's operating according to the new nature God gave them. There's no human explanation for that That is a supernatural thing that took place. That is not something man has worked on. It is something God has done to that person in giving them a divine nature. Notice he says in verse 46, for if you love them which love you, what reward have ye? Now look at this stinging statement he says here. Do not even the what? Publicans are saying. Question. What do you know about the publicans? Tell me what you know about publicans Yeah, they were the tax they were the bottom rungs of society as far as morally goes. These are where these are where the harlots fall in, the drunkards, the thieves I mean, these are people that the world rejects because of their morals. And he says, hey, even the worst of society love those that love them. And so if all your if all your behavior, if what if your interaction with other people is simply I'm going to love those that love me and I'm going to do good to those that do me and I'm going to do good to me and I'm going to bless those that bless me If that's all you do, you're no different than the dregs of society. The publicans. And the implication here as a child of God, as a Christian We are to be so distinctively different than that way of thinking, than that behavior, because of what we are, because of our nature. If you're only kind to those who are kind to you, if you're only patient to with those who are patient with you, we're no different than the world. We're no different than the unsaved. We're no different than the guys in prison that Tom just left a little while ago or goes down to here in a little bit. They have their own code of treatment of each other. Look at verse 47. If ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others? The answer is what? You're not. You're the same as the others. Do not even the publicans so? That word salute means to greet kindly, greet respectfully. The only people I'm going to be kind to and I'm only going to greet respectfully and kindly are the people that respond the same to me, greet me the same way. Then I'm no different than the the guys out living in the streets and carrying on the cr the the meth addicts and stuff. They they're nice to people that are nice to them. Man can come up with that. But we are distinct from the world. As a child of God, if I am a genuine Christian, I am so different than the world, not just outwardly, but in my very nature. And that's what he's getting at through this whole thing here. This is how genuine Christians act and it is distinct from the way the world acts This is how genuine Christians interact and behave and treat one another, and it is so distinct and so different from the world Here's what kills me. So many times Christians go to the unsaved world for a pattern and for advice on how to deal with other Christians and how to deal with people. No, we're not of this world And that's his whole point here. If I am a child of God, I have a higher standard I live by If I'm genuinely righteous, as he said in verse 20, if my righteousness is going to exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees, then I live by a higher standard than what this world does A righteous man does not treat others the same way the world treats others. We are distinct in so many ways. A righteous man, a genuinely righteous man, as the Lord's describing here, stands out from society. He's an oddball. Um the society doesn't understand. The people at work say, what are you doing? Why are you being nice to that guy? Listen to what he did you. Look how he treated you. Why are you treating him that way Well, I'm a Christian. What's that supposed to mean? Well, God's God changed me. I just don't see it that way. Well look at it. You got an eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth, man, I just don't see it that way What's the matter with you? You have a different nature. You're whole different, you're distinct from this world. A righteous man is not understood by society. It's not understood. We don't make sense to them. if we're genuinely righteous and if we're living it out as the Lord instructs us here. Now question are all unsaved people scoundrels? No. Are all unsaved people liars? No. Some unsaved people, and maybe in certain areas, uh many unsaved people are very moral I've met some unsaved people or some of the kindest people I've ever met in my life. Unsaved people can be very ethical. I mean, they are down to the T. They do everything right Um as best they can. Uh had you ever meet an unsaved person that was very humble? Met some tremendously humble unsaved people. When I was working in hospice, there was a number of ladies there. I mean they Put me to shame in some ways in their their graciousness and their humility and their willingness to serve, but they were as lost, as lost, as lost as the crackhead in New York streets So how do you explain that? You say, well, what in the world? There's a difference. There's a difference. Now, a Christian ought to have at least that level of morality that the that the unsaved can work up. But ours goes to another level, and it is this. And I hope I can explain what I'm trying to say here. But a Christian's motives Behind that is different. Why does a Christian humble himself? Why does a Christian have integrity and and be ethical and and be honest and be kind and gracious and forgiving? Why does a Christian Do that? So that we can be saved? No. Do we do that so that we can feel good about ourselves and sleep at night? No, if that's all the motive is for me doing right and living righteous and trying to carry these out, if that's the only motive so I can sleep good at night, so I can feel good about myself, so my conscience doesn't bother me then that is a shallow, shallow righteousness. For the child of God, I live that way so that God gets the glory. So that people see Christ in me, so the direction is given to God. An unsaved man, doesn't matter how good he may be, that is not his motive, because he doesn't even know God He may be religious, he may talk about God, but for a genuine Christian, a person that's genuinely born again, you and I want to do right because we love God and we want Him to be exalted and we want Him to be lifted up. And so there is a key distinction. And so the Lord is setting this standard of righteousness here before us. He gives us six illustrations, and then he says this be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. It's like, wow. Ten Commandments. Would you agree with me? Ten commandments are tough to live up to. Do you agree? In fact, they are impossible to live up to. They condemn us. Do you see what the Lord's doing here in this? He's taking the Ten Commandments to a whole nother level. And alive, if you can't, if I can't live up to, in and of myself, live up to the standards that the Ten Commandments require. How in the world do I live up to the standard that the Sermon on the Mount requires? And when the liberals come and they take the Sermon on the Mount and say, This is how you're saved, you do these things here and you'll be saved, we're all hopelessly lost Because this righteousness that the Lord is setting before us, this standard, is impossible to the natural man. You and I cannot work this up. Why does alright you agree the world has laws? Is everybody with me tonight? Y'all aren't frozen, are you? Okay. You agree with me that the world has some laws? Would you agree with me for the most part, and no doubt there's some exceptions, but for the most part the world keeps the laws grudgingly Right? There's a law on Broadford Road that the speed limit is not to exceed twenty-five miles an hour. Nobody obeys that law. I mean it's like it's a challenge to see how many times you can multiply that speed. The world grudgingly obeys the laws of God. They have to. We have to do this. And if they can sneak around and get around it, they'll do it. But for a child of God, a person that has been born into the family of God and God's nature has been created in them, and they have the nature of God in them, that child of God, the Bible tells us, delights in the law of the Lord. I don't want to grudgingly do what God requires of me. I want to do what God requires of me. I want to fulfill that. Not to be saved, but because of what He's done for me You see the difference? The world reluctantly follows righteousness. I mean, you know, the world, and we see it, it's becoming more and more evident all the time, the world does right because they're going to get thrown in jail if they don't. I mentioned Sunday I think some countries stealing if you leave something out then it's okay to stole. In fact it's your fault you got stolen from because you left it out Well that's not that's not the righteous. So they look for a way. The world reluctantly follows righteousness. God says the child of God hungers and thirsts after righteousness I want to be right. I want to be pure. I don't want to live according to the sinful nature. I have a hunger and a thirst in my heart to be pure and right and good. And to please God with everything I say and everything I do. I want it all to please God. Now we fall short of that, but we hunger for it, we thirst for it. See what I'm saying I'm trying to point out a difference in the very makeup, the nature of an unsaved person and a child of God. We are distinct from this world. The world views self as basically righteous. If you come out with a soul winning, you knock on doors, you ask somebody if there's a sinner, you talk to them, you get something to this effect almost always. Well, I'm not perfect, but I'm not that bad I mean occasionally you'll come across someone under conviction. And what do we have to do? We have to take the Bible and show them that they are that bad. I've had so many people over the years, well I'm not perfect, but I don't deserve to go to hell for Pete's sake. Uh I just had a fellow recently uh tell me that. Um so the world, the world views themselves, I have some flaws, but I'm not perfect, but I'm not that bad. I think the Lord will understand. You know, it'll work out. They'll weigh out the scales, and there'll be more right good than bad, and everything will be all right. That's the way the world views itself. A child of God, how do they view themselves Terrible. I am a wretched sinner. Paul said, I am the chief of sinners. Oh, wretched man that I am. Who shall deliver me from this body of sin? There is nothing good in me. That is in my flesh. Jeremiah, my heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. Solomon said, there is none that sinneth not. And so the the whole perspective of the world and the child of God are so different. We are distinct from each other. And so, uh, as a child of God, I have no righteousness, none whatsoever apart from Jesus Christ. Any righteousness I have, it has been given unto me, it has been imputed unto me because of what Jesus Christ has done for me. The world says I'm pretty good, I'm alright. Uh I don't need that. And so uh all this reflects on how I treat others. My view of what is right, my uh my view of the walls of God and my relationship with God, all of that affects how I treat other people, how I interact with other people. If I have a delight in the law of God, I hunger and thirst after righteousness, I see that in and of myself I have no righteous It's only given me to Christ. That's going to affect how I interact with others. That's what the Lord is saying here. So number one First thought from this is we are not like the world. He says, if you don't if you you use this love them that love you, publicans do that. You're no different than the world. But as a child of God, if you're truly righteous, you're very different than the world We don't operate that way. We don't even think that way. God changes our the way we think. But there's a second aspect to this. I hope I can get this across, and that is this. Not only is it genuine Christian Distinct from the world, but the genuine Christian, the righteous Christian, as the Lord defines righteousness, displays the character of God In him. The one is a negative thing. I'm not like the world. I don't think like the world. I don't interact like the world. I don't view View myself and others like the world, I have a completely different perspective, a completely different mindset than the world. But the positive side of that, that's what I'm trying to say, is but I am like Christ And what I'm doing is not just not being like the world, I am positively displaying What Jesus Christ is like. In other words, I'm reflecting my life should reflect the moral characteristics of God. Am I making sense up here? I hope I am. The righteousness we have has been given to us to God. We didn't work it up. That's why I said there's no human explanation for it. It's not our doing. The righteousness that God gives us. Far exceeds what the world can come up with. In other words, God has put inside, those of us that know the Lord, if we're genuinely saved, God has put inside us a desire and then a nature that wants to do right, that wants to be pure, that wants to reflect the character of God. And it is something the world cannot work up. You know, the Mormons look pretty good, they clean cut and they're nice and all of that, but they cannot produce what God produces in the heart of a genuine believer. That's what I'm trying to say. No religion in the world can produce in the heart and nature of a person that trusts Christ as Savior. They can't do it. They cannot work up the that's something God has to do for us. And so, that truth, the fact that Christ has given me a new nature, um uh and I've I ask this a lot, but uh how many folks after you got saved you wanted to do things that before you got saved you did not want to do? want to do. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Uh how about um there are things you after you got saved you didn't want to do any more that before you got saved you wanted to do them. Sure God put a new nature in us. He's changed us. And so that fact makes us like Christ These six scenarios here. Don't kill, but don't even hate. And he goes down through here. All six of these scenarios, I want to suggest to you, Jesus is saying this. This is how God would react in that situation. If Jesus was in that circumstance, this is how he would respond. And as a child of God, verse 45, as a child of God, you have the nature of God within you, this is how you react in these situations, these circumstances. Says, if I'm not responding in this way, that indicates one, either I do not have the nature of God in me, or I'm backlined, I'm away from God, I'm not in fellowship with God And so every one of these, verse 21, verse 27, verse 32, we go back and look at them all again and put yourself, put in your mind, all right, this is the way Jesus Christ would respond in that same situation. The righteousness there. That's what he's talking about. And if Jesus Christ would respond this way, then a child of God would respond this way. Anybody know? Anybody remember where were they first called Christians at in the book of Acts? Antioch! The term Christians was initially a derogatory name. They were making fun of them, but the Christians embraced it. And they said, yes, we'll we'll go by that name. We'll take that name. It wasn't God's name for him, it was the world's name making fun of them. But they embraced it and took it to be their own. What does the word Christian mean? Anybody know? What is it? Christ-like or literally, it is little Christ. Little Christ. Why did the world come up with that term? How did they come up with, oh, we're gonna, they're just little Jesus, they're little Christs running around. Because their nature was identical to that of Jesus Christ. Their behavior and their interaction and what they were was the same Jesus Christ. And even the unsaved world saw that to the degree they used it to make fun of them And rather than rejecting it, the Christians embrace it, says, that is a tremendous compliment. If you see Christ, if you see the nature of Christ and the behavior You see me behaving and interacting with others in the same way that Jesus does and would, then praise the Lord. That is exactly what I want. And they embrace that. And so not only, if we're genuinely righteous, if we're genuine children of God, not only do we not act and think and interact the way the world does, but we propositively Act and interact and think the way Jesus does. And we display that. Little Christ. I want to suggest to you those Christians were quote unquote perfect even as Their father in heaven was perfect. Thus they got the name Little Christ. They were behaving not as holy and not as kind and as loving and whatever as God was, not the same degree, but in the same way, in the same manner. In the same scenarios, in the same situations, they were acting the same way. And thus they they turned they uh were given the name Little Christ. Again, I think I already touched on this, but verse 45, that ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven. That is not to become a child of God. but to be a child of God in my behavior, that that would come through. I end with this, a couple questions and a few statements, a verse, three stories, and five points. Let me ask you a question. I asked myself this and it was convicted. Is there anything true about my life That can only be explained by the presence of Christ in my life. Is there anything about me that the only explanation is that's Christ in him? That's what he's talking about. That way we react in these six different situations he gives, and he says, True righteousness, I say unto you, is any of that true of me? And is is there any evidence of Christ in me? The question is not, do I pray? Unsafe people pray. Isn't do I tell the truth? A lot of unsaved people tell the truth. Isn't do I go to church? A lot of unsaved people go to church. It isn't, do I pay my bills? A lot of unsaved people pay my bills. The question is this: Unsafe people can do that. We can come up with a list of stuff. The unsaved Pharisees can do all that The question is this, is there any characteristics of my heavenly father true in my life? Is there anything about my life and my way I treat others and my interaction and my behavior in various situations? Is there anything about it that is only explained by the fact that Christ is in me. That's what the Lord is telling me. He says, that's the righteousness That we need to have. That the only explanation is God is doing that. The only way that could possibly happen is Christ is in their life. life. Is there any evidence in my life that Christ is present in my life? If not If I say, you know, I don't there's nothing in my life that shows any evidence of Christ's presence in my life, there's nothing, then that means I'm really no different than the world As a quote-unquote Christian, there's nothing different from me than the world. The only thing that sets you and I apart from the world, that makes us different from the world, is the presence of Christ in our lives. And his working and his dealing in our life were no different than the Pharisees. They were religious as could be. They didn't have any righteousness Because they had no relationship with God. There was nothing supernatural about what the the their faith and their relationship with God. But as a child of God, we're supernatural. I have one verse I want to go to. 2 Peter chapter 1, if you would come back there. And he touches on this All the way back, Second Peter, chapter one. He kind of gives a list of stuff here. Add to your faith, virtue. It goes on down there. But if you look at verse 3, 2 Peter 1, verse 3. According as his, now keep in mind what we're talking about, this changed nature, this different nature that we have that is righteous and good. That God has created in us, that God has put in us. According as His divine power hath given unto us all things that pertain to life and godliness, I'm going to suggest that's the six illustrations the Lord gave. These are how righteousness pertains to life and the various things. Through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory and virtue. Look at this. Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises that by these ye might be partakers of the what? Divine nature. Now, make a long statement here to brief it abbreviate it, he's saying this. God by his power has put into the has created in every genuine believer a completely new nature. It is a supernatural act of God. Where he makes us distinct from this world, and we are able, and God expects us, to behave like God would behave if he were in our shoes. Like Jesus Christ behaves in our Does it make sense? So accept your righteousness, exceed the world can come up with. You're falling short, but I'll give you righteousness that far exceeds that. Exactly. Right. Because that's what God is. Exactly. It all comes back to what God has done in our heart and life. And actually, you know, we never become a God. Don't misunderstand. We do not become gods in any way, shape, or form. But God takes his nature and creates it in us. And in many ways we literally have the moral nature of God. And he creates that divine nature in us where somebody can and you you read about it in history Where people are persecuted and treated so badly, and yet they respond in grace and love and kindness. And they say, How in the world can this be? We saw the uh Polar Carp. Wasn't that a powerful film? And here he's being burned at the stake and being killed, and yet he's being very, very gracious. There's no human explanation for that. That's the presence and righteousness of God. And that's what he's illustrating here. And I'm suggesting to you that in our day and age, Christianity in our day and age, we have gotten so far away from that. We have gotten so worldly. I'm not talking about dress and entertainment. That's a whole nother story. I'm talking about in the very way we think. Our very view and the very processes we use to interact with people is so worldly. And Christ is rebuking us here. And he's saying, that is not the way a righteous person behaves. That is not the way they interact. And uh so, uh that's it. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to ask ourselves these hard questions. And I pray that it would be true in my life that there's evidence of the fact that you've given me a new nature and that you would stir us to pursue that and develop that. So that Christ would be seen in us and we could be, in a very real sense, Christians, Lord, in our lives. People would see that and you would be glorified. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. Along with me, you would say, Preacher, that really challenges my heart. In fact, it convicts me When I wonder, is there anything in my behavior that can only be explained by the presence of Christ? How many people say I'd really like that? Sure, you'd join me. Amen. Amen. Let's ask God to help make Father in heaven, you know our hearts and you know where we're at and you see this whole world we're saturated with, and help us to be distinct, Lord, not just in how we look. Help us be distinct in what we are from this old world, I pray, in Jesus' name, amen