Peter chapter three verse thirteen Nevertheless we according to his promise look for a new heaven and a new earth wherein dwelleth what? Right. Everybody there? Are you with me? Alright. Wherein dwelleth righteousness? How many people are looking for that new heaven, new earth? Woo! Praise the Lord. And then verse 14, wherefore, beloved, seeing that you look for such things, that new heaven, new earth, the return of Christ. Be diligent that ye may be found in him, look what he says here, in peace, without spot, and blameless. That's the goal of our Christian life. Be a testimony. Now notice what he says in verse 15. This is one I want to take a few minutes and just look at. And he says, Account that the long-suffering of our Lord is salvation. The long suffering of our Lord is salvation. I just want to take a little bit of a few minutes and consider the long suffering of our Lord. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. I wonder with our heads bowed eyes closed, I wonder how many tonight would say, Preacher, I really want God to speak to my heart. I do. I want God to help me be the Christian wants to meet. Any like that uplifted hand? I believe that's true Father, we do want you to help us. And God, we want to please you with our lives, with our position, our disposition, everything. We want you to be pleased. We want to be true to your word. And so please, tonight, help us in this matter of understanding your long-suffering, your patience with us. And I yield myself anew to you, Lord, my body. I present my body, I yield my will, my mind. I pray, dear Lord, that your Holy Spirit would fill me and speak through me, Lord and help us in the little time we have. In Jesus' name. Amen. One reason it is important how many people here how many people here ever heard me say you ought to read your Bible every day? Yeah. I mean besides today. It is. It's important. And one of the reasons it's important that we read and study our Bible is because the Bible tells us who our Creator is. And we touch on this often. We know there's a creator. We look around. It's obvious. If you're honest, there's something made this. This can't just happen. And so the Bible tells us who that creator is. He's Jehovah, Jesus Christ. And so it's important we study the Bible. We find out from the Bible who the Creator is and who made us. We find out why we're here. And here's what I'm getting at. We find out what our Creator is like. What is God like? Well the Bible tells us. The Bible gives us a lot of information about what God is like. He's a person. You know, he's active, he communicates, he's given us his word, he's active in the world. And so the Bible gives us, and now here's some uh theological terms. We're going to do a little Bible study real quickly here. The Bible tells us, teaches us the attributes of God. How many people are familiar with that term? The attributes of God. By attributes we mean this, the characteristics of God or the qualities of God that define him as God. Everybody with me so far? Don't write me off here yet. You say, oh, theology. No, no, no. Hear me out. The Bible tells us that there are what we've categorized as two uh character uh categories of attributes for God. The Bible tells us all these things about God. Well we study them and we've divided them into two Categories. There's two major attributes of God. One is we call the natural attributes of God. Now, if you've been to our Bible Institute, you've heard this before. The natural attributes of God are characteristics or qualities of God that are unique to God. Nobody else can have them. These things that we are told about God cannot be said about anybody or anything else. For instance, one of the natural attributes of God is that He is eternal. The Bible says in Psalms, from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. God always was, God is now, God always will be. Say, where did God come from? He didn't come from anywhere. He always was. He's eternal. Well, when did he begin? God transcends time. And so God is eternal. That's a natural natural attribute. Nobody else is eternal. You and I aren't. God is immutable. That's a theological term, doctoral term. It means unchanging Thou art the same yesterday, today, and forever. Malachi says, I am the Lord thy God, I change not. Whatever God was to Moses, he's to you and I. The power God had when He created this world just by speaking, that's the same power He has. That one that I just talked to, with our heads bowed, we just spoke to Him, that God has never changed Same God. Speak to in the morning when I pray, I'm talking to him. I'm talking to the God that parted the Red Sea. I'm talking to the God that slaughtered uh the enemies of God by the how the this this incredible, unchanging God. He's eternal. He's immutable. He's omnipotent. Somebody help me. Omnipotent meaning he is all-powerful, omnipotent, all-powerful. God is all power. Nobody else is. God's unique. That's unique with God. He is omnipresent. Help me out. That means he's what? Everywhere all the time. There's nowhere you and I can be that God isn't. I'm here to tell you, I hope you get a hold of this and just use your mind a little bit. God that spoke the world in existence, that s Moses had walked by him there in the cleft. The God that spoke to Adam and Eve in the garden, the God that's on Mount Transfiguration, they heard his voice say, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Hear ye him. That God is right here right now. Can't see him, can't feel him, can't touch him, can't smell him, but he's here. He's right here right now. And by the way, he's everywhere we go. Tomorrow morning you get up, he's going to be right there. Everywhere, all the time. We're in his presence all the time. So he's omnipresent. He's omniscient. Help me, he's All knowing, he knows everything. Thou knowest my downsetting, my uprising, thou understandest my thought afar off. He knows the end from the beginning He's all-knowing. He knows everything. There's nothing hidden from him. So these are natural attributes. These are attributes that only God has. They're unique to God. Nobody else has these. Then he has some moral attributes, and uh in Scripture we're told, for instance, these are moral attributes that you and I can emulate at least to a degree. We can uh be true about us, uh just like they are of God, except Just to a degree, not to the degree that God is. For instance, God is holy. Is it possible for a Christian to be holy? Yes. In fact, we're commanded to. He says, Be ye holy, for I am holy. We're to live holy lives. Now, good night, we can't be as holy, as purely holy as God is But we can be holy in the sense that he is, we can live holy lives. Not only can we, we should So these are moral attributes, truths about God, qualities of God, that you and I can emulate. We can also be these things, not to the degree he is, of course, holy. God is good. And we can be good, we can speak good things, we can think good thoughts, we can do good deeds, not to earn salvation, but to be a testimony. God is love. Can we love? Yes, we're told to. The love of God is shed abroad in our hearts Not to the degree the perfect, unconditional, uh, perfect love of God. I can't attain to that, but I pursue that, I can love towards that end. God is faithful. Can we be faithful? Yes. It's what God requires of us. And the Bible says, this is what I said all that to get to this. The Bible teaches us that another attribute of God is he is long-suffering. He's long-suffering. And that's what Peter's getting at here. Peter says in verse 15, he says, an account That the long suffering of our Lord is salvation. Two thoughts. If you'll give me 10 minutes, I'll finish, I promise. Number one, an understanding of God's long suffering. Notice what he says here. And account that the long-suffering of our Lord is salvation. That word account means this, to understand, consider. It has this idea. Get this fixed in your mind. Get it in your head. Do you ever have your your mother ever look at you? You need to get this in your head, son. Anybody? Yeah. How many people your mother said that? How many people you never heard that before in your life? Yeah, I heard it a heap. Tell me In other words, get this in your thinking. I put it this way: keep this in the forefront of your mind. Have it there. And account. Understand this. Consider this. Fix it in your mind. That the long suffering of our Lord, the long suffering, the word long-suffering, it's addressing God's incredible patience. God is very patient. The long suffering of God is God holding back his judgment from our sin. It's related with his mercy. It's taught all through Scripture. If you would, real quickly with me, dongle quiz time, Romans chapter 2. Real quick, turn over there, ready, go. Romans chapter 2. And I want you to see verse 3 and 4. Romans chapter 2, verse 3 and 4. Understanding what God's long suffering is. Account this. Get it in our heads. This is what long-suffering is. Romans 2, look at verse 3. And thinkest thou this, O man, that judges them which do such things, and doest the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God? In other words, you're judging other people. You're doing the same thing yourself, and you're judging other people. You think you're going to escape the judgment of God? Now look at this. Or despiseth thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and what? Long-suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God, which includes his long-suffering, leadeth thee to repentance Tell you what, for sake of time, I'm going to read to you Exodus chapter 34. Listen to verse 4 through 8. This is Moses is on the Mount Sinai, he's getting the commandments from God. And um he says uh he hewed out two tables of stone, like under the first. That's when Moses lost his temples temper, uh smashed the tablets, and then now he has to go back up and make new ones And he hewed two tablets of the stone like unto the first, and Moses went up early in the morning and went up into the Mount Sinai As the Lord had commanded him, and took in his hand the two tables of stone, and the Lord descended in the cloud. This is God Himself. And stood with him there and proclaimed the name of the Lord. So God is meet down with Moses on the top of the mount, and God is telling Moses something about himself God wants Moses to understand. Moses, account these things. Get this in your head. This is what I am. This is what I'm like. This is what God says. Listen. And the Lord passed by before him and proclaimed the Lord. The Lord, the Lord God, listen, merciful and gracious Long-suffering and abundant in goodness and in truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. How many people are grateful for the long-suffering of God? That He's gracious and abundant in forgiving our sin. Thank God we have a God that is long-suffering. And Peter's saying, get this in your head. Understand, God is very long-suffering. God is very long-suffering. He said it back back, if you're back in Peter, he said it back in chapter, in verse number nine of chapter 3. He said, the Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but is long suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish. He's very patient. He puts up, he suffers long with our nonsense. And so Peter is once the people he's writing to, and God through Scripture, wants you and I to get in our heads that God is very long-suffering. God is long-suffering. Now Peter's something interesting here. He said he tells us the reason why Jesus has not come back yet. We're over 2,000 years. And I can't find anywhere else in Scripture where we're given any information as to why Jesus has not come back yet. Anybody here ever get thinking, I wonder why the Lord hasn't come back yet? Anybody ever think that? I have goodness. I was convinced 2020, sometime around there, I thought, that's it, the Lord's coming back, no doubt about it I didn't write a book, I didn't preach a sermon on it, and I didn't I I think I might have mentioned my wife. I'll bet you the Lord comes back. In fact, we had a twenty dollar bet on it. No, I'm kidding. No, we didn't Brother, that went on the internet. But and then sometimes you can think, I wonder why he didn't come back yet. Peter tells us. Told black and white right there why the Lord hasn't come back yet. He says the reason he hasn't come back yet is because he's long-suffering. He's wanting to give man every opportunity to be saved. It's a whole point. A whole reason. You say, well man, that's an awfully long time. You know why it seems long to us? Number one, we have askewed understanding of time. Just like a little child doesn't understand what how long a day is, would you agree with me? Days are a lot shorter now than they were when we were a kid. A day goes by now, it's like an hour went by For a child, a day is forever. You and I are the child. Man, it's like forever. When's the Lord coming out? Well, he's being very long-suffering. It's not long on his end. He's being very patient. He wants people to get saved. If you're in here or you're listening and you're not saved, the very reason Jesus hasn't come back yet is so you have opportunity to be saved. That's the whole purpose. I can't find any other reason in Scripture for the Lord to delay his coming. Now the apostles, they thought And you can pick this up in their writings. They thought Jesus was coming back in their lifetime. They thought he says, I'm coming back. I go prepare for I shall return. I'll be back. Oh well, maybe next week. Here we are 2,000 years later. Think of all the millions and millions and millions and millions of people that have gotten saved since the apostles till now, because Jesus was long suffering. He knows what he's doing. He has a plan. He has a purpose. And the reason he hasn't come back yet, according to Peter, according to the Word of God, It's because he's long-suffering. He wants everybody to be saved. Now last, I'll end with this, the application of God's long-suffering. Say, all right, great, wonderful How do we respond to that? Number one, I put I put a few words down. Number one, rejoice in it. We struggle. Anybody here ever struggle in your Christian life trying to live for God? Anybody here ever struggle with having the right attitude? Yeah. Anybody here ever struggle with just saying, Yeah. Listen, we need to remember, we struggle, but God is long suffering with us. Anybody here ever fail in your Christian life? I wish I could tell you, you don't know how badly I wish I could tell you that your pastor has never failed his Lord. And I can't say that And I doubt there's anybody in here can say, I've never failed my Lord. But I tell you one thing I can rejoice in. You know I'm ashamed of my failures I can rejoice in the fact that my God and my Savior is long-suffering. He's patient with me. He's forgiving. So we can rejoice in the fact that my God, you say I messed up. Oh, I messed up. Hey, join the club. Our God is long-suffering. God does not give up on us. Number two, repent. Do you see there in Romans, and we won't go there, but Romans 2. 4, he said, the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance. Man, I mess up and I do wrong, and God doesn't judge me on the spot, He doesn't strike me down, He doesn't take everything away from me because I And he says, the reason I do that is so that you can repent. Come and make that right and get it right. He's long-suffering. He gives opportunity to repent. We must not abuse God's long-suffering. You say, well, praise the Lord. I can sin and God's going to be patient with it. He's going to love long suffering. Listen, don't abuse that. That when because God is longsuffering when we fail, that doesn't mean our sin is not serious Just because God holds off his judgment and doesn't deal with me immediately when I do wrong and I sin doesn't mean that he doesn't care about the fact that I've sinned And by the way, that doesn't mean he will not eventually judge unrepentant sin. Well, God's long sorry, I'll just keep on sinning. He didn't do anything. He's long-suffering. I'll just keep on sinning. Well, listen, that only goes on for so long. Anybody ever read the story of Jonah? Hundred and twenty years, not Jonah. Who built the Ark? Moses. Um Noah 120 years people had an opportunity to repent. Opportunity to repent. I don't see no rain. We're talking on the bus coming back from Morgantown giving out tracks. We're talking Wonder if there weren't people on the side of that ark? Let us in, let us in once the rain started. I c I would imagine They had 120 years, God long suffering with them. Their every thought was on wickedness continually. It was as ungodly of a society as you can imagine. And God gave them year after year after year after year to repent, and they didn't, they abused. God's long suffering. Finally, God closed the door on the Ark. So we must not abuse The long suffering of God, we must not presume on his long-suffering. The fact that he doesn't deal with it immediately means he loves me and he's given me the opportunity to make it right. Ever read about Achan? He hid the items, the gold and the silver and the Babylonian garments. He hid them in his tank. God said, don't take it. That's all the Lord's. He took it. Tried to hide it from the camp and from the uh Israel and from God. And they lose. They go to they attack Ai and they they lose. And Joshua comes and say, God, what in the world? You said we'd win. What in the world? He said there's sin in the camp. So who? We don't know who it is. God says, right? And here's the interesting thing. In Joshua 7, God gave this elaborate process to determine who it was that had sinned, was hiding sin And he gave this elaborate process. And all of Israel is affected by that sin. Why would God go through this long process of the tribes and the household and the the families and then the households and then the uh the individuals and they're all marching by Joshua one I mean it's taken hours and hours and all day long, no doubt The whole time, Aiken's standing there. His tribes picked. Then his uh his uh uh family's picked, and his household, and they start lining up the people from the household he's in line. He knows he's guilty, he knows he's done it Finally, he comes before Joshua and it's like, boom, you're the man. Why did God go through that long process? You know why? Because he was long-suffering, he was given Achan opportunity to make it right. I have no doubt in my mind if Achan would have come to the priest and say, I messed up, I messed up, I see it. There was a process in place to forgive that. And deal with it. There were sacrifices. He could have made that right and been done, but he didn't. He abused the long-suffering of God. And he would not repent. God is long-suffering so that sinners repent and get saved, so Christians, we can make things right when we mess up. Israel as a nation God was so patient, long-suffering, finally said, all right, that's enough, you're going to captivity. So number one, rejoice. Number two, repent. Number three, relay. I'll just say this quickly Just as God is long-suffering to me, I need to be long-suffering to others. Right? Forbearing one another. That means being long-suffering for one another. Just be patient. Give them a chance. Give them time. Let God work. And so be be long-suffering. I tell you, it would help It would help our marriages a heap if spouses would be long-suffering with each other. I didn't get many amens there, but I say amen. Just be long-suffering. Give them time. Be patient. Be ye, well, we know the verse. Be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God. For Christ's sake, hath forgiven you. Just be patient. Just give them some thought. Relay it to others. Relay it to others. And then last of all, be resolute. In other words, don't quit. Say, preacher, I've been serving the God and I've been witnessing and giving out tracts and witnessing and trying to serve God and trying to serve God and trying to serve God and I don't see any result and I don't see any and the effect that my service is doing, and I might as well just quit. I'm here to say you God is long suffering. You just stay at it. You just stay at it. You don't know what God's doing in the hearts and lives of those who you're serving That's a very, very long time. I had a lady years ago, and bless her heart, sweet, good lady in our church. And she said, Pastor Leatherman, I witness and I witnessed and I witnessed and I never see anybody saved. And I said, Sue, you just keep right on witnessing. God's doing things you and I don't even know. God is long-suffering. Just don't quit. Stay at it. God doesn't work on our schedule. God doesn't go by our time frame. Yes, his timing. You just stay at it. Just stay at it. Preacher, I've been praying. I've been praying for this. I got a I've got a child. I've got a spouse. I got a parent. I've been praying to get saved. I Been praying I've been praying for years and years and years and years I say to you, you just keep right on praying. Don't you quit. God is long-suffering. You ought to read about George Mueller. Powerful man of prayer. He had an understanding in the grace and power of God that few people did. And he did a phenomenal work in London with thousands of orphans, never no fundraising. He didn't have fundraising spaghetti dinners. He didn't he had no fundraising at all, didn't take offerings He just prayed, and God met the need for thousands and thousands of orphans. You ought to read his story. It's powerful. He had five people he was praying that they would be saved. A friend of his wrote about this later after he had passed away. He had five people that were dear to George Mueller's heart that he prayed they would get saved, year after year after decades. Went by and not one of them would get saved. And this friend said George Muir was undeterred. He kept praying And he said, within five years after he got saved, every one of those people came to Christ You just stay at it. You just keep praying. You just keep witnessing. You keep living for God. You say, Preacher, I'm the only one that's living for God. I feel like I'm the only one doing right. Well, first of all, you're not the only one It's what Elisha said, and he was wrong. But second of all, even if you are, don't you quit doing right. Don't you quit living for God. Don't you quit serving God. You say, but I don't see any. What's the benefit? I'll tell you the benefit. It's coming down the road. God's long suffering. God works on his time. Amen? Lord, I pray you'd help us to keep in the forefront in our mind. Help us to get it in our heads that you are long-suffering. And help us To respond to that properly in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads about eyes are closed