And mom's here, so Brian seems a little nervous. His mother-in-law is sitting right here with him. So, but uh we're glad you guys are here also. And uh I enjoyed when I I kinda like it when Jerry and Mark go away. I get to lead the singing a little bit. And uh I like just know I still got it. I have And I don't have my microphone and I'm gonna get in trouble with uh sound guides and I don't know where it is here it is. Alright, Acts chapter 24. And I'm going to just read verse number 15. Acts 24. Let me try and do two. Two things at once here. Get hooked up and read this. Notice verse 15. The Bible says Paul speaking here under the inspiration of God. And he says that he has have hope toward God, which they themselves, speaking of the Pharisees who were accusing of some things, Which they themselves also allow. In other words, they have the same hope that I do, really, in a sense. And what was that hope? That there shall be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and the unjust. I want to speak this morning on a subject that is, I believe is very seldom is preached on. I think it's probably a very neglected doctrine And I trust it will be a help to us this morning. I want to speak on the hope of the resurrection. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, Lord, we come to you this morning. We are grateful for a good week you've given us in the meetings Lord, you blessed our hearts to the preaching, and of course the drawings were precious. We always rejoice in folks trusting Christ as Savior. God, we thank you for using us. And now as we settle in today and look forward to the coming week, we pray you would open our hearts and minds to your word this hour. God is the preacher for this time. I yield myself to you. I present my body anew. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me. Challenge us, God, help us to believe your word. And allow that belief to affect our lives, that we would be what you intend for us to be, that our lives would please you. So please bless now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Several months ago, it was probably back around the beginning of the summer, I received a phone call from a fella And he said he listens to our radio station, 88. 7 FM, and he had some questions and asked if I had a few moments and I could try and answer some questions for him. I said I would be glad to So uh he began asking me and we took probably twenty minutes or so and was trying to go through the Bible and there were questions particularly about speaking in tongues was his questions and I showed him from Scripture and different things and answered him from Scripture and he was very satisfied. He was very grateful. But then he made an interesting statement He said, you know, the more I'm studying my Bible, the more I'm coming to the conclusion that the Baptists are closest to the Bible Of all other denominations. Now, I say that at risk of blowing our own horn. It's really nothing for us to be proud of. It is simply the fact that God's word is true. And that's not to say that other denominations do not hold to the Bible or do not believe the Bible. It was an interesting observation of someone who is not a Baptist. And made that statement. Now, as Baptists, one of our distinctives that we hold to very strongly We feel very strongly about, and it is, I would say our primary distinctive is this, that the Bible is our final authority. There is no other authority above the authority of God's Word. Now, again, there's other churches hold to that, and we're not, and don't misunderstand what I'm trying to say. But the fact of the matter is, if the Bible says something is so, then it's so. If the Bible says something is to be a certain way, then we have an obligation to make it that way. The Bible is, I put it this way, the Bible is our manual for what we do and how we do it. It's our final authority. It's our pattern for our lives. If I want to live a life that is pleasing to God, Then I must conform my life to the Word of God. Does that make sense? I've got to live according to biblical principles if my life is going to please God. If I choose to live outside of the biblical principles, if I choose to behave myself in a way that is contrary to Bible teaching, then I can be very certain that I am not pleasing the Lord. This is true in our homes. If we want to raise our children, if we want to have a marriage, if we want to have a home life. that is pleasing to God, that is everything it can possibly be, and be all that God intended for it to be, then we must have our home lives. Governed by the truths and the principles of the Word of God. We must conform our own life, my marriage, my behavior as a husband towards my wife and my children. I must be conform myself to the Word of God. It is our final authority. And it is our final authority in our church. Of course, as pastor, I believe any pastor that's sincere would desire that his church would please God. You agree with that? I think I can speak very frankly for the members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I think I can say, at least for the vast majority of the members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we want our church to please God. As members. And so if our church is going to please God, if we're going to function in a way that God looks down on with pleasure And says, that is what I intend for a church to be, then we have to submit ourselves to the Word of God. We must operate within the principles, according to the principles God has given us in His Word. The Bible is our final authority. The Bible, as our final authority, and this is what I'm getting to, is the source of our message. A church is designed by God to deliver a message. That's the purpose of the church. To be a, I hesitate to word it this way, but it's kind of what I mean. To be a spokesman for God. The church is designed. God has given us a message. We call it the Great Commission. Mark 16:15. Go ye into all the world and what? Preach the gospel. That is delivering a message. Now, we're talking about the Bible being our final authority, conforming our behavior, our practices, and our lives, individual lives, our homes, our church, in accordance with the Word of God, submitting to principles of Scripture. But God has given to us as a church a message. And that message, the source of that message, again, is to be the Word of God. We do not go to the world to determine what our message to the world is. In other words, we don't listen to Oprah Winfrey and find out what she has to say about something, then that becomes our message. That's not where we get our message from. And all God's people said, Amen. Praise the Lord. Hallelujah. It's not where we get our message from. We do not get our message from, and I don't have anything against this necessarily, but we don't get our message from readers' digest. It's not where we go to. I have known over the years, I've known I'm thinking of one particular instance where the preacher's Sunday morning message was taken from that week's or that month's reader's digest. That is not according to Scripture. We don't get our message from Oprah Winfrey. We don't get our message from Reader's Digest. We don't get our message from Fox News. Come on now. Or CNN or MSNBC or NBC or CBS or ABC or XYZ or any other organism. Our message is not from the world. We have a message to deliver to the world, and we don't go to the world to get that message. Um, we do not get our message from Hollywood. Amen. By the way, the message of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church or any Bible preaching church, any church that wants to please God, we do not get it from coming up with our own ideas. I've known even some independent Baptists that had a tendency to give their opinions rather than preach the Word of God. That is not what our thing is, our opinion about stuff. Now, sometimes within a message, I'll have a certain take on something, but I always try and point it out. This is the way I see it, this is what I think, but our message is the Word of God. We do not get, and by the way, we do not get our message from other preachers. I love and admire Dr. Sheldon Smith. Your friend of our church. I don't go and see what he's preaching to determine what I should preach or what our message is. We get our message from the Word of God. That's what I'm trying to say. Is everybody with me? Everybody okay The Bible is the sole source of our message. Now, with that in mind, how many folks are happy this morning? Raise your hand. Very good. With that in mind, we go to the Word of God and we look closely at what is the message that the Bible has for us to deliver We go particularly to the book of Acts, which is the church being energized. And the New Testament church has been established, and God gives us somewhat of a pattern there in the book of Acts. And we look very carefully at the sermons that were preached. And we find something, we come to two conclusions. I come to two conclusions. What I look at the messages being preached in the Bible, and I listen to the messages being preached in so many pulpits today, and they have very little resemblance. Huh? I I listen sometimes on TV to these TV preachers. Now I I don't mean to say this across the board, but the vast majority of them, I listen to what they're preaching, and I look in what the Bible preaching in the Bible was, and you couldn't they don't have any reza they're not related, even distant cousins There's no resemblance whatsoever. So I study the messages of God's Word, I listen to the messages of a lot of modern preachers, and I find very little resemblance. But there's second Something else I notice as I study the message in the Bible as it was preached. And that is this. A primary ingredient in the New Testament message Was the physical resurrection both of Jesus Christ and of mankind? Over and over and over in the Bible, the preachers, the prophets, the men of God, the people of God Would deliver a message that God had given them, and a primary ingredient, one of the main ingredients in that message was Jesus was raised from the dead literally, physically on the third day, and All of mankind will be raised from the dead also. The resurrection of the dead is a primary theme. Throughout the Word of God. Again, I mentioned this is, I listened to modern-day preachers, not all of them, thank God. But many, and you hear little or nothing of the resurrection of the dead. Or in many cases, not only do you not hear anything of it, in many cases it's openly ridiculed. The fact that your body Your physical body will one day be raised from the dead. In fact, I was reading one preacher who believes this. I was wanting to look and see what he said about this truth. And he made the statement. This was a hundred some years ago. Charles Spurgeon said this A hundred some years ago, he said he believed the vast majority of people do not believe in the physical resurrection of the body. I tend to think that things have been better in that area. I want to give you three thoughts about the resurrection of our bodies. Number one, the truth of the resurrection. Look at verse 15 again with me in Acts 24. Paul is before the council, he's giving his defense. He says in verse 14, I confess unto thee after the way which they these Pharisees who are attacking him and accusing him, making accusation. After the way which they call heresy, so worship I the God of my fathers. Believing all things, look at this, which are written in the law and the prophets. Now you need to study your Bible a bit to understand he's making reference to the Old Testament. And he says, I believe everything that God has said in the Old Testament. And then he pulls this out, verse 15, and have hope toward God, which they themselves also allow. That there shall be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and unjust. Paul says, I believe In the truth of the physical resurrection of the body, because it is taught all through Scripture. It's basically what he's saying. Now that word hope in verse 15 is an interesting word. We say stuff like this. Oh, I hope it's nice on Thanksgiving Day. Now Does that sound like, and do we mean by that, that we are absolutely confident and assured that on Thanksgiving Day it's going to be nice? No. We use that term that way, and by and we're saying this, I don't know what it's going to be like, but this is what I would like. I'm wishing that this will be so There's no confidence, there's no certainty. It's just a wishful thinking. But when the word hope is used in the Bible, it has an entirely different meaning than that When Paul says we have hope, when he says here they have hope towards God, referring to the resurrection of the body, he said it means this: the word itself means this: a confident expectation. Now if you expect that something's going to happen, what does that mean? It means you're expecting it to happen, right? Yeah, you're not hoping it does. You're not wondering if it will. You have reason to believe that it's going to happen. A confident expectation. This wasn't just, oh, I hope someday my body's resurrected. This is not what he's saying at all. He's saying, I know it will be. I'm confident of this. I fully expect the day to come, Paul is saying that my body, this physical body that I inhabited, will be resurrected from the dead. No hint of uncertainty is found in this word. Paul was absolutely certain. That there was coming a literal physical resurrection, not only of his body, but of all mankind's body. His hope, his assurance was based upon the clear teaching of the Word of God. We notice that in verse 15. You say, where in the world does it teach throughout the Bible that our bodies are resurrected? Oh, it's all the way from Genesis to Revelation. How many folks here are familiar with the incident in Abraham's life where God told Abraham to offer up his son Isaac on an altar? How many people are familiar with that story? It's found in Genesis 22. And Abraham's immediate response to our amazement is he doesn't argue with God about killing his son, giving his son as a a bloody sacrifice to God. He doesn't argue with God. He doesn't hesitate. There's no re reservation on his part. God says, I want you to take your son, your only son, the one you love. I want you to take him up on the mount, and there I want you to pierce his heart through, put him on an altar, and sacrifice him to God No hesitation, no argument, immediate surrender, immediate obedience. And he takes his son three days' journey and puts him on the altar and is literally to the point of taking that knife and plunging it into his son's heart when God intervenes and says, Oh, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Now my question is, how in the world could Abraham do that Man, we have a hard time obeying God in some trivial things. How in the world? The answer in Hebrews chapter 11. Now we don't have time together, I wish we did, there's so much scripture dealing with this matter of the resurrection. But in Hebrews 11, verse 17 and 3-19, if you'll write that down and read that very carefully You'll find that God tells us that Abraham was confident that if he killed his son Isaac, God would raise him up physically from the dead. You say, why would he be that confident? Because God had promised that the seed from Abraham through Isaac would produce the great nation of Israel, and if he killed Isaac that and he stayed dead, that promise could not be fulfilled But he believed the promises of God against hope. He believed in hope. And he believed that even if he did kill his son, God would raise him up because it was through the Son the promise was given Abraham believed in the resurrection of the dead to the extent that he was willing to take his son's life at God's instructions. Now, you may feel like it sometimes, but I'm telling you right now, God is not telling you to kill your kid. Can I get a witness? Somebody said grandkids are God's reward for not killing your kids. There may be some truth in that But Abraham was confident of the resurrection. In Job 19, Job fully anticipated That his body, even though the worms had eaten his body, it would someday rise from the dead and he would inhabit his body again. In fact, it was a source, the one of the very few sources of comfort he had when he went through his difficult trial In Psalm 16, verse 10, David is very confident of the fact that his body will be raised from the dead. In Isaiah 26 and verse 19. Isaiah is very confident of the fact that someday his body would be raised from the dead. In Daniel chapter twelve and verse two, Daniel is very confident in the coming day. when the dead bodies of mankind would be raised again to live and be inhabited by their souls Jesus spoke repeatedly of his own physical resurrection, but not just his own physical resurrection, but the physical resurrection of all of mankind. Now you say, I don't understand it, it doesn't make sense, it seems bizarre to me that the bodies of folks that have been dead for thousands of years will be raised again. Listen, you can lean on your own understanding if you want, or you can simply take Jesus at his word. I choose to believe Jesus. Paul, John, all through the New Testament We find these apostles and men of God repeatedly speaking, giving great details in Corinthians and Thessalonians about the resurrected bodies. So we have the truth of the resurrection given to us very clearly in Scripture. Now, I want to stop here and point something out. The only kind of resurrection that there is is physical resurrection. You cannot spiritualize The teaching of the resurrection of the dead. The only kind of resurrection from the dead the Bible knows of is physical resurrection of the dead There's no such thing as a spiritual resurrection. Sometimes our liberal neighbors like to take these passages, speak of the resurrection, and say, Well, that's just a spiritual thing. That's just a spiritual thing. That is not what the Bible teaches. That is merely, can I be so frank as to say, that is merely an attempt to escape the clear teaching of Scripture. So the truth of the resurrection, the second thing I want us to consider about the resurrection this morning is the timing of the resurrection. How many folks are still happy? Amen. Everybody still with me? Very good. I just want to check every now and then, make sure everybody's alright. The timing of the resurrection. If you'll notice here in verse 15 of Acts 24, I hope you're still there, Paul says, I have hope towards God, which they themselves also allow. Look at this. That there shall be a resurrection of the dead. He didn't stop there. But he made a very clear distinction. Both of the what? Just and the now why did he say that? Why did he just say, hey, there's going to be a resurrection of the dead of everybody? That would include the just if he said everybody's going to be resurrected from the dead, do you agree with me? That would include the just and the unjust. But he didn't say it that way. He said there's going to be a resurrection of the dead. I'm confident of that. Then he adds this: both of the just and the unjust. Do you know what he's doing? He is telling us there are two categories of resurrection. By the way, Paul's not the only one. Jesus spoke of this. John speaks of this in the Revelation. Daniel speaks of this in Daniel chapter 5. 12, all through Scripture there is a distinction made between two future resurrections. I mean physical, literal bodies raised from the dead, those of the just And those of the unjust. Now, because that is separated, there's such a distinction there, they're categorized like that. That tells us something. There must be two different times that people are resurrected. If it was all at one time, then you just say everybody's going to be resurrected. Both the just and the unjust, they're all going to come. But over and over the Bible separates that. And as we study the Bible very carefully, we find, lo and behold, The Bible does give details about two future yet distinct resurrections. One is the resurrection of the just Saved people who have been born again through trusting Jesus Christ their personal Savior, and the unjust, unsaved people Who have never been born ahead, who have never trusted Christ as Savior, may be very religious, may be fine upstanding citizens, but they were never saved by the blood of Christ. And they are resurrected at the resurrection of the unjust. Two separate times. Now that fascinates me. My curiosity now is, alright, when are those two times? When do they take place? The Bible tells us that the resurrection of the just, or we could say the resurrection of saved people, takes place at the rapture of the church. How many folks are familiar with the term rapture of the church? Alright, the vast majority. The rapture of the church is a Bible teaching that there's coming a day It's the next event on God's prophetic calendar. There's a day coming when the trump of God shall sound, the archangel shall shout! And every saved person will be caught up in a moment in the twinkling of an eye. Caught up off this earth. Raptured off this earth. And to meet the Lord in the air. Now that thing happened so fast, the twinkling of an eye. The other day I stood in the front of the mirror and tried to twinkle my eye. I had a stopwatch. I don't even know how to make your eye twinkle. But I found this out. It's an immeasurable brief period of time. In other words, there's no time to get ready. A woman told my wife years ago, right when those books Left Behind came out, remember the big best-selling books? In those books it teaches that after the rapture, you if you've heard the gospel before the rapture, after the rapture you still have a chance to get saved. That's unscriptural. And a woman told my wife, my wife was witnessing to her, she goes, You know, I read that book Left Behind. Kathy said, Well, that's very interesting. And she said, uh, whenever I see that rapture thing happen, I'm going to get saved. Number one, you're not going to see it coming. And number two, if you're not saved before it happens, there's nothing you can do about it. If you've if you've heard the gospel, if you had opportunities saying But it is at that moment that the those who have been saved, those who know Christ, their bodies will literally be resurrected. They will be reformed back into an actual, genuine, literally, literal physical body. It will be glorified. It will be different than this body. Corinthians tells us that. But nevertheless, and it will be this body that you and I inhabit if we're saved. This very same one. How does that happen? Here's the way the Bible presents it You have a believer. Somebody comes to the point in their life where they realize that they sinned, they've broken God's law. They realize I'm under the judgment of God for my sin. I've disobeyed a holy God, and because of that, I'm under his judgment. They understand from Scripture that Jesus Christ suffered that judgment for them. He suffered hell, and the judgment of God for them took responsibility. For their sins, they put their faith, their confidence, their trust in Jesus Christ, calling them to come in their life. Jesus forgives them and saves them. Now that person is a child of God, they're saved, their sins are forgiven And they're killed in a car wreck. What happens? According to the Bible, the moment, the moment of death. Their soul, what they really are, and we say this all the time: you and I are not a body, we are a soul. We don't have a soul, we are a soul. That's what is what we are. We inhabit this body. At the moment of death, that saved person goes immediately into the presence of the Lord. Their body remains here on earth. Now, any number of things can happen to the body. It can be buried, it can be cremated, it may be out at the ocean and they fall over and drown, and sharks eat it. Right? I'm just trying to set your appetite for lunch. Uh maybe incinerated in a fire. But we all agree that eventually that body just simply ends up coming back and being part of the earth. Right? One way or another, it just goes back to dirt. The soul, the person, let's say this is happening to me. I'm not pro prophesying here Killed in a in a car wreck, and I go, I'm saying May 7, 1979, I go to be with the Lord. I, me, not this physical body, but me, I'm with the Lord. My body is buried in the ground. I go to be with the Lord. My spirit does not stay in my body and sleep. I can prove that from Scripture I go immediately to be with the Lord. Years go by, don't know how long. Archangel steps out the edge of heaven. Boo-boo-doo, blows the trump. The archangel shouts! Come up hither! Everybody that's alive, they're raptured up out of here. Bodies are changed in a moment. Pile of clothes there. Dentures, glasses. Artificial knees. Outta here. How many people vote that happens right now? Now what about those who have already died? My body, if I die before the rapture, wherever it's at Miraculously comes back together, and I'm rejoined with my soul. And for the rest of eternity, this physical body is inhabited by me In the presence of God. Now that is Bible teaching. People say that's crazy. According to man's understanding, it's crazy, but according to God's word, it's doctrine. Alright. So at the rapture of the church, and there's ton of scripture, we could take days and confirm all this. The body's resurrection, reunited with the soul, the glorified body, is now, this body that the believer is resurrected, is now without sin. No sinful tendency. It is now without sickness. It's now without, I put separation. In other words, never die again. I've always, now I said before that we preach the Bible, not our opinions. Here is my opinion. I kind of am of the feeling that the glorif all glorified bodies are bald That is the perfect body. You don't cover anything up with hair. It's just all its glorious beauty. Anyway. The timing of the resurrection, the resurrection of the saved at the rapture. Now here's another resurrection. Paul says here we have hope towards God. They themselves allow that there shall be a resurrection of the just Find from other scripture, that's at the rapture. And of the unjust. What about the person that never gets saved? What about the person who, Dr. Williams made reference to it, I think, the other night, Jesus speaks of it, the person who dies in their sins. Unforgiven. What happens to them? How's that uh resurrection take place? When the lost die, just like the saved, their body goes into the ground. Immediately, whatever the process is, but eventually it's back in the ground. At the moment of death, say a person is unsaved, they've heard the gospel, people have prayed for them, tried to win them to Christ, they never get saved, they never get saved, they never get saved, and they die of a heart attack. They develop cancer, aneurysm, you name it. The moment they die, the moment their heart stops beating, that lost person goes immediately into hell. There's no soul sleeping, there's no delay. It is, they take one breath on earth, and the next breath is the sulfuric fumes of hell Their soul, the real them, is in hell, the body scare. Body deteriorates, goes through whatever process to become dirt. And years down the road, if you'll study Revelation, if you'll study Isaiah, other scriptures very carefully. Years down the road, the rapture takes place. Their body stays in the ground, their soul remains in hell. Seven years tribulation goes by, their body is still in the ground, their soul is still in hell. Christ comes back physically, literally to earth. He sets up what's called the millennial reign. We talked about this Wednesday night. He reigns for 1,000 years, literally from earth. Their body is still in the ground, their soul is still in hell. At the end of that thousand-year reign, there is what the Bible calls the great white throne judgment. The most horrific event in all of history, as far as mankind's concern Where God Almighty brings each and every individual lost person, one by one, stands before Him Their bodies are resurrected from the earth, reunited with their soul. They reinhabit that same physical body they had on planet earth and they stand before God in their literal physical bodies. And God says, bring the books out. in the to to this degree, somewhat this is what happens. They open the books, Revelation 20 says, Whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. Physically Years ago I did a word study on that phrase, the lake of fire. I looked it up all everywhere it's used in the Bible. I looked up the Greek and Hebrew words for it. You know what I found out it means? It means a literal lake composed of flames. I don't understand the physics of all of that. But the resurrection of the unjust is a future event at the end of this earth's history. When the unsaved person's body is reunited with their soul, they stand before God. God basically carries out their sentence of judgment for their rebellion against God, their their refusal to trust Christ. And they're cast for all eternity in the lake of fire. And there's nowhere in that Bible where you can find even a hint that there is ever an end to the lake of fire. No end. No annihilation. The Bible says the smoke of their torment ascendeth up forever and ever and ever We could take time, let the Bible speak for itself. Matthew 5, 29 through 30. There Jesus makes a shocking statement. He says, if your right eye offend thee, pluck it out. Because it is better to go into life with one eye Than to go into hellfire with two eyes. He said, if your right hand offends thee, cut it off! It's better for you to go into eternal life with one arm than to die and go into the fires of hell and the lake of fire with two arms. You know what he's saying? He's not saying you've got to pull your eyeball out and cut your arm off to escape the lake of fire What he's saying is, whatever it takes to make sure your sins are forgiven, you ought to be willing to do it. I tell you, I wasn't going to say this, but let me tell you a sad story. It happened last Sunday afternoon. 5 o'clock, we go out every Sunday afternoon, we knock on doors and visit with people, try and share the gospel with them, try and get them saved. I had a young man, 23 years old We talked a little bit. He said, I'm 23. I said, here's the age of my son, just about my old oldest son. I said, let me ask you a question. Do you know for sure if you died right now you'd go to heaven? He goes, no. I said, does that concern you? He goes, yeah. He says, I'm messed up. I know I have. And that's what he said. He said this. We're talking about that a little bit, about sin and different things. And he said, you know, I'm 23 years old. I've messed up. Because it's about time I get things right. Take this seriously Seriously. I said, you're right. And so we talked, and I said, you know, asked different things. I said, tell you what, and I reached in my back pocket, I pulled my Bible out, just like this. And this Bible here, I said, let me show you some verses. I said it won't take but a couple, three minutes. How you can know that God has forgiven your sin, that when you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. And he said again, he says, you know, I really need this. And he said this. He said, but I don't have time right now. I've got to go to church. So you've got to go to church. A lot of thoughts went through my mind. Here's what. How often religion keeps people from Christ? Now, I told my wife that. I said, isn't that sad? Instead of coming to Christ, he's going to church. Now I'm all for going to church. But man, Jesus said if your right eye offends you, you ought to pluck it out. If it cut your arm off, it ought to And my second thought was: well, what kind of church would you go to where you should have gotten saved already? You follow what I'm saying? Now Kathy made a good statement. She's more positive than I am She says, well maybe he went to church that night and got saved. I said, well, I would like to believe that. So what's the truth? We have the truth of the resurrection clearly taught in Scripture. We have the timing, the just and the unjust, two distinct resurrections. And last of all, and I am with this, the teaching. What does this fact teach us? How does it affect our lives? What does this mean to us? Well, number one means we need to have the assurance of our salvation. Right? We've got to settle that. Whether it's we're not talking about church membership, we're not even talking about church attendance. We're talking about trusting Christ, getting my sins forgiven. So that when I die, I go to heaven and not to hell. So that I'm in the resurrection of the just, not the unjust. Assurance of my salvation. Number two, I need to be active in sharing the gospel with others. Listen, if Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church doesn't do anything else, we have got to tell people about the gospel of Jesus Christ. Christ. If we don't do anything else. I had a person tell me lately, he says, he says, Would you do a visit? He was talking about some people getting saved. He says, your church is kind of good at that. I thought every church ought to be good at that. I had a preacher years ago call up and says, you know, I've got a person that comes out of my church, they're unsaved. He says, that's kind of your specialty. Would you go over and talk to them and try and get them saved? Only if they send their tithe to us. No, I didn't say that. But we ought to be active in reaching the lost. If this is true, saved people resurrected. and live forever with God and glorified bodies and unsaved, a resurrected, spent eternity in the lake of fire. If that's true, if that's true, then what else is more important than winning people to Christ? What else would be more important than that? And last of all, the truth is, I need to accept the fact that my body belongs to God. 1 Corinthians 6. What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Lord and ye are not your own? You're bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your soul and your body. These bodies are not our own. God made them. He allows us to inhabit them. He paid the price of sin so that not just our soul escapes hell, but our body can escape the lake of fire. He gives us a glorified life. These are not our own bodies. Christ. And there are some things that God says we should do with our bodies, and there are some things that the Bible says we should not do with our bodies. There are some things we should do to our bodies, and there are some things we should not do to our bodies. They're not ours, they're the temple of the Holy Spirit, they're God's. We have no right to mistreat and defile and violate the temple that's designed for the Holy Spirit to dwell in. Does that make sense? Some people recognize the name Leonard Brezhnev. I'm not saying I'm-I don't think I have his first name right. I think it's like Lenoid or Lenid Brezhnev. Anybody recognize that name? Was he Prime Minister of Russia or what's the title they use? Premier of Russia? Atheist! Hated God, hated democracy, hated the United States of America, took his shoe off at the United Council and slandered, we will crush you! Apparently, his wife, I don't know that she was saved, but apparently she was somewhat of a believer. And at his funeral, um what do they call it, lying in state, at his funeral with the casket open, Mrs. Brezhnev George Bush, who was vice president of Reagan at the time, came back and gave the report that she led a silent protest against her husband's doctrine. And she stood by, this is the history books tell us, he stood by his casket in absolute silence, refused to speak to one of his comrades. Would not say a word to them, would not accept their condolences, silent protest. And in rebellion against the atheistic teaching of communism, As they closed the casket, she reached in and put a sign of a cross across his body. The casket slammed shut. I don't know all their thinking behind that. But I have a sneaking suspicion that in her mind she was hoping that somehow Her husband would escape the judgment of God and would find the resurrection of the just rather than the resurrection of the unjust. I don't know where you're at spiritually. But if you've never trusted Christ as Savior, now's the time. The young man's going to get baptized a little bit. He told me this, he told several people. He came forward s Friday night to trust Christ, right? Mark Heimball counseled with him. Mark went through the gospel with him. He said this. He says, you know, I think I'll wait till I get home and pray and trust Christ. I'll do it with my fiance. I talked a little bit. Mark said, what if you're killed in a car wreck on the way home? He said to me, he says, that really got to me. He said, I think I better take care of that right now, did you? How about you? Are you saved? Better take care of that. Care of it now. Those of us that know Christ, let's recognize God owns our body. We're His, we're not our own. Let's obey Him. Let's use this for the purpose God intends. Amen. Father in heaven, bless our imitation time now. I thank you for the teaching of your word. Lord, I pray that it would have a powerful impact on our lives and how we live and behave would be affected. Now we could be the people you intend us to be that you would look at us and say, I'm pleased with that home, with that individual, with that church. Our heads bound and eyes closed. I wonder if there's some here this morning say, preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt in my mind. I've trusted Christ as Savior. I've got scriptural basis for the fact that Christ has come in my life and He's forgiven me. I know I'm going to heaven. But you say, preacher, there's things taking place with my body that Are contrary to Scripture. My body is the Lord's. He's told me there are places I ought to have my body, and there's places my body ought not to be. There's things I should do and not do with my body. And you say, preacher, this morning the Spirit of God has dealt with me. I want to please God with my body. And all that that involves, and you'd say, preacher, pray with me, that God will help me conduct myself In a way that's pleasing to the Lord. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray with me. God's Holy Spirit, His own heart. God bless you. Number of hands around. In fact, Romans 12 says that we are to present our bodies to Him, a living sacrifice holy, acceptable unto Him.