With me if you would at verse number eleven, Psalm chapter sixteen. In fact, let's read verse eleven together, would you? If you haven't there in your Bibles, you read along with me all together. Ready? Thou wilt show me the path of life. In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. I read this about a month or so in my devotions in the morning. I read in that little phrase, Thou wilt show me the path of life. kind of s uh stuck out to me. And I got thinking about that, praying about that. And I want to talk this morning the path of life. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to help us. Father I'm just so grateful for our church and what a blessing to be with your people and to sing and fellowship together. Lord, my heart's been blessed this morning. And now as we stop with our Bibles open, we're looking at this passage here, Lord, and I'm asking that your Holy Spirit, the author of Scripture. That your Holy Spirit would open our hearts and minds, that we could see how this applies to our lives individually. And God, what your plan for our life is and how we should respond to that. And so, Lord, we need to hear from you, not me. And so, with that in mind, Lord, I yield my will and my mind to you. I pray you'd guide my thinking as I preach and I present my body anew, Lord, for this time That you would fill me and you would speak your word through my lips. And so I ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen. I had the privilege for about six years to be a member of the Highland Park Baptist Church down in Chattanooga, Tennessee. I was in Tennessee Temple University studying and um doctor Lee Robertson was my pastor a number year. He's been with the Lord now for quite a while. Great, great man of God. And he made this statement. He said the answer to every important question in life is found in the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Word of God. The answer to every important question in life. And in about five weeks from now, it'll be 46 years ago that I called on the Lord Jesus Christ to be my personal Savior. God changed my life. You know my story. I got a phone call uh this week from a lady in Alabama and we got talking and She goes, oh yeah, I know, Pastor. You were saved on May 7, 1979. Total st I never met her. She listens to us on the radio and she knows my life story. So um did I ever tell you about that, Mason? But this uh May 6th will be 46 years ago. And you know what I found? I found that statement to be true When I was in sin and unsaved, I began to pray, God help me, God help me. And God led me to the Word of God, and I found, in the Word of God, the answer to my sin problem. It was by trusting Jesus Christ as my Savior. And now all these many years, been through various trials, as all of us had the ups and downs of life. The trials, the difficulties, and I'm here to tell you, without fail, when I come to the Word of God and I'm going through a situation, I'm trying to deal with an issue, a heartache, or a difficulty, or I don't know what to do Without fail, when I come to the Word of God, God gives me some answers. Now sometimes it takes a little time Sometimes you gotta wait on him. Just got to trust him. Follow his instructions. Do what he says. But God comes through every time. I'm absolutely convinced that that statement's true. The answer to every important issue in life, question in life, is found in the Word of God and in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now we come to Psalms chapter 16, and if you notice there above verse number one, we're given just a smidget of information about this Psalm. Sometimes As we've noticed many, many times over the years, above a psalm, we'll be given a lot of information. We'll know the background of it, what the circumstances were, when it was penned, who penned it Sometimes we're even told why they penned it. Of course, all of this is under the inspiration of God and the moving of the Holy Spirit But above verse number one in Psalms chapter 16, we notice that this is, and he uses an unusual word there, a michtum. Of David, a michhtum of David. Now we don't use that word. It's a Hebrew word, the word michhtum And it simply means this, and there's a little debate about the meaning of the word. It wasn't a real common even among in the Hebrew language, it wasn't real common. So there's a little uncertainty about it, but It's pretty clear. The word itself means the writings. And so it would be something like this the writing of David Now, Hebrew scholars, and I'm certainly not a Hebrew scholar, I look to them, see what they have to say about it, and some of the Hebrew language scholars suggest that the idea behind this is this not just a writing of David, but it has the idea of a writing that is very valuable, a writing that is significant In fact, one uh definition included this the golden writing of David. So what I take away from that, when I look at that and I'm reading Psalm chapter 16, I'm coming to the conclusion there's something about this Psalm That is significant. Now, all of the Word of God is given by inspiration. Amen? And it's profitable. Doctrine, proof, for correction, instruction, righteousness. We read that in Timothy. We know that all scripture is benefits and is given to us by God. But there's something about this song that he uses that term Mitchum, a valuable writing, a golden writing of David. And so I get looking at it and I'm trying to determine, alright, what is it that is so significant about this And lo and behold, Psalm chapter 16, the subject of the book, of the chapter, is Jesus Christ Himself. Psalm chapter sixteen is referred to is what we refer to as a messianic psalm In other words, the Psalm is referencing, it's about David, he's referencing himself and his experiences, but the Holy Spirit is also giving a prophecy or a picture or an understanding of the coming Messiah. A messianic psalm. It's about Jesus Christ, the Messiah. There are a number of psalms that are referred to as messianic psalms. If you would, turn over to Psalm chapter 22, just a page or two over. Appreciate Pastor Matt helping us know that Psalm 16 is right between Psalm 15 and 17. Very, very helpful. So if you would, come over to Psalm 22, another messianic psalm. Just look at the first verse there. Now think about this. If you're familiar with the New Testament, if you're familiar with the Gospels at all, you're going to recognize something here immediately. Look what it says: My God, my God. Why hast thou forsaken me? Anyone recognize that statement? Where do we read this somewhere else in Scripture? Jesus Christ from the cross makes that statement. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? On the cross God turned, so to speak, turned his back. God was separated from Jesus Christ when he took responsibility for our sins. Jesus Christ in the darkness of the cross. The darkness settled down. He said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsake me? And David is referencing that here thousands of years before, 1500 years or so before. And it's a messianic psalm. It's referencing The coming Messiah. And you could go through Psalm 22. Psalm 22 is often called the Psalm of the Cross. And so we come back to chapter 16 and we find here a messianic psalm. It's referencing the life and the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's referred to in the New Testament. Look at verse number 10. It says, For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell. Neither wilt thou suffer thine Holy One to see corruption. Do you know that passage is referenced in Acts chapter 2, verse 25 through 31? Peter references on the day of Pentecost. He preaches that great sermon after the Holy Ghost comes upon him. And he references that referring to the resurrection of Jesus Christ. The message of the New Testament gospel was that Jesus died, was buried, and that he rose again. And we must not leave the resurrection of Jesus Christ off of our gospel message. And so Peter Quotes that verse right there on the day of Pentecost, referencing the resurrection of Jesus Christ and what happens? 3,000 people get saved and baptized. Powerful, powerful message. And then uh later on in Acts chapter 13, verse 35, the Apostle Paul. References verse number 10 there again quoting and referring to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. Quoted directly. By Peter and by Paul in the New Testament. And so Psalm chapter 16 is a messianic psalm. It's about the Lord Jesus Christ. It's a golden writing of David. Valuable. Now, all as I said, all scriptures came by inspiration of God. Don't misunderstand that statement. We're not suggesting that other passages aren't important. They all are. But it's unique in that it refers to Christ. Psalm chapter 16 is a psalm of faith and trusting God. Look with me at verse number one, if you will. He says, preserve me, O God, for in thee do I put my what? Trust. David says, Lord, hold on to me. God, guard my heart and mine. God, keep me. We talked about this in Sunday school. I thank God, it's not me keeping me saved, it's God keeping me saved. Preserve me. I tell you the interesting thing about that word preserve, he says, but look how he says it there. He says uh Preserve me, oh God. That word preserve is the exact same word that the Bible uses about the preservation of Scripture. We know Jesus said, heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away. This book is an eternal book. It's preserved by God. Man cannot destroy the Word of God. They can attack it, they can ridicule it, they can deny it all they want, but they cannot destroy it. The Word of God is the preserved word of God. That's the exact same word David is using about his soul, about himself. God preserved me. Sometimes we get criticized a little bit for believing that in the eternal security of the believer. I'm here to tell you, that is as Bible as you can get. Secure in Christ, kept by God. And so Psalm 16 is a psalm of trust, a psalm of confidence in God. In thee do I put my trust. Look with me at verse number eight. I have set the Lord always before me. Because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved. David is confident. He's trusting in God. And we can trust in God. We can trust in God. And then look, it's also a psalm of joy, a psalm of confidence. Look again at verse number six. The lips, the lines are falling unto me in pleasant places. Yea, I have a goodly heritage. I tell you, if you know Jesus Christ the Savior, those of us that know Jesus Christ the Savior, we've got a good heritage. We've got a great inheritance coming for us someday. What a day that will be. A Psalm of Confidence, verse 7. I will bless the Lord. Who hath given me counsel? He's advised me through his word. He's led me. He leads me and directs me in life. He's given me counsel in my reigns or my heart. Also instruct me in the night season. God speaks to my heart and he leads me. There's confidence here. Look at verse number nine Therefore, my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth, my flesh also shall rest in hope. This whole life can be rough sometimes, amen or not? I know I'm no doubt. Crowd this size, I'm talking to some folks, you're going through it right now. Nobody might know a thing about it, but your heart is aching. Maybe you're not sure what is going to happen. You're a little anxious about some situations. But I'm here to tell you we can have confidence in God. He'll see us through And there's a day coming, there's a day coming with heartaches all past, sorrows all gone, and as believers we'll be with the Lord Jesus Christ. What a day that will be. What a day that will be. A psalm of joy and confidence. My heart is glad. My glory rejoiceth. Uh I uh last fall I thought of this statement when Brother Harper was preaching this week, but last fall we had our fall revival with Brother Ted Mock. How many people remember our fall revival? Brother Mock, what a preacher he is, what a time we had. And he made a great statement. It stuck in my mind. I think of it often. Don't let the devil blind you to how good God is to you. Anybody ever get that way? You see all the problems we forget, how good God's been to us. See all this. We act like we're going to live here forever, and that's all it's ever going to be. I tell you, there's a better day coming And we cannot forget how good God's been to us. So Psalm chapter 16 is a golden psalm. It's significant, a mitch come of David, a writing, a valuable, precious, significant writing of David. It speaks of Christ. It gives us assurance and confidence. We have faith in God. It assures us of we can have joy in the Lord. And then we come down to verse number 11. Thou wilt show me the path of life. The path of life. Now here's my question. When I read that and it stuck out in my mind, I got asking myself, what does he mean by the path of life? What is he talking about? I think when he references the path of life here, he's talking about the life that God intends for you and I to live. I think he's talking about his will. For your life and my life, the path that He has us to live, the life he has us to live, the purpose that I'm alive, the reason he created me, the reason he saved me, this life he's designed me to live. The path of life. Thou wilt show me the path of life. I've got three thoughts I want to give you real quickly. Number one, the reality of God's plan for our lives. The reality In other words, God has a path for your life. God has a plan and a purpose for every one of our lives individually. Very early in my Christian life. Did I mention I was saved May 7, 19? Very, very early. I mean early in my Christian life, I came to this conclusion. I came to the conclusion that God has a plan God has a purpose for my life personally. I didn't understand it all. It wasn't all clear to me, and uh a lot of took a lot of unexpected turns over the years. But very, very early on, through studying scripture and reading my Bible, through the teaching and preaching of the local church there I was in. God began to show me, Dennis, I have a plan for your life. I have a purpose for your life. And I believe, the Bible is very, very clear, God has a plan and purpose, not just for my life, but for your life. God has a reason he gave you life. God has a reason he created you and designed you the way you are Say, preacher, I don't like the way I look. Listen, God has a plan and a purpose for us. By the way, don't let this world convince you that your value is found in your appearance and what people think of you. God created us the way we are. Some fellas he gave a full head of hair, and other guys he blessed with no hair. We were talking uh back there before the service and uh one of the fellows said, Brother Letterman, said, Pastor, you don't even care that you don't have any hair, do you? I said, not one bit. I feel sorry for you guys. Hair all over your head. I tell you what, God has a plan and purpose, every specific. And by the way, God's concerned about every detail of our lives. Do you know the Bible is very, very clear. God's concerned about the kind of friendships we have. Not just young people, young and old, who we interact with, who we associate with. Who we allow to influence. God's concerned about all of that. This isn't real popular, but it's scriptural. God's concerned with how we dress. But ours, he references a good bit, Old and New Testament. He references about being modest, dressing modestly. I believe it's pretty clear to me the Bible teaches men ought to dress like men, ladies ought to dress like ladies. That's become more significant in the day and age we are now. God's concerned. He has a plan and purpose for every detail, how we use our money. We're talking about hair. Do you know the Bible references about men's hair and ladies' hair? The distinction between the two? What I'm trying to say is this: God has a plan for your life. In fact, the very I don't know what the deal is with hair this morning, but uh the very hairs of our head are numbered, Jesus said. Not an amazing thing. Your life is not insignificant. There was a stupid And I'm ashamed I was even involved in this was a stupid rock group that used to sing a song. All we are is dust in the wind I'm here to tell you we're not dust in the wind. We're very valuable individuals created specifically by God for a very specific reason and purpose. We're not just blowing through life. We're not just chance and happenstance. No, no, no. We have a great God. And the reality of His plan, His purpose for your life and my life. The reality of his plan for our life. God has a very definite plan for every believer. He has a very definite purpose, a path. Very one of his life. In fact, in verse 11, there, thou wilt show me the path of life. I got studying that word path, how it's used, other places, where it comes from. It means a very specific roadway Means a very specific direction, a very specific highway that God has us to live, that God has us to go. Last evening uh Derek went with me. We went up to Hanover PA preached at a wild game dinner up there and had a wonderful time. And we got the GPS out. How in the world did we get anywhere without GPSs? And that thing said, go here, go, had a very specific, detailed plan laid out for us to follow. And I'm here to tell you God's divine GPS for your life has a very specific plan uh path laid out for us. That's the idea of the word path there. God has a plan and a purpose. We're not just dust growing in the wind blowing in the wind. I think God I believe the Bible is very clear. God God has a universal plan, what I call a universal plan for this earth. God created this earth for a purpose. Evolution is wrong. It's ridiculous. Evolution begins with the basis. Evolution begins with the conclusion. And the conclusion of evolution is there is no God. And so we have to come up with some theories and some formulas and some processes to explain our existence. If these scientists were honest, now this is my opinion, if these scientists were honest, they would allow for the possibility of a God. And they would look at the evidence and creation and design and purpose, even in the most what they call simple cells. And there is no simple cell, they're highly complex. With great detail and great design. Everyone has a function and a purpose. And if you were honest, you'd say there has to be someone, a designer, behind this It cannot just happen. Statistically, they'll admit it, it is impossible statistically for such intricate design and purpose and mechanics to just somehow happen. I don't care how much time you give it. And the Bible explains to us. The Bible tells us who that designer is. And God has what I refer to as a universal plan for this world. He brought this world, these heavens and this earth, into existence for a purpose. He's a plan for all of it. We can look back in history. And by the way, history is his story. How God worked and led. We look back at history. We see the hand of God. We see the purpose of God. We see the path of God that He has for this whole world. Then we look ahead in prophecy. And we see God's plan, God's path He has for this old universe, this universal plan for the world, and we look ahead and we see the next on God's calendar, on God's path, the next crossroad and next uh landmark on God's path for this world is the rapture of the church. And beyond the rapture, the tribulation time When God's wrath is poured out on this earth. Then beyond that, the return of Christ, the establishment of the millennial reign for a thousand years. Then beyond that, we see the great white throne judgment. Then beyond that, a new heaven, a new earth. We're not just some rock floating around, an infinite universe. We are designed as a planet, this universe designed by God for a very specific purpose, and He has a plan and a path The universal plan of God for this world, we're not just dust blowing in the wind. We're not just Yeah, happenstance and chance. No, we have a creator, designer, that has a plan and purpose for this old world. And I'm glad for that. Wouldn't it be awful if we're just here by chase I was listening to a physicist. There's a guy I follow. He's not a believer, but I think it's interesting. And he says, here's the amazing thing, is we just have no plan. We have no purpose And I said, liar, liar, pants on fire. I didn't say it to his face, it was on the screen, and then I said that But God has a universal plan. We look back and we see his story, history. We look forward, we see prophecy and what he has ahead. Aren't you glad our God's in control? This old mess. We see the nation of Israel, God's plan for Israel. We see, as I said, the rapture, the coming rapture. So God has a universal plan, but God also has what I refer to as an individual plan. For each of us as believers, how many folks here this morning you're saved? You know it. Say amen. God saved you for a reason. I think it was last Sunday little Jackson trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. That was a plan and purpose for Jackson's life. This little boy was baptized the other Sunday, little um uh uh uh Jordan. Little Jordan got baptized. And uh that guy's something else, I'll tell you. You know God's got a plan and purpose for little Jordan's life He has a path for him, and he does for you and for me. Individuals. I notice here that David was convinced that God had a Purpose for his life. Look what he said. Thou wilt show me the path of life. David knew that God had a purpose for his existence. David was convinced That there's a reason God gave me life. There's a reason God designed me the way he did with my strengths and weaknesses. Now David had his ups and downs. But there is a course, there is a plan for every believer. Listen to Jeremiah chapter 29, verse 11. Listen to what Jeremiah said. God speaking through Jeremiah. I know the thoughts that I think toward you, thoughts of peace and not evil, to give you an expected end. You know what he's saying? He's saying, I got a purpose, I got a plan, I got thoughts, I got I got an eye I got idea reason for your life Listen to Psalm Proverbs 3 and verse 5 and 6. But trust in the Lord with all thine heart. Lean not into thine own understanding. Listen to this In all thy ways acknowledge him. Let him have his way. Agree with God. Submit to him in all your ways. Follow the Lord's instruction. Trust him. In all thy ways, acknowledge him. Listen. And he shall what? Direct thy path in the will of God, the path of life, the path of life. If I'll simply take God at His Word, trust Him, do what He instructs me to do. Very carefully, do what He instructs me. He says, I'll lead you And that path of life, I've got a purpose for your life, I've got a meaning, a reason for your existence. So David was convinced that God had a purpose for his life. David was concerned About that path or that purpose. Again, thou wilt show me the path of life. That word show means what you think it means. It means make known, reveal it to me What is my purpose? Why am I alive? Why am I the way I am? Why did you give me this life at this time in this place? There's a purpose. God says, I'll show you. Most important issue in life is the will of God. More important than being popular, I tell you some some sometimes folks get caught up and they just want to be popular. I just want everybody to like me. I just want everybody to think I'm wonderful I just want everybody to sing for he's a jelly good fellow. I just, I just, I'm telling you, it's something more important than being popular. Some people want to be wealthy. There's nothing wrong with being wealthy. I never let me say this, I never had a poor man give me a job. Boy, I tell you, rich folk, wealthy folk get trashed a lot. There's nothing wrong with being wealthy, but there's something more important than being wealthy. Something more important than being popular. There's something more important than having power. I want to have power. There's something more important. You know what it is? It's doing the will of God. Doing the will of God. We talked about that in Sunday school. You can be a great businessman, you can be a very successful politician, you can be a very wealthy individual. But I tell you, you get to the end of your life and you miss the will of God, you fail I want to hear the Lord say, well done, thou good and faithful servant. Paul put it this way, it is required of stewards that a man be found faithful, faithful to the will of God, living the way God instructs me to live, doing what God instructs me to do, trusting him And letting him lead me and direct me in life, be what I should be. David was concerned that God's will be done in his life. Now again, he came up short a few times. He messed up, like we've all had. But he wanted God's will to be done. It's not much hope for someone who doesn't care about God's will. I was preaching last night, I mentioned this, but I come across people every now and then I I try to get out every week and knock on doors, try to talk to people about the Lord, about their soul, share the gospel with people and try to every week. We're out yesterday a little bit So every now and then I'll come across someone, I'll ask them this question. Church is important, more important than that. No, for sure. We die. Our sins are forgiven. We go to heaven, not to hell. And I'll ask this, do you ever give that any thought? Every now and then I'll have somebody say this to me. I don't care about that I don't think about that at all. I don't care about that. I don't care about God. I don't care about heaven, hell. I don't care about the Bible. I don't care about my soul. I tell you, there's not much hope for that person. When somebody talks to me like that, you know, to that with that mentality, that thinking, it's not much I can do to help them. I'll try to give them the gospel a little bit, maybe something for the Holy Spirit to work on their heart about, but I don't usually get too far with someone like that But I knock on someone's door. Brother Mike Stubler and I were out in Deer Park this years ago. Mike's been with the Lord now a while. We went up to a house and we were just out of a weekday knocking on doors and he went up and uh it was an older couple, they were out in their backyard. And he said something to that effect. You know, do you know for sure when you die, your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven? And they said this to him. They said, I can't believe this. They said, we were just talking at breakfast this morning about heaven and hell. How do you know you're going to heaven? How do we get our sins forgiven? And Mike was able to lead them to the Lord. When someone's concerned about God's will for their life, they're on the right track. If a person doesn't care, I don't care what God wants for me, not much, not much hope for that person. How many people remember Mabel? Mabel here. Um Help me with the last name. Arbigas. Argonbright. Argonbright. Smith, Jones, Argonbright. Shirley asked me to go visit Mabel. Remember, Shirley? I went out there and visited her. And we're sat down, we're talking. James Kent was with me. We sat down talking a little bit. She goes, Pastor Leatherman, I never met her before. She says, Pastor Leatherman, I just have a question. I said, What's that, Mabel? She goes, how do you know, how can you know that your sins are forgiven? So well let me tell you. Got my Bible out, showed her how she can know her sins are forgiven through trusting Jesus. And old Mabel bowed her head, trusted Jesus Christ there. And what a blessing she was to our church, got baptized. She was so worried about her hair getting baptized. Said Mabel, it'll be fine. Shh She's down in North Carolina now, I think. What I'm trying to say is this. David was concerned. That God's will be done in his life. Not just in salvation, but how we live. God's plan, once I'm saved, God, what do you have me to do? What is my role? What is my purpose? David said, God, I want you to show me that. Reveal it to me. Help me understand and know. I was thinking about in the Bible. A fellow that one too concerned about God's will. You recognize the name Jonah God said, Jonah, my will is for you to go to Nineveh. I got a people there that need to hear the warning of God. They need the word of God. And Jonah, my purpose, my path, my plan for you is to go there. And uh give the word of God to the folks in Nineveh. Jonah said, I don't want to do that. I don't want to go do that. He got a ship, went the opposite direction. Let me ask you a question. How'd that work out for Noah? Not too hot. He ended up in the belly of a whale. Thank God he humbled himself, repented. God spewed him out. I often wondered if he took a bath before he went there or not. Imagine that. David said, I'm certain God has a path for my life. God has a purpose for my life. And I want to know it. God, I want you to show it to me. I want to know. If somebody doesn't care about God's will, there's not much he can do. So the reality of the will of God, God's plan for our life. Number two, the revelation of God's plan for my life. Now let me just go through this quickly How can I know what God's will for my life is? Say, preacher, I'm older in years. I'm up in years You think God still has a plan, a purpose for me? I like the way Micah McCurry put it. He says, if you've still got breath, God still has a plan. I'm a young person. I'm a teenager. What's God's will for my life? I don't want to waste my life. I don't want to get to the end of my life and ruin it. I want my life to count. How do I know? How do I know? Let me give you some suggestions that I've experienced in my years and studying scriptures. Number one, we can know God's plan and God's purpose for our life through the scriptures. Looking in the Word of God. God leads us. Psalm 119, 105 says, Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my what? Path. The path of life. I look in the scriptures. God leads me. God directs me. Helps me. Shows me. Trust God. Do what He instructs me to do. Follow his instructions, and God will lead you in that path. And by the way, if it's not in God's word, it's not in God's will. Well, preacher, I think this is God's will for me. If it don't line up with scripture, I can tell you this, it's not God's will. I remember after I got saved, May 7, 1979. And um It it was a probably a couple weeks that wasn't long after I got saved and daddy's a truck driver, so he's gone during the week And I'm there, I'm working at the meat packing plant, but I'm God's working in my life. I'm reading my Bible. I'm praying. And about a couple weeks into my new life, I mean it was new. It was just so amazing to me what God is doing in my life. But I got to the point where something was unsettled in my heart. There was just a an uneasiness there. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Just something And my heart and soul wasn't right. And I had the joy of the Lord. I was excited. God was doing stuff. But something was unsettled. I began praying. I remember, I think, if I remember correctly, it was a Friday night. And I began praying. God help me. I don't know you've done such things. God, something's not right. Please show me what's not right And um my room was in the attic and uh had a little desk and a little place there and uh and I had a desk and stuff and I had my Bible And I said, God, I don't know, something's not right. I don't know what it is. I need you to show me. I was as humble, I was sincere and simple in my thinking as you can get. And I just got on my knees by my chair at my desk. I had my Bible and I just, God show me, and I just flopped it open. And I got reading there it was in the book of Mark and it talked about John the Baptist baptizing people. Hmm And it was like, it was like God was sitting there, and it wasn't audible. Please don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But it was just as if it was, and God said, you need to be baptized. I hadn't been baptized. And for whatever reason, nobody approached me about that. And not at that point. I said, huh. So I flipped the page over and it referenced Mark getting somebody baptizing again. And I am absolutely to say, you will never convince me that wasn't God Almighty in the person of the Holy Spirit leading me in the will he had for my life through his word. Now let me put a little caution here. I do not advise just opening your Bible up willy-nilly and trying to determine God's will. And there's a better way to do that. God in his mercy. help me with that, but I wouldn't advise doing it that way. You heard about the one fella, he said, Lord, I want to know where your will is and uh he just opened his Bible anywhere and said, Judas hanged himself. Yikes. That can't be right. So he flipped around and uh he read and the first thing he read was, Go thou and do likewise. Good heavens That can't be right. Flipped around and what they'll do is do quickly. So what I'm trying to say is this, I don't advise Just opening up your Bible and uh whatever you read, that's God's will. Now in my case there, the Lord was very m gracious and merciful. But my point is this God will use his word to lead us And direct us. When I surrendered to go into the ministry, God was using his word, the book of Acts, different verses. He just deal with my heart, deal with my heart. And God was leading me in the ministry. And God will do that for anybody. So what's the revelation of God's path for my life, God's will? First, it's in scriptures. And then I put this down through the Holy Spirit And he uses the scriptures. He impresses them on our heart. He helps us understand how that verse applies to my life. In John chapter 16, verse 13, Jesus said, the Spirit shall guide you in all truth. He guides my thinking. He puts desires in my heart. Psalm says, in the Psalms it says, Commit thy way unto the Lord, and He shall give thee the desires of thine heart. God puts that desire in my heart. Desire to live for him and serve him and do right. So he used the Holy Spirit uses that. He gives peace in my heart and he convicts me if I'm doing wrong. Some of us got convicted this week in the revival and the preaching of the Word of God. That's the Holy Spirit leading me and directing me in doing right, getting out of doing wrong, getting away from that which is wrong. and lead me to do right. How many people know what I mean by being convicted by the Holy Spirit? That's them leading me, directing me in life, correcting me in the path of life. I told you I worked in when I was in Chattanooga in school, I got a night job. We worked 11 at night till 7 in the morning in a carpet mill, carpet mills all over North Georgia I got a job there uh in the middle of the night and uh the school would give us little bag lunches that we could take when when we worked all uh there and uh I forgot my lunch. It's like two in the morning when we had lunch hour That's an ungodly time. And uh so I'm there, oh man, I'm starving. And uh I asked the foreman, I said, is there any place around here where I can get something to eat at 2. 30 in the morning, two, three o'clock in the morning? He goes, Yeah, there's a little place right down here. About a block. You can get a sandwich. They got good sandwiches. I said, okay. So I had a half hour, so I hightail it out of there. I'm huffing it down there. It's dark, you know Uh I mean I think it's uh Calhoun, Georgia, somewhere I forget one of the and uh we're down there and I come around a corner and here's a place. There's some lights on, a brick building And there's doors there, double doors, and it's obviously what he meant. I go run in there. I went through the first set of doors, and it was like the Holy Spirit took a spiritual two by four and bashed me in the face. Boom And something inside me was screaming, don't go in there, don't go in there, don't go in there. And uh I didn't know what it was. I've never and so I went through the second set of doors. Here was an awful nightclub Nasty. Built. I turned and went right out. You know what that was? That was the Holy Spirit of God warning me. Warning me. And the Bible is very, very clear. The Holy Spirit will lead us. He'll guide us. Never contrary to Scripture. It always lines up with Scripture. But he'll impress on us, he'll convict us, he'll unsettle our heart, he'll give us peace in our heart. We came here in August of 90 Uh 1993 and I came myself. We were living in Colorado. I just the church just flew me in and I preached that day. Some of y'all were here, Helen and others I preached that morning and I called my wife up in the afternoon. I said, I don't know how they're going to vote, but there's no doubt in my mind this is where God wants us. I was sure of it. And I I said, I hope the people know that. And uh and there was just a peace there, a settled peace in my heart. About a week later, I got a call from Dr. Williams and said, we voted, we want you to come on in. And I'm just saying, from my perspective, there's no doubt in my mind, the very reason God gave me life So that I could be pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist. It has been the joy of my life. And God's Holy Spirit leads us Not just in ministry, in my situation, but every one of us in our own situation, in our own lives we're living. God uses the scripture. The Holy Spirit leads us. And guides us. Through supplication. By that I mean prayer. Through scriptures, through the Spirit, through supplication, prayer. If any of you lack wisdom, let them ask of God. Who giveth to all men liberally or prayeth not. You say, Preacher, I'm not sure what to do. Pray! Get your Bible open. Lord lead me. God direct me. Now wait on him. It says it doesn't always give the answer immediately. Wait on him. Trust him. Do what you know you should do, but pray. God will lead you. God will direct you. I had somebody call me this week. They wanted some advice on something. I can't tell them this or that If that felt that's God's will, then yeah, if you feel it's not God's will, then don't do it. And finally he said, Well what should I do? I said, What you want to do is get on your knees and pray Ask the Lord to make it clear. Give you wisdom on the decision you need to make. So through supplication, and then I put this down through sages. Anyone know what a sage is? A person That is a sage. It's a very wise person. A sage is somebody that has great wisdom, great understanding. And I've found there's been times in my life as I'm wanting God's will to be done. I'm wanting to live my life. I want to go down the path of life that God has for me. And I found sometimes I go to some older Christian, somebody that knows the Lord, knows the word, I say, I need some counsel, I need some advice, what should I do? And being great help. I'll tell you this, Dr. Pat Creed has been a sage in my life. He has helped me so many times and others. And it's always good to have somebody. I believe that's one of the purposes of a local church. Good godly people in the church I can go and talk with and get advice and counsel. In the multitude of counselors, there is wisdom. And so, how do I know God's will? Well, go to the scriptures. Let the Holy Spirit lead and direct you. Pray And then get good advice from older Christians that know the Lord. Don't, hey, listen, don't go to some knucklehead that's living in sin for advice. It's somebody that has some biblical wisdom, somebody that has some experience, can has some insight. And a lot of times they can help us. Let me end with this. My response To the path of life. In other words, God has a plan, a purpose for my life. He reveals it to me through scriptures, through the Spirit, through prayer, through counsel of others. Now, how do I respond to that? I can do one of two things. I can let the Lord have his way, or I can do it my way. I can die to self and say, Yes, Lord, you know what I've found? All these many years I found sometimes my will conflicts with God's will. Anyone know what I'm talking about? I got something in my heart and mind, and this is what I want. This is the way I'd like to go. This is what I want to do. And then I look at Scripture and the Holy Spirit, and God wants me to go this way God wants me to do this. And it's not always sinful. It's just not His will. And then I've got to make a decision. Am I going to do what I want to do? Or am I going to trust the Lord, let him have his way? Interesting enough, Jesus Christ. Found himself in that very situation. In the Garden of Gethsemane. The night before he's crucified. He prayed. Listen to his prayer. Lord. If it be possible, let this cup pass from me. The Bible says he was sweating, as it were, great drops of blood, under stress. This is not I don't want this. Humanly speaking, Jesus was saying, I don't want this. God, please, some other way. But let this cup pass from me. Then he said this, nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. That's the response to the will of God. Do it my way? What I want? The way I see it. Or Lord, I trust you. Not my will, thy will be done. I don't know about you, but I'm awfully glad Jesus said, Not my will, thy will be done. He went to that old cross, millions and millions, and millions and millions and millions of people I found forgiveness of sins and new life because Jesus said, Not my will, but thy will be done. That's the response. Um, and I I gotta end with this, but I put this down. You might want to jot this down. This has helped me. Number one, be sensitive to the Lord's leadership. Preacher's preaching, we're in revival meeting. God speaks to your heart about something. He shows something. This isn't right. This needs to be adjusted. You need to do this. Stop doing that. Go this direction. And the Holy Spirit speaks God's word to my heart. And I need to be sensitive to that. Jesus says, let him that hath ears to hear. In other words, don't just hear it, listen. Be sensitive to what God's leading you, instructing you to do. And then number two, write this down. Be submissive. All right, I know that's what God spoke to my heart. God said this. All right, Lord, I submit. Not my will, thy will be done. And then number three, write this down. Be steadfast. When you determine what God's will is, God leads you, then you put your feet down, you put roots down, and you just keep on doing what God's doing. Be not weary in well doing. You do what God says and you just keep on doing it, keep on doing it, keep on doing it. From a pastor's perspective, from a preacher's perspective, now that someone's been doing it for a little while, I get aggravated. With some of these younger preachers and they just jump from church to church to church to church to church to church to church. And I know God leads and I'm I'm not discounting that and I can't stand in God's stead and tell them what God's will is. But I believe you get in the will of God, you just put your feet down and you stay there. And you keep doing the will of God, and you keep doing the will of God, and you keep doing the will of God He said, preacher, why do we every year, all the time, go out knocking on doors, giving out faith promise? You know why? Because that's the will of God, and we're just going to stay at it and stay at it and stay at it and stay at it Because it's God's will. It's God's path for the church. Whatever God's will is for you. I thank God we got Sunday school teachers been teaching a long, long time. They got in the will of God where God's using them and they just stay put. They just stay put. Bus workers. Cross the board. Just stay at it. I had a fella, this was years ago. I was out knocking on doors out towards uh towards Swanton. Came the knocked on the door, it was a Saturday, I knocked on the door and it was summertime, the screen doors up and they said, Come on in! I said, Hey, it's preacher, I'm Pastor Leatherman, Baptist Church. Oh, come on in. Whole bunch of people in there So we got to talk a little bit. I said, hey y'all, let me uh uh I learned y'all in Philadelphia. And um I said hey uh Let me ask you a question. You know for sure, if you die now you go to heaven? Oh, we don't know. We don't there's about five or six people. So I went through the gospel. I don't I don't remember if anybody trusted the Lord or not. We got talking. About a week or so went by, a couple weeks went by, maybe it was a month. The phone rings, I'm back in the office, is we didn't have secretary or anybody back then. I pretty much did everything. And um phone rang, I answered, Matt Lake Independent Baptist. He said, Pastor Letterman, this is so-and-so. You came by my house the other week and he told me, Oh yeah. He said, can I talk to you? I said, sure. Can I talk to you right now? I said, yeah, come on in. A few minutes later he pulled in, he sat down. He says to me, Preacher, I'm married. You met my wife? I said, Yeah. He says, I'm in love with another woman. So what are you talking about? Because I met this other gal, I love her. I want to leave my wife and I want to go be with her. I said, what do you want me to say? What are you asking me? I just want to know what God's will is. So you know what God's will is? Well, God's will is you to say, no, that's adultery. God condemns that. That's sin. It's not God's will for your life. But I love her, preacher, but I love her. He's crying, these teardrops are laying on the desk. I love her so much. I said, listen, if you're coming here and you're wanting me to tell you that's okay, it ain't gonna happen. Now I can give you the name of some preachers in the county. You can go to them, they'll tell you it's just fine, but you ain't getting that from me. He left, left his wife, committed adultery, went off with this other woman, I lost touch with him years ago. You know, he had a choice to make. God laid it out very clear what God's will was, what he should do, what he shouldn't do. He had a choice. Either he does what he wants or he's going to do what God wants. He chose what he wanted. He ruined the family, ruined the kids, and destroyed a home. Out of the will of God. My response is, not my will, thy will be done. You with me? Let's just trust God. Say, well, I don't see how God's way will work out. Doesn't matter. God's the wise one. We're not. God's all-knowing, we're not. We trust Him. We trust Him. Are you with me? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to know the path of light, your will for our lives. Help us to try Trust you, Lord, and die to self and yield ourselves to you and let you have your way. God, we want your blessing. Want your blessing on our homes, our families, our children. Lord help us to trust you. Heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there's some this morning, say, preacher. I want God's will to be done in my life. And maybe God's been dealing with some areas that need to be adjusted Some things in life that are not lining up with Scripture. And maybe there's some things God's trying to prompt us to do and get involved, start doing. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. And I'd be willing to die to self and let the Lord have his way. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher God's dealt with my heart. There's some specific areas there. I know. I want God's will to be done. Not just the negative but positive. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I messed up in the past. I got out of the will of God. And I want to come back, like that prodigal son. I want to come back. I'm here to tell you, God will take you back. You humble yourself, you come to the Lord, tell him, God will take you back. I wonder if there's some would say, Preacher, I need to come back. I need to come back. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, I need to come back. God bless you. God bless you. One last question. I wonder if there's some this morning that say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I don't want to live my life and end up in hell. Want to know that God has forgiven me and saved me. I have a home in heaven. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me settle that in my life. Is there any like that By the uplifted hand, I don't want to waste my life. I want to know for sure my sins are again on my way to heaven. God bless you. Is there any others, preacher? I need to get that settled. Any others? Father, bless our invitation time I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed.