Looked at verse number twenty-seven last week and if you remember we pointed out the clarity of this command. Uh there's no easy way around what the Lord is saying here. He just just hits it straight up. He says, Thou shalt not commit adultery. If you remember last Wednesday night we went through a whole series of verses where that command is repeated over and over and over again There's portions of the book of Proverbs that goes into pretty significant detail addressing the sin of adultery and how it takes place and the consequences of it uh are horrendous. And so it's very, very clear. When the Lord quotes the uh them of old, saying, Thou shalt not commit adultery, he was quoting scripture He was addressing a command that is very, very clear in Scripture. If you remember, we gave a definition of adultery, and uh my definition was, is uh I put it this way, a voluntary and deliberate breach. of the marriage covenant by engaging in physical intimacy with someone other than the individual's spouse. I think we understand what adultery is Now associated with adultery and the same classification of sins is fornication, which is physical intimacy between unmarried folks, maybe before marriage. uh outside of marriage in any way. Sometimes adultery and fornication are used interchangeably. Technically adultery is uh is a married individual's Fornication is outside the marriage, uh, before marriage, or whatever. But also included in this category, and sometimes uh we overlook this perhaps is the sin of homosexuality. That is the same classification of sin as adultery and fornication. Now here's where uh I think we need to be very, very careful. If we're going to preach against homosexuality, and we should, and we will But uh we need to be very, very careful. We also preach against adultery and fornication. And we cannot, we need uh, what's the saying? Make sure your own kitchen's clean. Right? And so we need to be very, very careful about that. And uh uh you know, my thinking is much of the adultery of the uh much of the homosexuality and the popularity and acceptance And celebration of homosexuality day is very much a result of promiscuity of previous generations and simply carrying on to the next degree the fornication, adultery that was tolerated before, and today just taking it to another level And so these are all sins that are very, very clearly condemned in Scripture. We like to say homosexuality, sodomy is an abomination to God, and it is. Do you know adultery is an abomination to God? Fortnication is abomination to God. And so we need to be very understand that. Adultery in the Bible is also referred to, used to describe Israel's unfaithfulness in worshiping God. And worshiping other gods, they was concerned uh was uh considered a spiritual adultery. Uh James calls his uh folks he's writing to ye adulterers and adulteresses. Know ye not that friendship with the world is enmity against God. So there's a spiritual adultery also that is addressed. So last week we pointed out that There is a very clear condemnation of this sin, very clearly stated, the clarity of this command. Now, I want to look at verse 28 And I think we're going to take our time working through here. I've broken it down. And what I want to look at this evening is the look of adultery. Notice verse 28, but I say unto you that whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart I've broken this down into four thoughts, this passage. We're only going to look at one tonight. First is the look, but I say to you, whoso looketh, then is the lust. Looketh uh after a woman, uh uh whoso looketh on a woman to lust after her. So you have the look, the lust, uh that hath committed adultery in her heart. Uh then the location where this takes place in the heart And then a tremendous loss of adultery. And so we'll look at those others in the coming weeks, but tonight I want to look uh at the look of adultery. Notice he says, but I say unto you. As I got studying this, that word I, when he says, but I say unto you, it's a very emphatic term. The Lord is emphasizing that. You have heard of him said of old, thou shalt not commit adultery. All right, very clear. He's quoting that. But I say unto you. It's emphatic. The emphasis is on the fact that this is the Lord Jesus Christ saying this. And basically, what I get away from this is regardless of what man's opinions are. Regardless of what the world's values and standards may or may not be, this is my standard. This is Jesus' standard. This is God's standard. You've heard what they say. You know what their standards are. You know what their values are. These are mine. And he's emphasizing the fact that this is the Lord's. standard we are to live by. Now, if you're here tonight and your concern is that your life, your heart pleases God, Then that ought to catch our attention, right? The Lord says, but I say unto you, wait a minute, I want to please my Savior I want my life to bring glory to my Savior. I want my life and my behavior to be conformed to my Savior who suffered hell for me and died and rose again. And if he says this is the way it is, then I want to pay very careful attention to that. Now if I don't care what the Lord says and I'm just concerned about fitting in with the world and just being a little religious and putting on the show and just uh having a facade of Christianity, if that's all I'm concerned about, then what the Lord says is of no significance to me. But if I am concerned, as I just said, if he is important to me, if he is my Lord and He is my Savior and I love Him And when he says, I say unto you, that catches my attention. And I say, all right, I need to pay attention to this. This is the Lord's standard. And so for our concern, this is a I want to I want to pay close attention because I love the Lord. Now that's where victorious Christian living begins When I get to the point where I say this, this is important, when I get to the point where I say this, pleasing God with my life. is more important than being popular in the world. When I get to that point, then I'll start seeing victory in my life. Here's what's killing us as Christians. We're so worried about fitting in with the world, we've pushed aside what the Lord says. And there's no victory in that. There's that's defeat. But when I get and that's really what revival is, when I get to a point where I said, All right I want to be what the Lord wants me, regardless of what the world says, regardless of what all all my buddies uh whatever at work or in school or whatever doing. I'm not worried about that. I don't care what the world thinks about me I want to please the Lord. When I get to that point, I'm on the road to victory in my Christian life. And so it's very emphatic here. So let's look at the look of adultery. But I say unto you that whosoever looketh on a woman. The word looketh there, that phrase looketh on a woman, looking on a woman, has this idea to gaze upon. See what I'm saying? To look with desire. It has this idea to examine or inspect very closely In fact, it's translated some other places, the same word is translated to take heed to, to give a lot of attention to. It has the idea of fixing one's eyes upon. Turn over to Matthew chapter 7. And the beginning of Matthew chapter 7. He's addressing hypocrites judging others for smaller things than what they're doing. And notice in verse number three, he says Why beholdest thou the moat that is in thy brother's eye, but consider not the being that is in thine own eye? Now a moat is a tiny little splinter. Now if I if Tom has a moat in his eye, he's got this little splinter up under his eyelid there, and it's bothered him a little bit. If I behold The moat that's in Tom's eye, how closely am I checking out his eyeball? Question Pretty close. I'm examining. I'm a eye doctor examining his eyeball, checking it out to find that moat that's in there. And the Lord's using an extreme illustration here To illustrate how foolish they were. And he says, Then I you've got a beam in your own eye. And the point is this, that word there, beholdest thou, comes from the same word where he says, It looketh on a woman It has the idea of checking it out, looking very, very carefully, looking very, very closely at, gazing on, inspecting. My point is this. When the Lord says, Whosoever looketh on a woman the life of her, he's not talking about just glancing by and seeing somebody like that. He's not talking about just noticing someone He's talking about someone that's zeroing in. They've got the periscope and they're zeroing in. That's the whole idea. This is a look that is on purpose. Deliberately checking her out. It is a look that is prolonged. It's not just a glance for a second. No. He's part there. And he's checking this out. Over and over and over in the Bible, God warns us about what we look at. about what we set before our eyes. God warns us very, very strongly. Now if you would, I don't know we're going to get back here to Matthew, but maybe stick a note a marker in here. Come with me if you would to Psalms, the book of Psalms. and chapter 101. Now I want you to turn there because I want to highly recommend you underscore this verse in your Bible. In fact, you might want to write it out on some 3x5 cards or 4x6 cards and might want to put this up some different places. Psalms 101, and I'd like for us to notice verse number 3. Now David is writing this, and that's going to be a little significant here in a few minutes, under the inspiration of God, of course. But look in Psalms 101 and verse number 3. The Bible says this. I will set no wicked thing where? What's it say? What's it say? Before mine eyes. Now that word set has the idea of planning it there, putting it prolonged deliberately and prolonging prolonged before my eyes. Same idea of what the Lord is saying in Matthew chapter 5 when he says, looketh upon a woman. Same concept. I am not going to set this before mine eyes. I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes. I hate the work of them that turn aside. It shall not cleave unto me. And so David is saying, under the inspiration of God, I am going to have to discipline myself. I'm going to have to deliberately decide that I am not going to allow my eyes to look on something that is wrong. I am not going to allow myself to look on something that is wicked. I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes. Does anybody have any ideas or suggestions where that verse would be a good place to paste that verse? Any ideas? This is group discussion night. On the television. How many people agree that would be a good place to put that verse? Uh how where else? On the computer. Uh DVD player, cell phone nowadays. There's almost any electronic gadget. And so we're warned not to put wicked things before our eyes. And we'll notice why here in a little bit. Turn with me, Wood, to the book before Psalms, the book of Job. Question, Job, good guy, bad guy? Great guy. He was a man of integrity. And he retained his integrity. And I want to point out to you one of the practices that Job had that enabled him to retain his integrity. Job chapter 31 And turn with me to the first verse of Job chapter 31. Here's a man of integrity. God praises him. His wife acknowledges his integrity, though she tries to get him to violate it. He retains his integrity. And one of the ways, look at verse 1, Job says this, I made a covenant with mine eyes. Why then should I think upon a maid? I made a covenant with my What? Eyes? Why then should I think upon a maid He's referring to the same thing the Lord Jesus is referring to when he says, Whoso looketh on a woman. He's saying this. Now this is important He is saying, I have determined, I am not, I'm going to be very, very careful where I put my eyes, because where I put my eyes will affect the way I think. Now here's the principle, and this is important. What I look at affects the way I think. What I look at affects the way I think. Um there's many studies out there that verify this. One study uh uh that uh they did I some um university or somewhere did a study and they found this that somebody looking at pornography Placing that wickedness before their eyes, it actually activates a chemical in the brain. That chemical is called dopamine. I think I'm saying it correctly It actually will trigger that chemical to go into gear, and that chemical is the exact same, it produces the sa exact same reaction in the brain that crack cocaine and meth produces. And they were suggesting in this study that By exposing, by looking at, by exposing myself through the eye gate to these types of things, it literally Physically affects the chemical reactions taking place in my brain and changes the way I think. Changes the way I think. Looking literally affects the chemical activity of the brain, and it changes how we think and how we value things. Now you say, Brother Leatherman, I don't know about that some study. Alright, if you would, take your Bible, turn with me to 2 Samuel. 2 Samuel? 2 Samuel is right after 1 Samuel. 2 Samuel chapter 11. David is a good man. He's a godly man. He is a man after God's own heart. In many ways, I would love to be a man of God of David's caliber. Was I saying, Daniel? David, okay, good. Uh I would love to be a man of David's caliber as far as his spiritual spirituality was concerned. His passion for the Lord and his love for God was uh uh in many ways unmatched But David made a horrendous mistake, and his mistake altered the way he thinks. Notice in 1 2 Samuel chapter 11, look at verse 1, it came to pass, and many of us are familiar with this passage, it came to pass after the year was expired, at the time when the kings go forth to battle, that David sent Joab. And his servants with him, and all Israel. And he destroyed the children of Amnon and Bese Ammon and besieged Rabba. But David did what? Tarried still at Jerusalem. Now we make a big deal about that. Anytime I preach on this or something, I make a big deal. This is the time when the kings are supposed to be out at battle. David doesn't go out. He sends a bunch of others. He stays back Now, that's a mistake. We ought to be where we're supposed to be. Amen? We ought to be in our place. David's not in his place. He sits out. He stays home that night from church, so to speak Alright, but that's that's uh that's not right. And as bad as it is, that's not the problem yet. And it came to pass In an evening tide, that David arose from off his bed and walked upon the roof of the king's house. Anything wrong with that? Now, apparently he can't sleep or whatever, for whatever reason, we can read into this and speculate a lot, and I've got my own ideas. But he's up and he goes up on the roof at night. He should be out of battle. He's not. He's back here. He gets up. Now, what did Jesus say in Matthew chapter 5, verse 28? Whoso Looketh on a woman to lust after her. Hath committed adultery in his heart. Hath already committed adultery in his heart. Now look at this. David arose from off his bed, walking upon the roof of the king's house, and from the roof he Uh-oh, I circled that word. He saw. He saw a woman washing herself. And the woman was very beautiful to look upon. That word Saul means this, to inspect, to look very closely at. It's not that David was up on the roof and he glanced over and said, Well, there's a woman washing herself. And what do I know? It's not just a glance, it's not just that he noticed. If he'd just simply saw her there and noticed it, that in and of itself wouldn't have been sin. Here was David's problem. He parked there. He stopped. And he began to inspect, and he looked very, very closely at her. Now here's the point. What we look at, Job said this. He said, I made a covenant with my eyes. Why should I then think upon a maid? Dwell on her, think about her, imagine things about her. I'm making a covenant with my eyes. Why? Because what I look at affects the way I think. Studies tell us that looking at sinful objects, sinful things Actually affects the chemical reactions taking place in our brain. Physically affects it. So here's David, a godly man, loves the Lord. By anybody's standard, a pure man of God. But he saw this woman. He looked at her. He inspected her. He watched her. And it literally changed the way he thought. It changed his values. It changed his behavior. Almost in a moment of time. David changes. And now he is seeking, he is pursuing, he is wanting things that an hour earlier we have no record that he had any desire for it at all. Something has happened. Something has changed in the mind and heart of David. You know what it was? He gazed, he looked at this woman. In a wrong, sinful way, and it affected his thinking. It altered his thinking. It altered his desires. It altered his behavior. Hey, it altered his life. And from that point on, heartache, troubles, difficulties, death. What I'm saying is this When the Lord said, Whoso looketh on a woman, he's touching on something that is key in the Christian life. Is that we have to be very, very careful what we expose ourselves to. Would you agree with me? We live in a very visual society. Everything is visual. See it, see it, see it. I think that's by spiritual design of our enemy I think Satan knows that if he can get Eve to look at the fruit God has forbidden, she will eventually desire it. Because what I look at affects the way I think and what I desire. He knew that if he could get Samson to see a woman of the Philistines, He would desire her. Satan knew that if David would see Bathsheba washing herself, it would change his way he thinks and would bring him down. And you go, oh he knew if he could get Achan to see that gold and that Babylonian garment, then he would desire it, it would affect his thinking, it would affect his values, it would affect the principles he lives by, he would alter them, and he would take it. What we look at affects the way we think. We must guard our eyes. With every effort we have, do not allow wickedness and ungodly, do not allow ourselves to uh for our eyes to gaze Upon a woman or anything else that God forbids us. Then notice it says she saw her washing herself and the woman's very beautiful look on. Now look at verse three. Now things start changing. And David sent, and what Inquired, verse 3, inquired after the woman. I circled that word inquired. In other words, now he wants her He even noticed her before. Now he sees her. He sees her. Things change. Now he wants her. Notice this. And one said, doesn't tell us who. One said, Is not this Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite? You know what I think that is? I think whoever it was talking to him said, David, that's a married woman you're asking about. You know what I think that was? That was God providing a way of escape that he could endure the temptation. God was giving David an opportunity here to say, oh, you're right, you're right, uh, my bad, and walk away from it. But the change has taken place. The thinking has been altered. And he goes on, and David, verse 4, David sent messengers and what? Took her. I circled the word saw in verse two, the word inquired in verse three, and the verse, and the word took in verse four. The same steps that brought Eve. That brought Achan, that brought Samson, brought them down. Saw, fetched the mind, desired, fetched the actions, took. So the Lord makes a very important statement here. Now the f you've heard them said before, don't commit adultery. As long as you don't commit adultery, that's fine. Some in our world, some ungodly people in our world would like to suggest that simply looking. Nasty pictures and nasty magazines, nasty websites, as long as you look at it, that's a victimless crime. It's a victimless sin. You're not hurting anybody. The Lord says, oh no, no. That is just as wicked. You have already committed adultery in your heart by looking at that. Now let me back up a little bit. If a man, and for the instance of our passage, the principle applies both ways, right, for men and women. But the Lord is referring to men looking on a woman. Let me ask this. Who is responsible? In Matthew chapter 5, verse 28, when the Lord says, He looketh on a woman to lust as that he's already committed adultery in the heart. Who's the one responsible? Who's the one held accountability for that whole action? The person looking. The person looking. So remember that. Regardless of what the woman does or doesn't do. The man looking is the one condemned, held accountable before God. But let me back up here and let me address this, and I want you to help me. Is there something a woman can do? That would be a hindrance to a man and cause him to stumble and cause him maybe to give in to this temptation or at very least Enable this temptation to uh him to struggle with it. Anybody any ideas? Is there something a woman could do that would enable a man to be tempted in this area? Well, dress him modestly Now, don't misunderstand what I'm saying. David sinned. David is the one guilty. David is the one accountable for his actions. But My thinking is, what if Bathsheba would have been a little bit more careful about where she was bathing? Huh? Would that maybe have helped David? Now I know some of you ladies are thinking, oh, you're just trying to take the blame off the man. No, no, no. By the way, David didn't rape her. Right? Follow what I'm saying? She could have said no at any time. She could have screamed and hollered. She could have said no, I'm a married woman. She could have stopped that. She didn't. No What I'm saying is this, a woman can do some things that causes a man to struggle and stumble. And one of those things is to dress immodestly. Bathsheba could have been a little more careful. She could have put a curtain up around or something. Now I'm not blaming her. David's responsible, but I'm simply saying she could have helped. Turn with me void to Proverbs chapter number seven Now, the whole idea here is the look, the look If a man looks on a woman to lust after her, he's already committed adultery in her heart with her. But my question as we wh wrap this up here a little bit, the man is responsible. We are ultimately responsible for our thoughts. And the focus of our attention is men, and vice versa, women or men nowadays, good heavens. It goes both ways. But look at this, Proverbs chapter 7, verse 6. For at the window of my casement I looked through, for the window of my house I looked through my casement, and I beheld among the simple ones I discern among the youths a young man void of understanding. If a guy is simple and he's void of understanding, how would you describe him? He's stupid. This guy is a dummy. And so keep that in mind as we go through here. The world today celebrates, exalts these guys that do this type of thing. God says he's stupid. He's void of understanding. He's a simpleton. Now look at this. Passing through the street near her corner, and he went the way to her house in the twilight, in the dark evening, in the black and dark night. He ought not to be there. Amen. David should not have been on that roof. He should have been out at war. So he's in a place he ought not to be. And there, and behold, there met him Now notice the wording here very carefully. There met him a woman with the attire of a harlot and subtle of heart. She's dressed like a harlot. Notice it doesn't say there met him there a harlot. Doesn't say that. It says there met him there a woman with the what? Attire of a harlot. A woman. This woman is not a harlot. She's a married woman. She's got a husband. She has a home. Read on down through there. She's not out there in that street corner making money I can see in some circumstances it's wrong and never justify, but I can see in some circumstances a woman would be driven to desperation and think that's her only hope and maybe engage in that for some sort of income, some sort of thing. It's wrong, it's wicked, but You know? But she's not doing this for money. She's not doing this for profit. She's doing this because this is what she is, an adulteress. Now notice it says she had the attire of a harlot. This woman is outdressed. To get a man to look on her, a man to look on her with lust. It's designed for that. It's the whole motive behind her appearance. Now I'm saying all this to say this. We live in a world where that is the norm. Am I right or wrong? Come on now, I'm getting lonely up here. I know this isn't popular. Um I think Grant and I were talking some time ago, or somebody and I, but uh a lot of times I do funerals often. And um Man alive. You know, a funeral usually you go and you're dressed up out of respect for the person. Now bear with me when you hear what I say. Man, now sometimes I go to a funeral and it's like I feel like I'm at a Saturday night nightclub. At a strip club or something. Just the way people dress. And this is what I think is happening. I think they're not even thinking, but the world has convinced them this is the way you dress up. This is how this is dressing fancy by dressing like a harlot. It's not dressing fancy, it's dressing like a harlot. And so there are things, now don't misunderstand. A man is responsible for his look and his lust. And we're going to notice that as we go through here. David's responsible. Samson was responsible. Jesus says, the man that looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery in his heart. But I do want to throw in here this thought. Is it possible for the woman to present herself in such a way? That it becomes a stumbling block for the man and enables him to think that way. And in fact, in Proverbs chapter 7, entices him to think that way. It's still adultery for him. She could be standing there in her birthday suit. If I look at it, lust for it, I'm committing adultery in my heart. But it's a whole lot easier not to do that if she's dressed modestly. And I think it'd be worth a study some time to look, what does it mean to be modest? God's definition of modesty and the world's definition of modesty are two very different definitions. Is there something a woman can do to minimize the temptation? And that would be what? To dress modestly. I enable it and I entice it by immodesty And I minimize it, I put a help, put a barricade there by being very, very modest and how I dress and how I present myself and my demeanor and all these types of things We used to teach the kids when we were small on the bus and in the children's ministry when they were little. When I worked down in the bus ministry and whatnot, we used to teach the kids this little song. So good Oh be careful, little eyes, what you see. Oh be careful, little eyes, what you see For the father up above is looking down in love, so be careful, little eyes, what you see. What I look at and how I look at it, I am held accountable before God. Not just my actions, not just my deeds, but my desires. Are judged by God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. Lord, we live in a world where we're flooded. With visuals. We're flooded with opportunity to sin in this way. And we ask, dear Lord, in this In this modern-day Sodom and Gomorrah, you would enable us from the oldest down to the youngest, you enable us and motivate us. To keep our eyes pure, to keep our thoughts pure, to discipline ourselves and desire to please you would be so great. And we would be very, very careful with our eyes. Our heads bowed, eyes closed between an individual and God. But I wonder how many tonight would say, Preacher, you know, I'm really praying. I want God to help me Be careful with my eyes. Maybe there's some tonight say, preacher, I want God to help me be thoughtful how I dress and present myself. Both sides, men can be immodest also. It applies to all of us. But how many would say that? What either one of those two issues, my eyes, my appearance, and my demeanor, my presentation. Any like that, say, preacher, that's my desire. I want it to be right. I want it to be godly and modest and pure. How about it? Any like that? Uplifted hand. God bless you, hands all around. Tell you, prayer is a powerful thing. It really is. Decision. God giving us integrity and character. Father in heaven, bless now our invitation I ask. Lord, very personal. I ask you to help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together