Everybody chance to find it there, 1 Kings chapter 2. Notice it says in verse number 10, so David slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David And the days that David reigned over Israel were forty years. Seven years reigned he in Hebron, and thirty-and-three years reigned he in Jerusalem. And it goes on, then sat Solomon upon the throne of David his father, and his kingdom was established greatly. Now come over if you would 1 Chronicles, the last chapter of 1 Chronicles, chapter 29. And all the way to the end of that chapter, the second account we have of the death of David, 1 Chronicles 29, and I want to begin reading in verse number 26. It says, Thus David, the son of Jesse, reigned over all Israel, and the time that he reigned over Israel was forty years. Seven years reigned he in Hebron And thirty-and-three years reigned he in Jerusalem. Verse 28 says, and he died in a good old age, full of days, riches, and honor. And Solomon his son reigned in his stead. Now the Acts of David the king, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of Samuel the Seer. And in the book of Nathan the prophet, and in the book of Gad the seer, with all his reign and his might and all and the times that went over him and over Israel and over all the kingdoms of the countries. I'm going to speak tonight on the death of King David. I don't know about you, but we've been studying the life of King David. And to be very honest with you, when I started looking at these passages and thinking about uh what we're preaching tonight, I really got a little sad. It was just kind of like, man, we spent several years with this man on Wednesday nights and um and now he uh and now he passes away. So let's pray together. Did I already pray? I didn't pray yet, did I Now, let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, thank you for David for recording for us the life of David. What an incredible human being. And the impact he's had on multiplied millions of people over thousands of years. Not pray now as we look at his final record of his life here on earth as he passes over to the other side. I pray you'd speak our hearts. Help us to learn another lesson from the life of David. I pray you'd challenge us in our faith, in our walk with you And encourage us, Lord, to stay faithful. And so I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray that you would speak through me tonight I'd just be a conduit for you to touch our hearts, speak our hearts through your word. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. When we're first introduced to David, all the way back in 1 Samuel chapter 16, verse 11, we're introduced to David, and he's the youngest son of a fellow by the name of Jesse. Now he's just a young shepherd boy. In fact, he's the youngest of all his brothers. I think it's interesting he's not born the son of a king. Daddy Jesse was as far as we know just a farmer boy. It was a military family. All his brothers were in in the military. But uh nothing nothing as far as uh royalty or any outstanding characteristics uh of the family. Like I said, no prophets in this family, no kings uh just a a shepherd boy. And really if you study, we used to talk about shepherds in the Bible a lot, but if you really study the occupation of a shepherd in Scripture, it was really a lowly position. It wasn't something, you know, where in fact I was reading one article where they were saying shepherds weren't even allowed to testify in court because they were such liars, most of them were And so for David to be a shepherd boy of just an average family is quite remarkable when you think about when we arrive now in our text. And now he's departing this earth and what he is now. I guess what I'm trying to say is considering where he came from. I jotted a few things down about David's life. I said, David departed this life as a military hero. They sang his praises as he would come back from the battlefield. He's departing this life as he lay there on his deathbed and takes his last breath. He's the king of Israel, God's people, the king of Israel. From a shepherd boy, the youngest son of a common family, a shepherd boy on the backside of the wilderness. Now he dies the king of Israel. He was a forerunner of the Lord Jesus Christ How many references in Scripture about Jesus seated on the throne of David? And his lineage leads to the Lord Jesus Christ. What an incredible thing that is He's a forerunner of the Lord Jesus Christ. He penned at least 75 of the chapters in Psalms. 75 Psalms, at least were penned by David. There's some that were that are not attributed to anybody. We suspect they might have been penned by David. That's half the book of Psalms The eternal word of God. David. God used David to pen half of those there. There are approximately, and I tried adding these up, and if this isn't correct, it's very close. In fact It may be actually more than this, but there are approximately 65 chapters in the Bible devoted to the life of David. That's an incredible thing. This just the shepherd boy, youngest son of a just a hardworking middle-class fella And he ends up being used of God and God dedicating 65 chapters in the Bible to King David's light. He was one of the most passionate and committed men of God in all of Scripture. You're going to be hard-pressed to find somebody more passionate about his God than King David. You're going to find hard pressed to find anybody more committed to his Lord and the worship of his Lord and the service of his Lord than King David. Was he perfect? No. But he was passionate, he was committed He was one of the most highly praised and honored men in all of Scripture. No other person is it said of than David that he was a man after God's own heart. That's a phenomenal statement if you think about it Starts out just a little shepherd boy, youngest son. In fact, when they're anointing people to be the next king, and just everybody overlooked David And yet here he is on his deathbed, such an amazing thing. What God did in and through the life of David is nothing short of incredible. Well God had did through this man, and yet he dies. Somebody of this caliber Somebody this close to God. God says, this is a man after my own heart, and yet they still die. There is an in I put it this way, one of the inflexible realities of life is that it comes to an end eventually. Hebrews chapter 9 and verse 21 27 says that it is appointed unto man once to die. There are no exceptions The most wicked Philistine that hated God and worshipped the most perverse worship that was on the planet dies. And one of the most godly honored kings in all of history dies. There are no exceptions. Apart from the rapture, every person is going to end up like King David on their deathbed. Apart from the rapture. David died, the best we can figure, and I think this is pretty accurate, at about 70 years of age. Now, for this time frame, uh, that was called a good old age Full years. Now you go back several a thousand years or so and they were living a lot longer. Nowadays with medicate medical advancements and stuff, we live a little longer. But 70 years was a good old age in David's day. I want to look at a few things, particularly here in 1 Chronicles 29, about David and his death, and some observations I make. If you would, look with me at verse 27. Says this, and the time that he reigned over Israel was forty years, seven years reigned he in Hebron, and thirty-and-three years reigned he in Jerusalem. I put this down, number one, David died a plotter, a plotter. P-L-O-D-D-E-R, a plotter. What is a plotter? Somebody talk to me now. If somebody is plotting away, and that you say that person's just a plotter, what are we saying about him? They just keep going. They just plod on. They just press on. David, for 40 years, he reigned as king of Israel 7 in Hebron and 33 over all of Jerusalem. He was a plotter. The word plotter itself means this: one who just keeps on going. One who will not quit. I like this definition I came up with, I came across. It says, one who is driven by the will of God. He cannot quit. He cannot stop. He cannot go back. The will of God drives him forward to keep going and keep going. One who is driven by his love for the Lord. David loved God, and because he loved God, he could not quit. David knew he was in the will of God. He knew he was in the will of God, and he could not, and he would not quit. He just stayed at it. Do you think in those 40 years as king, he would have had opportunity to quit? Good night. Now David wasn't perfect, but he wasn't a quitter either. David had his shares of falls, but he always got back up again. David had plenty of heartaches, but he always stayed in love with the Lord. David, uh, one of the greatest things you can say about David was this. He was not a quitter. And I want to suggest to you, one of the greatest things you can say about a person is they will not quit. They just stay at it and stay at it and stay at it and stay at it. I think one of the greatest things you can say about a man is that man is faithful. He won't quit. He won't quit. He's a plotter. One of the great things you can say about a man is that he is persistent. Persistent. Uh David had plenty of opportunity to quit. I don't know about you, when he showed up way back there when we're first almost first introduced to him and he comes to his brothers on the battlefield We're all very familiar with this. And there's this giant out there, Goliath, is defying the nation of Israel. He's blaspheming God. David, as a young boy, his heart is stirred, probably 14, 15 years old. His heart is stirred. And he says, isn't there a cause? Somebody ought to be doing something about this. And his brothers turn on him. Remember that? And they accuse them of self-motives, of wrong motives, and they accuse them of being self-centered and trying to get attention. And I don't know about you, but I know some folks that if they other people start criticizing them, other people start finding fault and saying negative things about them, they just throw in a towel and walk away. David could have walked away at that point, but he didn't Even King Saul discouraged him, but he didn't quit. How about when he's the military hero and everybody sing his praises? And his king, who he loved dearly, turns on him. I tell you, I know some folks would have quit under those circumstances. Good night, the king's after me. Philly, I give up. I'm done with this. David, two years. He just pressed on, pressed on. When he does finally become king, only one tribe of the twelve tribes of Israel actually recognize him as king. We studied that. That is um what percentage is one of twelve? It's less than ten percent, right? One of ten would be ten percent, so it's less than ten he was less than ten percent favorable in the polls I mean less than 10% of the people of Israel wanted him to be king. But he knew God wanted him to be king and he didn't quit. Oh no. I'd have been tempted if you know if only 10%, less than 10% of people want me in this position. I don't want the position. But he didn't quit. He didn't quit. He falls hard. with Bathsheba and ends up murdering. And I don't know about you. Man, you fail. Sometimes when we fail, we just, do you ever think this way? You fail in some way and just think, man, I can't do this. I'm done. Anybody know what I'm talking about? But David got back up again, finally dealt with it. Psalm 51, powerful chapter. He gets back up again and he goes on. His son turns against him and he comes back to the throne and goes on And over and over and over and over, he has all these opportunities to quit. He has all these opportunities to walk away from all of it, and he does not do it. Here he's on his deathbed and all these years he reigned over Israel in a tremendous way. David was a plotter. If you would, turn to your Bibles. Now keep your place here because I'm going to look at some other verses, but go with me to the book of Proverbs. And again, we end up in Proverbs a lot. But go to chapter 12 in Proverbs And I just wonder, and this is total speculation on my part, but I was studying this, I got wondering, Solomon, of course, is the penman of the book of Proverbs for the most of it And I'm wondering when Solomon is penning this down, of course the Spirit of God has moved on his heart. He's writing this down. I'm wondering if Solomon isn't thinking about his daddy When he's penning this verse. Proverbs chapter number 12. Look with me at verse 24. He says, the hand of the what? Diligent shall bear rule, but the slaughter shall be under tribute. I put that second phrase I put in the margin of my Bible. The slavery of laziness The slothful shall be under tribute. But the hand of the diligent shall bear rule. David was diligent. The word diligent there means this. And I like this definition. I forget where I came across it in one of my books. It says, one who decides to keep pressing on. The hand of the diligent, the person that says, I'm deciding, I'm just going to keep pressing on. Here's our problem. A lot of times we go by our feelings rather than making decisions. Well, I just didn't feel like it. I tell you, people doing what they feel like is killing us of this world. Diligent, the hand of the diligent, the one that decides. No, I don't care what I feel like, I don't know what this, I don't care what the circumstances are, I don't care how difficult it might be, how inconvenient it might be, I'm gonna do it That was David. He was a plotter. Come over to chapter 22 of Proverbs. And verse number 29. Again, I wonder if uh Solomon isn't thinking back over his daddy's life. Verse 29, Proverbs 22, he says, Seest thou a man diligent, one who decides he's going to press on. Uh see I now a man diligent in his business, he shall stand before kings, he shall not stand before mean men. I'm telling you, King David stood head and shoulders above all the other kings of the earth at this time. In character and integrity. He was diligent. He was diligent. 1 Corinthians 4:2 says, Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. It is impossible to be a quitter and be faithful. You cannot simultaneously be the two. If I'm going to be faithful, I have I cannot quit. I must consciously decide I'm going to press on. And I'm going to press on. And I'm going to press on. When I get knocked down, I'm going to get back up. When people criticize me. I'm going to keep on going forward. When people oppose me, I'm going to keep on going forward. When I fail myself, I'm going to keep on going forward. That's David was a plotter. He gets to the end of his life And he says, smack dab in the middle of the will of God. And the only way that happens is because we decide we're not going to quit on God. We're not going to go back. And I'm just impressed with David. Anybody can quit, right? How much intelligence does it take to quit? Any dumb bunny can quit, right? Um doesn't take any talents. How talented do you have to be to quit? It doesn't take any talents or skills or special abilities at all to quit. Anybody can quit. It doesn't take any character to quit But I'll tell you what, sometimes it takes a little bit of determination to not quit. And it takes a little bit of character to not quit. And it takes a little bit of courage to not quit. And to just press on and press on. I was reading about William Carey, missionary to India. He was just a uh um uh what do they call work on shoes. Cobbler. He was just a cobbler there. And he got saved in the cobble shop where he was working. And um just poor family, just n nobody. He was a member of the Anglican church which was dead as could be, but he got shaved. And God began to stir his heart and he began witnessing and talking to people about the Lord. He felt like God was leading him into ministry and he's taught himself Hebrew and Greek himself in the Kabul Shah And uh the he began, um uh he married a gal, and uh this is strange, when they got married, they went into deep poverty So I don't know what the correlation is there, but they got married. He ended up deep poverty. Their son died at two years of age But he just kept on, he just kept on. Finally felt like God was calling to the mission field. He's studying the Bible that we're to go into all the world and preach the gospel, teach all nations. And he got burdened. He got a globe and he saw India and he got burdened for India. And the whole religious denomination machinery opposed him going to the mission field. But he knew God called him. And a whole series of failures and struggles and ups and downs. And when he came to his end of his life, he said this. He says, There's a lot of things I can't do, but there's one thing I can do, I can plod on. And people picked up on that and they called him God's plotter. And you just keep pressing on, just keep pressing on, just keep pressing on. And he did, and God used him in a great way. David didn't die a quitter. David died a plotter. He just stayed at it, got back up and went on. Remember he numbered the people? 70,000 people died. How many people would that would bother you if 70,000 people died because of a decision you made? Anybody here bother you? Bothered David, we know it did, we studied that. But he just got up and kept on going, kept on going, kept on going. I learned a lesson. I got saved at the age of 19. About a year later, I was in the church there And they had a college and career class, they called it. It was out of high school but not married yet. So there's a pretty good group. There's probably 25, 30 young people in that age group there in the church. the the head of that class, the Sunday school teacher, um Arden Musselman was his name. No, I'm sorry, Terry Wilcox was his name. And he taught that and he was a real athletic guy. He loved to ride bikes. So he organized a bike trip. We're going to take a week and anybody went. There's about 15 of us went on it. And um we were going to leave Philadelphia, north of Philadelphia, there at the church We're going to go uh north and then follow the Delaware River, cross over New Jerseyside, follow the Delaware River up to New York State, just outside of the city of New York, on bicycles, and then Cross over uh uh in the corner there, go around the corner up there, and they'll go across uh the New York, Pennsylvania line to about the middle of the state, right in the middle of the mountains And then come down the middle of Pennsylvania and come back to where we started. We're going to do leave on a Monday and get back a Saturday. So we're like, oh yeah. And he'd never organized anything like this before. And he was a good guy. He's very good at what he did. But that first day, that Monday morning, about six o'clock, we headed out with our English racer 10 speeds. Anybody remember them? And man, the curb bars. We're heading out there and we're excited. We rode all morning, take a break. His wife followed behind in a pickup truck and had a big trailer and had all our supplies and tents and everything for us to stay in. And uh we're riding. We rode all that morning. We got to about lunchtime, stocked, took a break, and he kept saying, Man, we should be farther than this. Something's not right. We rode about four more hours, and we were still a long way from where we needed to stop that night And he said, gang, he said, uh fellas, I messed up. I miscalculated the distance and we got a long way to go. And we rode into the dark that first night. Now if you've ridden bike, I've I've done a couple of these trips over the years when I was younger And um uh the first day you're all geared up and you're pretty good, but you run out of gas pretty quick. And so we're going in the night, and finally we got to the place to stop and we got everything set up, and we were beat And he called us all together, and we had little devotions and stuff. He called us all together and he said, listen, I messed up bad. We got to go farther tomorrow than what we did today. Now, if you plan these things, the second day you always make a short day because your muscles are so sore You never the second day is always the shortest day of the whole trip so that you can recoup, and then by third and fourth day, then you're up and running pretty good We had to go even farther the second day we did the first day, and I mean people were dropping like flies. And they're jumping in the pickup truck behind and they're riding on the trailer And there was two of us, myself and David Henninger was his name. And we looked at each other and I said, I said, I ain't quitting. I ain't riding that stupid truck. He said, I ain't either. We were highly educated. We said eight and stuff like that. And so we just the two of us determined we are not going to quit And I'm telling you, we're up there up above North Jersey and heading across there, and we're getting into some of those Pocono Mountains and stuff in that region. And I'm telling you, we're going up these hills, and our legs hurt so bad. And it got to the point is where I'm just staring at the ground and I'm just thinking one more pedal and I push it down Alright, one more pedal and I push it down and just did that. I'll do one more. Alright, I'll just do one more. And that bike's going so slow it's barely staying up. And just one more and just one more and just one more. And I tell you, I learned a lesson. It may be the hardest thing you've ever done in your life, but if you just press on, Just press on. I'm not going to quit. I'm not going to quit. And when that thing was over, Dave and myself were the only two that didn't ride in the truck the whole time. I said that story for two reasons. One, to let you know what an amazing person I am. Not really. But uh second of all Is that I learned a tremendous lesson. Just push another pedal down. You say, I can't make it another day. Well then just go one more day And then tomorrow just go one more day. Then tomorrow just go one more day. I was talking to someone some time ago that was really going through it. I said, take it just one day at a time. He said, preacher, I ain't taking it one day at a time. I'm taking it one hour at a time. That's what David did. He was a plotter. He wasn't a quitter. You get to the end of David's life and all that he'd been through and all the opportunities he had to quit. and all the excuses he could have used to walk away from it, and he would not do it. He stayed at it and stayed at it and stayed at it. Number two, I notice about David's death. Number one, he was a plotter. Number two, I notice he was prosperous. If you would, come back to 1 Chronicles here. And verse number 27, the time that he reigned over Israel is 40 years. Seven years reigned he in Hebron. That's when most people in Israel didn't want him to be king. And thirty and three years reigned he in Jerusalem. That's where Dah Bathsheba and Uriah and Absalom and all those things took place. He would not quit. Then look at verse 28. And he died in a good old age. Full of days, riches, and honor. And Solomon his son reigned in his stead. He died as a plotter, he would not quit, and he died prosperous Prosperous. David lived a good, full, long life. And um well at his death, that state that phrase there says, full of days, and the idea is full of riches. In other words, he was very wealthy. He went from just a poor shepherd boy in just an average family to a very wealthy king of Israel. However, there is more to prosperity than just having money. It is possible to have a lot of money and yet not be very prosperous. I like what Lester Roloff said. Lester Oloff said, I feel sorry for the man that is so poor that all he has is money. David had a lot of money, but it wasn't his money that made his prosperous. Look at the next statement. Four days, riches, and honor. David died with a whole lot more than just a pile of money. David died with honor. Full of honor. The word honor there means respect. To be highly regarded. Now listen, David had done some decisions where people could have, if they wanted to, thought very lowly of David, right? People could have lost a lot of respect, and no doubt there was periods of time where people's respect for David bottomed out But when he came to his deathbed, he had earned the world's respect, he had earned the people's respect, and he died with honor to be highly regarded The people of Israel respected David when he died. Proverbs 22, verse 1 said, A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches. Ecclesiastes 7 verse 1 says, a good name is better than precious ointment. I tell you, there's people that have very uh very large bank accounts, and they got very expensive perfumes, ointments, and clothing and vehicles, and nobody in the world respects them. They've got a bad name. I'd rather die with a good name and an empty wallet, because a good name is rather to be chosen than great riches. I'd like to leave my boys with a good inheritance. I really would. I mean, what parent wouldn't But I'll tell you what, I'd far rather leave them, their daddy having a good name. I remember my grandfather, my dad's father passed away and they Just uh had opportunity for family to say things and and the only thing I just remember saying, and I just said such respect for my grandfather, Samuel Leatherman I got up and I said there's and he didn't have a lot of money and I said um you know grandpa uh maybe didn't leave us a lot of worldly good but I tell you one thing grandpa left us he left us a good name And I would like to leave my family with a good name. And David ended with honor. People respected him highly. So he he died as a plotter. He died very prosperous. Let me give you a third thing I noticed here, verse 29. It says now the acts of David the king, first and last Behold, they're written in the book of Samuel the seer. That's 1 Samuel. We read that we studied all through there. And in the book of Nathan the prophet. Nathan was a prophet. Apparently, he wrote a book It wasn't inspired, it wasn't preserved in the Word of God, but he had written a book with the accounts of David's life Now I often wondered, and if it was for us to know, God would have given it to us, but I often wondered, what did Nathan write about David? Now remember, Nathan's the one that said, thou art the man. He was like his personal preacher, his own personal prophet. He's the one that David said, Boy, I want to build God a temple. And Nathan said, Oh yeah, go ahead and build it. And then God approaches Nathan and says, uh uh uh he ain't building it, his son is. So he has to eat humble pie and come back and say, wait a minute, Dave. Uh I guess he called him Dave, maybe. Uh wait a minute, David. Um no, you can't build it. God corrected me. Wouldn't you love to read what Nathan wrote about David? Maybe we'll find out in heaven And then there's this other fellow, Gad, was a prophet, and he wrote about David. And with all his and what they wrote about, all his reign and his might and the times that went over him, all the experience he had. And all the Israel, all David's experience with Israel and the other kingdoms. What I'm getting at is this: David died with a perpetual influence. His influence lived long after his life ended. On thousands, for thousands and thousands of years. We've been people have been studying the life of David. Tens of millions of people have been influenced by this man Because of his love for God and his commitment to the Lord, a perpetual influence. Acts 13, verse 36 references David and says this: David served his own generation by the will of God. And every generation since his life and death he has had an influence on For thousands of years, people have been challenged. God's people have been challenged by David's life and his works. People have been encouraged. People have been warned. Learned lessons from David's failures. They've been educated what it means to be passionate for the Lord, what it means to be persistent. We've learned in studying David's life the importance of forgiveness and how to forgive others and how to receive forgiveness. We've learned from David how to be kind. We learn from David how to repent of our sin. God has used David's influence for thousands of years in a tremendous way in the pages of Scripture recorded for us here. David died with perpetual influence. And then last of all, David died with praise on his lips. Praise on his lips. If you would, turn with me to Psalm chapter 145. Now, as far as I can tell, most nearly all Bible scholars that I came across say that Psalm 145 is David's last psalm. Last psalm he repent before he passed away. And I found that very, very interesting All the times David was lied to, all the treatment that King Saul gave to David, the mistreatment and the accusations accused him of murder and chased him up and down All the people that hated David, all the people that tried to undercut him. And notice his last psalm, and we don't have time to read the whole thing. But just look at the opening statement. This is the last psalm that David pens before he goes out into eternity. 70 years of age. He says, I will extol thee, my God. O King, I will bless thy name forever and ever. Look at verse 3. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable. Come down to verse 8. The Lord is gracious and full of compassion. Slow to anger and of great mercy. The Lord is good to all and is tender mercies over all his works. Look at verse 14. The Lord upholdeth all that fall and raiseth up those that are be bowed down. I think David's talking from personal experience there maybe Look at verse 17. The Lord is righteous in all his ways and holy in all his works. The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon him, to all that call upon him in truth. This whole chapter is a psalm of praise of God. How many times have you ever come across somebody that the older they got, the grouchier they got? And man, everything, they're mad and angry and bitter about every little thing. I was talking earlier today with my wife and and I said uh we were talking, I said, I'm really as I'm getting older I am consciously working on not being critical. Because I know it's a tendency as you get older to sometimes critical. I know I'm I know I know the crowd I'm talking to. Am I right or wrong? We tend to be that way. And uh growl and grouse. But I read David here and I don't see any of that. He's in love with the Lord as much on his deathbed as he was back there on the hills of Jerusalem writing Psalm 23, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He never lost his love for the Lord. He never lost his praise for God. He never lost his awe of Jehovah God. And even up until the end of his life. I guess what I'm trying to say, David was an incredible man. And we can learn from him. And I sure would like, and we don't know when that is, everybody else have an appointed time. That we depart out of this life, dear brother John Ringer, Monday afternoon, one about 1. 30, sometime around there, he departed this life went in the presence of the Lord And every single one of us have an appointed time. And I sure would like to go out like King David did, wouldn't you? Just faithful, respected, a good name, praising the Lord, having an influence that continues on, a positive influence that continues on. What a man David was. Let's pray together. Father in heaven. I ask, Lord, as we wind down, finish up our study of the life of King David, Lord, there's a little sadness in my heart as we move on. I pray you'd help us all to glean something from his life. I pray you'd help us all to incorporate his faith and his passion, his commitment in our own lives. I wonder how many here tonight would say, Preacher, I want to be like David. I want to learn from David and and not be a quitter. I just want to stay at this thing. I just want to stay at it. Any like that? I'm my hands raised. Goodness. Who would want to be a quitter? I just want to stay faithful. And I tell you, the opportunities to quit are out there. The opportunities to walk away are there. We just have to decide. I wonder how many would say, how many of us would say, preacher, I gotta I want to work on my testimony so that I would my name would be a good name. When I pass away, and I don't want there to be shame associated with the name God's given me. I want to be faithful. Wouldn't he like that? Sure. Who wouldn't be that? And then to have an influence, my influence go on. And then be a person of praise, a man and woman that's characterized by positive praise for God. For all his goodness to us. Father blessed now our invitation I ask. I hope we learn something from the life of David in Jesus' name. Amen