Fellow bought his wife a new car for Christmas. He had to go out of town last week and um he got a call from her while he was out of town. She said, Sweetheart, there's water in the carburetor. He says, You're kidding. Where's the car at? She said in he said I thought it was funnier than that actually. Genesis chapter 6, I'm going to begin reading in verse 5. I'm excited about a series we're beginning on the great Noah and the Great Flood. And um I've been wanting to do this for about a year or so ago. Uh just thought that that was something that I would really enjoy preaching on and and the subject and just kind of praying and putting getting materials together to study it and waiting on the right time and just felt like this we finished up on uh Elisha and I don't know how how you handled that but I enjoyed Elisha tremendously. I feel like I got to know the guy And uh but here we are, we're gonna look at Noah and the Great Flood. And I'm gonna try and present these in ways, if you're uh taking notes or anything, that you'll be able to follow and jot down the outline and thoughts very easily is my intention, and I believe that will be the case this evening. Genesis 6, I'm going to begin reading in verse 5. And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him, God, at his heart. And the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth, both man and beast and the creeping thing. and the fowls of the air, for it repenteth me that I have made them. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man and perfect in his generations, and Noah walked with God. And Noah begat three sons: Shem, Ham, and Japheth. The earth also was corrupt before the Lord, and the earth was filled with violence, and God looked upon the earth, and behold, it was corrupt. For all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth. And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh has come before me, for the earth is filled with violence through them, and behold, I will destroy them with the earth Make thee an ark of gopher wood. Rooms, uh rooms shalt thou make in the ark, and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch. And this is the fashion which thou shalt make of it. The length of the arch shall be three hundred cubits, the breadth of it fifty cubits, the height of it thirty cubits. A window shalt thou make to the ark, and in a cubit shalt thou finish it above. And the door of the ark shalt thou set in the side thereof, with lower second and third stories, shalt thou make it. And behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the earth, to destroy all flesh, wherein is the breath of life from under heaven, and everything that is in the earth shall die But with thee will I establish my covenant, and thou shalt come into the ark, thou and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons' wives with thee. And of every living thing, of all flesh, two of every sort shalt thou bring into the ark, to keep them alive with thee. They shall be male and female, female. Of fowls, after their kind, of cattle, after their kind, every creeping thing of the earth after his kind, two of every sort shall come unto thee to keep them alive And take thou them unto thee of all food that is eaten, and thou shalt gather it to thee, and it shall be for food for thee and for them Thus did Noah, according to all that God commanded him, so did he. I want to talk tonight, just uh briefly, a few, uh, uh uh uh the great flood and the modern Christian What does this story have anything to do with you or I? Why should we even care about this? Let's pray. Father, bless our study now of your word. Fill me with your spirit, I ask, Lord, with all my heart. And have your way in our lives. Apply this to our hearts and lives as you know we have need of. And we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Why in the world should I preach a series of messages on Noah and the Great Flood? It's Several thousand years old, if I have it figured correctly, uh somewhere in the range of four thousand years ago, this event took place. Some people view Noah's Ark as a kid's story. I mentioned this before in messages before, but I never could figure that out. Uh nurseries are painted with Noah's Ark and the flood and there's it's always out of order. You know, I'm such a critic, my wife says, but uh, you know, it'd be a nice little picture in a nursery and all the little uh giraffes and rhinoceroses and they're all marching up to the ark and what is over top of the ark while all these critters are coming up? There's a rainbow. That's completely out of order. So, and and the whole idea that this is a kid's story would give nightmares to kids if they actually saw this thing happen. This is a horrific event. This is brutal. And the people before the story, you know, they're always real nice and they're helping Noah or whatever. That is not the way it happened. And so I think it's important that we understand who Noah was, what he was like, and what this flood actually involved. And so tonight I just want to introduce two things. I want to first, uh I want to give four reasons why we should study the Great Flood. Why I think something like this is important. And then second of all, I'm going to give several reasons, several lessons that we learn, just in a general sense, that we learn from Noah and the Great Flood. So number one, four reasons for studying the Great Flood. This is my first reason. Since creation, the flood is the greatest event in Earth's history. Since the creation of the earth Maybe I ought to put it this way, since the creation of the earth, the flood is the most catastrophic event in Earth's history. Now think about this. What was planet Earth like when God was finished creating it? When the seventh day God rested And the sun set that day, and we went into the eighth day, and the vents things started happening and started going through the purpose for the creation. What was the world like? Somebody talk to me It was perfect in every way. It was absolutely ideal for life on planet Earth, particularly human life I mean God made it. If God was making a planet that was for life to sustain life and human life in particular, it would be absolutely flawless. Adam and Eve blew it, right? We know the story, we referenced it this morning. What did Adam and Eve sin, how did that affect the planet? Positively or negatively? See, my quizzes are way easier than Pat's quizzes. That's why you ought to go to Bible Institute. Because my tests are very easy. Right, Mark? Yeah, he only got one wrong out of the whole thing Nobody got even one right in Tax Cliz. But anyway, Adam and Eve disobeyed God's sin, and it affected the world negatively. But Even though sin entered the world and then you had thistles and mosquitoes and blood-sucking leeches and stuff like that are beginning to develop, which I think happened over a period of time And it's it's generally deteriorating. But I think you would have to agree with me if you give this some thought, the world was still Pretty much like the way God made it. It was still ideal in a lot of ways. Now, I'm going to try very hard not to in this series get into the Scientific things of the flood and all that. We'll touch on them a little bit, but I I'm not a scientist, so it's very easy for me to get it over my head. But um I think we would all say that for the most part the earth was still a shell. of the perfect earth that God had created. Is everybody with me? Now I hope you're thinking along with me and not just staring at me blankly with that glaze over your eyes. But think with me. For the most part, I mean We understand there was most likely a water canopy over the earth. The axis was most likely uh uh perpendicular, is that correct Uh straight up and down. You know the Earth's act as what is it? What? What? No, not 90 degrees. I'm teasing. What was it? Straight up I'm starting to think the problem isn't with the students in this class. Vertical. Spensacola Christian College. Vertical. This is a very short sermon to begin with, but it's getting longer. The axis was straight up and down, as rocket scientists say it. So all these things are still in place. It is still, though sin curse and though the re the results of sin are beginning to take effect. For the most part, the earth is still an ideal place to live. Right? Would you say that now the entire earth is an ideal place to live I don't think Antarctica is an ideal place to live. Some of these places Gary Forney goes, I would not want to live there. So, this is what I'm trying to say. Before the flood, even after sin entered the world and the curse of sin is beginning to have its effects, it's still a pretty amazing place to live. Do you know they have they have found fossils of tropical plants in Alaska? There was tropical plants that grew apparently throughout the whole Earth. So that was the world before the flood. After the flood, it was all different. Nothing was the same. We have reason to believe, we'll get into this perhaps a little later in the series, we have reason to believe that after the flood is when the dinosaurs died out. They couldn't handle the new environment. The Earth's axis, no doubt, apparently, we have reason to believe the Earth's axis tilted from the cat catastrophe, the catastrophic events of the flood So we reason to believe that took place, which caused polar ice taps, which brought seasons on. We have reasonably before the flood, they of course there was we Understand there was no rain, which means there would be no snow, which means Garrett County didn't exist So, why would we study this? Before the flood, this is the most catastrophic event, this is the most devastating event that has happened since this world's been created. The world on this side of the flood is totally different from the world on the other side of the flood. In fact, when Noah came off that ark, God reassured him: hey, I'm not going to do this again God reassured him, it's going to be okay. Nothing like this is ever going to happen again. He told him, listen, uh, you know, there's going to be seasons. Uh Noah's probably thinking, what in the world? I'm on a different planet. More people were killed in this one event, the Great Flood, than any other event so far in history. Everybody that lived on this planet was killed except for eight people. There's going to be more people survived the seven years of tribulation than what survived the flood. We don't comprehend the magnitude of what took place when God flooded the earth And destroyed all mankind. The little pictures we color, you know, a little flood, the arts out there. Do you ever stop to think about the carcasses floating on that planet? In that water, of all the animals. We have reason to believe, and we're going to bring this out in another message, we have reason to believe there may have been as many people on the planet before the flood as there are now Very possible. You do the genealogies and the rate of reproduction. Very possible there was over a billion people on the earth, maybe even as many as what are now. All of them killed. I mean, not just drop dead, horrific death, but eight people. The most catastrophic event in human history. Geographically, the makeup of the earth was altered more than any other earthquake. any other volcano, any other flood that has ever happened since then. The flood. It is impossible. Now here's a statement I want to make and uh uh That applies to what's being taught in our schools in a lot of ways. I am convinced it is impossible to accurately study Earth's history and geography without understanding the flood. You must understand what this flood consisted of if you're going to understand the Earth's geography. I want to make sure I'm not getting too ahead of myself. Yeah, I'll bring one. Let me give you the second reason I believe it's important to study this. Because so much of the Bible references the flood. So much of the Bible either gives a description of the flood or references Noah or the events of the flood. Do you realize that more scripture is devoted to the story of the flood than is devoted to the story of creation? Um third of the first eleven chapters of Genesis deal with the flood That's more than twice what's given to creation. Noah and the flood are referenced by the Old Testament prophets The psalmist, various psalmists that make up the the make up the writing of the book of Psalms reference the floods and the events of the flood. The New Testament apostles reference the flood, and Jesus himself. On a number of occasions, and we'll notice this in a few minutes, reference the events of the flood. So if the Bible considers Noah and the Great Flood to be that important that it's referenced that many times, we need to pay attention to the flood. By the way, every one of these references refer to it as an actual literal event. It is never referred to by Jesus, the apostles, any prophets, any psalmists. It's never referred to as a mythical event or simply a story. It's always referred to literally. Third reason we should, I believe it's important that we have a series on Noah and the Great Flood. Number three, because the flood is rejected and mocked. So unjustly by modern interpretation of geographical evidence. Now, that's a fancy way of saying, I'll break it down so the rocket scientists understand what I'm saying. It's pick on Pat Knight. The flood is rejected un Let me put it this way. The flood is rejected unfairly. by people who interpret geographical evidence. They look at, they look, for instance, they look at the Grand Canyon. And they see all these different um what do you call them layers. Strata is the word I was like, I want I don't want common words, I want fancy science words You see this different strata of things. And I say, oh, millions and millions and millions of years. And you suggest something, you know, it looks almost like a giant flood came down through here. And you know what you'll get? You'll get mocked and laughed out of the university. Unfairly. Now I use the term unfairly on purpose, because A evolutionist or a person who rejects the literal word of God as being a literal teaching, they will begin with the conclusion. They begin with this conclusion, particularly in dealing with the flood. They begin with this conclusion. The flood did not happen. So therefore, it doesn't matter what the evidence suggests, it doesn't matter if somebody that's just as intelligent and just as educated as they are comes along and says, hey, you know, I see here evidence for a flood. They'll say their response is, that can't be, it didn't happen. Now that is unjust, and that is not true science. In fact, the New Testament makes reference to science falsely called. You don't begin with a conclusion. You look at the evidence and you come. By the way, the evidence does not prove that the flood happened or that it didn't happen. The evidence is just evidence The best we can do is interpret it. One person says there is no supernatural, there is no God, the Bible's not true, therefore I have to interpret this within natural means Another person says, hey, I allow for the possibility that the Bible's true. I allow for the possibility there is a God and that the flood did happen. And you know, I come to the conclusion, hey, the evidence shows the flood happened. You follow what I'm saying? And so I'm suggesting it's important for us to understand this because our youth of our nation, I'm speaking in general, our youth of our nation are being taught that this is not so in an unjust fashion. Not even allowing for the possibility that this could have happened. And thus you have to come up with tremendous theories such as The moon was, the earth was spinning so fast the moon is actually a chunk out of the Pacific Ocean that ripped off the earth and began to go around. Uh now the big thing is uh going on that aliens have come down and planted life on planet Earth. And the amazing thing is intelligent people that reject God will believe aliens. Give me a break. Uh some meteor crashed in the earth and caused the polar ice caps and put it off its axis. I think it's important we understand that because it's unfairly being mocked by much of the world today. By the way, let me throw this out. The flood, the a, I hesitate to use the word story, but the story of the flood has variations in almost every religion throughout the world. Even societies that had no exposure to the Word of God still have ancient teachings of a great flood. You know what the unbeliever says? The mockers, scorners, you know what they say? That proves there's not a flood, that the Bible story is just a take on these other stories. You know what common sense would tell you? If it really happened, then these societies that have been around forever, that truth of that story would be carried out. through the generations, and they would have a story very similar to the Bible story if there actually was a basis for it. Follow what I'm saying? So you have two ways of interpreting. One is a scorner. One says, oh, it can't be. We reject it before we come to a conclusion before we even begin the consideration. And so it's important for you and I as believers to understand this Noah and the Great Flood. By the way, we are not afraid of science. I we're not afraid of them discovering uh uh what was there a thing in the news recently that they found a four hundred thousand year old piece of bone in Israel now? And they said, ah, early man may have come from the Middle East. No duh, God created them there. But I'm not afraid of them saying it's 400,000 years old. I'm not afraid of that because they're wrong And uh I there I guarantee you we can uh there are uh plenty of scientists, even unbelieving scientists, who would say, hey, you know, there's some doubts about that. And every time they try and come up with something, they say this disproves the Bible, just give it a little bit of time. And things will come out, and so and uh so we're not afraid of that. Number four, the fourth reason I think it's important to study the uh great flood, and this may be the most practical of them Is repeatedly throughout Scripture, the flood is presented as a picture of coming judgment. Now, I don't believe we're going to turn to any other well, we might. Turn with me to Matthew chapter 24, real quickly, if you would. Here Jesus references Noah and the great flood. Matthew 24. I would give you a page number, but I'm using a different Bible, and my pages don't match Schofield. It is King James, though Matthew twenty four verse thirty-six. Are you there? I want you to see this. This is Jesus speaking. He says, But of that day and hour knoweth no man. No, not the angels of heaven, but my Father only. All right, Bible scholars, what's he talking about? Nobody knoweth, no man knoweth the time, not the angels. Talking about the second coming, right? General sense, he's talking about the second coming. But look at this. But as the days of Noe? Who in the world is that? That's now let me give you just, here's a little Bible trivia. The Greek does not have the letters to translate. Something, what is it? But if you'll see Isaiah in the English, in the New Testament is spelled differently than the Old Testament. Did you ever notice that? It's called Isaiah. Noah is often the different in the New Testament, the Old Testament. It has something to do with the Greek spelling, that they don't have the letters that match up. And the King James translators were true to the Greek, and so they put it in as the Greek had it. And not follow what I'm saying? Y'all look fascinated by that. Alright, let's get on it. But as the names of Noah were So shall also the coming of the Son of Man be. For as in the days that were before the flood, they were eating and drinking and marrying and given in marriage until the day that Noah entered into the ark and knew not until the flood came and took them all away. So shall also the coming of the Son of Man be. Huh. Looks to me like the Lord is saying something, hey You ought to know a little bit about the flood Noah and the Great Flood because that's the way it's going to be when I come back again. Not that the f he's going to be flooded again. But that is going to be sudden. The characteristics of the world just before the coming of Christ are going to be what the characteristics of the world were before the flood hit. And Jesus is telling us we ought to be aware of the flood and Noah and what it was like and what it entailed, because that's a picture of what it's going to be like when Christ comes back again. If we are going to correctly understand the Lord's second coming to judge the earth, we must correctly understand Noah and the flood. Now, there's four reasons. I think this series is important. Now, let me give you, in closing, several lessons we learned from Noah and the Great Frog. What do we learn from this? Real quickly. Number one, now these are very practical and they're not original with me. I picked these up and I'm passing them on to you. Number one, the importance of planning ahead. Say, what in the world? This is this is the idea. It wasn't raining when Noah began building the f ark He planned ahead. He didn't wait. God says, build an ark, it's going to rain. Rain, what's that? Water falls out of the sky. Huh When I start seeing water fall out of the sky, then I'll start building the ark. No. He exercised faith and he planned ahead. And he was building that ark for a year before the flood came. There's a great lesson in that. We need to plan ahead. Listen, if all we're living for is the here and now, we'll lose the next generation. I appreciate Brother Mark leading and Jackie helping him leading with our Sunday school and all that. He's got some visions, some plans. You know what? We've got to plan ahead, put things in place so that when you and I are off the scene, there's still somebody standing behind this pulpit preaching the gospel in the old King James Bible We got a plan ahead as far as Kazakhstan is concerned. We're not going to reach that country. We're not going to hand a church there in a month or two months or even a year or two years. It may take a generation or two before we consider that a reached country. You've got to plan ahead. You've got to plan ahead. It's true spiritually. Why is it we plan ahead with life insurance and IRAs and retirement, but yet we make so little plans for our soul? Prone salvation and that type of thing. Number two, I put this down. Be prepared. You never know when God may call upon you to do something really great Noah's just going about his business. We don't know anything about him before God showed up and called him to build the ark. But the one thing we do know about him, he was ready to do whatever God called him to do. And so many times we must keep ourselves in tune with the Lord. We've got to stay right with God because we never know when that call may come, and God says, I've got something really great for you. Well God, I'm kind of backslidden right now. Oh. Well I guess I'll go find someone else We've got to be prepared. Let me give you a few areas we need to be prepared in. We need to be prepared spiritually God calls us to do something. Hey, it's a very real possibility you may bump into somebody this week that you are the only one that will have opportunity to really have an impact on them coming to know Christ as Savior. But if you or I are out of fellowship with God, or you or I are so wrapped up in ourselves we don't see the spiritual needs of others, we may miss that opportunity if we're not prepared. We need to be prepared spiritually. Here's a convicting one. We need to be prepared financially. I'm afraid sometimes we get ourselves so far into debt. And if God wanted to use us to do something, we say, Well God, I gotta pay these debts off somehow. We're so uh Proverbs makes reference, and again I throw out the challenge to read a chapter of Proverbs. There's thirty-one chapters in the book of Proverbs. can read one every day in the month. There's not twenty-eight books, like somebody said recently. There are not twenty-eight chapters, there's thirty-one chapters in the book of Proverbs. But the book of Proverbs talks about the bondage of debt and becoming servant. The borrower is servant to the lender. And sometimes I think we handle our finances so shabbily, we get ourselves so tied up that if God did call us to do something, we're so bound we can't We're not prepared. We're not prepared spiritually. We're not prepared financially. Perhaps physically. I'm probably the last one should be speaking about that. God calls us to do something that requires physical we ought to, and um this is one of my other uh things I wasn't going to tell anybody, but trying to get in better shape physically Number one, we learn that we should plan ahead. Number two, be prepared. Number three, don't listen to critics. If you're going to try and do something for God, you better have one deaf ear and one blind eye. Because people are going to try and discourage you. Success in the Christian life is not pleasing people, it's pleasing God. If Noah would have listened to the people of the world that are, they'd all there wouldn't be any people on the planet. We'd all be dead. Well, we wouldn't ever have been born, so we can't be dead if you weren't ever born. Number four, I like this one. It's best to travel in pairs. What if only one of those animals would have gone on the arc? What would have happened to that kind of animal? They died off. They couldn't have reproduced. You know, God's designed us to work as a group. We need each other. We like to when we go out soul winning, if at all possible, we're trying to send out in pairs. It's just something about it. It's best to travel in pairs. This is another one that was down. We're all in the same boat Noah and his boy. I can hear one of Noah's boys. Let's say Ham sitting there. What's the matter with you, Ham? Oh, I've gotten stuck in this boat for a year. Nobody knows what it's like to be stuck in a boat for a year. Noah says, what do you think we are? We're stuck in a boat too. Yeah, but it's worse for me What do you mean? We laugh at that, but people say that. Pretty sure you don't know how bad I got it. Welcome to Planet Earth. Yeah, it's rough. I tell you what, you start whining and complaining about how bad you got it. Come with Kathy and I and go visit the nursing home with us See how bad you really have it. We're in the same boat. We're not the only ones going through this. Number six, another lesson we learned just generally. I like this one. The ark was built by amateurs. But the Titanic was built by professionals. Think about it. Noah was not a professional boat builder. He never built a boat before in his life The Titanic was built by the pros. They said, they made the statement, even God can't sink the Titanic. The Ark survived, the Titanic sank. Say, what's that lesson? It's not our power, it's not our ingenuity, it's God's grace and power that gets the job done. Listen, there is no such thing as a church planter or a church builder, not humanly. Christ plants the church. Christ builds the church. We're all amateurs. Come on now. You say, Well I don't think I could be much of a soul winner. No kidding. We need God Just give myself to God. Do what God says. He's the one that does it. Let me end this short message. Number seven, don't miss the boat. God's I think God's doing something in our church. I'm excited. I come out of the Sunday school teacher meeting this evening. I'm stirred up There's some things I think God, hey, some of these visitors that were here this morning, I'm stirred up about that. I think God's working, God's moving. Don't just sit on the sidelines. And God's working. Get on board. Um when I first got in the ministry, and uh I I I don't know how you feel, but I want God to do something at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I don't want us just to be a dead church. Now we might can never be a Highland Park or a First Baptist of Milford. We can never be something like that. But we can be the best we can be. We can be what God can make us to be. And I determined and inevitably you have people that are just going to kind of stand in the way or just going to be deadweight. And I thought, I'm not going to worry about that. We're just going to plow around it and over it and under them and through them and just keep going forward. I suggest get on board. The people that didn't get on the ark drowned. People don't get on board with what God's doing or be left behind. Number eight, I put this one down. No matter how bad the storm is, it eventually ends, and it ends with a rainbow. Now, this year, no doubt we're going to face some storms. Maybe personally, maybe as a church, no, God knows the future. But I do know this: whenever storms come, They inevitably leave. They don't stay forever. Maybe you're going through a tough time now. Maybe your heart's broken. Maybe you're disappointed with some things the way they turned out. I'm here to tell you, it's not always going to be that way. Christ gets us through. Don't bail out. Stay in there, stay trusting God, stay true to what you know. Why don't you just decide whether nobody else ever lives for God again? I'm going to live for God and I'm not going to bail out of this boat if there's only eight of us. We're going to stay in this thing until God brings us out the other side. A fellow years ago was help helping us in the church, and this was a long time ago. And uh had a little, he had some problems, a little difficulties, and ended up leaving. And he called me and was crying, and we talked and prayed together. And um I said, listen I hope I I don't think I'm prophesying here. I hope not. But I said, listen, if everybody in the whole church leads, I'm gonna plant my feet right here, I'm staying in this And we're just going to go forward. If there's one, just me and my wife, or me and my and another couple, we're going to go forward and we're going to keep doing what God's called us to do And that's the way it's got to be. It's the way it was with Noah. Nobody in the world joined him. All he had was his three boys and their wives, and that was it. And he says, we're going to get the job done. We're going to stay at this thing. You imagine being out in that boat for four months? Eight weeks, or how many weeks is that? Twelve weeks Is that right? Sixteen weeks. Pat's over there. I don't know. I keep looking at Pat for stuff like that and he has no clue. Um Imagine that 16 weeks. Elephants doing what elephants do and birds doing what birds do. We're never getting out of this thing. You know what? Finally the day came. They opened that window, sent that little birdie out. Never came back. Wow, we're coming out of this. You may be in the pits. You may be in the darkest storm you've ever been. I'm here to tell you, one of these days, God's going to open a little window for you. Little birdie gonna fly out and you're gonna say, hey, things are different. God got me through this. Isn't that good? Let's pray. Father in heaven I hope this message was a help. And I pray as we go into this series, Lord, that we would learn some great lessons that help us in our Christian lives to be strong. Have faith in you, to not be shaken by the world's false science. But just to be very grounded in your word. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, say, preacher, the message ended on the idea of sticking to it, not quitting, staying in the boat and go seeing this thing through. How many would say, Preacher, this year 2011, by God's grace, with his help, I'm sticking this thing out. I'm staying with it. I'm going to do everything I can to be what God wants me to be as a Christian and as a person in every area You say, preacher, pray with me. How many people feel that way? Of course we all do. Let's just make the decision. God, I'm in this thing. I'm in this thing through it all. I'm not Quitting. Father, bless her invitation I bust in Jesus' name. Let's stand