Matthew chapter five. We're going to actually look at another one of the Beatitudes tonight. This is going to be a little more of a a lesson in nature, not so much of a sermon It's helped me. Um I think it'll it'll help you. It might not help you today. This isn't going to be something that all of us It's not something we can all apply today. Well maybe we can, but it's going to be something you can put in your pocket and pull it out later. And you'll know what I'm talking about here in a minute And this morning I went back and looked. The sermon was over forty-five minutes. And the the Few month though a few weeks ago it was forty-seven. So I'm going to make up for that tonight. We're going to go about twenty Does that sound alright? You good with that, brother Ed? Yes, good? Okay. Alright. We're gonna s uh just again we'll read through the Beatitudes here just to kind of get our our brains back in gear. Verse 1 of chapter 5, and seeing the multitudes he went up into a mountain where he was set. His disciples came unto him, he opened his mouth, and taught them saying, and then we go through the list of the Beatitudes here Verse 3: Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. That's what we focused on this morning. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when men shall revile you and persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. The verse that we're going to zero in on tonight is verse 4. Blessed are they that mourn. Blessed are they that mourn. For they shall be comforted Let's pray. Lord, again, we praise you for the morning that you gave us. It sure was good to be here this morning. Um Lord, is it it was just a pleasure to serve you today. uh to serve you this afternoon. The good group we had goes soul winning this afternoon. We praise you for that. We pray, Lord, that you would bless now the service tonight. As we look at verse 4 here, I pray that you would teach us how to mourn and teach us the way you would have us to go through trials, go through hard times. In Jesus' name. Amen. Again, just for sake of getting our brains back in gear, remember Jesus, this is the longest sermon, the Sermon on the Mount, and we talked about that a little bit this morning. And uh the the the first half of the chapter here is kind of like an overview of how he expects his uh his followers to live. That's who he's addressing, remember? expects his followers to live this way. I taught a little uh way to remember the Beatitudes, it's the attitude to be. Remember that I mentioned that this morning. This is the way Christ wants us to be. He wants us to be poor in spirit. He wants us to be meek. He wants us to hunger and thirst after righteousness, but he wants us to be merciful, pure in heart. That's what we focused on this morning. He wants us to be peacemakers, be willing to be persecuted. Things like that. And if you look at the next few verses, like verses thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, we're not going to uh uh dissect those tonight. But again he's saying we live this way, we'll be like salt in the world, we'll be alike a alike uh like a city on a hill, he mentions uh somewhere else there. And anyway, so the point is that we'll be like a beacon. We'll be uh we'll stick out uh in this world if we live the way that Christ wants us to live. Pointing uh others to him. And that's a good thing. That's what we're supposed to do. Yeah, I love the Sermon on the Mount. Obviously again we mentioned this morning 'cause it was Jesus Christ that pr uh preached this sermon, the greatest preacher. You can't really beat Jesus Christ. Um and man, there's it's one of the most quoted sermons too, though, isn't it? Everything's in there. Um everything from uh the golden rule to the Beatitudes which we just uh went through and there there's just so much in there. How he expects his followers uh to live. Remember that's who he was talking to where people that were following him. And we saw that at the end of chapter four. And so the attitudes that he has here, the poor in spirit, the the um the meek, uh the pure in heart, and so on This is really the way that Christ wants us to live. And each one of them, it says that if we if we have that attitude, if we live that way, and we have that attitude, we'll be blessed Blessed are the for they shall this. And um there's a couple things going on here, I think. One Just an overview again. It shows us who the really truly blessed people are. You know, who who was really happy. The checkout somewhere, or maybe you're you just talking to someone just randomly. They'll say something like, Have a blessed day. You know what I'm talking about? And that's good. That's good. I mean that's that's okay. I'm all for that Um but boy, we really can see who gets the blessings, right? Um first off, those that are saved. We have a blessing. We have a home in heaven. We talked about that this morning. You can't really beat that blessing But then the once the the once we're saved, if we live the way God wants us to live, we we we we we live a blessed life. But then also I think we can learn tr how to be blessed, not just who is blessed, but how to be blessed. And so I think those are a couple of big things we can take away from that whole section. But now what I want to zero in on this evening is verse 4. Blessed are they that mourn. Blessed are they that mourn to the rest of the world. That's kind of weird. Isn't it? You would think blessed are they that are happy or blessed are they that have a lot of joy Blessed are they wherever when their things are going well. You know, it's kind of almost like a strange concept to people outside of Christianity. I would assume they would look at that strange Blessed are they that mourn. You're blessed because you're mourning. And if you just think about that for a minute, doesn't that seem kind of strange? You know, you lose someone, or you lose a loved one. Oh, they're blessed. If that's all you looked at, that'd be kind of strange, right? Um blessed are they that are suffering. It doesn't make sense. Uh to the rest of the world. That might be how they would think we look at it maybe. But we're going to dig into a little bit tonight. Blessed are they that mourn Blessed are they that mourn. And what's the promise? What's the blessing to the mourning? What is it? Read it. Verse 4. What was it? We comforted. See, that's the blessing, is the comfort. And and and that's a we need we need that. We need that lesson. You you you lose a a loved one or you lose someone. Again, this isn't gonna like I said, this isn't gonna be a a hard-preaching message. This is gonna be more of a lesson, I guess you could say Um but if we lose someone that we're close to, relative, close friend or something, there's mourning. The blessing i i when you when when you would when you would hear that, blessed are they. That might sound uh kind of strange. Am I the only one that thinks that doesn't that just face value? Doesn't that just kind of sound almost strange? And how you might even think the rest of the world might think that's strange Blessed are they that mourn. Well the blessing comes in the comfort. You know, and we're going to dissect this a little bit here. But we tend, you know, the the again that we would tend to think, blessed are they that rejoice, blessed are the Mary. But to mourn means to express grief or sorrow, or to be sorrowful, or to be grieving. So there's a couple different things we need to learn about mourning because we need to mourn the way Christ wants us to mourn. We need to to have sorrow the way that Christ wants us to have sorrow. There is a correct and incorrect way to mourn. There is Go to 2 Corinthians chapter 7 with me real quick. 2 Corinthians chapter 7. You see two types of mourning here. You see two types of sorrow. Second Corinthians chapter seven, verse ten. Says for godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation, not to be repented of, but the sorrow of the world worketh death. You see, that's a very big contrast. There's a sorrow of the world, there's godly sorrow. The way the world mourns Is different than the way we should mourn. When we sorrow, it should look different Um remember when Paul's writing and he's writing to to comfort the church there and he say, We sorrow not as others which have no hope. You know you know what I'm talking about. It's not saying that we don't sorrow. Again, God created us to be emotional. Those emotions are are are to be used the correct way. You know, there is a proper time to sorrow and there is a proper way to sorrow. Now, if we catch ourselves sorrowing the the same way the world sorrows, we catch ourselves mourning the same way the world mourns. There might be something off there. So we see that there is the mourning of this world, and if we looked at it there, we could study that out there in 2 Corinthians. Um if you're still if you're still there. But actually flip back over to Matthew five. We're gonna zero in on verse four there. The point I'm trying to make Is the morning of the world is hopeless morning. Have you ever You know the difference in the funeral when it's a saved person with saved people and a lost person with lost people. You know what I'm talking about. It's a different atmosphere In a lot of ways, again I'm not I'm not trying to be disrespectful at all, but a lot of it's in a lot of ways when it's a saved individual that goes to heaven And it's the family's all saved and everyone there is knows the Lord. It's almost kind of like a reunion more than it is a funeral. Do you know what I'm doing what I'm talking about? And you you know, you're you're gonna miss them, you know. You're we'll see them again and we're gonna it's different. But it's still there. There's still a mourning, there's still a sorrow, but it looks different. The sorrow of the world It's hopeless. Sorry not as others which have no hope. It's hopeless. It's empty. And it's self-centered. It's self-centered. Um, you know, the idea is how could how could God let this happen to me? Or how could How this isn't fair that this had to happen to them. You know what I'm talking about. I'm I don't know if I'm r phrasing this right, but it's almost like uh how am I gonna make it now? It's you know you you know what I'm saying It's more of a self-centered thing. Which I again I get that. That's a very sad thing. And it might not I'm I'm applying it to a funeral, but it could be to any circumstance that would bring sorrow Is the sorrow empty? Is the sorrow hopeless? Is the sorrow self-centered? Again, you don't have to turn back there. We just read it in 2 Corinthians. It says the sorrow of the world worketh death. That's depressing, man. The world's sorrow is depressing. It really is. The world's sorrow is dark. The way of the wicked is his darkness. They know not at what they stumble. So there's the mourning of the world. The way they do. And have you ever seen have you ever seen I I I've seen this once, I've heard other stories. I've not I've never seen anyone actually crawl up into a casket, but I've heard stories of that. They'll crawl up in and hold on to the person they don't want them to go. But I've seen I've seen stuff similar to that Um and that's that's sad. Because there's no hope that they'll see that person again. I can't imagine that. When we sorrow, it's more of the sorrow, it's it's uh of man, it's going to be a while until we see them again, but it's totally different. So then there's uh uh then there's the biblical way to mourn. Again, we just read it, you don't have to turn there. It says in verse 10 of 2 Corinthians 7, godly sorrow Worketh repentance to salvation. Biblical mourning, godly sorrow Is not a self-centered sorrow. It's not a hopeless sorrow. It's not a dark sorrow darkness sorrow. If you think about it That kind of sorrow, that kind of mourning, that attitude is actually what brought us to salvation. Let me explain what I'm saying. If we are mourning for our sins, you know what let's go to Zechariah 12. Go to Zechariah 12. I believe this is the right reference. I didn't mark this one. I hope this is right. Verse nine. Yes, it's verse nine, Zechariah twelve nine. And it shall come to pass in that day that I will seek to destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem. And I'll pour upon the house of David and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem the spirit of grace and the supplication, and they shall look upon me whom they have pierced. This is future events. Then they're gonna look at Christ, the one they rejected, right? And then it's gonna they're gonna look at the one that they have pierced, and they shall mourn for him. Mourn for him. Because of what they did to him, they're mourning for his suffering. It's a mourning of repentance. Like what was mentioned in 2 Corinthians there. Oh, we messed up. We change our mind. That's what repentance is. We change our mind. He's the Messiah. Do you see the picture there? And so the the the biblical mourning, it can be a morning for our a morning for our sins. Sorrowful for my sins. Does this make sense what I'm trying to say? To look at my sin like it's not that big of a deal, that's not a sorrowful mourning that brings us to repentance. But man, that's heavy on my heart. It's I I I've sinned against the Holy God. It's an affront to him. That's heavy. It's mourning. It's sorrowful. That f that emotion, like we talked about this morning, That morning brings us to get right with God, brings us to repentance. And that's how we got saved. We realized, man, we're sinners. This is awful I need to have my sins forgiven. I need to be right with God. And that posture is the posture that led us to repentance. Mourning for our sins is a biblical way to mourn. Also, a sympathetic mourning is the way to mourn. Romans 12, if you'll turn there with me. Romans chapter 12. Verse fifteen Rejoice with them that do rejoice and weep with them that weep. You see how the biblical sorrow, the biblical mourning, is not a a self-centered thing. It's uh man, I uh it's an affront to God in terms of my sins. Or or or when I see like I see Evan sorrowing over something, I see him mourning, I'm gonna I'm gonna sorrow with him, I'm gonna mourn with him I'm placing my mourning, I'm placing my sorrow alongside of him to be an encouragement, to be a help to him. It's not self-centered, it's others-centered. There's correct ways to mourn. There's incorrect ways to mourn. An incorrect way is this isn't fair. How could God let this happen to me? This isn't fair, and I blame God for the sorrow that the and my or the things that have brought me sorrow. And I I I fester on that and I turn my back on God. That would be the incorrect way The correct way would be my sin's heavy trying to get this right God that's the front to you brings you to repentance when I see someone else sorrowing, a sorrow along with him. Can you all see there's there's different postures? The one sorrow, the one mourning is self-centered, the other is Christ-centered and other-centered That's the right way to mourn. And if we mourn the way that God wants us to mourn, the way Christ instructs us to mourn, again, Matthew chapter 5. And looking again, we already read it, but we'll read it again. Verse 4: Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. There is comfort in that kind of mourning. The hopeless morning there is no comfort. There is no hope But if we mourn the way that we're supposed to, the way God instructs us to, not the self-centered way, but the other centered way, we'll get comfort. That's where the comfort comes from. So that's the promise. Verse 4, they shall be comforted. What does the comfort look like? Well, go to Psalm 34. There's only a couple more verses to turn to, and then we'll be done. But Psalm 34 In verse 18, the Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart. Well, that's the comfort. That's one of the comforts. God is near you simply because your heart is broken. If your heart is aching over the loss of someone or of something, maybe not someone that went on to heaven, maybe not someone that's passed on, but maybe there's some other tragedy in your life that's bringing you sorrow And is breaking your heart. God is near those that are have a broken heart. God is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart, and saveth such as be of a contrite spirit There's comfort in the fact that knowing comfort in the fact that knowing that God is close to those that are hurting. That's encouraging. So if there is something in your life right now that's just absolutely breaking your heart, claim that verse. More in the correct way, but claim this verse. God is nigh those of a broken heart. So what does the comfort look like? God is with us now. He's near us now. Of course, let's go to uh we there's another type, Luke, Luke chapter 16. In verse 25, you know this story. It's of the rich man and Lazarus, and I'm just going to read this verse. Of course, the rich man cries out. to Abraham in and they're having a conversation there. Verse twenty five, Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivest thy good things and likewise Lazarus evil things. Now he is comforted. Thou art tormented. He is comforted. He's comforted. Those of us, again, that have that posture towards our sin, mourning over our sin, one day we will be comforted because we will see Christ. We accepted Christ as our Savior. We trusted in him We'll see him. And there's sorrows that go on here that will one day be over. Revelation 21. 4 One day uh all the tears will be wiped away from our eyes. You don't have to turn there. Unless you want to see Revelation twenty-one four. So the comfort looks like this. God is with us now. One day we'll be with him. We'll see him as he is. We mentioned that this morning. And one day all the sorrow will be gone. Every tear will be wiped away. You can't get more comfort than that. So we're looking again at this verse. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. The summary is this. How are you mourning? Are you mourning like the world mourns? I I don't know why we do this, but we do, and I say we, including me, I'm guilty of this. We look at things from the world's perspective. You know, even at a funeral we'll say th we we might catch ourselves saying, I can't believe they're gone. Well, that's the world's perspective. You know, I can't believe we lost so-and-so. Yeah, that's the world's perspective We can I I catch myself doing that sometimes. I'm sure you do too. We're mourning the incorrect way. Now sometimes we just say things because that's what we say and it's habit I get that But let's really examine. Are we mourning the correct way? Are we are are is our broken heart self-centered or or other-centered? Is it self-centered or Christ-centered? One day morning will cease, and I'm looking forward to it. So here's the applications. I just got a couple and I'll be done here in just a few minutes. When you need to be comforted, Go to the right source. Go to the Lord. Again, why do we go everywhere else for comfort? We'll go to ice cream. Apparently that's a thing. It'd make much more sense if it was like a chicken. Or box of Slim Jim's. That makes more sense. But apparently apparently that's a thing. You know, that's fine, whatever. I'm I'm being silly. But we we go to oh we go we'll go to some vice like that. Or we'll go to some substance maybe. Or maybe we'll go to social media and look for comfort. Why not go to God? I'm I I mean why not why not go to the one that offers the comfort? And here's the people mean well, they really do. And so, you know, some someone's going through something, just let's say Derek's going through something, he has a broken heart, he's mourning. So yeah, I'm gonna be a real good friend, you know, like Elifaz or something, and come along next to him and tell him everything he's doing wrong. You know what I'm talking about? The people that laughed have read Job. That's good. So I'll go along next to him and you know say, you know, oh well maybe it's because of this, or you know, or God has a reason True. May you know, God allowed things to happen. That's good. But sometimes we can make things worse when we try to help, you know And I'm not saying don't try to help. That's not what I'm saying. The point is this. Why is it we go to every person? We go to social media, we go to ice cream, we go to absolutely everything but God. Guilty. The the that God is nigh those of a broken heart. He's near those that have a broken heart. It doesn't say that ice cream is nigh those of a broken heart. I don't know why I'm preaching on ice cream tonight Huh. Maybe someone needs to hear that. It doesn't say that that Facebook is nigh those of a broken heart. You you follow me? It's he is. He is. Hey, can we get encouragement from believers? Absolutely. In fact, we read that verse. You know, weep with those that we've rejoiced, with those that rejoice. Absolutely. But let's go to God first. He He's the only one other than you that knows what you're going through. Like perfectly. Even our spouses don't know exactly what we're feeling. They can be pretty close. They know it's pretty good, but not as good as God knows us, right? So let's when we're mourning, let's go to the correct source for the comfort. Now will God use other people to comfort us? Sure. Can God even use ice cream? Sure. But go to Him. Why do I keep talking about ice cream? I I don't. It's not my thing. I don't know. I don't know. Anyway. I had a steak for lunch today. Do you all want to hear about it? I'm gonna tell you about it anyway. Cam made me a steak today and it was really good. Cooked to perfection, medium rare, beautiful. Nice plank steak. And um that has nothing to do with anything. That was just the commercial break. So go to the Lord when you need to be comforted. Number two, it's okay to sorrow. It's okay to mourn. For so whatever reason, a lot of times, I guess especially with guys, maybe we feel like oh we gotta we gotta be emotionless. Well that's dumb. I mean God created us to be emotional creatures. Now we need to have control over those emotions, right? We need to have temperance. Absolutely. But there's a correct way to mourn and God created us to mourn. There's a correct way to have emotions and let's have them the correct way. So don't feel like you have to not have the emotion of sorrow or mourning. It's good to, actually. In fact it'd be weird if you didn't. Just make sure it's the biblical way, like we looked at earlier. It's not self-centered, it's other centered, it's Christ-centered. We're not called to be an emotionless creature, but let's mourn the proper way. Let's sorrow it in a way that is blessed. And we will be comforted. We need more and more in the biblical way. That's the whole point of the message. And I don't know why the Lord put this one on my mind for tonight. I have no clue. Maybe there's someone in here tonight. You have a absolute broken heart. It might be over a a death, it might be over something with one of your kids, it might be something totally I don't know, I have no idea, but you might have a broken heart Maybe this is for you. Maybe I I don't know. Maybe it's for us to pull out of our pocket later. But if we mourn, the way God instructs us to mourn, He promises that we'll be blessed. If you're listening or if you're here and you're not saved, you don't know Christ is your Savior. You've never had that sorrow that leads to repentance. You've never had that mourning and sorrow over your sin that made you realize this is bad I need to get right with God. I need Him to forgive me. I need to have my sins forgiven. That's kind of the most important thing. So let's get that taken care of first, right? But to those of us that are saved, if you're mo if you're sorrowing, if you're mourning, that's good. That's okay. It's healthy. Just take comfort in the fact that God is nigh those of a broken heart. You'll have comfort now, and one day you will be comforted in heaven, and one day all mourning will cease. And we can find comfort in that. Blessed are they that mourn for they shall be comforted. Again, like I said, I have no idea who this is for tonight. Um maybe it's just for later, I don't know. But blessed are they that mourn for they shall be comforted. And I'm done. I told you to be short tonight. So you can put your Bibles away. I don't know how God's dealing with your heart tonight. Uh there might be someone here that has an absolute broken heart. Maybe there's a relationship that may it might be a marriage, it might be a a relationship with your kids or Siblings, I don't know. Maybe there's something that's going on and your heart's just wrenching. Take it to God tonight. And he is nigh those of a broken heart. You will be comforted if you go to him. He promises that. Sound good? Heavenly Father, we thank you for being near us when we have a broken heart. We're thankful for the service here tonight. And I pray, Lord, again, Lord, if there's someone here that's just struggling with a broken heart, I pray that they'd come to you, Lord. You promise to bring comfort, and so we pray for that tonight. And Lord, when we go through more things that will break our hearts in the future, because we live here on earth where these things happen, help us just to remember this. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. With heads bowed and eyes closed. I don't want to take this for granted. Is there anyone here tonight that says that they don't know for sure they're on the way to heaven? If they if they died, right, if you died right now, you're not a hundred percent certain you're going to heaven Is there anyone here like that tonight? Could you just slip your hand up so I could pray for you? I'm not going to call you out or anything like that. I just want to pray for you. Okay, next question. Is there anyone here that Maybe you're struggling with something that's just breaking your heart. You're sorrowing right now. And you just need someone, you just say, uh Pastor Matt, pray for me. I'm really sorrowing right now over something. If that's you, just lift your hand up See your hands. See your hands. Let's go to God during invitation. Let's take that to him. Blessed are they that more they shall be comforted. He is nigh those of a broken heart Let's take that before Him tonight. Okay? Heavenly Father, we declare you bless now the invitation, and it's in Jesus' name. Amen