Nothing is certain. My dad used to say it uh we had talked somebody had died unexpectedly and suddenly and this is years ago. I don't remember who or what the situation was, but uh my dad made a statement that stuck in my mind and He's made it several times uh over the years. I don't know that it's original with him, but he said this. He says, you never know when you put your shoes on the morning on in the morning, you never know who might take them off that night And he was talking about the the mortician or somebody, you know, something happened to you. And the point I'm trying to make to get our frame of mind going here is this. There's no certainties under the sun. The Bible is very clear, we're not promised tomorrow. Proverbs 27:1, boast not thyself for tomorrow, for thou what? Knowest not. What the day may bring forth. And so Ecclesiastes, the book of Ecclesiastes deals with a lot of very difficult questions. And uh he's dealing with some things that maybe sometimes we might be afraid to question. We might be he he asks questions and he He uh faces issues that sometimes we might be afraid to because it would sound like we don't have much faith. It sounds like, oh, well maybe I don't believe the Bible if I would ask that question And Solomon is doing that, and he's facing some pretty, pretty troubling issues in a lot of way. But in our text here, these three verses, and you notice right in the beginning, he's coming to a conclusion. We looked at verse 8 of uh chapter 8 and a bunch of things. Now he comes here and he comes to a conclusion, and um I think this is what he's addressing. From man's perspective, from under the sun, from man's perspective, nobody can really understand how God works. Nobody can really understand. I think there's two aspects here. One is we don't really understand how God works Throughout the Bible, you have different people asking the Lord this question. How can this be? How can this be? Can you think of anyone in the Bible that asked that question? How can this be? Job, yeah, he was asking why. But there is two people in particular ask the Lord, how can this be? Mary, when she was found with child, she knew not a man And she said, how can this be? I'm telling you from the man's perspective, under the sun, you say, how in the world could that possibly happen? There's a second one that asks the Lord, how can this be? Nicodemus. Jesus said, You must be born again. Nicodemus says, how can a man be born when he's old? How can that happen? And from under the under the sun, from the purely human perspective, that didn't make any sense. You must be born again. That's nonsense. And so one of the hard questions that Solomon deals with and that sometimes we're afraid to ask is uh how can this be? How can this be? There's another question. Anybody want to take a shot at what the other hard question is. Why? How many people ever asked that question? God, why did you allow this? God, why did you not do this? Why? Is it sin to ask why? No. Job, you read the whole book, he's just asking God, why in the world? Why is why? I've done right. My hands are innocent. God, why? Why? David throughout the book of Psalms over and over again asked why, why, why? None other than the Lord Jesus Christ on the cross said, My God, my God. Why hast thou forsaken me? Humanly, the human Jesus, the man, David, and Job. As they saw things from Earth's perspective, and of course Jesus is unique in every way, but from Earth's perspective, from under the sun There's no answer for this. There's no answer. I just want to understand. And we're that way, aren't we? We say, Lord, okay, I'm alright with you letting this happen, but I'd like to understand the reasoning behind it. I'd like to believe there's a purpose here. I'd like to believe there is this isn't just Chaos, but there's something behind it. And we ask those questions and we think that way. Am I right or wrong? And sometimes we're afraid to say that, sometimes we're afraid to express that Because, oh, well, don't you believe in God? Aren't you trusting God? Yes. Job had as great a faith as any one of us. But he just wanted to understand. And so I think Solomon is addressing these things. It's not wrong to ask why. Now we have to be careful. It's not wrong to ask why, as long as our question is a submissive and whether we know or not, I'm still going to trust you, Lord. Now if I'm asking why with a raised fist and a hard heart, that's a whole nother story. But if I'm humbly, just say, Lord, I'd like to understand. Lord, I'd like to have some understanding of this. God is very gracious to us. And I'll be very honest with you, most of the time He doesn't tell us why Most of the time. Not under the sun. Under the sun, what is it to have a view of under the sun? I I've kind of as we worked our way through here, my thinking and my understanding of this is evolving a little bit. And I think part of the concept of being under the sun and living under the sun, we've already said it's pushing God out of our life. We understand that, and that's clear in the first several chapters. But I think now as we're getting on, I'm trying to see in it also from this perspective. Under the sun is viewing life and viewing life's circumstances not from a biblical perspective but purely from my under my own understanding, just what I see. You follow what I'm saying It's not seeing what the Bible, not seeing what God's Word says about this issue, but just looking at it from a human perspective. So I think there's another element to under the sun, not just pushing God out of my life, I'm going to do my thing, but also when we're trying to consider things, and that's the term he uses here, I considered But his consideration is not from a biblical consideration, it's from a merely human consideration. Am I making sense? You follow what I'm saying? And so When when he mentions things under the sun, we I think we need to add to our understanding of that the fact that I'm not seeing it from a biblical perspective. I'm not seeing it from the what the scripture teaches me about that So let's get into this, and I just want to give you a kind of tried to outline it here a little bit. I put down number one Solomon's consideration. And I get that from his statement, the first part of verse 1. For all this I considered in my heart. The word consider means to give a lot of thought to. He's saying, I spent a lot of time analyzing this. I've put a lot of effort into trying to understand This issue I'm about to address, this subject I'm about to address. And what that simple little statement tells me is that Solomon took life very seriously. He wasn't flippant about life. Now he got messed up bad. But one thing we have to hand to him, even when he's living out in sin, living in wickedness, and making all this money and doing all that, even when he was doing that, he was paying attention. He was trying to learn from it. He was trying to gain something. He was trying to find fulfillment. Solomon, for all his faults and all his virtues and all his vices For all of that, one thing about it, he took life seriously. And he thought things through and he looked at it and uh he paid close attention. I'm afraid we live in a society today where people don't pay much attention to life. They're just doing whatever. In fact, I put down in my notes, that's kind of the term for this day. Whatever. Right? Hey, listen, do you ever think about your soul? Whatever. That means no And Solomon didn't view life in whatever. He wanted to understand. He wanted to have answers. He took life very, very seriously. A lot of people give little consideration to what direction their life has going. One of my responsibilities as a pastor, and really all of us as a Christian, is to challenge people to consider the direction their life is going. That's what soul winning is, isn't it? Confronting people and say, hey, wait a minute. What's your relationship with the Lord Jesus? What is your spiritual condition? Where's your eternal destiny? What's your spiritual well-being? And we're trying, of course, through the power of the Holy Spirit, we're trying to get people to consider, to think about it, give some attention. Don't just be flippant with your life. Man, think about this. God gives us one life. That's all we have. There's no redoes And to just carelessly squander it away. So I commend Solomon here. He thinks a lot of people may give little consideration to the direction of their life. They give little consideration to their actions or their consequences of the actions. I came across a statement somewhere, and boy, it stuck in my mind. It said this, you can ignore God's instructions. But you cannot ignore the consequences of ignoring God's instructions. And people don't consider that. They don't consider what will happen if I did if I disobey God, if I disobey what the Bible says. What will be the consequences of that? What will be the outcome of that? They don't even consider it. It's just whatever Our words, the words we say. I've been thinking a lot about this. I was talking with my wife this afternoon, and I was kind of working on some future messages. I'm afraid that the greatest threat to a local church is not some other version of the Bible. I'm afraid it's not some liberal doctrine. I'm afraid it's not contemporary mentality, music and mentality. I'll tell you what, I think the greatest threat to a good, strong, healthy uh local church is the words people say, and the hurt and the division and the consequences of words. And so people just say something. They don't think about it first. They don't think it through. How many people here said something before you even thought about it? Okay, how many people just lied right now? We do that. And so when Solomon made that simple little statement, For all this, I considered in my heart. He says I stopped and I thought this through and I paid close attention to this. I analyzed this. Boy, I commend him for that. I commend him for that. So the first thing I notice here, he's considering something. And it's a little disturbing we get down here. The second point is this. I notice Solomon's conclusion He comes to a conclusion. He says, for all this, I considered in my heart even to declare all this. And he says, this is what I came to. This is the conclusion I came to. I'm going to tell you how it is. This is the way I figured it out. The word declare means means almost literally this, to make known my conclusion. And then he references two people, two classes of people. Because this is my conclusion. Declare all this, that the righteous and the who? Wise. The righteous and the wise. He references these two types of people. Question: Are these good people, righteous and wise? Sure, yeah, these are he's referencing good folks. Uh righteous, the people who are righteous, uh what he means by them is this people who are living by the Word of God People who are following the principles, instructions of God's word. They are righteous. That's what the term means there. It's a practical righteousness. These are people who are faithful to church. They're honest in their dealings. They're pure in their actions. They're true in their word. They're living by God's word. They're wise. They're assessing situations by the word of God. They're seeing things as God says they are. They're being very, very careful, being very, very wise. These two groups of people. Now notice what he says, the righteous and the wise and their works, how they how that's lived out in their life are in the hand of God. So both of these folks, how they're living out their life, is in the hand of God. So I got thinking, all right, what's he mean by the hand of God? Have these righteous people, these wise people, they're living that out in their life? And he says, both of that is in their hand of God. Now the hand of God, that phrase is used throughout Scripture. And it means kind of these two things, two ideas behind it. One is, anybody want to take a guess? It means kind of what you would think it is. They're in the hand of God. They're under God's what? Control or security would fall under that. They're under God's control. Did you ever say this about someone very, very we were talking about uh Jack DeWitt visiting them and earlier in the week before he passed away, we said he's in the hand of God now It's God's control. He's in God's control. Which we all are all the time. But one aspect of being in the hand of God is God's in control. God's got got this. God's got this But there's another aspect, which I didn't think of initially, but there's another aspect to the hand of God. And when it's in the hand of God, it's like it's hidden from us. You ever play that little game with kids? You have a little marble or something, you hold it, which hand is it in? And they don't know. You go behind your back, you know, which hand is it in? Now I'm not suggesting that God plays games with us. But I am saying God does a lot of things that we don't know about. And there's a lot of stuff going on that God is doing. That's hidden in his hand. And we don't know what's happening. Now that truth has profound impact on our lives. And I believe if we understood that, we would be a little bit more careful. And some of our conclusions we come to, and some of the opinions we express, and some of the judgments we make. Here's our problem, and I'm saying our. Here's our problem, myself included. We come to a conclusion without having all the information. Right or wrong. We form an opinion, but we don't have all the what? Information. We don't have all the facts. Because God's work, many times, is in his hand Um if god uh we we don't know what all God is I'm getting ahead of myself here. But uh uh one uh uh that's why I think that's one reason Now I'm going to strike home here a little bit. I'm talking to all of us, so don't, I'm including myself, but that's one reason why gossip is so bad The Bible in Proverbs talks about the tailbearer. That's a gossiper. And the wounds are deep. You know what gossip is? Gossip is giving my opinion and making my judgment about someone else's actions. But the problem is I don't have all the information behind their actions. I told someone one time they were giving their opinion about someone else. This was a long time ago. They were giving their opinion about something else. But I knew more about this situation. I had more information on the situation in the person than what they did And they're telling me this and their assessment, their judgment, their opinion was dead wrong. And so I simply made this statement. I said, you know If the only information I had about that situation is what you have, I'd come to the same conclusion. But there's a whole lot more to this story than what you have. And you're wrong. And I want to suggest to you, 90, I would suggest to you 99. 9999999% of gossip is dead wrong. Dead wrong. Because we don't have all the answers. And so Solomon is saying, listen, I've come to a conclusion. I see these righteous people, I see these wise people. And I've come to the conclusion that as they live that out in their life, and he's going to expand on this here in a little bit, as they live that in their life, God, one, is in control, and two, God is works in ways that we don't understand, we don't see, we don't have all the information. Now remember, this is all from under the sun. And our our understanding and our knowledge and the information we have under the sun is limited to that which is under the sun. It's limited knowledge It's limited understanding. And so to be able to come to a conclusion or make an accurate assessment of something that happens in my life, or to be able to make an accurate assessment of something, the consequences of somebody's action is very, very difficult under the sun because I don't have all the information. God's work is in his hand And so I don't see what he's allowing and what he's not allowing. On the positive aspect of that, uh the night uh I got saved. Um my dad was out on the road the end of the week. I came, he was there and I came down and said, Dad, I got saved, and his face was just And uh here God's work had been going on in my heart for five months under intense conviction. I mean spiritual warfare. Dad had no clue. Because God's work was what? Was in his hand. It was hidden from view. And that whole time, at any point up to that night, that I told my dad, at any point, Dad could have said And I'm no doubt he had, it's hopeless for my son. He's never going to get saved. The fact of the matter is, I was right on the verge for months leading up to that. But God's work was in his hand And so Solomon's making this conclusion that God's work is at hand. So that's one reason gossip is wrong. That's one reason opinions should be very much restrained. We ought to be careful about judgments. Because we don't have all the information. God's work is in his hand. Then last of all, I want us to notice, and I want to end with this real quickly. I notice his consternation. Boy, there's a $50 word. It's consternation. I get that from verse 2 and 3. And as I'm studying this, I'm kind of getting the impression that Solomon is frustrated. Yeah, I I re- I see consternation here. What is consternation? It means this. Frustrated confusion Can I put it in my terminology? This is the way I think. I see Solomon saying, This doesn't make sense. Right? That's the Hebrew for the I mean he is, uh you know what he's experiencing here? I think what he's expressing is vexation of spirit. This bugs him. This bothers him. And to be honest with you, it is troubling. Look at what he's concerned concerned about. He says, all things come alike to all. There's one event to the righteous. And to the wicked. He says, here's a righteous person, here's a wicked person. Same thing happens to both of them Here's a good, uh, here uh here's a wicked, and to the good, same thing happens to both of them. Here's a clean, morally clean person, and here's a morally unclean person, and the same thing happens to both of them I don't see any difference. To him that sacrifices, to him that sacrifices not. Boy, this guy's m making donations. He's sacrificing for the things of the Lord and the cause of Christ. Here's a guy who doesn't Just sits on the pew. His commitment is keeping that pew at 98. 6 degrees constantly. And he says Man, this guy here is he's getting his paycheck and he's gonna I don't see any difference. And Solomon's This doesn't make sense. He goes on. He says, as is this good, so is the sinner. He that sweareth as he that feareth an oath. This is an evil among all things. He said, This ain't right. That are done, there it is, what? Under the sun. Ah You know, from Earth's perspective, sometimes righteous people are very prosperous Right? Sometimes righteous people live in poverty. Hey, this this gets under your skin. If you don't have a heavenly perspective on it, this might get under your skin. Sometimes Very wicked people are very prosperous. And sometimes very wicked people are in poverty. Sometimes good people get cancer. We were talking the girls that sang, one of the girls that sang, she had a sister 17 years old, was killed in a car wreck just a year ago. In college, a guy ran a red light, ran right into the car, they t-bowed him, they squished him between two vehicles, and she was killed almost instantly. Here's a young lady kept pure, godly, Bible college, wanted to serve God, and her life is snuffed out. And then you have some other gals living wild, sin, wicked, drinking, carrying on, rock and rolling, dancing. She lives. Long time. My uh wife, I think it was her grandmother, some one of her can, her great grandma or one of them, I think it was her great grandma Lived to be 99 years old, and she drank a little fifth of whiskey and rolled snuff every day. I said, that ain't fair And Solomon seeing this, and he and he's saying this, and he says, he says, from under the sun, a human perspective, I don't see any difference. Oh w it's frustrating. I see these feel I had a a young person tell me years ago, he said this, I don't see much difference. Here's a guy And he's living for God, trying to do right. Here's a guy that's out there drinking and carry on. He says, I don't see any difference on the things that happen in their life. You know why you didn't see any difference? Because he was looking at it from where? From under the sun. And humanly speaking, you'd say, yeah, that's true. Righteous people die young and bad people die young. And some righteous people live a long time and some unrighteous people live a long time. Now, I see it from heaven's perspective, I see it from a biblical perspective, and to be honest with you, I see, I think if you pay close attention, living right is better for you even under the sun than living wrong. I had a fellow in the church here years ago said to me, he says, man, he said, if Christ isn't risen from the dead, if uh if what we believe is not true He says then man if I believed that he says I'd be out there living it up and I'd be drinking and carrying on and uh why would I live for Christ if uh it's not even true? I said, I don't know about you but me Even if it's not true, this life has been a whole lot better for me than that life was. But Solomon is very frustrated because He's seeing it from under the sun and he says, I don't see any difference there. And then look what he says down at the end of verse 3. He says, one event happens to them all And then look at the last phrase. And after that they go where? To the dead. And he's like, oh, I don't understand. It doesn't make sense. I think people agree with me. That's a little troublesome And if all we had the information was just under the sun, we'd say that contradicts what the Bible teaches. But the fact of the matter is, there's a whole lot more to life than being prosperous. There's a whole lot more to life than living a long life. Some of God's greatest servants died in their twenties. McChane and uh um Brainerd uh was very young, 29, I think, dedicated to Christ. And so here's the point I'm trying to get. We ought to do right. We ought to trust God and live by faith and understand this. God's hand, it is hidden in his hand. We don't see what he's doing. We don't understand that. He has a whole different perspective than we do. Take your Bible, and I'm going to end with this. John chapter 13, Jesus made a profound statement. John thirteen He's washing the disciples' feet and they cannot understand what he's doing. It doesn't make any sense. Here's the Son of God. Here is the creator of the universe. And he's washing our feet. And they have great consternation over this. This bothers them. This is frustrating. Under the sun, this is ridiculous. It should be the other way around. But look in verse, is it verse 5? Look at verse 7. Look what the Lord says to them. I'm telling you, this answers most of our questions. Jesus answered and said to them, What I do, thou what, knowest not. But thou shalt know hereafter. And we look at things and we say, why in the world? Here's a young person trying to live for God, and why do they have such a hard time? And why is this happening? And why is that happening? And we need to stop and say, wait a minute, what the Lord's doing, I don't know now. But there's coming a day. When I'm above the sun, and then I'll say. And then I'll know even as I'm known. It'll make sense. There was a verse the Lord used to bring great conviction to my life before I was saved. I mean leading up to the night I got saved. And I don't, the Lord, just the Lord directed me to it because I had no system of reading my Bible before I got saved leading up to it. I just opened up and read. But 2 Corinthians 4. 18 was a powerful verse that God used. And it's not something you would use in soul winning. I've never sat down with somebody and said, let's turn to 2 Corinthians 4. 18. I've never used it in soul winning. But this is what it says, for we look not at the things which are seen, but the things which are not seen, for the things which are seen are temporal. But the things which are not seen are eternal. And I think that is what Solomon is grappling with. He's looking at that which is seen, that which is under the sun. And it doesn't make sense. It's not right. It's not fair. This is And then we get I'm getting way ahead of myself, but when we get to the end of the book, then he says, listen, we gotta see things from God's perspective. And understand that God is working in ways we don't know, we don't understand that are far above us. And we can say, God, why is this happening? God, how can this turn out good? It's fine to ask that, but just remember, God is above the sun. And he's working and his hand is in control and we can trust him. Does that make sense? I don't know about you. That helped me a lot. Because I look out sometimes, I told my wife, I said, I can think of a preacher years ago was living in sin, I mean, just terrible. Man, the church was prosperous and strong and growing. And I know some backwoods preachers over in West Virginia and different rounds, I mean they're back in there, and they're as pure and godly and holy and true as you can possibly get. They're working hard and they'll have a handful of people come out. Now I'm not suggesting just because it's a big church doesn't mean it's a bad church, and just because it's a small church doesn't mean it's a good church But I am saying we need to be very, very careful what judgments we make and conclusions we come to and opinions we form because we don't have all the information. God knows what he's doing. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to trust you and not lean on our own understanding, but in our ways acknowledge you and let you direct our paths. And so I ask you, Lord, to help us. With our heads bowed, our eyes closed, how many would say this evening, say, preacher, you know there's some stuff going on in my life? And it's frustrating and it's and it's hard. And I don't have answers. But you'd be willing to act on faith. And not walk by sight, but walk by faith. And say, Lord, I'm going to trust you. I'm going to follow your instructions, do what you say. And understand that I don't have all the information. Is there anything like that? Any like that tonight? God bless you. Probably true of more of us than what we'd admit. But maybe tonight just come and make a commitment. Just tell the Lord. If nothing else, just tell the Lord, I'm going to trust you, God. Help me. I'm going to trust you. Father in heaven, bless our invitation now, I ask. Teach us to live by faith. I pray in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.