Exodus chapter 2. I want to begin reading in verse 23. We really should read verse 15 all the way into chapter 3 to have the whole context We're talking about, and we're looking at the call of Moses by God to be the leader, to lead the people of Israel, the Hebrews, out of Egypt. And so we noted verses 15 down through 22, the preparation of Moses for that call. He's in the wilderness and of Midian there And then we're going to pick up here in verse 23. It says, And it came to pass in the process of time that the king of Egypt died. And the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage, and they cried. And their cry came up unto God by reason of the bondage. And God heard their groanings, and God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob, and God looked upon the children of Israel, and God had respect unto them. We noted Moses' preparation for his call to be to lead the Hebrews out of Egypt. Now tonight I want us to look at The purpose. Why did God raise up Joseph? Why did Joseph Moses? Why did God call Moses to be their leader of Egypt? Let's pray together and we'll take a look at this. Father in heaven. We ask, Lord, that you would now bless our time, the study of your word here this evening. I pray that you would um, your Holy Spirit would take this passage and the truths here, the principles that are given here. I pray you'd apply them to our lives. Lord, that our faith in you would be stronger. I pray you'd help us tonight, that our witness for you would be more effective. God, I yield myself to you. I present my body anew for this time. And I ask that you would please fill me with your spirit. Dear Lord, I ask with all my heart. That you, as the author of this book, would speak through me and apply these truths to every one of our lives, as you know that we have me. I yield my will to you. I present my mind now for this message, that you would guide my thinking. I pray you guide the words I use and the things I say. I pray you guard my thinking that I would not say anything that would be contrary to your will. Or contrary to your word. So please fill me, I pray again, and ask that you would take me and help me and use me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen For 40 years, Moses has been in the wilderness of Midian. Of course, he killed the Egyptian. Word got out Um I really believe the more I studied this, the more convinced I am that Moses and and Acts chapter seven bears this out, but Moses was convinced when he killed that Egyptian He believed that the Hebrews would rise up with him and he would be able to overthrow the Egyptian government and um and lead the Hebrews out of Egypt under his leadership, under his abilities. Remember, he was highly trained in the military, under Pharaoh He was no doubt uh w history tells us that he was a powerful statesman in the government of Egypt. He had tremendous leadership abilities. He was trained in all their universities. And um but the problem was, and we looked at this, but when he killed that Egyptian anticipating this coup d'etat, He was he was leaning on his own arm, his own strength, his own abilities. And it failed completely The Hebrews, rather than rallying behind him, they turned on him, if you remember. They said, Well, are you going to kill us? Just like you did that Egyptian? And so he had to flee. And he goes into this into the wilderness of Midian for 40 years. And we noted that was God's training ground. I called it God's school of hard knocks. He learned his talents and abilities were fine-tuned in the universities of Egypt, but it was in the wilderness he learned character It was in the wilderness he learned of God and learned to trust God. Whenever God does show up to him, we mentioned this last week in chapter 3 when we get there. Whenever God does show up to him, he knows who God is. That burning bush, and he responds properly to God when he speaks of him. Tell him to take off your shoes, lay in your own holy hand. And he says, Hear my Lord. And so something happened in those 40 years. Moses was developed. He was changed. He's no longer leaning on his own ability. Back he kills the Egyptian. My arm will deliver. Then he's standing before God 40 years later he says, God, I can't do this. So he goes from I got this to I can't do this He's learning character. He's learning humility. He's learning the characteristics that are necessary for God to use a man. When we lean on our own understanding, we have our own self-confidence, we have all of this confidence in ourselves and our abilities and our training, that is a recipe for failure in the service of God every single time. But whenever I get to the point where God, I can't do this, I need you. You can be, a person can be the most talented person in the church. But if they don't have character, if they don't have temperance, and if they don't understand the filling of the Holy Spirit, a yieldedness to God. They will never amount to anything as far as eternity is concerned, spiritual well-being. Genesis, if you would, and I'm kind of backtracking a little bit, but if you would, come to Genesis chapter number And I reference Reuben a lot here over the various messages because he's a tremendous example of this. In Genesis chapter 49, Jacob is blessing his boys. Jacob's about to die. He knows it. He gathers the boys together. And he gives their final blessings. And that was very significant in the age of the patriarchs, that blessing of the patriarch on the boys. And he goes down through them, and the first one up is Reuben in verse number three of Genesis 49. And notice carefully what Jacob says about Reuben. Verse number three, Reuben, this is Jacob speaking, Reuben, thou art my firstborn. Now look at this, my might. The beginning of my strength, the excellency of dignity, and the excellency of power. Would you agree with me? That's a pretty good thing to have said about a fellow, right? Man, you're dignified, you're strong, you're the beginning of my might, you're a man with gifted, you're gifted, you're talented, you're strong. You've got everything that the world would say Is necessary for success. But he goes on, he doesn't stop there. Look at verse 4. Unstable as water, look at this, thou shalt what? Not excel. He says you're not going to make it. You're unstable as water. You're very gifted, you're very talented, you got the looks, you got the abilities, you got the talents, you got everything that the world considers necessary for success. But Reuben, you don't have any character. You can't be trusted. You're proud. You're on one day and off the next. You're hot one day and cold the next. You're in one day. You're out the next. And you can't be taught, you're unstable as water. And I think what's happening for Moses is God is putting some steel, God is putting some some backbone into his character where he's out in the wilderness. Now think about it in Egypt. He had the unbelievable wealth He was popular. Everything was given to him. Everything was handed to him as the grandson of Pharaoh. And he needed to learn to trust God. He needed to learn to trust God. And sometimes God puts us through those valleys. There's a number of people in Scripture that had great abilities, but they lacked character. They lacked integrity. Maybe you can think of some. I was thinking about Samson, right? It's said of Samson more than any other Old Testament character, I believe. That the Spirit of God came upon him. The Spirit of God came upon him. The Spirit of God came upon him. The Spirit of God came upon him. Would you agree with me? Samson had a Problem in the character area though, right Women. And it destroyed him. Destroyed his testimony and destroyed him. I thought about King Saul. King Saul was head and shoulders above others. He was very gifted, very powerful, but he was obsessed with himself. And he lacked character and he lacked integrity, and it destroyed him and his his uh his uh uh kingdom. Absalom David never said no to him. He got whatever he wanted. He was left to go. Attractive, privileged, very persuasive. He won people over to himself. But he had no character and he was proud and rebellious and he died hanging by his hair in a tree. Solomon Great wisdom given to him. They had a weakness in character. And he ended up destroying his testimony And so we could go down through it. Moses had no idea what God was doing out in that wilderness. He had no idea When he was uh spending his 40 years back side of a desert, he's out there, he gets married, has some boys a shepherd of all things, going from a leader in Egypt to being a shepherd. The Egyptians hated shepherds. It was the lowest scum of the earth. And yet here he is. No doubt he anticipated this is it the rest of my life. But God was working. And God was doing something. When we go through valleys and it seems like all is hopeless and everything is a failure. And uh I'll never be able to do anything for God ever again. That's the time we need to keep trusting God. And God saw them through. God saw them through. So now we come to God's purpose for the call. That was the preparation of the call. Now we see the purpose in verses 23 through 25. And uh all through Scripture, and this isn't unique for Moses, this situation here isn't unique at this period of time All through Scripture, we see a pattern of how God deals with his people. There's this pattern. One thing we'll notice here, and we see it through scripture, is God prepares those whom he calls Someone has put it this way, I heard years ago, they would preachers would say, they would say the call the call to preach is a call to prepare And whenever God calls someone to a ministry, whether it's a Sunday school class, a bus route, some sort of leadership in the church, whatever it may be, whatever God calls someone to a position He always prepares them for that position, for that responsibility, one way or another. A lot of times the preparation period, the person being prepared may not even be aware that God is preparing them for something. Moses was not. I thought about David, King David. Anyone want to take a shot? When was King David's preparation time. When was his university year so to speak? Yeah, out watching the sheep, and then later on he went through some valleys. I want to suggest to you, King Saul, pursuing David all over the wilderness for several years, was actually preparing David to be the leader of God's people. Learning to trust God, learning to control himself, learning discipline, not killing Saul when he had the chance You think of the Apostle Paul. He spent, if we understand Galatians correctly, he spent at least three years out in the Arabian desert before he began his great ministry as an apostle. Some suggest it may have been upwards to 13 years he spent alone with the Lord. Preparation. Preparation. The disciples spent three and a half years with the Lord And they had their ups and downs. Would you agree with it? Would you agree with me? There was times when the disciples blew it. Right? I mean they're just fussing with each other. I'm the greatest, and hell, I'm the greatest. Oh yeah, I'm greater than you. Uh-uh. I'm greater than all y'all. You know? And the Lord worked with them. He worked with them. He rebuked them. He illustrated to them what leadership was. He illustrated to them what faith was. He showed them. He taught them He was preparing them for a phenomenal ministry of establishing the church and advancing the gospel throughout the world. Preparation. And so God's working in our lives. God's training us all the every valley we go through, every heartache we have, every difficulty we have, it's God working, God working, God working. You say, preacher, I failed, I messed up bad I want to tell you God can use that to help us be stronger. God can take our failures and make them uh and use them to make us stronger in the Lord. So we see this pattern of preparation. We already saw that with Paul But then we also see this pattern of God responding when his people call on him. And that's what we get to here. God's people in Israel, the Hebrews, are crying out to God. We'll see here in a minute. And God hears them and God responds to that call. And he raises and he's been preparing Moses the whole time. And when they call out him, he brings Moses and he calls him and he puts Moses in place. So God responds to the to his people when they called them. Now God doesn't always respond the way we think. We pray, God, I'm in trouble. God I got this. God I'm going through this. Oh Lord, I need you to help me And uh anybody here ever anticipate in your mind how God's going to help you, what God's going to do? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Two people. All right, praise the Lord I got some issues going on now we're praying for my wife and I and and in the back of my mind I think oh this is how God's gonna do it. I'll bet God's I didn't really bet, but um God's going to do this or God's going to do that. And you know, by now, it looks like I ought to know. God very seldom, if ever, comes through the way I think he will, right or wrong God has his own ways to meet our needs, to help us and do what we what needs to be done. We anticipate But God's ways are not our ways, his thoughts are not our thoughts, as high as the heaven above is earth, his ways are not my ways. And by the way, I'm glad God does it his way and not my way And so God doesn't always answer our prayer. He doesn't always respond to our call the way we anticipate or the way our reasoning figures he would uh respond. And he doesn't always uh answer, respond to our call when we think he should. I don't know how you are, but when I pray for something, I I think he ought to answer it immediately. You know, I'm it's like a microwave. God, I want this. Thank you. You know I found out it very seldom, if ever, works that way. Now there's been a few times of pray and boom God answers right away. But generally It's on his time. And again, I'm glad God answers my prayers and here and responds to my call on his timing, not mine. He knows better than I do. And so God prepares those who he calls, and he responds to his people when they call on him. Now, here we have God's purpose for calling Moses to lead them out in these verses. And I want us to notice a few things here on God's purpose. Number one There's the death of a king. Look at verse 23, the first part. And it came to pass in the process of time that the king of Egypt died. And the children of Israel sighed. As a result of the king dying, it says the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage, and they cried. So you look at this and say, okay, the king died. Big deal. Kings died. And by the way, kings do die. Nobody is exempt from that appointment with death. Sunday morning, uh Billy, uh some of y'all know Billy rides a bus. He was coming in. We were talking back there, and I said something about good to see him. He goes, yeah, he said my expiration date isn't up yet. Expiration date. I said, Yeah, mine either. He said, You never know when that expiration date is up. And the fact of the matter is kings have expiration dates too It's appointed under man once to die after this judgment. The most important thing in life is being sure, knowing that we are ready for death. All of Christianity, you want to boil it down, is preparation for that divine appointment of going out in eternity. So the king dies. And so we look at it and say, okay, the king died. On the surface, there's not much significant there. But I think there's more here in that statement than meets the eye. God doesn't put stuff in the Bible just to fill space or to uh uh to extend the dialogue. He puts it in there for a reason. There's a lesson here. You remember when you were in junior high or whenever you had to write a paper, a 500-word paper? And you'd say stuff like, it was really, really, really, really, really, really, really nice out, and we went for a very, very, very, very, very long walk. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Trying to get that five. God doesn't do that So he splits in here the king died. There's something here. There's a reason here. One of the significant aspects of the king dying means That Moses can come back to Egypt safely now. Remember when he fled Egypt, the king was out to kill him. He had killed the Egyptian. They went out and the and the uh Pharaoh was going to kill Moses. He's been going fifty years. That king is now dead. Or forty years. That king is now dead. Forty years have gone by That whole administration has passed on. It's a whole new king. It's a whole new administration. And he can come back without the fear of death. Notice, if you would, at chapter 4, it kind of brings this out a little bit, and look at verse 19 of Exodus. It says, uh, and the Lord said unto Moses, now this is when he's sending them back, and the Lord said unto Moses, in Nideon, look. Go return unto Egypt. Now look at this. For all the men are dead which sought thy life. So when the king died, that opened the door for Moses to be able to come back and he can walk into Pharaoh's palace. He can walk into the capital of Egypt and approach this new king with uh without a fear that he's going to kill him. And so uh so it means safety for Moses to return But also the king died. It provokes Israel to seek the Lord. Again, look at verse 23 back there in chapter 2. It says, and that the king died, and And the idea there is, as a result of that, the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage. And it repeats that statement at the end of the verse. It came up unto God, by reason of the bondage. This is the first account we have Of Israel as a people, they're not really technically they're not a nation at this point, but they're it's uh all right for them to be a nation. But it is the first account we have of Israel seeking the Lord since Joseph died. 400 years. And we have no account of them seeking the Lord. We have no account of them coming to God and fasting and praying and crying out to God. We have no account of that. And so something's happened, something's changed here that has provoked Israel to get serious about their relationship with God. to get serious about uh seeking the Lord and his will being done. Get them out of here. What was it that changed their circumstances? What was it that happened? Well the king died. Well what's that mean? Here's what I think as I was studying this. I believe they probably anticipated whenever the previous Pharaoh died That the new administration would hopefully, in their minds, they maybe anticipated him lightening up And giving them some slack and maybe not being so oppressive and maybe not being so demanding. Well we have no idea. We don't we don't know the specifics. Perhaps they had representatives up there to the new king say, hey listen, we've been working. We're slaves here. You know, can you give us a break? And he doesn't. And their hopes are shattered. And the one thing that maybe they held on to that someday it'll be a better day Is if we get a new king, if we get a new administration, then things will be better, and then our life will be easier. And then we can enjoy things a little better and we'll have some more freedom. If we just had a new king, and they get the new king, and notice what it says twice: bondage. Bondage. The implication here is it got worse under the new king rather than better Their bondage became more intense. Their liberties were more restricted. Their labor was more demanding. And it only got worse. It only got worse. That word bondage there has the is used to refer to slave labor. Because of the slave labor. I mean this new king brought the hammer down. One definition I came up with, one description of how the word bondage is used was this. to work without any reward or any liberty. The more they gave, the more the king took. The harder they worked, the more he demanded. And things just got worse. And they get to the point where all hope in man is gone. There's no hope in this administration, this government There's no hope there. And listen, uh uh and I'm grateful for America and I'm grateful for you know the election, all that, I'm grateful for that, but listen If we're looking to our government to help us be better Christians and help us be more godly and help us have more power of God on us, we are looking at the wrong place And Israel, I believe what's happening here on the death of the king, there they say anticipation, new king, he's even worse. And I think finally God's getting their attention, and they're turning their eyes off of man, their oppressors, that's what they've been obsessed with, and they're turning their eyes finally to Jehovah. And sometimes why are we that way? Why is it so often we wait until everything has gone wrong and it's absolutely hopeless, then we finally start praying and seeking God. Why do we do that? Did you ever hear anybody say this? Maybe you've said it. Well, all we can do now is just pray. How about maybe start out with praying? How about not putting my hope in anything of this world, anything temporal, and put my hope and trust in God? And so it took the death of a king and it took worse circumstances to get Israel to finally consider what's going on in their hearts and lives and their standing with God. And God does that so often. I can think back I can uh over the years in ministry, folks that just cared little or nothing about God They had no interest in the Bible. They didn't care about their soul. The last thing in the world they were worried about is their relationship with their Creator. They were living their life, doing their thing And it was finally when everything fell apart and there was nothing left of their life, then finally they look to the Lord and they find the Lord. Now thank God they eventually look to the Lord. But why do we wait until that point Why do we have to destroy our lives before we finally say, oh, I'll look to the Lord? And so, whatever the case is, they finally turn to God. And you know, we can't be too critical of them because we find ourselves not much different than Israel is. The Lord was their last resort, but now they look to the Lord. So the king dies Moses can safely return. It sets up the return of Moses to provide the leadership to confront this new king about letting Israel go. God's people go. It provokes Israel to seek the Lord. And then it displays, I put this down, it displays the sovereignty of God. God knew what he was doing this whole time. God allowed all this to take place. In fact, he had promised Abraham back in Genesis that after 400 years he would raise up a man and he would bring them up out of Egypt. God is in control. If you would take your Bible's turn with me to keep your place here, because if we have time, we're going to come back here. But go with me to Psalms chapter 75. Psalm seventy-five. The sovereignty of God. God rules over the nations. In my devotion time, I always try and stop and recognize that Jesus Christ is King of kings and Lord of Lords. And his kingdom is over all. And there's a statement, I don't have the reference to it. I just thought of this. But there's a statement in Scripture, I think it's in the Psalms. I could be wrong. But it refers to the nations are but a drop in the bucket. Anybody ever remember coming across that reading that? The nations, United States of America, compared to the kingdom of God, is just a drop in the bucket And I am glad. I am glad I am part of a kingdom that is eternal and so overriding of any government, any nation that raises up on this earth, I'm part of a kingdom that is far greater than any of it. Now notice what Psalm 75, verse number 6 says. Um Psalm seventy-five. Let me get here. Psalm seventy-five. Look at verse six and seven. It says, For promotion cometh neither from the east, nor from the west, nor from the south. But look at this. But God is the judge He putteth down one and setteth up another. You know what he's saying? God's ultimately in charge. God is God. God's He's in control. And so when the king dies, the timing of this and how it affects Israel, their response to Cry out to God because he's not what they were hoping maybe. It opens the door so Moses can come in and God can do what he does in the rest of the the book of Exodus and confronting the Pharaoh in Egypt and getting Israel, uh the Hebrews out of there, God is setting all of this stuff up in place Our God is a sovereign God. Now that does not mean, we have to be very careful here, that gets twisted. The sovereignty of God gets twisted around and distorted. The Calvinists distort the sovereignty of God. To ridiculous degrees. The sovereignty of God does not mean that everything that happens is God's will. Some suggest, well, if it happened and God is sovereign, then God must have wanted that to happen because He's in charge Listen, there's a world of difference between allowing something to happen and wanting it to happen. God allows it. He gives us a free will. He allows us to make choices. He allows us to act on our of our own free will. That is all under the in his sovereignty has allowed us a free will. And I can choose what I want to choose, and I can take actions I want to take. However, I do not control the consequences of my decisions. I do not control the consequences of my behavior. God is sovereign. He decides that, but he lets me choose. He says, here it is. You can go this way or that way. You can choose right or choose wrong. But the consequences, I'm going to decide that. So I said all that to say this. We have to be very, very careful. We understand God is in control and he allows things Uh uh and I uh uh this is my thinking. I don't think just because someone gets elected to office it was necessarily God's will for them to be in that office, but God allowed it Follow what I'm saying? There are some people that hold tremendous influence in our country and other countries around the world that are as ungodly as can be. You will never convince me it's God's will for them to be in a position to enable people to kill their babies and and and uh facilitate sodomy but God allows it That's not not his will. America, vote who they want. We get the leaders we choose. He lets us choose that, but then he decides what the consequences of that are. You follow what I'm saying? So God is sovereign. He sets one up and sets down. I want to suggest to you the timing of the king of Egypt's death was under the sovereignty of God. He's working, he's in control here. And at the right time and the right way it happens. Come over to Daniel chapter 2 and verse 21. I hope I'm not clouding that thought up at all, but I have no problem with God being totally sovereign and yet Him allowing things to happen that aren't necessarily His will. And by the way, according to Romans 8. 28, we're all familiar with that. If God allows it, then in one way or another, He can bring good out of it, in spite of the fact that it might not be what He wanted in the first place. Remember when Jesus looked over Jerusalem and he says, Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem, how often would I have taken thee under my wings? I'm not quoting us exactly correctly, but I would take you under my wings, and ye would not. They had a choice. Look at d look at Daniel chapter two and verse number twenty-one. Verse 20, it says, Daniel answered and said, Blessed be the name of God forever and ever, for wisdom and might are his. Look at this, verse 21. He changeth the times and the seasons. Look at this. He removeth kings and setteth up kings He giveth wisdom to the wise and knowledge to them that know understanding. He revealeth the deep and secret things. He knoweth What is in the darkness and the light dwelleth with them. You see there in verse 21, he sets up kings. He takes them down. I think God took down this king. At this time, at this particular time. And so he's preparing the whole circumstances For him to bring Moses in and deliver the nation of Israel. So the first thing we notice here, and I only got a few minutes, let me touch on one more thought here. Come back to Exodus And we have the death of the king, and then we have the sighing of Israel. This is why God is raising up Moses. This is why he's responding to them. Look again at verse 23. It says, the children of Israel, the middle of verse 23, chapter 2 of Exodus, and the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage. And they cried, and their cry came up to God by reason of the bondage. The word sigh there is not from physical exhaustion, although there's no doubt they were physically exhausted. I mean, they are being worked to the bone. And they sigh. But it's not because of the physical exhaustion. This sighing is from anguish of soul. It's from a sense of hopelessness. We really thought that this new king would be better, and it's not And they sighed. It is a heart overwhelmed with a sense of powerlessness. There's nothing we can do. We're doomed. We're stuck. And they cry out to God. Israel as a nation is broken. They are humbled, and they are defeated. And they sigh out to God. Now remember, remember Israel's boys, Jacob's boys. They were pretty self-confident. Remember when we studied the life of Joseph? They were pretty cocky. Man, they're running the show and they're doing all this stuff. And I tell you, these are the offspring of Jacob, and uh now the nation of Israel is far from very self-confident They are not being cocky at all here. They're broken. They're absolutely humble before God And again, it is usually not until we come to the end of ourselves that we learn to trust God completely. F. B. Meyer said, he said, I doubt God can use any man greatly until God has broken him deeply. And I believe there's a lot of truth in that statement. I remember as I was studying this, I got they were sighing by reason of the bondage, and I thought back to the the the weeks and months leading up to my salvation And just the bondage of sin that was over me. And just broken and just humbled. I was so afraid of what I was becoming and what my life was And I had one place to look up. I looked up to God. The interesting thing is in those weeks leading up to my salvation, back in nineteen seventy-nine, my dad would go to church. It was just my dad and I living there. He'd go off to church. I stayed home. I'd been up all night. Got home probably five, six o'clock at s Sunday morning, and he'd go up to church, I'd get out I'd get all the I'd get all the photo albums out of when I was a little boy, a little baby. I still remember doing this. I'd lay them out on the living room floor there And I had all these photo albums. Uh some of the young people don't know what a photo album is. Uh they think it's all digital, but these were I just sprayed them all out there and um And I would cry and cry and cry. And I'd just say, God, if I could just go back and be a little baby and be a little boy again and start over. And just start my life over. If I could just go back and do it over again, God, you know what I found out? I was so broken. I was so hopeless what I'd done to myself. I found out I could be born again. And I could have a new life. And I trusted Christ. And I think that's where Israel is. They're broken. And they're at the end of themselves and they're sighing out to God. Complete faith in God usually follows a complete end of ourselves. We learn to trust God. Let me give you real quickly here my last thought, and I'll I don't know if I'll get through all this. So we have the death of the king, the preparation, the purpose, God is raising up Moses once, the death of the king We have the sighing of Israel. Then we have the response of God. Look here again, verse 24. And God heard their groanings. And God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. And God looked upon the children of Israel, and God had respect unto them. He's heard their cry I put it this way, throughout Scripture we have accounts over and over and over again of God responding to the cries of his people. God responding to the prayers of his people. Anyone recognize the name Hannah? Hannah. What was Hannah's situation? Y'all talk to me. You're all quiet tonight. What was Hannah's situation? She was barren and she couldn't have a child and she wanted a child so badly and her and the concubine that she had one was taunting her and she would cry to God and cry out to God. In fact, her prayers were so earnest that she would move her lips, but she wasn't saying anything. I think it was a heart cry. She didn't even have the words to say, maybe And God heard her, and God answered her prayer, and gave her one of the greatest prophets that ever lived, Samuel, in answer to prayer. I thought about uh John R. Race was telling a story years ago. They had a big uh ladies meeting he was speaking at, uh down in Texas, I think it was, and he said there were several thousand ladies there, and he's preaching to them And he's preaching on children and childbearing. And um he was given the invitation and he misspoke on the invitation about uh ladies that w if they wanted him to pray for them, to stand up And he said all across the auditorium, thousands of women stood up that he was going to pray for him. And he started his prayer, and he had misspoke when he gave me the invitation. He started his prayer and said, God Give all these ladies standing children. Give them lots and lots of children. And he said ladies started sitting down all over the place. God responds to our cries, Hannah. In Acts chapter 12, Peter is in prison. He's going to be executed the next morning. And the Bible says the church gave themselves to pray all night for Peter. And God heard their prayer. 2 Corinthians chapter 12, Paul has authority in the flesh, a messenger of the devil sent to buffet him, discourage him. And he prayed and he says he sought the Lord three times that God would remove this thorn in his flesh Three times. And that phrase, he sought the Lord three times, it has this idea. Three extended periods of time I mean, he prayed a long time. He prayed hard that whatever this physical ailment was, that God would take it away. Question: Did God respond to his prayer? Yes. But he didn't the way Paul wanted him to. Paul asked, take it away. God said, I'm not taking it away, but I'll tell you what I will do. I'll give you strength to bear it. And in your weakness and in your physical malady, I will give you spiritual strength and power so that you do not boast in your flesh, but you give glory to God. And sometimes God will respond to our prayers, and we have burdens, and we have situations, maybe heartaches, and some burdens God does not take away. Some burdens we have to live with the rest of our life. But one thing God does do, He responds and He gives us the grace and the strength. and the mercy to be able to live for him and give him glory and even have the joy of the Lord in our heart in the midst of that burden. Paul said, most gladly therefore will I glory in my infirmity. So God responds when his people pray. God responds when his people sigh. And we come to him. Now he answers in his way and his wisdom, but if he doesn't give us what we're asking, if he doesn't respond to us to our requests the way we think or want him to, he will always respond in the way that is best for us, and we can rejoice in that nevertheless. And so we have this pattern all through Scripture. God responding to His people when they pray. God responding to His people when they cry out to Him. I got a ton of other verses here we could go to. But God responds to our cries. Now we have a fourfold response of the Lord here. Did you notice how many times it references God? Look at the last part of verse 33. Their cry came up to God, verse 24, and God heard their groanings. And God remembered. And verse 25, and God looked upon them. And God and God and God and God. And God's getting involved. And God's responding. And God is going to do what God does. There's a verse in Psalm 46, verse 10. It says this: Be still and know that I am God. I was going through some stuff here some time ago, and I was just clinging to that verse and be still and know that I am God. I found out that phrase, be still Is the word where in I preached on this recently in Hebrews chapter 13 where the Lord said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. That word be still means to forsake. In other words, God is saying this: be still. Whatever the issue is, whatever your burden is, whatever your heartache is, whatever the need is that you're so fretting over has you so upset, be still. Forsake it Take your hands off of it. Walk away from it. And know that I am God. And I think this is what he's saying there. He's saying, let me be God. You take your hands off and you let me do what God does. You let me handle this the way God handled these type of things. You take your hands off, you forsake it, be still. And let me deal with this. Isn't that great? And so Israel's crying out to God and God's saying, Alright, I'll respond. All right, I'm getting involved. I'm getting involved. I better stop there, because this will go on for hours and hours and hours. Let's call on the Lord. Amen. I don't know everything's going on in everybody's life. I know a little bit, some things, with few people. But I know this: everybody has burdens, amen or not? Everybody has heartaches. Everybody has needs. Every one of us. And I'm glad that we have a God That we can bring our burdens and we can sigh to and we can cry out. It's interesting that word sigh. It isn't I I I kind of looked over this, but that word sigh there It isn't a verbal expression. It's not saying words. It's a groaning of the heart. It's a non-verbal expression of grief and and uh sp emotional exhaustion, nonverbal But God heard it. And God understood what that groaning was. He understood what that sight. There was no words being spoken But he understood the heart. I think some of the most powerful prayers never have words attached to them. It's just a burden of a heart, a broken heart. Anybody here, you ever so broken, you didn't even know what to say. And you come and just say, oh God. Oh God. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That God understands. That's what Israel's doing. And he hears it. And it responds. Father, I pray you'd help us to bring our hearts, our burdens, our needs, our failures, our struggles. Just to bring them to you and let you be God. And let you do let you do what you do best. Lord, we ask that you'd help us with heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there's some would say, Preacher, I got some burdens, I got some issues and heartaches. And it seems like I always wait until everything's a mess before I finally start really seeking God and getting serious Maybe tonight you'd say, preacher, pray with me, that I would just get God where he needs to be in my life and get back to where I should be and learn to pray and learn to trust him and won learn to cry out to him. Is there anything like that By the uplifted hand, I just need God to help me pray. Call on Him like I should. God bless you. Hands all around. Maybe on a Wednesday night, an old altar be a good spot. Just come and say, Lord, help me God teach me to trust you and strengthen me and see me through this. And I believe God will hear it. I believe he will. Maybe you don't even have the words to say. I believe God will hear it. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed.