Hebrews chapter number four. I'd like for us, it's our memory verse. I know we already quoted it at the beginning of the service. We read it here a few moments ago, but I'd like for us to read together just one more time if you would Chapter uh four, verse number twelve of Hebrews. Um I need to get here. Alright, ready? Let's read this together. For the word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is the discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart This is one of the great verses in the Bible about the Word of God. The Word of God. And so I want to preach this morning on the Word of God. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we thank you for the fun we can have. We're grateful for the young people and the excitement they bring to our church. We're looking forward to an exciting week. But now, Lord, we just want to stop. We have our Bibles open before us. And I'm asking you, dear Lord, that your presence would be here in a very real way, very evident way. As we look into the Word of God, I pray that your Holy Spirit would speak to our hearts. Help us to understand and appreciate the value of your word. And its importance in our lives, in our homes, our church, our community. I ask, dear Lord, that you would please fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you and my mind. I pray. So I'm preaching, Lord, you put my thoughts aside. I pray that your word will be foremost in my thinking as I preach. I present my body anew, dear Lord, and with all my heart I pray your Holy Spirit would take me and speak through me. Give us receptive hearts. Help us to trust you when you deal with our our hearts from your word. And help us to follow your leadership as you speak to us. Now have your way in this hour, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. We like to have a theme each year in our church. Last year the theme was revival. We preached and prayed for revival, and we're continuing to do so this year. Year before it was the wor uh was um uh the second coming. As we preached and considered the second coming this year, our theme for 2024 is Standing on the Promises. And we're focusing on the Word of God. I've been saying that year 2024 is the year of the Bible at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. To be honest with you, that's a little meaningless statement to say that 2024 is the year of the Bible, because here at our church, every year is the year of the Bible. Every message we preach, we endeavor to make sure it's a Bible-based message. We don't want to preach anything other than the old Word of God. And so to say that 2024 is the year of the Bible is a little bit meaningless because every year, as I said, is the year of the Bible. Our message is our Bible message. In every Sunday school class, we teach the Bible That is the focus, that is the basis, the content of our lessons and our preaching, our music, our hymns, the old hymn. We like the old hymns around here, to be honest with you. I know folks are Putting them aside and putting them up, but we just think that the old hymns are good for us. And we're the songs we sing are Bible-based songs, these hymns. The Bible All our ministries are founded and grounded upon script have it with a scriptural basis, everything we do. For over 62 years. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church has been preaching and teaching the Word of God, the Bible. And so the year of the Bible, standing on the promises. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is bonded to this book right here, the old Bible. You can't separate it. We are bonded to this book We believe with all our hearts that the Bible is given by inspiration of God. In other words, God breathes into the human penman. The very words he wanted recorded in the Word of God. This is not simply a book assembled by man. This is a book given by God Himself. Believe that with all our hearts. We believe the Bible is given, is inspired by God. We believe that the Bible is infallible in every aspect of it. What the Bible says is so. Don't come to me and try and tell me there are mistakes in the Bible. I'm telling you right now, there are no mistakes in the Bible. It is infallible. We are absolutely convinced of that. We believe the Bible is inerrant in its wording. Don't c uh every now and then someone comes and say, uh uh well Reverend Leatherman, uh this is a mis uh this is a mistranslated phrase right here I don't want to hear any of that. This book's given by God, and uh we believe it's inerrant in every aspect. Inspired, infallible, inerrant. It is impeccable in its message What I mean by that, what the Bible says is so. The Bible's true. What the Bible says about God is true. What the Bible says about the devil is true What the Bible says about Jonah being swallowed swallowed. Yeah, I got a little West Virginia in me there for a minute. Uh when the when the Bible says that that uh uh Jonah got swallowed by a whale, uh we believe that's absolutely true. Miracles, all that. What the Bible says is so. You say you say, Preacher, it sounds like to me. You believe that Bible's true. Yeah It's exactly what we're trying to say. Bible's the word of God. We believe it. The Bible is indestructible in its content. In other words, heaven and earth will pass away, but that Bible will never pass away. God's Word will never pass away For all eternity we have the Word of God, the Word of God. The Bible stands like a rock undaunted amid the raging storms of time. The Bible stands like a mountain towering far above the works of men. Its truth by none ever was refuted, and destroy it they never can For thousands of years the devil been trying to destroy that book and it still stands. For thousands of years, men, unbelieving, wicked men have tried to distort and destroy and dilute the word of God and yet the Bible stands. The Bible is indestructible in its content. How many people recognize this name? Kory Tenboom. Anybody recognize that name? Corey Tendum was uh was a believer in Germany. And they helped hide uh Jews from the Nazis. Anybody remember familiar with this And finally they got caught and they took Corey Tambu and her family and they put them in concentration camps. And unbelievable horrors That Corey Tenboom experience. She has it documented in her book, A Hiding Place. I believe her two sisters died in the concentration camp. She spoke un uns. She experienced unspeakable treatment. But Corey Temboom was a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. Her faith in God and God's word was outstanding for all that. Corey Tenboom said this. I've experienced God's presence in the deepest, darkest hell that man can create. She said, I've tested the promises of God, and believe me, you can count upon them. We believe this book is God's Word. We believe the Bible's been given to us by inspiration of God. It stands. True in the sunshine, in shadow, on the mountaintops, in the deepest valleys, God's word holds true. The word of God, the word of God. The Bible is unique. There is no other book like the Bible. It's interesting, our text here, verse number 12, he says, for the word of God. The Bible, the Word of God is quick and powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword. The interesting thing, and we don't really have time, but the context here The penman of Hebrews writing under the inspiration of God, he is challenging his listeners, the people he's writing to, he's challenged them to have faith in God and in God's word. He goes back to the old Jews and the Old Testament. He referenced them, and he says they were given the truth, but they didn't believe it. They didn't have faith in it. And it costs them dearly. And he's challenging the believers here that he's writing to. He's saying, listen, have faith in God. Believe in God. Put your trust in God and His Word. And he references the Bible here. Notice he says there in verse 12, he says, for the Word of God. He's going back to his previous context. They didn't believe. They didn't trust God. But they should have, for the Word of God is quick and powerful. So he gives these characteristics of God's Word that makes it unique, and I want to touch on them this morning, a little bit of time I have left. Number one If you're writing these down, I encourage you to write this down. The Bible is our ultimate authority. The Bible is our ultimate authority. One of the things I appreciate about the Baptist distinctives is the number one distinctive is the Bible is our sole authority. We have no authority higher than the Word of God. You say, preacher, what about government? The authority of the government. Listen, we recognize the authority of the government, but when government's authority violates the God's authority, we obey God. So the Bible is our ultimate authority. Notice he says there in verse number 12, for the word of God, the word of God, forty-nine times. In Scriptures, the Bible is referred to as the Word of God. It is not the Word of Man. Now, men penned it, but God authored it. It is the Word of God. You open your Bible up any place from Genesis to Revelation, you open your Bible up and you begin to read You are reading the very words of God Himself. The Word of God. So the Word of God is not the Word of Man. It is not the Word of government It's the Word of God. It's the Word of God. Now, don't get me wrong. We ought to respect government. Amen? It's God's institute. God instituted the home, God instituted government, and God instituted the church. Listen, we ought to respect government. We're told in Romans and other places to recognize the powers that be. They're given by God. But I tell you what, when government oversteps its bounds and contradicts the Word of God, we stay true to the Word of God. And I think that's an important concept for us as believers to get a hold of in this day and age. Because I'll be very honest with you, and I don't mean I'm not trying to be political here at all, but government is overstepping its bounds. And we stay true to God. You say, preacher, if you keep preaching and doing what the Bible says and Mount Lake keeps doing that, you guys are going to end up in trouble with the government. I'd rather be in trouble with the government than in trouble with God The Bible is our authority. It's the Word of God. It's not the Word of man. It's not the Word of government. What the Bible says is so It's the Word of God. 2 Timothy 3. 16. All Scripture is given by inspiration of God. 2 Peter 1. 20 and 21 tells us that the Bible is given to us by the Holy Spirit of God moving. upon the men that penned it. When we open the Bible, we're not opening just some book. When we teach the Bible, we're not just teaching some book. We're teaching the very words of God. We preach the Bible. We're not preaching just some book that we come across. We're preaching the very words of God. I think I have probably at least well over a thousand books in my library. And I I love my library, it's important to me. I love books, but I tell you there's not one book in that library that comes close to this old Word of God. There's nothing like it. It's given to us by God Himself. Psalms 138, verse 2, the Bible says that God has magnified his word above his very name. How many people believe the name of God is a sacred name? Told in the commandments, we should not take the name of the Lord our God in vain. And let me say this, we ought to be very, very careful how we use God's name. That gets thrown around awfully awfully vain. In a lot of circles. I tell you, the name of God is a holy, sacred name. But God tells us that he has magnified his word above his very name. In Philippians, we're told that at the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow and tongue confess. That Jesus Christ is Lord. Every single knee is going to bow to Lord the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. And God has magnified his word above his very name. I tell you what, that's quite a book there, isn't it? That's not just some other book laying around. This is a sacred, holy, unique word of God. Take your Bible if you would keep your place here in Hebrews. We're going to look at this a little more. But come with me, if you would, to the last book of the Bible, Revelation, all the way back to the end of the book of Revelation. I'm saying that the Bible is God's author is our ultimate authority. It's our highest authority. It's our sole authority in matters of faith and practice In Revelation 22, verse number 18, all the way at the end of your Bible. Go all the way back. If you're in the concordance and you've got maps, you've gone too far. Back up a little bit. Chapter 22, Revelation. Look at verse 18 with me. I have this underscored in my Bible. Revelation 22, 18. For I testify. Unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of this book. Now look at this. If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book. Whoa Look at verse 19. If any man shall take away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life. And out of the holy city, and from the things which are written in this book. You know what he's saying there? Did you catch what he's saying? He's saying, don't you dare add anything to that book. He says, don't you take anything away from that. Don't add a word to it. Don't take a word out of. You know what he's saying? Don't mess with the Bible. Don't be coming around rewriting it. Listen, that book doesn't need to be rewritten. It needs to be re-read. Don't mess with it. I tell you, I have a hard time, and I'm not trying to be critical. I'm not trying to be difficult. I'm not trying to fuss with you But I'm simply saying this, I have a hard time with these publishers coming out and rewriting the Bible constantly. Got a new version of this and a new version there and this there Last time I checked, and this was like 15, 20 years ago, there was 125 different versions they came out of that book right there. Listen, we don't need 125 different versions. We just need to read the old King James Bible. I just think we just need to stick with it. Quit adding to and taking away. God doesn't mess around with his book. He expects us to respect it. So it is our authority. It is God's authority. God exalts his word above His very name. Notice, if you would, come with me to 1 Thessalonians chapter 2. A couple verses I want you to see here. 1 Thessalonians chapter 2 Paul is writing to this church at Thessalonica. It was a good church. They were very faithful. In fact, he says that they were a model church. Other churches should pattern themselves after this church at Thessalonica And he speaks very, very highly of them. And notice what he says in verse number 13 of chapter 2, 1 Thessalonians chapter 2. Notice what he says to them. He says, For this cause also thank we God without ceasing. Now look, because when ye received the word of God which ye heard of us, Ye received it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth the word of God, which effectually worketh also in you that believe. Do you catch what he said? He said, we came and we were preaching the Bible. And you understood. It wasn't just Paul's word. It wasn't just some stuff man came up with. It was the very Word of God. Now I said this from day one when I showed up back in September of 1993. That was before some of y'all were born. Actually, most of y'all were full-grown adults then. But um nevertheless, I show up, I I I made- I said this, and I say it over and over, I'm and I mean it with all my heart. If I ever preach something from this pulpit that is contrary to the Word of God, you go with the Word of God and you throw out what I say. If anybody comes along and says something that's that's not in the Word of God, stick with the Word of God. You follow what I'm saying? And so number one, the Bible is our authority, our ultimate authority. Number two Come back to Hebrews here. The Bible is alive. The Bible is alive. Notice here in Hebrews 4. 12. For the word of God is quick. Now that word quick there has the idea of being alive. It's not talking about moving quickly, speedily. It has the idea alive or living. 133 times in the Bible that word is translated living or alive. This book is a living book. It's alive. It's quick. Man's words die out. You go to you go uh uh I noticed when I back when I was in the university Um they would uh you'd have books each year for different subjects and history and and various subjects, literature. And then the next year you had to buy a whole new set of books because these old ones were updated And they had to have corrections in them. I'm here to tell you the Bible never gets updated because it's alive. Man's words die out Man's words become outdated and irrelevant and need revision. But God's word is alive. It's always up to date. The Bible speaks to me where I'm at. Um I tell you, when I back in 1979, as I was uh I was seeking the Lord, I was unsatan, I was praying, God help me, God I need you to change my life. And God put my heart to read the Bible. And late at night, two, three o'clock in the morning, I come out from and outliving in sin. I come home. God help me. I don't want to live this way. God help me. And he put on my heart to read the Bible. And I dug through my dresser drawer in January of 79. I found a Bible that a Sunday school teacher had given to me as a small child. And I haven't read the Bible in years and years and years. I didn't know anything about it. And I began reading that Bible. And I'm telling you, it was like God wrote it that day addressing me and my situation. I mean, I would read that thing and it was like God was sitting there talking to me what I needed, what I needed to do. I'm telling you, this book is a lie. It'll speak to you where you're at. Anybody here ever read your Bible and you're coming down through there and it's like it was written exactly what you're going through at that time. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Can I get a witness? Man, a lie. I read through the Psalms and David, under the inspiration of God, is writing down exactly what I'm feeling at that time, what's going on in my heart. And it's like, yes I'm telling you, this book is a lie. It's relevant. It deals with us where we're at. The Bible corrects me when I'm wrong. So you read through the Bible, you don't really think about it, you come down, you come to a passage, and all of a sudden, ooh, I said, Man, I'm out of line there. I need to get back in line. It corrects me when I'm wrong. It comforts me when I'm down. The Bible encourages me when I'm afraid. What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. The Bible counsels me when I'm not sure what to do. I tell you. Proverbs three, five, and six mean so much to me. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he will direct thy ways The Bible encouraged me and counsels me. The Bible converted me when I was lost. I saw how I needed Jesus Christ. It's like the Bible knows me. It's like the Bible understands me. And I read the Bible and it addresses me. Billy Sunday said: the reason you don't like the Bible, you old sinner, is because it knows all about you. I'm here to tell you the Bible knows all about you and the Bible knows all about me. Billy Sunday went on to say I have more respect for the devil than a liberal preacher because at least the devil believes the Bible. The Bible isn't dead. This old simple world is dead in its trespasses and sins. Something comes in and says, Preacher, that old book, that old Bible's dead. No, it ain't the Bible that's dead. It's you that's dead, my friend The Bible's alive. The Bible's alive. Number one, the Bible is our authority. Number two, the Bible is alive. Number three, the Bible is active. Look Look what he says here, for the Word of God is quick and powerful. The word powerful has the idea of the ability to activate change. It's effective to bring about influence. You'll say about a person, they'll say, Well that man has power down in Washington, D. C. He's got some power there. You know what you mean? It means he has influence there. He can affect change there Somebody says, this man is very powerful in this business. It means he has a lot of influence in that business, in that company. I'm here to tell you this book is powerful. It is influence. This book can change lives. This book can change a home. You say, my home is miserable, my home is struggling. I'm here to tell you you get the word of God in that home, and it can turn that home around. It is powerful. This book has changed nations. Say, preacher, uh America need America's in bad shape. I say amen to that. America's in bad shape. But I tell you there's nothing wrong with America. This old book can't solve. We get back to the Bible. I'm all for the Bible in the statehouse. I'm all for the Bible in government. I'm all for the Bible in schools. But I tell you, we need to get the Bible back in our churches. We get the Bible preached in our churches, it might have an effect on our country. I say we need to get the Bible back in our homes. Old time, years ago, Christians used to have what was called the family altar. Every day they'd gather the family together and they'd read the Word of God. And they'd pray and maybe sing a hymn. And I'll tell you had a powerful, powerful influence in this home on the homes. And I'm and uh when we started reading the Bi when we quit reading the Bible in our homes, our homes started to fall apart. Am I right or wrong? We've got single parents and children left to themselves. We need to get back to the Bible. It's alive. It's powerful. It can change things. No other book has the power of the Bible to change a life. No other book has the power that the Bible has to heal a relationship or heal a marriage. No other Bible can has the power to save a sinner from a devil's hell and a life of sin. No other book has the power to revive our church, and churches need revival. And the Bible can bring that about. No other book has the power to transform a community or redirect a nation. The power of the Word of God does change a life and save a soul and affect a home. We have a missionary we've supported for many, many years, 30 years or so missionaries down in Brazil. His name is Sean Lundy. He's been down in Brazil for, like I said, 30-some years, I think. He's started multiple churches. God used them in a great way. He's trained national pastors. Sean Lundy was a teenager in Oklahoma City, just living a teenage life, never went to church, didn't give any thought about it at all. One day he went into a market, went into a store, he came out, and there was a little piece of paper stuck in his windshield wiper there in the parking lot. He didn't know what it was. He grabbed it and looked at it and stuck it in his pocket Never gave it any thought. He got home and put it on his dresser, drawer at home, and uh never gave much thought to it. One day he sat down, got that thing, sat down, got reading it. Here it was a gospel tract And it was from the Word of God how a person can be saved. Sean Lundy, a 18, 19-year-old boy, 17-year-old, somewhere in that range, sat down. He read the Word of God in that gospel tract. He realized that he was a sinner under the judgment of God, and if he died in his sins, he'd be separated from God for all eternity, a horrific place called hell. There was a little prayer there that he could pray to call on the Lord and trust the Lord as Savior. Sean Lundy bowed his head, called on the Lord Jesus Christ, trusted Jesus as Savior, God saved his soul. Jesus like he told he told me he says this he told me one time he says I I had that little gospel tract and it had on the back it had the name of a church there and the times of the services So he said he went to the church that Sunday. He didn't know. He showed up at the church, at the back doors of that church, large church, and the ushers were there, people greeting people, and he came up and he says, here I got this ticket to attend church today. He thought it was a ticket to go to church and the usher said, Okay, well good. Well thank you. Well you can keep the ticket, just come on in Went and sat there and the preacher preached and invited folks to come forward to the invitation. Sean came forward. He says, I did what this little pamphlet told me to do this past week. What do I need to do now? Sean got baptized. His life began to change. At Bible college there at that school and at that church, and he intended Bible college. God called him to missions He ended up down in Brazil, and to this, probably right now as I'm preaching, he's down there in Brazil preaching the word of God that changed his life. I'm here to tell you, the Bible's a powerful, powerful book. Just a few little verses, just a few little phrases from the Bible can change a person's life. Can bring healing to a home, can alter the course of a church. I'm telling you, I'm convinced If all the churches across America would just start preaching this old book again, we'd see a change in our country. I really believe that. The power of the Word of God. The power of God's Word. It's an authority. It's our authority. It's a lie. It's active. And I'll end with this. The Bible is, here's one of the words I had to look up. It's acute. Now that doesn't mean the Bible is cute to look at. The word acute means this, very sharp. It means penetrating. And I get that from verse 12 here, for the word of God is quick and powerful, and it says this. Sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit In other words, the Bible is sharp. It's penetrating. It gets down into our very soul. Gets down to what we really are: a two-edged sword, penetrating. They say that the two-edged sword was the standard weapon for Roman soldiers Every soldier was issued a two-edged sword. A two-edged sword is more effective than a one-edged sword. In other words, they said that the soldiers were trained that they would use that sword and they could cut this way and cut that way, and that sword would cut either direction. And God says that the Bible is like a two-edged sword, sharp, cutting both ways, penetrating down into our very heart and soul. The two-edged sword that the soldiers used was very light. It was very effective. Like I said, they could cut both ways. I'm telling you This book right here may not look much. It's just an old leather-covered book, but I'm telling you, this thing can pierce to the very soul and deal with us right where we are. It's two-edged, two-edged. This book that saves the sinner, the believer, comes and believes the book and says, I believe that's true. I trust what it says. This book will find salvation. But that same book, the unbeliever comes and says, I don't believe that book. I don't trust it. I'm not putting my faith in it. The same book says that person's condemned under the wrath of God. It cuts both ways. Believe it, you'll be saved. Reject it, you're lost. You follow what I'm trying to say? It's two-edged, two-edged. It'll exalt the humble and it'll abase the proud. It's death to the it declares death to the rebel, but life to the repentant. The Bible is acute, it's sharp, it's penetrating, gets to our heart and soul. Christians, we can get pretty good at putting on a show. Putting on a front, a facade. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I tell you, I love pastoring. I love it. And one of the fun things is you stand in the back there, and uh a family will come driving into church And they'll come Sunday morning and I mean to tell you they're in the car. Mom and Dad are fussing. Ma mom's mad at dad Those kids are mad at mom and dad, and both mom and dad are mad at the kids. And they pull in the parking lot and they get out and I say, good morning, they're all, hi, oh, how y'all doing? Praise the Lord Five minutes ago, they were at each other's throats. What I'm trying to say is we get pretty good at putting on a show. Amen or not? And we can put this front on. Jesus warned the disciples about being a hypocrite. In fact, if you would, take your Bible and turn with me to Matthew chapter 23. First book of the New Testament, Matthew 23. And notice with me, verse 25. He's talking about these Pharisees. And uh he's warning the disciples, said, listen, don't be like them. They're they're good at putting on a show. We can man, we can praise the Lord Sunday and cuss like a sailor on Monday I know nobody here does that, but Christians can get pretty good. Notice what he says in verse 25 of Matthew 23. He says, Woe unto you scribes and Pharisees, ye hypocrites, hypocrites, for ye make clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but within They are full of extortion and excess. Thou blind Pharisee, cleanse first that which is within the cup and platter. That the outside of them may be clean also. Woe unto you scribes and Pharisees, for ye are like whited sepulchres. That's a grave tomb Here are like whited sepulchres, which indeed appear beautiful outward, but within are full of dead man's bones and of all uncleanness Even so ye also outwardly appear righteous unto men, but within ye are full of hypocrisy and iniquity. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees! You know what he's saying? He's saying we can put on a good show. We can put on all kinds of outwardly. We can look so pious. We can look so righteous. We can sound so godly. But in our soul, in our hearts, we can be so wicked. We can be so sinful, so corrupt. Down in our hearts and minds. And what p what the Bible's saying in Hebrews 4. 12, that the Word of God is quick and parallel, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing center of soul and spirit. In other words The Bible gets past the show we put on and deals with us for what we really are. It deals for us what we know we are in our heart and soul. Listen We we can fool others about what a great Christian we are, but I tell you, we ain't fooling God. We're not fooling God. He knows what we are at home. He knows what we are when no one's around. He knows what we are in our innermost being. And he uses his word to pierce to our very heart and soul. I tell you, I don't know how many times I've preached the Word of God. I'll preach on some subject, and uh afterward I'll be shaking hands and somebody will come by And they'll say, preacher, you really dealt with, uh, you really got me today. And they'll mention some issue that I never touched on in the message. I never preached on that. But you know what it is? It's the Word of God dealing with their heart where they're at. You follow what I'm saying? I preached one time and um uh I don't remember what the message was, but for some reason in the middle of the message I got all worked up about liquor. And I started preaching against drinking. I preached against whiskey and vodka and bourbon and rum. I preached against coors and Miller light and I don't know what any of this stuff is, but some of our deacons know all about that. And um but uh I I got preaching all this and I just mentioned in past and I was saying, you know, it's wicked and you need uh and uh uh get this out of your life, yeah it's gonna destroy you. By the way, let me just say this. Liquor never helped one home be a better home. Not one time has liquor helped a marriage be a better marriage. The only thing liquor does is destroy hearts, destroys homes, destroys communities, destroys nations. America ought to outlaw liquor. You say we already tried that, it didn't work. Try it again. I got bracing like that, except I got a little more carried away. Listen, I know when we comes to that, I know what I'm talking about. God saved me out of that garbage. Don't come around and tell me that liquor is going to help you some way or be good for you. I've already tasted it, I've already seen what it does. You're never going to convince me it's okay for a Christian to drink liquor. Alright, I'm getting it out of my system, all right, so bear with me. And in the message I just said this and and wine coolers. I just for some reason said that. So I'm in the back shaking hands, everybody's coming like, oh preacher, hey, hey, hey. And one a lady came up, they'd just been attending for a little while, she came up and she looked right at me. And uh she goes, You saw them, didn't you? I said, what are you talking about? I don't know. She says you saw the wine coolers in her refrigerator, didn't you? I had visited them the previous week, but I was never in the refrigerator. I never was in their kitchen. I was sitting in the living room. Visit them and talk to them. We had prayer and left She goes, You saw them, didn't you, in the refrigerator? You saw the wine collars in the refrigerator. I said, I never even was in your kitchen. I don't know. I told her, I said, God saw them. God saw them. God was using his word to speak to their hearts, piercing to the soul and spirit. God knows where you're at, God knows where I'm at. You know a preacher can stand up here and put on a pretty good show, but God knows the heart of the preacher. God knows the heart of the deacon, the Sunday school teacher, the busworker, the choir member. God knows the heart of every single of his children, every single person. God knows the heart. And God uses his word to pierce even the sighting center and say you need to deal with this. This needs to be addressed. This needs to be corrected. There's spiritual cancer down inside your heart. And I need those sort of the word to Extract that. Get that out of there. You follow what I'm saying? I'm telling you, we need that book. We need that book. I want to go to a doctor that tells me the truth. If I go to the doctor and I've got lung cancer, I want that doctor to tell me I've got lung cancer. You with me? I don't want to have lung cancer, but if I have it, I want the doctor to tell me I don't want them to say to me, oh, you're just fine. It's okay. You're fine when I'm not fine. I want them to say, you need to do this, and it needs to be corrected, and this is what we need to do. That's what God's Word does. That book will never tell a sinner, oh, you're just fine. That book will tell a sinner, you need to confess it and forsake it and repent, and you'll find forgiveness and restoration. Piercing even to dividing asunder. The Word of God, there's nothing else like it. There's no other book like it. It is the authority of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. It is the authority of every believer. It's God's word. It's alive. It's active. It's powerful. And um it's acute, it's sharp, it cuts. There was a dear old lady, elderly lady, was in London back hundreds some years ago, late 1800s, and she was on her deathbed. Some folks came by to see her. She was a believer. She assured them she knew Christ. Some church folk came by. And she had a crumbled-up piece of newspaper that she had stuck in her Bible. And she got that out, she showed that to them, and um and she said, This is why I'm a saved person. This is why I know for sure I'm going to heaven. They got that little crumbled-up piece of newspaper And it was a part of a sermon that Charles Spurgeon, the great Baptist preacher in London, had preached. But it was all crumbled and faded. And it had just enough of the message in there about how a person can be saved. They asked her, where'd you get this? She said, I have a friend that lives in Australia. They sent me a gift, and the gift was wrapped in this piece of paper, this newspaper clipping. She said, I got reading it and I realized I needed to be saved. There was enough of the Word of God there, I realized, and she trusted Christ as Saviour. They said, How in the world did that paper get in Australia? They got doing a little research, and here's what happened. Charles Spurgeon would preach a Sunday morning messages. He had a huge 5,000, 6,000-member auditorium, huge Metropolitan Tabernacle He preached to thousands every week. On Monday mornings, he would have somebody in the service. They transcribed his sermons. Now they didn't have electronic stuff back then. It was by hand. They're writing down what he's saying. Monday morning they would give him that transcription of his sermon and he would edit it. Then they would take it to the London newspaper and that newspaper would print it that week in their newspapers. They would take that copy and ship it across by boat over to London over to New York. And the newspapers in New York would print the sermon a week or two later, they would print the sermon that Spurgeon had preached in London. From New York, the sermons would go out and would be shared, and there was a newspaper in Los Angeles that printed his sermons in the weekly newspaper. From Los Angeles, somehow a copy of that sermon, that newspaper, got down to Sydney, Australia. The newspapers in Australia printed that sermon in their newspapers. And her friend in Australia. Read the newspaper, set it aside to use to wrap up gifts, and just a little piece of the Word of God came back to London, and this old lady got saved. You know what that is? That's the living word of God. Travels around the world, and a dear lady gets saved. And that's something. There is nothing, there is no other book in the world like that Bible. Like that Bible. Let's let number one, let's honor it As the Word of God. Let's respect it. Let's read it. Let's get it back in our homes. How about it, families? Let's get family altar back. Let's get back to family altar. And then how about this? Let's obey it. What the Bible tells us to do, let's do it. What the Bible warns us about, let's heed those warnings. Let's claim its promises. Let's follow its instructions. Let that book change our lives. Father in heaven, I ask you'd take these thoughts this morning. I pray you'd stir us to get back to the old book. The old word of God, and let it mold us and lead us and direct us. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. But I need to get back to that book like I should. We tend to neglect it. We just push it aside. And I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I need to recommit to spend time every day in God's word and let that thing lead me and direct me and help me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I need to get back to spending time every day in the Bible. God bless you. I think that one thing right there could have a tremendous change impact on our homes I wonder if there's some say, preacher, we need to get back to that old family altar. We need to get back, get the family together, pray, and read the Bible. Maybe it's just mom and dad at home. I don't know what your whole household consists of But whatever it is, say we're going to get together and we're going to have family altar again. Is there anything like that? Preach or pray with me. We need to get back to that old family altar and spending time. God bless you. God bless you. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, you know, there's some things in my life that don't line up with the Word of God. I know they don't. I know they don't. I need to get that right. I need to get that straightened out. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. Listen, I don't need to know what it is. God knows. But you'd say, preacher, pray with me. Help me, Lord, get my life lined up with the Word of God. Is there any like that? I know there's some things there. I really need to get lined up. God bless you. Hands all around. Let's trust God Let's just take him at his word. Do what he says. Let him lead us. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know my sins are forgiven. I'll tell you the Bible tells us how to trust Christ, how to be saved. You say, preacher, pray for me. I need to trust Christ as Savior. I need to get that settled. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me I need to get this settled. I want to know for sure my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, bless our invitation, I ask. Have your way in our lives in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.